# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.631: **\"** Configuration Management (CM); Core network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
**32.632: \"Configuration Management (CM); Core network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)\".**
32.633: \"Configuration Management (CM); Core network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA)
Solution Set (SS)\".
32.635: \"Configuration Management (CM); Core network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format
definition\".
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimization programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
\"Core Network Resources IRP\", through which an \'IRPAgent\' (typically an
Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate Configuration Management
information to one or several \'IRPManagers\' (typically Network Managers)
concerning CN resources.
The present document specifies the protocol neutral Core Network Resources
IRP: Network Resource Model. It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in
3GPP TS 32.622 [16], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition
to that defines CN specific Information Object Classes.
Finally, in order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface
IRP is needed, such as the Basic CM IRP 3GPP TS 32.60x [17]. However, which
Interface IRP that is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point; Information Service (IS)\".
[4] - [6] Void.
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1991): \"Common management information service
definition for CCITT applications\".
[8] - [10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point: Information Service (IS)\".
[12] Void.
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) service
description; Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication Management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[21] Void.
[22] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[24] ITU-T Rec. M.3100: \"Generic Network Information Model\" (7/95).
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [14] and the following
apply:
**Association:** In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) name bindings;
(2) reference attributes; and
(3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME):** an instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in 3GPP TS 32.622 [16].
**Managed Object (MO):** in the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has _attributes_ that provide information used to
characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute\" is
taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to CIM).
Furthermore, the IOC can have _operations_ that represent the behaviour
relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from TMN and
corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of _notifications_ that provide information about an event occurrence
within a network resource.
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM - see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP\ An NRM identifies and describes IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Node B: a** logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment\ It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AUC AUthentication Centre
AS Application Server
BG Border Gateway
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
BS Billing System
CBC Cell Broadcast Center
CGF Charging Gateway Functionality
CN Core Network
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
EIR Equipment Identity Register
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
FNR Flexible Number Register
GDMO Guidelines for the Definition of Managed Objects
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
GMSC Server Gateway MSC Server
GMSC Gateway MSC
GPRS General Packet Radio System
ICSCF Interrogating Call Session Control Function
IDL Interface Definition Language
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ISO International Standards Organization
IWF InterWorking Function
ME Managed Element
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MGW Media GateWay
MIM Management Information Model
MNP-SRF Mobile Number Portability-Signalling Relay Function
MO Managed Object
MOI Managed Object Instance
MRFC Multimedia Resource Function Controller
MRFP Call Session Control Function Processor
MSC Server Mobile Services Switching Centre Server
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NPDB Number Portability DataBase
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OSI Open Systems Interconnection
PCSCF Proxy Call Session Control Function
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
SCF Service Control Function
SCSCF Serving Call Session Control Function
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SGW Signalling GateWay
SLF Subscription Locator Function
SMLC Serving Mobile Location Center
SMS Short Message Service
SMS-GMSC SMS Gateway MSC
SMS-IWMSC SMS InterWorking MSC
SRF Specialized Resource Function
SSF Service Switching Function
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VLR Visitor Location Register
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. > The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to > mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without > failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling > of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It > may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that:
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified; > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist;
it is recognized that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach is described in the Generic Network Resources IRP: NRM
(3GPP TS 32.622 [16]).
It should be noted that this model allows for combined managed element
functionality, where more than one 'function IOCs\' (inherited from
ManagedFunction) modelling more specific managed element functionality may be
contained in the ManagedElement IOC.
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 32.622 [16], information object class, Link
Link TS 32.622 [16], information object class, ManagedElement ManagedElement
TS 32.642 [22], information object class, RncFunction RncFunction TS 32.652
[23], information object class, BssFunction BssFunction TS 32.652 [23],
information object class, ExternalBssFunction ExternalBssFunction TS 32.652
[23], information object class, ExternalGsmCell ExternalGsmCell TS 32.652
[23], information object class, GsmCell GsmCell
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
The figures below show the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations
of the information object classes defined in the present document.
NOTE: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios
in all figures.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="6.243055555555555in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1: CN NRM Containment/Naming relationships 1
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="3.973611111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2: CN NRM Containment/Naming relationships 2
Figure 6.2.1.3: Void
NOTE: The association between MscServerFunction and CsMgwFunction is optional
and is only mandatory when they belong to different ManagedElements.
Figure 6.2.1.4: CN UTRAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association
NOTE 1: The association between MscServerFunction and CsMgwFunction is
optional and is only mandatory when they belong to different ManagedElements.
NOTE 2: The association between MscServerFunction and GsmCell, and
SgsnFunction and GsmCell are optional. It may be valid if both the
MscServerFunction and GsmCell, or SgsnFunction and GsmCell are managed by the
same management node.
Figure 6.2.1.5: CN GERAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example, the DN of
an IOC representing a cell could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden, MeContext =MEC-Gbg-1, ManagedElement =MSC-Gbg-1,
MscServerFunction=MSC-1.
{width="6.416666666666667in" height="2.589583333333333in"}
Figure 6.2.1.6: CN MBMS NRM Containment/Naming and Association
{width="3.040277777777778in" height="5.093055555555556in"}
Figure 6.2.1.7: CN CircuitEndPointSubgroup related NRM Containment/Naming and
Association
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
The figures below show the inheritance hierarchy for the CN NRM.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="7.263194444444444in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 1
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="6.595138888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 2
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="2.5743055555555556in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 3
{width="2.3131944444444446in" height="2.223611111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.2.4: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 4
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 MscServerFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents MSCserver functionality. For more information about the
MSC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
mscServerFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M mccList + M M M mncList + M M M
lacList + M M M sacList + M M M gcaList + O M M mscId + M M M
mscServerFunction-GsmCell + M M - mscServerFunction-ExternalGsmCell + M M -
mscServerFunction-CsMgwFunction + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.2 HlrFunction
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents HLR functionality. For more information about the HLR, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
hlrFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.3 VlrFunction
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents VLR functionality. For more information about the VLR, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
vlrFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.4 AucFunction
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents AUC functionality. For more information about the AUC, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
aucFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.5 EirFunction
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents EIR functionality. For more information about the EIR, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
eirFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.6 SmsIwmscFunction
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents SMS-IWMSC functionality. For more information about the
SMS-IWMSC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
smsIwmscFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.7 SmsGmscFunction
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents SMS-GMSC functionality. For more information about the
SMS-GMSC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
smsGmscFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.7.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.8 GmscFunction
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents GMSC functionality. For more information about the GMSC,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.8.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
gmscFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.8.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.9 SgsnFunction
#### 6.3.9.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SGSN functionality. For more information about the SGSN,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
sgsnFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M mccList + M M M mncList + M M M
lacList + M M M racList + M M M sacList + M M M sgsnId + M M M sgsnFunction-
GsmCell + M M - sgsnFunction-ExternalGsmCell + M M - proceduralStatus (Note)
\% O - - Note: This proceduralStatus is not settable or readable via any
Interface IRP except conveyed by notifyStateChange notifications.
* * *
#### 6.3.9.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.10 GgsnFunction
#### 6.3.10.1 Definitions
This IOC represents GGSN functionality. For more information about the GGSN,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.10.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
ggsnFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M proceduralStatus (Note) \% O - -
Note: This proceduralStatus is not settable or readable via any Interface IRP
except conveyed by notifyStateChange notifications.
* * *
#### 6.3.10.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.11 BgFunction
#### 6.3.11.1 Definitions
This IOC represents BG functionality. For more information about the BG, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.11.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
bgFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.11.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.12 SmlcFunction
#### 6.3.12.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SMLC functionality. For more information about the SMLC,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.12.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
smlcFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.12.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.13 GmlcFunction
#### 6.3.13.1 Definitions
This IOC represents GMLC functionality. For more information about the GMLC,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.13.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
gmlcFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.13.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.14 ScfFunction
#### 6.3.14.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SCF functionality (also referred to as gsmSCF). For more
information about the SCF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.14.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
scfFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.14.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.15 SrfFunction
#### 6.3.15.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SRF functionality (also referred to as gsmSRF). For more
information about the SRF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.15.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
srfFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.15.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.16 CbcFunction
#### 6.3.16.1 Definitions
This IOC represents CBC functionality. For more information about the CBC, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.16.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
cbcFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.16.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.17 CgfFunction
#### 6.3.17.1 Definitions
This IOC represents CGF functionality. For more information about the CGF, see
3GPP TS 23.060 [18].
#### 6.3.17.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
cgfFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.17.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.18 GmscServerFunction
#### 6.3.18.1 Definitions
This IOC represents GMSCServer functionality. For more information about
GMSCServer, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.18.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
gmscServerFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.18.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.19 IwfFunction
#### 6.3.19.1 Attributes
This IOC represents IWF functionality. For more information about IWF, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.19.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
iwfFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.19.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.20 MnpSrfFunction
#### 6.3.20.1 Definitions
This IOC represents MNP-SRF functionality (also known as FNR). For more
information about MNP-SRF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.20.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
mnpSrfFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.20.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.21 NpdbFunction
#### 6.3.21.1 Definitions
This IOC represents NPDB functionality. For more information about NPDB, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.21.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
npdbFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.21.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.22 SgwFunction
#### 6.3.22.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SGW functionality. For more information about SGW, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.22.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
sgwFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.22.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.23 SsfFunction
#### 6.3.23.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SSF functionality. For more information about SSF, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.23.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
ssfFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.23.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.24 BsFunction
#### 6.3.24.1 Definitions
This IOC represents BS functionality. For more information about BS, see 3GPP
TS 23.060 [18].
#### 6.3.24.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
bsFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.24.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.25 IucsLink
#### 6.3.25.1 Definitions
This IOC represents an Iu-cs interface link connecting an MSCserver to the RNC
or BSC. For more information about the Iu interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.25.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
iucslinkId + M M - userLabel + M M M connectedRnc + O M - connectedBss + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.25.3 Attribute constraints
The optional attribute connectedRnc shall be supported when the Iucs interface
is between the MSCServer node and an RNC node.
The optional attribute connectedBss shall be supported when the Iucs interface
is between the MSCServer node and a BSC node.
The attributes connectedRnc and connectedBss are mutually exclusive.
#### 6.3.25.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.26 IupsLink
#### 6.3.26.1 Definitions
This IOC represents an Iu-ps interface link connecting a SGSN to the RNC or
BSC. For more information about the Iu interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.26.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
iupslinkId + M M - userLabel + M M M connectedRnc + O M - connectedBss + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.26.3 Attribute constraints
The optional attribute connectedRnc shall be supported when the Iups interface
is between the SGSN node and an RNC node.
The optional attribute connectedBss shall be supported when the Iups interface
is between the SGSN node and a BSC node.
The attributes connectedRnc and connectedBss are mutually exclusive.
#### 6.3.26.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.27 IubcLink
#### 6.3.27.1 Definitions
This IOC represents an Iu-bc interface link connecting a CBC to the RNC. For
more information about the Iu interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.27.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
iubclinkId + M M - userLabel + M M M connectedRnc + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.27.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.28 ALink
#### 6.3.28.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the A interface link connecting a MSC to the GERAN. For
more information about the GERAN, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.28.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
aLinkId + M M - userLabel + M M M connectedBss + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.28.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.29 GbLink
#### 6.3.29.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the Gb interface link connecting a SGSN to the GERAN. For
more information about the GERAN, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.29.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
gbLinkId + M M - userLabel + M M M connectedBss + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.29.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.30 CsMgwFunction
#### 6.3.30.1 Definitions
This IOC represents CS-MGW functionality. For more information about CS-MGW,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.30.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
csMgwFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M csMgwFunction-MscServerFunction + M
M - csMgwFunction-IucsLink + M M - csMgwFunction-ALink + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.30.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.31 Void
### 6.3.32 Void
### 6.3.33 Void
### 6.3.34 Void
### 6.3.35 BmScFunction
#### 6.3.35.1 Definitions
This IOC represents BM-SC functionality. For more information about BM-SC see
3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
#### 6.3.35.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
bmScFunctionId + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.35.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.7 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.36 **Link_BmSc_Ggsn**
#### 6.3.36.1 Definition
This IOC models the Gmb and Gi reference points as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.37 **Link_Ggsn_Sgsn**
#### 6.3.37.1 Definition
This IOC models the Gn and Gp reference points as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.38 CircuitEndPointSubgroup
#### 6.3.38.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the Circuit End Point Subgroup, relating to definitions in
ITU-T M.3100 (see [24]). A Circuit End Point Subgroup is a set of circuit end
points that directly interconnect one network element with another (e.g. MSC,
BSC). It is derived from Top.
#### 6.3.38.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
circuitEndPointSubgroupId + M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.38.3 Notifications
This IOC would not emit notification.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 AssociatedWith1 (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the MscServerFunction and
GsmCell.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
The name of the reference attribute shall be the role name.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
Table 6.4.1: Roles of the relation AssociatedWith1
* * *
Name Definition mscServerFunction-GsmCell This role (when present) represents
MscServerFunction capability to identify the set of related GsmCell. The
mscServerFunction-GsmCell shall carry the set of GsmCell DN(s). gsmCell-
MscServerFunction This role (when present) represents GsmCell capability to
identify one related MscServerFunction. When the role is absent, the gsmCell-
MscServerFunction shall contain no information. When it is present, it shall
contain one MscServerFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.2 AssociatedWith2 (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the MscServerFunction and
ExternalGsmCell.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
The name of the reference attribute shall be the role name.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
Table 6.4.2: Roles of the relation AssociatedWith2
* * *
Name Definition mscServerFunction-ExternalGsmCell This role (when present)
represents MscServerFunction capability to identify the set of related
ExternalGsmCell. The mscServerFunction-ExternalGsmCell shall carry the set of
ExternalGsmCell DN(s). externalGsmCell-MscServerFunction This role (when
present) represents ExternalGsmCell capability to identify one related
MscServerFunction. When the role is absent, the externalGsmCell-
MscServerFunction shall contain no information. When it is present, it shall
contain one MscServerFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.3 AssociatedWith3 (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the MscServerFunction and
CsMgwFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
The name of the reference attribute shall be the role name.
#### 6.4.3.2 Roles
Table 6.4.3: Roles of the relation AssociatedWith3
* * *
Name Definition mscServerFunction-CsMgwFunction This role (when present)
represents MscServerFunction capability to identify the related
CsMgwFunction(s). The mscServerFunction-CsMgwFunction shall carry the
CsMgwFunction DN(s). csMgwFunction-MscServerFunction This role (when present)
represents CsMgwFunction capability to identify one related MscServerFunction.
When the role is absent, the csMgwFunction-MscServerFunction shall contain no
information. When it is present, it shall contain one MscServerFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.3.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.4 AssociatedWith4 (M)
#### 6.4.4.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the SgsnFunction and
GsmCell.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
The name of the reference attribute shall be the role name.
#### 6.4.4.2 Roles
Table 6.4.4: Roles of the relation AssociatedWith4
* * *
Name Definition sgsnFunction-GsmCell This role (when present) represents
SgsnFunction capability to identify the set of related GsmCells. The
sgsnFunction-GsmCell shall carry the set of GsmCell DN(s). gsmCell-
SgsnFunction This role (when present) represents GsmCell capability to
identify one related SgsnFunction. When the role is absent, the gsmCell-
SgsnFunction shall contain no information. When it is present, it shall
contain one SgsnFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.4.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.5 AssociatedWith5 (M)
#### 6.4.5.1 Definition
This represents a bi-directional relation between the SgsnFunction and
ExternalGsmCell.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
The name of the reference attribute shall be the role name.
#### 6.4.5.2 Roles
Table 6.4.5: Roles of the relation AssociatedWith5
* * *
Name Definition sgsnFunction-ExternalGsmCell This role (when present)
represents SgsnFunction capability to identify the set of related
ExternalGsmCell. The sgsnFunction-ExternalGsmCell shall carry the set of
ExternalGsmCell DN(s). externalGsmCell-SgsnFunction This role (when present)
represents ExternalGsmCell capability to identify one related SgsnFunction.
When the role is absent, the externalGsmCell-SgsnFunction shall contain no
information. When it is present, it shall contain one SgsnFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.5.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.6 ConnectedTo1 (M)
#### 6.4.6.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the CsMgwFunction and
IucsLink.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.6.2 Roles
Table 6.4.6: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo1
* * *
Name Definition csMgwFunction-IucsLink This role (when present) represents
CsMgwFunction capability to identify the set of connected IucsLinks. When the
role is present, the csMgwFunction-IucsLink shall carry the set of IucsLink
DN(s).
* * *
#### 6.4.6.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.7 ConnectedTo2 (M)
#### 6.4.7.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IucsLink and
ExternalRncFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.7.2 Roles
Table 6.4.7: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo2
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc This role (when present) represents IOC IucsLink
capability to identify one connected ExternalRncFunction. When present, it
shall contain one ExternalRncFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.7.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.8 ConnectedTo3 (M)
#### 6.4.8.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IucsLink and
RncFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.8.2 Roles
Table 6.4.8: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo3
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc This role (when present) represents IOC IucsLink
capability to identify one connected RncFunction. When present, it shall
contain one RncFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.8.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.9 ConnectedTo4 (M)
#### 6.4.9.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IupsLink and
RncFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.9.2 Roles
Table 6.4.9: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo4
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc This role (when present) represents IOC IupsLink
capability to identify one connected RncFunction. When present, it shall
contain one RncFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.9.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.10 ConnectedTo5 (M)
#### 6.4.10.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IupsLink and
ExternalRncFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.10.2 Roles
Table 6.4.10: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo5
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc This role (when present) represents IOC IupsLink
capability to identify one connected ExternalRncFunction. When present, it
shall contain one ExternalRncFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.10.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.11 ConnectedTo6 (M)
#### 6.4.11.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IubcLink and
RncFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.11.2 Roles
Table 6.4.11: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo6
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc This role (when present) represents IOC IubcLink
capability to identify one connected RncFunction. When present, it shall
contain one RncFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.11.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.12 ConnectedTo7 (M)
#### 6.4.12.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IubcLink and
ExternalRncFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.12.2 Roles
Table 6.4.12: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo7
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc This role (when present) represents IOC IubcLink
capability to identify one connected ExternalRncFunction. When present, it
shall contain one ExternalRncFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.12.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.13 ConnectedTo8 (M)
#### 6.4.13.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the CsMgwFunction and
ALink.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.13.2 Roles
Table 6.4.13: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo8
* * *
Name Definition csMgwFunction-ALink This role (when present) represents
CsMgwFunction capability to identify the set of connected ALinks. When the
role is present, the csMgwFunction-ALink shall carry the set of ALink DN(s).
* * *
#### 6.4.13.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.14 ConnectedTo9 (M)
#### 6.4.14.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the ALink and
ExternalBssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.14.2 Roles
Table 6.4.14: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo9
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC ALink
capability to identify one connected ExternalBssFunction. When present, it
shall contain one ExternalBssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.14.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.15 ConnectedTo10 (M)
#### 6.4.15.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the Iucslink and
ExternalBssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.15.2 Roles
Table 6.4.15: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo10
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC Iucslink
capability to identify one connected ExternalBssFunction. When present, it
shall contain one ExternalBssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.15.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.16 ConnectedTo11 (M)
#### 6.4.16.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the Iucslink and
BssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.16.2 Roles
Table 6.4.16: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo11
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC Iucslink
capability to identify one connected BssFunction. When present, it shall
contain one BssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.16.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.17 ConnectedTo12 (M)
#### 6.4.17.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the ALink and BssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.17.2 Roles
Table 6.4.17: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo12
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC ALink
capability to identify one connected BssFunction. When present, it shall
contain one BssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.17.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.18 ConnectedTo13 (M)
#### 6.4.18.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the GbLink and BssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.18.2 Roles
Table 6.4.18: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo13
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC GbLink
capability to identify one connected BssFunction. When present, it shall
contain one BssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.18.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.19 ConnectedTo14 (M)
#### 6.4.19.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IupsLink and
BssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.19.2 Roles
Table 6.4.19: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo14
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC IupsLink
capability to identify one connected BssFunction. When present, it shall
contain one BssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.19.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.20 ConnectedTo15 (M)
#### 6.4.20.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the IupsLink and
ExternalBssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.20.2 Roles
Table 6.4.20: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo15
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC IupsLink
capability to identify one connected ExternalBssFunction. When present, it
shall contain one ExternalBssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.20.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
### 6.4.21 ConnectedTo16 (M)
#### 6.4.21.1 Definition
This represents a uni-directional relation between the GbLink and
ExternalBssFunction.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute of the IOC.
#### 6.4.21.2 Roles
Table 6.4.21: Roles of the relation ConnectedTo16
* * *
Name Definition connectedBss This role (when present) represents IOC GbLink
capability to identify one connected ExternalBssFunction. When present, it
shall contain one ExternalBssFunction DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.21.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1 defines the attributes that are present in several information
object classes of the present document.
Table 6.5.1: Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aucFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bgFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bmScFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bsFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cbcFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | circu | An attribute whose | | | itEndPointSubgroupId | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cgfFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | csMgwFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value\' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eirFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gbLinkId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gcaList | List of Group Call | | | | Area (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [19]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ggsnFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gmlcFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gmscFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gmscServerFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hlrFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iubclinkId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iucslinkId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iupslinkId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iwfFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lacList | List of Location | | | | Area Codes (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [19]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mccList | List of Mobile | | | | Country Codes, MCC | | | | (part of the PLMN | | | | Id, Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [19]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mncList | List of Mobile | | | | Network Codes, MNC | | | | (part of the PLMN | | | | Id, Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [19]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mnpSrfFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscId | Unique MSC ID (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.002 | | | | [15]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscServerFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | npdbFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectClass | An attribute | | | | inherited from | | | | generic NRM link | | | | [16] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectInstance | An attribute | | | | inherited from | | | | generic NRM link | | | | [16] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | proceduralStatus | It indicates the | Subset of | | | procedural status of | definitions from | | | the object instance. | [20]: | | | This attribute | | | | provides a subset of | "notInitialized", | | | capabilities of | | | | procedural status | "initializing", | | | defined in [20]. | | | | | "" (empty set) | | | There are two cases | | | | resulting in a | | | | status change to be | | | | reported: | | | | | | | | - Case 1: A | | | | notification may | | | | be generated to | | | | indicate that | | | | restart | | | | procedure is | | | | about to begin | | | | or has just | | | | begun but has | | | | not finished. - | | | | the value for | | | | this attribute | | | | indicates | | | | original state | | | | == | | | | "notInitialized" | | | | and new state == | | | | "initializing". | | | | | | | | - Case 2: A | | | | notification | | | | shall be | | | | generated to | | | | indicate that | | | | restart | | | | procedure has | | | | completed | | | | successfully - | | | | the value for | | | | this attribute | | | | indicates | | | | original state | | | | == | | | | "initializing" | | | | to new state == | | | | "" (empty set). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | racList | List of Routeing | | | | Area Codes covered | | | | by MSC (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [19]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sacList | List of Service Area | | | | Codes covered by MSC | | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [19]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | scfFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sgsnFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sgsnId | Unique SGSN ID (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.002 | | | | [15]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sgwFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | smlcFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | smsGmscFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | smsIwmscFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | srfFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ssfFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | | | | user assigned) name | | | | of the associated | | | | IOC. Inherited from | | | | ManagedFunction. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vlrFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
## 6.6 Particular information configurations
Not applicable.
## 6.7 Common notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications that can be referred to by any
IOC defined by this IRP specification.\ These notifications are only
applicable to IOCs referring to this subclause.
Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[5])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyAttributeValueChange See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [3])  
notifyObjectCreation See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [3])  
notifyObjectDeletion See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [3])
* * *
#