# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.661 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM requirements
**32.662 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)**
32.663 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
**32.665 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions**
32.667: Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); SOAP Solution Set (SS)
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QOS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the XML Definitions for the Kernel CM
Integration Reference Point (IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with
Kernel CM IRP IS definitions [3] as well as Notification Log IRP XML
Definitions [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM: Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.335: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [5] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NL Notification Log
UML Unified Modelling Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Kernel CM IRP XML Definitions
## 4.1 Kernel CM IRP XML Definitions
This section provides XML definitions of Kernel CM IRP notifications as
defined in [3].
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="2.5388888888888888in"}
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="2.5388888888888888in"}
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="2.457638888888889in"}
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="2.486111111111111in"}
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="2.7430555555555554in"}
## 4.2 Kernel CM IRP XML Schema (file name \"kernelCMIRPNotif.xsd\")
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): XML schema electronic files
The electronic files corresponding to the XML schemas defined in the present
document are available in native form in the following archive:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32665/schema/32665-810-XMLSchema.zip
#