# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.731: **\"** IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
**32.732: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".**
32.733: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
32.735: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
file format definition\".
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named IMS
Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP, through which an IRPAgent can communicate
configuration management information to one or several IRPManagers concerning
IMS resources. The IMS NRM IRP comprises a set of specifications defining
Requirements, a protocol neutral Information Service and one or more Solution
Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral IMS NRM IRP: Information
Service (IS). It reuses relevant parts of the Generic NRM IRP: IS in 3GPP TS
32.622 [9], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that
defines IMS specific Information Object Classes.
Finally, in order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface
IRP is needed, such as the Basic CM IRP in 3GPP TS 32.602 [10]. However, which
Interface IRP that is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM IRP Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point: Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [7] and the following
apply:
**Association:** In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) name bindings;
(2) reference attributes; and
(3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Information Object Class (IOC):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
**Managed Element (ME):** an instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in 3GPP TS 32.622 [9].
**Managed Object (MO):** in the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is an
instance of a MO class defined in an NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has _attributes_ that provide information used to
characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term \"attribute\" is
taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to CIM).
Furthermore, the IOC can have _operations_ that represent the behaviour
relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from TMN and
corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of _notifications_ that provide information about an event occurrence
within a network resource.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP\ An NRM identifies and describes IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AUC AUthentication Centre
AS Application Server
BG Border Gateway
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
BS Billing System
CBC Cell Broadcast Center
CGF Charging Gateway Functionality
CN Core Network
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [6])
EIR Equipment Identity Register
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
FNR Flexible Number Register
GDMO Guidelines for the Definition of Managed Objects
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
GMSC Server Gateway MSC Server
GMSC Gateway MSC
GPRS General Packet Radio System
ICSCF Interrogating Call Session Control Function
IDL Interface Definition Language
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IMSMGW IMS Media Gateway
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ISO International Standards Organization
IWF InterWorking Function
ME Managed Element
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MGW Media GateWay
MNP-SRF Mobile Number Portability-Signalling Relay Function
MO Managed Object
MOI Managed Object Instance
MRFC Multimedia Resource Function Controller
MRFP Call Session Control Function Processor
MSC Server Mobile Services Switching Centre Server
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NPDB Number Portability DataBase
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OSI Open Systems Interconnection
PCSCF Proxy Call Session Control Function
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [6])
SCF Service Control Function
SCSCF Serving Call Session Control Function
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SGW Signalling GateWay
SLF Subscription Locator Function
SMLC Serving Mobile Location Center
SMS Short Message Service
SMS-GMSC SMS Gateway MSC
SMS-IWMSC SMS InterWorking MSC
SRF Specialized Resource Function
SSF Service Switching Function
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VLR Visitor Location Register
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. > The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to > mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without > failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling > of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It > may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that:
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified; > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist;
it is recognized that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach is described in the Generic Network Resources IRP: NRM
(3GPP TS 32.622 [9]).
It should be noted that this model allows for combined managed element
functionality, where more than one 'function IOCs\' (inherited from
ManagedFunction) modelling more specific managed element functionality may be
contained in the ManagedElement IOC.
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.622 [9], information object class, Link Link
32.622 [9], information object class, ManagedElement ManagedElement
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
The figures below show the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations
of the information object classes defined in the present document.
> NOTE: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
> state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion
> scenarios in all figures.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="5.970833333333333in"}
**Figure 6.2.1: IMS NRM Containment/Naming relationships**
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="5.929861111111111in"}
> **Note:** If this NRM has interfaces (Link IOCs) modelled to IOCs in other
> NRM(s), the Link IOC definitions may be defined in the other NRM(s) and need
> to be considered in implementations. For example, see **Link_Bgcf_Mgcf and
> Link_Cscf_Mgcf** in CN NRM TS 32.632 [11].
**Figure 6.2.1.1: IMS NRM Link Associations 1**
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="2.0875in"}
**Figure 6.2.1.2: IMS NRM Link Associations 2**
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="4.182638888888889in"}
**Figure 6.2.1.3: IMS NRM Link Associations 3**
{width="6.146527777777778in" height="3.533333333333333in"}
**Figure 6.2.1.4: IMS NRM Link Associations 4**
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.272222222222222in"}
**Figure 6.2.1.5: IMS NRM Link Associations 5**
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="6.363194444444445in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1: IMS NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 1
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="6.247916666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2: IMS NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 2
{width="6.416666666666667in" height="5.813194444444444in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3: IMS NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 3
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="1.8833333333333333in"}
Figure 6.2.2.4: IMS NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 4
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="1.882638888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.5: IMS NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 5
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 AsFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents AS functionality. For more information about the AS, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8]. AsFunction may be instantiated when a specific Application
Server type is not already represented with an IOC subclassed from this IOC in
this specification. If the Application Server type is already represented by
an IOC in this specification, then it should instead be used. In the case a
subclassed IOC is utilized, the AsFunction relationships (including link
objects) are carried forward to the sub-classed IOC through inheritance.
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
asFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.2 BgcfFunction
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents BGCF functionality. For more information about the BGCF,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
bgcfFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.3 CamelImSsfAsFunction
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents CAMEL IM-SSF functionality. For more information about the
CAMEL IM-SSF AS, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
Void.
### 6.3.4 CscfFunction
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents CSCF functionality. For more information about the CSCF,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8]. CscfFunction shall not be instantiated to be name-
contained by a ManagedElement instance that contains any of the role based
CSCFs, namely PcscfFunction, IcscfFunction or ScscfFunction.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
cscfFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.5 HssFunction
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents HSS functionality. For more information about the HSS, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
hssFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.6 IcscfFunction
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents I-CSCF functionality. For more information about the
I-CSCF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
icscfFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.7 ImsMgwFunction
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents IMS-MGW functionality. For more information about IMS-MGW,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
imsMgwFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.7.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.8 MgcfFunction
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents MGCF functionality. For more information about the MGCF,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.8.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
mgcfFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.8.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.9 MrfcFunction
#### 6.3.9.1 Definition
This IOC represents MRFC functionality. For more information about the MRFC,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
mrfcFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.9.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.10 MrfpFunction
#### 6.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC represents MRFP functionality. For more information about the MRFP,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.10.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
mrfpFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.10.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.11 OsaScsAsFunction
#### 6.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC represents OSA Application Server (Service Capability Server)
functionality. For more information about the OSA Service Capability Server,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.11.2 Attributes
Void.
### 6.3.12 PcscfFunction
#### 6.3.12.1 Definition
This IOC represents P-CSCF functionality. For more information about the
P-CSCF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.12.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
pcscfFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.12.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.13 ScscfFunction
#### 6.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC represents S-CSCF functionality. For more information about the
S-CSCF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.13.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
scscfFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.13.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.14 SipAsFunction
#### 6.3.14.1 Definition
This IOC represents SIP AS functionality. For more information about the SIP
AS, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.14.2 Attributes
Void.
### 6.3.15 SlfFunction
#### 6.3.15.1 Definition
This IOC represents SLF functionality. For more information about the SLF, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 6.3.15.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
slfFunctionId + M M - linkList + O M -
* * *
#### 6.3.15.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.16 Reserved for Future Use
...
### 6.3.50 Reserved for Future Use
### 6.3.51 **Link_As_Cscf**
#### 6.3.51.1 Definition
This IOC models the Isc reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.52 **Link_As_Icscf**
#### 6.3. 52.1 Definition
This IOC models the Ma reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.53 **Link_As_Scscf**
#### 6.3.53.1 Definition
This IOC models the Isc reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.54 **Link_As_Slf**
#### 6.3.54.1 Definition
This models the Dh reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.55 **Link_Bgcf_Bgcf**
#### 6.3.55.1 Definition
This models the Mk reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.56 **Link_Bgcf_Cscf**
#### 6.3.56.1 Definition
This models the Mi reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.57 **Link_Bgcf_Mgcf**
#### 6.3.57.1 Definition
This models the Mj reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.58 **Link_Bgcf_Scscf**
#### 6.3.58.1 Definition
This models the Mi reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.59 Link_Cscf_Cscf
#### 6.3.59.1 Definition
This models the Mw reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.60 **Link_Cscf_Hss**
#### 6.3.60.1 Definition
This IOC models the Cx reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.61 Link_Cscf_Icscf
#### 6.3.61.1 Definition
This models the Mw reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.62 **Link_Cscf_Mgcf**
#### 6.3.62.1 Definition
This IOC models the Mg reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.63 **Link_Cscf_Mrfc**
#### 6.3.63.1 Definition
This IOC models the Mr reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.64 Link_Cscf_Pcscf
#### 6.3.64.1 Definition
This models the Mw reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.65 Link_Cscf_Scscf
#### 6.3.65.1 Definition
This models the Mw reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.66 **Link_Cscf_Slf**
#### 6.3.66.1 Definition
This IOC models the Dx reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.67 **Link_Hss_CamelImSsfAs**
#### 6.3.67.1 Definition
This IOC models the Si reference point between CAMEL Application Server (IM-
SSF) and HSS as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.68 **Link_Hss_OsaScsAs**
#### 6.3.68.1 Definition
This IOC models the Sh reference point between OSA Application Server (Service
Capability Server) and HSS as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.69 **Link_Hss_Scscf**
#### 6.3.69.1 Definition
This IOC models the Cx reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.70 **Link_Hss_SipAs**
#### 6.3.70.1 Definition
This IOC models the Sh reference point between SIP Application Server and HSS
as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.71 **Link_Icscf_Slf**
#### 6.3.71.1 Definition
This models the Dx reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.72 **Link_ImsMgw_Mgcf**
#### 6.3.72.1 Definition
This models the Mn reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.73 **Link_Mgcf_Scscf**
#### 6.3.73.1 Definitions
This models the Mg reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.74 **Link_Mrfc_Mrfp**
#### 6.3.74.1 Definition
This IOC models the Mp reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.75 **Link_Mrfc_Scscf**
#### 6.3.75.1 Definition
This IOC models the Mr reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.76 Link_Scscf_Scscf
#### 6.3.76.1 Definition
This models the Dh reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
### 6.3.77 **Link_Scscf_Slf**
#### 6.3.77.1 Definition
This IOC models the Dx reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
In this version of the present document there are no information relationship
definitions.
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
+------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | asFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | bgcfFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | cscfFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | icscfFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | imsMgwFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | linkList | An attribute containing all of | | | | the related link object | | | | Distinguished Names for the | | | | object instance, if any. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | mgcfFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | mrfcFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | mrfpFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | pcscfFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | scscfFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | slfFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+ | hssFunctionId | An attribute whose 'name+value' | | | | can be used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of the IOC. | | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely identifies the | | | | object instance within the scope | | | | of its containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +------------------+----------------------------------+--------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
## 6.6 Common notifications
This subclause contains a list of notifications that can be referred to by any
IOC defined by this IRP specification.\ These notifications are only
applicable to IOCs referring to this subclause.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[5])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyObjectCreation See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [3])  
notifyObjectDeletion See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [3])  
notifyAttributeValueChange See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [3])
* * *
## 6.7 Particular information configurations
Not applicable.
#