# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.761 E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements
**32.762 E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)**
32.763 E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
32.765 E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP, through which an IRPAgent can
communicate configuration management information to one or several IRPManagers
concerning E-UTRAN resources. The E-UTRAN NRM IRP comprises a set of
specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral Information Service
and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral E-UTRAN NRM IRP:
Information Service (IS). It reuses relevant parts of the Generic NRM IRP: IS
in 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition
to that defines E-UTRAN specific Information Object Classes.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) Radio Resource Control
(RRC); Protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.300: \" Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2 \".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.211: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical Channels and
Modulation"
[13] 3GPP TS 36.101: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio
transmission and reception"
[14] 3GPP TS 36.104: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E_UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio
transmission and reception"
[15] 3GPP TS 32.500: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Networks (SON);
Concepts and requirements\"
[16] 3GPP TS 32.150: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Integration Reference Point (IRP)
Concept and definitions\"
[17] 3GPP TS 21.905: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[18] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: "Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)"
[19] 3GPP TS 23.002: "Network Architecture"
[20] 3GPP TS 32.652: "Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)"
[21] 3GPP TS 32.642: "Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)"
[22] 3GPP2 S.S0028-D "OAM&P for cdma2000 (Overview, 3GPP R7 Delta
Specification, 3GPP2 Network Resource Model IRP)"
[23] 3GPP TS 32.752: "Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)"
[24] 3GPP TS 36.423: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); X2 application
protocol (X2AP)"
[25] 3GPP TS 36.213: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical layer
procedures"
[26] 3GPP TS 32.672: "Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); State
Management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17] and the
following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1], TS
32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17], in that order.
**Antenna** : Within the present document an Antenna is the set of radiating
elements involved in the transmission and reception of Radio Frequency energy
to support the Air Interface of a E-UTRAN cell.
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) [name bindings]{.underline},
(2) [reference attributes]{.underline}, and
(3) [association objects]{.underline}.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in TS 32.622 [6].
**eNodeB:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the S1 interface
towards the EPC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS 32.150
[16], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17] and the following apply.
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1],
TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17], in that order.
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
ME Managed Element
MO Managed Object
NR Neighbour cell Relation
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach adopted and used in this IRP is described in TS 32.622
[6].
# 6 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
administrativeState administrativeState **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
availabilityStatus availabilityStatus **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
operationalState operationalState **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC, Top** Top **3GPP
TS 32.622 [6], IOC, ManagedElement** **ManagedElement** **3GPP TS 32.622 [6],
IOC, SubNetwork** **SubNetwork** **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC, ManagedFunction**
**ManagedFunction** **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC, Link** **Link** **3GPP TS
32.622 [6], IOC, EP_RP** **EP_RP** **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC, MMEFunction**
**MMEFunction** **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC, ExternalMMEFunction**
**ExternalMMEFunction** **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC, UtranRelation**
**UtranRelation** **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC, UtranGenericCell**
**UtranGenericCell** **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC, ExternalUtranGenericCell**
**ExternalUtranGenericCell** **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC, AntennaFunction**
**AntennaFunction** **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC, TmaFunction** **TmaFunction**
**3GPP TS 32.652 [20], IOC, GsmRelation** **GsmRelation** **3GPP TS 32.652
[20], IOC, GsmCell** **GsmCell** **3GPP TS 32.652 [20], IOC, ExternalGsmCell**
**ExternalGsmCell** **3GPP2 TS S.S0028 [22], IOC, ExternalSector**
**ExternalSector**
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="6.791666666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1: Cell view of EUTRAN NRM
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="1.520138888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2: Transport view of EUTRAN NRM
{width="6.6875in" height="3.397222222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.1.3: Radio equipment view of EUTRAN NRM
NOTE: Either the EUtranGenericCell has a relation to SectorEquipmentFunction,
or the EUtranGenericCell has relations to AntennaFunction and TMAFunction.
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.8090277777777777in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1: E-UTRAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 6.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 6.3.1 ENBFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents eNB functionality. For more information about the eNB, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [19].
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
x2BlackList CM M M x2WhiteList CM M M x2HOBlackList CM M M x2IpAddressList O M
-
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition x2BlackList Support Qualifier The condition is "ANR function
is supported". x2WhiteList Support Qualifier The condition is "ANR function is
supported". x2HOBlackList Support Qualifier The condition is "ANR function is
supported".
* * *
#### 6.3.1.4 Notification
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[18])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])
* * *
### 6.3.2 ExternalENBFunction
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents an external eNB functionality. For more information about
the eNB, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [19].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Attribute Constraints
#### 6.3.2.4 Notification
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
### 6.3.3 EUtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the common properties of an E-UTRAN generic cell.
For more information about cells, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier** id
M M - cellIdentity M M M cellSize M M M plmnIdList M M M tac M M M pci M M CM
pciList CM M M maximumTransmissionPower M M CM referenceSignalPower O M M pb O
M M partOfSectorPower CM M M
* * *
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
operationalState O M _−_ administrativeState O M M availabilityStatus O M _-_
NOTE: No state or status propagation shall be implied.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition pci CM Write Qualifier Centralized PCI assignment (see TS
32.500, ref [15] subclause 6.1.6) is supported. pciList CM Support Qualifier
Distributed PCI assignment (see TS 32.500, ref [15] subclause 6.1.6) is
supported. partOfSectorPower CM support qualifier The IOC
SectorEquipmentFunction is used. maximumTransmissionPower CM Write Qualifier
The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is not used.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.4 Notification
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[18])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyStateChange O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [18])
* * *
### 6.3.4 ExternalEUtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the properties of an E-UTRAN generic cell
controlled by another IRPAgent. This IOC contains necessary attributes for
inter-system and intra-system handover. It also contains a subset of the
attributes of related IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. The way to maintain
consistency between the attribute values of these IOCs is outside the scope of
the present document.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier** id M M - pci M M M cellIdentity M M M plmnIdList O M M
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Attribute Constraints
#### 6.3.4.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
###
### 6.3.5 EUtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the properties of E-UTRAN FDD cell.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier**
earfcnDl M M M earfcnUl M M M
* * *
### 6.3.6 ExternalEUtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents the common properties of external E-UTRAN FDD cell.
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
Table 6.3.5.2.1: Attributes of ExternalEUtranCellFDD
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier**
earfcnDl M M M earfcnUl M M M
* * *
### 6.3.7 EUtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents the properties of EUTRAN cell TDD.
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
NOTE: Attributes are FFS:
### 6.3.8 ExternalEUtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents the common properties of external EUTRAN cell TDD.
#### Attributes
NOTE: Attributes are FFS:
### 6.3.9 EUtranRelation
#### 6.3.9.1 Definition
This IOC represents a NR from one EUtranGenericCell instance to another
EUtranGenericCell or [ExternalEUtranGenericCell]{.underline} instance. NRs are
directional.
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - tCI M
M M isRemoveAllowed CM M M isHOAllowed CM M M adjacentCell M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.9.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition isRemoveAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is "ANR
function is supported". isHOAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is "ANR
function is supported".
* * *
### 6.3.10 Link_ENB_ENB
#### 6.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC represents the link between two ENBFunction.
#### 6.3.10.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
* * *
#### 6.3.10.3 Attribute Constraints
* * *
Name Definition
* * *
### 6.3.11 EP_RP_EPS
#### 6.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC represents a generic end point for the EUTRAN system.
#### 6.3.11.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier farEndNeIpAddr
O M CM
* * *
#### 6.3.11.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition farEndNeIpAddr's write qualifier When the EP_RP_EPS object
belongs to the same Domain Manager as the eNB pointed by the farEndNeIpAddr
attribute, the Write Qualifier of farEndNeIpAddr attribute is not needed.
* * *
#### 6.3.11.3 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.1.6 of 3GPP TS 32.622[6] are
valid for this IOC, without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.12 SectorEquipmentFunction
#### 6.3.12.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of cells within a geographical area that has common
functions relating to AntennaFunction, TMAFunction and supporting equipment,
such as power amplifier.
#### 6.3.12.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
fqBand M M -- confOutputPower M M M
* * *
### 6.3.13 Cdma2000Relation
#### 6.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC represents a NR from one EUtranGenericCell to a CDMA2000 sector. NRs
are directional.
See 3GPP2 TS S.S0028 [22]
#### 6.3.13.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier adjacentSector
M M - id M M -
* * *
### 6.3.14 ProxyGsmCell
#### 6.3.14.1 Definition
This definition is a Proxy Class stereotype, proxying either a GsmCell or an
ExternalGsmCell. See TS 32.652 [20].
### 6.3.15 ProxyUtranCell
#### 6.3.15.1 Definition
This definition is a Proxy Class stereotype, proxying either an UtranCell or
an ExternalUtranCell. See TS 32.642 [21].
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 EUtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this EUtranRelation to another
EUtranGenericCell.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentCell This role represents the associated
EUtranGenericCell of an EUtranNeighbourCellRelation.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
Associations EUtranNeighbourCellRelation and
ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation are mutually exclusive.
### 6.4.2 ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this EUtranRelation to an
ExternalEUtranGenericCell.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentCell This role represents the associated
ExternalEUtranGenericCell of an ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
Associations EUtranNeighbourCellRelation and
ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation are mutually exclusive.
### 6.4.3 ExternalCdma2000NeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this Cdma2000Relation to an
ExternalSector.
#### 6.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentSector This role represents the associated
ExternalSector of an ExternalCdma2000NeighbourCellRelation.
* * *
#### 6.4.3.3 Constraints
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 6.5.1.1: Attributes definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | adjacentCell | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of a | | | | EUtranGenericCell or | | | | Extern | | | | alEUtranGenericCell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | adjacentSector | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of | | | | an ExternalSector. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | administrativeState | See Import Table. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | availabilityStatus | See Import Table. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellIdentity | Unambiguously | Refer to TS | | | identify a cell | 36.331[10] | | | within a PLMN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellSize | See cell-Size in TS | See cell-Size in TS | | | 36.423 [24]. | 36.423 [24]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | confOutputPower | It defines the | | | | allowed total power | | | | to use for all cells | | | | together in this | | | | sector. It may be | | | | set by the operator | | | | and/or limited by HW | | | | limitation or | | | | licensed power, | | | | e.g.: 20, 40, 60, | | | | 80,120 watts | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | referenceSignalPower | This defines the | See 3GPP TS | | | cell specific | 36.331[10] | | | downlink reference | | | | signal transmit | | | | power, which is | | | | described in 3GPP TS | | | | 36.213[25] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | earfcnUl | Specifies the | See EARFCN in TS | | | channel number for | 36.101 [13] | | | the central UL | subclause 5.7.3. | | | frequency. The | | | | mapping from channel | | | | number to physical | | | | frequency is | | | | described in 3GPP | | | | specification TS | | | | 36.101 [13] | | | | subclause 5.7.3. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | earfcnDl | Specifies the | See EARFCN in TS | | | channel number for | 36.101 [13] | | | the central DL | subclause 5.7.3 | | | frequency. The | | | | mapping from channel | | | | number to physical | | | | frequency is | | | | described in 3GPP | | | | specification TS | | | | 36.101 [13] | | | | subclause 5.7.3. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndNeIpAddr | The IP address(s) of | | | | the far end network | | | | entity to which the | | | | reference point is | | | | related. | | | | | | | | This is an IPv4 or | | | | an IPv6 address. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fqBand | This is the | See section 5 Table | | | frequency band | 5.2-1 "E-UTRA | | | supported by the | frequency band" of | | | hardware associated | TS 36.104 [14]. | | | with the | | | | Sect | Other legal values | | | orEquipmentFunction. | would be applicable | | | The earfcnDl and | for other | | | earfcnUl of cells | technologies such as | | | associated with the | for UTRA. | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | this fqBand value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isRemoveAllowed (see | This indicates if | yes, no | | note 1) | the subject | | | | EUtranRelation can | | | | be removed (deleted) | | | | or not. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', the | | | | subject | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | instance can be | | | | removed (deleted). | | | | | | | | If 'no', the subject | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | instance shall not | | | | be removed (deleted) | | | | by any entity but an | | | | IRPManager. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isHOAllowed (see | This indicates if HO | yes, no | | note 1) | is allowed or | | | | prohibited. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', handover | | | | is allowed from | | | | source cell to | | | | target cell. The | | | | source cell is | | | | identified by the | | | | name-containing | | | | EUtranGenericCell of | | | | the EUtranRelation | | | | that has the | | | | isHOAllowed. The | | | | target cell is | | | | referenced by the | | | | EUtranRelation that | | | | has this | | | | isHOAllowed. | | | | | | | | If 'no', handover | | | | shall not be | | | | allowed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxi | This is the maximum | | | mumTransmissionPower | possible for all | | | | downlink channels, | | | | used simultaneously | | | | in a cell, added | | | | together. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operationalState | See Import Table. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | partOfSectorPower | This is the | 0 : 100 | | | requested part (i.e. | | | | %) of the total | | | | radio power | | | | available to the | | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | | | | The requested % | | | | power should be | | | | allocated to the | | | | cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pb | $P_{B}$, which is | See 3GPP TS | | | described in Section | 36.213[25] | | | 5.2 of TS 36.213 | | | | [25] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pci | This holds the | See TS 36.211 [12] | | | Physical Cell | subclause 6.11 for | | | Identity (PCI) of | legal values of pci. | | | the cell (for both | | | | Centralized and | | | | Distributed PCI | | | | assignment cases). | | | | | | | | In the case of | | | | Centralized PCI | | | | assignment, see TS | | | | 36.300, [11] | | | | subclause 22.3.5, | | | | IRPManager signals a | | | | specific value by | | | | writing this | | | | attribute. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pciList | This holds a list of | See TS 36.211 [12] | | | physical cell | subclause 6.11 for | | | identities that can | legal values of pci. | | | be assigned to the | The number of pci in | | | pci attribute by | the list is 1 to | | | eNB. The assignment | 504. | | | algorithm is not | | | | specified. | | | | | | | | This attribute shall | | | | be supported if and | | | | only if the | | | | Distributed PCI | | | | Assignment is | | | | supported. See TS | | | | 32.500, ref [15] | | | | subclause 6.1.6. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | plmnIdList | List of unique | A list of at most | | | identities for PLMN. | six entries of PLMN | | | | Identifiers. The | | | Note: A cell can | PLMN Identifier is | | | broadcast up to 6 | composed of a Mobile | | | PLMN-id\'s. This is | Country Code (MCC) | | | to support the case | and a Mobile Network | | | that one cell can be | Code (MNC). See TS | | | used by up to 6 | 23.003 [3] | | | operators' core | subclause 2.2 and | | | networks. See TS | 12.1. | | | 36.331 [10] | | | | section 6.2.2: | | | | SystemInformat | | | | ionBlockType1/cellAc | | | | cessRelatedInformati | | | | on/plmn-IdentityList | | | | is a SEQUENCE (SIZE | | | | (1..6)) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tac | Common Tracking Area | a) It is the | | | Code for the PLMNs. | > Tracking Area | | | The identity used to | > Code (TAC). | | | identify tracking | | | | areas. | b) A cell can only | | | | > broadcast one | | | | > TAC. See TS | | | | > 36.300 [11], | | | | > section 10.1.7 | | | | > (PLMNID and | | | | > TAC relation). | | | | | | | | c) TAC is defined | | | | > in TS 23.003 | | | | > [3], section | | | | > 19.4.2.3. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tCI | This is the Target | The Target Cell | | | Cell Identifier. It | Identifier is | | | consists of E-UTRAN | defined in TS 36.300 | | | Cell Global | [11]. See TS | | | Identifier (ECGI) | 36.211 [12] | | | and Physical Cell | subclause 6.11 for | | | Identifier (PCI) of | legal values of the | | | the target cell. | PCI. | | | | | | | The | | | | EUtranRelation.tCI | | | | identifies the | | | | target cell from the | | | | perspective of the | | | | EUtranGenericCell, | | | | the name-containing | | | | instance of the | | | | subject | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2BlackList | This is a list of | | | | DNs of ENBFunction. | | | | If the target node | | | | DN is a member of | | | | the source node's | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2BlackList, | | | | the source node is: | | | | | | | | 1. Prohibited from | | | | sending X2 | | | | connection | | | | request to | | | | target node; | | | | | | | | 2. Forced to tear | | | | down established | | | | X2 connection to | | | | target node | | | | | | | | 3. Not allowed to | | | | accept incoming | | | | X2 connection | | | | request from | | | | target node. | | | | | | | | The same DN may | | | | appear here and in | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2WhiteList. | | | | In such case, the DN | | | | in x2WhiteList shall | | | | be treated as if it | | | | is absent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2IpAddressList | Represents one or | One or more IPv4 or | | | more IP addresses | IPv6 addresses | | | used by eNBFunction | | | | for the X2 Interface | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2WhiteList | This is a list of | | | | DNs of ENBFunction. | | | | If the target node | | | | DN is a member of | | | | the source node's | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2WhiteList, | | | | the source node : | | | | | | | | - Is allowed to | | | | request the | | | | establishment of X2 | | | | connection with the | | | | target node; | | | | | | | | - Is not allowed to | | | | initiate the tear | | | | down of established | | | | X2 connection to | | | | target node | | | | | | | | The same DN may | | | | appear here and in | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2BlackList. | | | | In such case, the DN | | | | here shall be | | | | treated as if it is | | | | absent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2HOBlackList | This is a list of | | | | DNs of ENBFunction. | | | | The | | | | ENBFu | | | | nction.x2HOBlackList | | | | identifies a list of | | | | neighbour | | | | ENBFunction with | | | | whom the subject | | | | ENBFunction is | | | | prohibited to use X2 | | | | interface for HOs | | | | even if the X2 | | | | interface exists | | | | between them. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: Attributes isRemoveAllowed and isHOAllowed each has 2 legal values,
allow (A) and prohibited (P). The two attributes are semantically equivalent
to one attribute with 4 legal values such as:
hOAllow; hOProhibited; hOWhiteListed; hOBlackListed;
where
\- hOAllow == isRemoveAllowed is A and isHOAllowed is A;
\- hOProhibited == isRemoveAllowed is A and isHOAllowed is P;
\- hOWhiteListed == isRemoveAllowed is P and isHOAllowed is A;
\- hOBlackListed == isRemoveAllowed is P and isHOAllowed is P.
Therefore, the choice of an option is FFS.
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 6.6 Common Notifications
## 6.7 System State Model
#