# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The E-UTRAN and EPC systems need to be managed. As E-UTRAN and EPC are
evolvements of UMTS, the management should also evolve from UMTS.
A reuse of the existing UMTS management standard solutions will have the
following benefits:
  * It is proven in operation;
  * It will minimise both the standardisation and product development efforts (i.e. the cost and time);
  * It provides a base for on which more functionality can be developed (compared with making everything new from the start);
  * It will shorten the time to market for E-UTRAN and EPC systems;
  * It will facilitate a seamless coexistence with UMTS management systems.
The complexity of the E-UTRAN/ EPC network will also place new demands on the
Operations and Maintenance of the Network, therefore as well as re-using and
evolving existing Management solutions, Management solutions for E-UTRAN/ EPC
will also need to encompass some new functionality (e.g. Auto-Configuration,
Auto-Optimisation, Information Model Discovery, and development of P2P
Interfaces)
Functionality shall be supported by clear use cases or other documented
justification.
Best Practice in O&M has changed dramatically in recent years. This has been
driven both by changes in the networks being managed and also by the increase
in the number and complexity of services being supported on those networks.
The emphasis has changed from infrastructure management to the management of
services supported on that infrastructure.
There is less focus on having all management applications at the EMS layer and
greater emphasis on interfaces and data availability such that the NMS and OSS
layer have access to the required data.
The concept of Next Generation Networks decouples the supported services from
the underlying access network. It was easier in the days of voice based
services to assume that by managing the infrastructure the services were also
managed. The multitude and complexity of today\'s services means that this is
no longer the case.
Element Management is about managing a single domain from a single vendor. It
no longer makes sense to do any significant analysis at this level since there
is a strong interdependency between domains and vendors to assure end to end
quality of service. It still makes sense to support some vendor/domain
specific applications at this level, but the emphasis is on support of
standardized interfaces that make the element management data available to the
NMS and OSS.
An increased emphasis on O&M related standards is pivotal in enabling analysis
applications at the NMS and OSS level. This makes it possible to do end to end
analysis in the context of services rather than just RAN specific or Core
specific analysis for a given vendors equipment node.
The E-UTRAN/ EPC networks will increase the numbers of NE\'s to be managed,
while at the same time having strong requirements (ref [3]) that emphasise the
need to reduce network complexity and lower operating costs.
# 1 Scope
The present document intends to study the reuse of UMTS management for E-UTRAN
and EPC to decide on which parts shall be reused without any change, which
parts shall be changed and which existing parts cannot be reused at all and
make recommendations about that.
It also intends to recommend management principles for E-UTRAN and EPC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace concepts and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace data definition and management\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.441: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.442: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.443: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.155: \"Telecommunication management; Requirements template\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
Searchlist List of frequencies and supporting information to be used for
neighbour cell measurements. The Searchlist contains entries for E-UTRAN and
supported IRATs.
Edtor's note: This definition is provisional and subject to alignment with
RAN2 and RAN3.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.
DM Domain Manager
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FFS For Further Study
IE Information Elements
IP Internet Protocol
MME Mobile Management Entity
OSS Operation Support System
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Concepts and background
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Business level requirements
### 5.1.1 Void
### 5.1.2 Void
### 5.1.3 High Level Use Cases
#### 5.1.3.1 Self organising network
**REQ-MVR-CON-001** Self-configuration and self-optimisation should be
supported in a multiple vendor environment. Standardised procedures and O&M
interfaces would be needed to avoid:
  * cost-intensive mediation between different vendor nodes, and
  * side effects due to different detail solutions (e.g. different optimisation algorithm leads to ping-pong effects and swinging phenomena).
Main procedures like handover or sub-tone coordination should be discussed to
be standardised to minimise such problems.
##### 5.1.3.1.1 Establishment of new eNodeB in network
A typical task for operational staff is the introduction of an eNodeB. In the
following the scenario for introducing of a macro eNodeB is detailed
considering already given definitions concerning self-configuration and self-
optimisation functionality in clause 6.21.1.
Figure 5.1.3.1.1-1: Introduction of new eNodeB
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="4.338888888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.3.1.1-2: Logical procedure to establish new eNodeB (covering both
use case 1 and 2). Actions 1 -- 4 is representing use case 1.
1) The first step is obviously the planning of a new site based on coverage
and capacity requirements. The process can be supported by measurements to
indicate coverage or capacity problems in the network (see use case 3). A
first initial set of parameters I~1~ is: location, eNodeB type, antenna type,
cell characteristics (sectors), required maximum capacity ...
2) After the physical installation of the eNodeB a first initial self test
will start with a possible report R1 in case of failure to the net element
manager.
3) In the next step self configuration starts: The eNodeB requests its basic
setup information (see figure in 6.21.1): including configuration of IP-
address and detection of OAM, authentication of eNodeB, association of a GW,
downloading of eNodeB software.
Then as a second part of the self configuration the initial radio
configuration I~2~ will be done: the following data might be provided via the
network element manager from the planning tool or another self-configuration
related instance:
  * cell-id
  * pilot sub-tones
  * pilot power
  * antenna tilt
  * clustering information (e.g. location area, routing area)
  * initial sub-tone information
  * Neighbourhood list information: cell-ids, IP addresses...
  * IP addresses of neighbourhood eNodeBs
  * ....
In case any data are missing all parameter should be also derivable from a
default value by an auto optimisation and it should be possible to send back
this data to the element manager and planning tool.
At the end of the procedure it is necessary to inform the neighbour eNodeBs
about the existence of the new eNodeB and to include the new cells in the
corresponding neighbourhood list of the neighbouring eNodeBs and to set
neighbour specific parameters in these cells.
4) An additional self test like for example a plausibility check of parameter
with possible report R2 to the element manager could be done.
5) At the end of the installation the eNodeB is ready for commercial use and a
test call can be done successfully.
##### Optimisation of the neighbourhood list
Based on the assumed initial neighbour set a further optimisation of neighbour
list (including 2G/3G) is needed considering e.g. radio measurements of
eNodeBs and UEs or call events like call drops, handover problems etc.. For
this approach RRC connections (calls, signalling procedures) and their
accompanying measurements can be used to gather the needed information about
neighbours. Known neighbours can be checked if they are really appropriate
concerning real RF conditions, new ones can be included based on information
about detected cells in UEs. Not forgotten must be the optimisation of
parameters in neighbour eNodeB cells.
The following text is one example of neighbour cell list optimization.
[Scenario description]{.underline}: Neighbour cell list optimisation
\- Objective: Optimisation of neighbour cell list of self-configuration
instance
\- Scheduling: On demand or periodic
\- Input information (all input optional depending on algorithm):
\- Location of the neighbours (distance),
\- UE measurement reporting or eNodeB radio scanning for neighbours,
\- Field strength information,
\- Event measurements like cell specific call drops or handover failures
\- NMS/EMS configuration data
\- Planning tool data
\- ...
\- Functionality: an algorithm selects the neighbours and/or optimises
neighbour related parameterisation based on the input observation
\- Actions:
\- Establish X2 interface towards neighbour eNodeB (if new)
\- Configuration of optimised neighbour related parameters in both eNodeBs (if
any)
\- Expected results: Optimised neighbour cells list and neighbour related
parameter. This list and parameter can be sent to the management system for
potential statistical collection, acknowledgement or correction.
[EXAMPLE (Informative description):\ ]{.underline}In operational phase, a
further optimisation of neighbour list (including 2G/3G) can be done
considering e.g. radio measurements of eNodeBs and UEs or call events like
call drops, handover problems etc.. For this approach RRC connections (calls,
signalling procedures) and their accompanying measurements can be used to
gather the needed information about neighbours. Known neighbours can be
checked if they are really appropriate concerning real RF conditions, new ones
can be included based on information in UEs about detected cells.
{width="6.679861111111111in" height="5.075694444444444in"}
Figure 5.1.3.1.2-1: Optimisation of neighbour list and related cell parameters
##### 5.1.3.1.3 Coverage and capacity optimisation
A typical operational task is to optimise the network according to coverage
and capacity. Planning tools support this task based on theoretical models but
for both problems measurements must be derived in the network. Call drop rates
give a first indication for areas with insufficient coverage, traffic counters
identify capacity problems.
Following parameters are identified as possibly beneficial to be optimised:
  * sub-tones (sub-tone sets planned for cell borders),
  * antenna tilt,
  * power settings,
  * radio resource management parameters
  * ...
For a deeper analysis e.g. the detection of the location of these areas
detailed measurements are requested.
The current method for solving these problems and determining the correct
configuration relies upon special tools to analyse RRM related measurements,
interface tracing and drive tests.
For E-UTRAN the appropriate measurements, significant statistical base of
performance measurements, problem specific measurement configuration and the
full support of processing this valuable information shall be supported by
3GPP Telecom Management specifications.
Editor\'s note: It should be clarified how RRM measurements can contribute to
statistics based optimisation cycle.
##### 5.1.3.1.4 Optimisation of parameter due to trouble shooting
In a typical workflow performance measurements indicate problems in the
network caused by different reasons:
  * high call drop rate HW defects or
  * poor Setup Success Rate SW failures in the network,
  * poor average throughput user failures
  * many others wrong or not ideal parameterisation
Analyses of complex problems currently are based on drive test results,
accompanied by interface traces. Typically signal strengths, Ec/No values of
neighbours, special call events like call drop, handover failures etc. are
valuable indications both for optimisation and trouble shooting purpose. In
special cases even cell and neighbour individual parameterisation must be
found to mitigate problems. Obviously network quality and performance could be
improved if such individual optimisation could be done by default for every
cell. Further typical configuration failures would be found (if not already
avoided by intelligent self-configuration function) like missing or lost
neighbours, inappropriate hysteresis values, 2G- and 3G-neighbour related
parameter and others.
Generally the optimisation of multiple parameters in a wider network area must
be supported by appropriate O&M functionality: the efficient transport of
information about status of network elements, their configuration and a smart
design to implement self-organising functionality must be a self-evident
feature of an E-UTRAN system.
##### 5.1.3.1.5 Continuous optimisation due to dynamic changes in the network
(like traffic variation)
Dynamic resource shifting and optimisation leads to better resource
utilisation and cost effectiveness considering roaming of customer due to
their daily activities. An example: during the day traffic is concentrated
more in urban areas but at night there is a shift towards the suburban areas.
In OFDM the opportunity exists to distribute air interface resources in a
dynamic way to optimise on traffic situation or interference situation. Based
on statistical measurements of power and interference level for single sub-
channels the coordination of sub-channels and dedicated power could be done in
a dynamic way.
Other parameters beside sub-tones seen as beneficial in this area are
principally antenna parameters, power settings and radio resource management
parameters.
##### 5.1.3.1.6 Void
##### 5.1.3.1.7 Handover Optimisation:
NOTE: The use case is based on experiences in GSM/UMTS and so only the
principles for E-UTRAN can be presented due to missing details on handover
procedure in E-UTRAN.
> [Scenario description]{.underline}: Optimisation of handover parameter like
> HO neighbour list, neighbour specific thresholds, margins and hysteretic
> parameter
  * Objective: Description of procedures to optimise a certain HO > parameter
  * Scheduling: triggered either by network problems related to this > parameter or on demand
  * Input source (input optional depending on algorithm):
    * HO trigger reasons
    * KPIs: cell and neighbour specific HO success/failure rate, cell and neighbour specific Path Loss, Received signal strength and interference measurements before HO events
    * In ideal: all measurements can be linked with correct location information
    * Planning data like maps, location of cells, theoretical path loss/interference
    * Drive test results in proprietary/standardised form
    * Traces of interfaces (like Abis, Iub, Iu, A)
  * Functionality: Based on input parameter all necessary optimisation > is processed:
    * With human interaction: analysis of drive tests, traces
    * Without human interaction based on pre-configured action reacting on certain triggers: if certain average measurement values fall below certain threshold default configuration patterns can be set
    * Without human interaction based on autonomous intelligent actions by network: network finds optimal configuration based on complex procedures
  * Actions:
    * Network monitoring
    * Deriving optimised parameter
    * Configuration of optimised parameter
    * Network monitoring and checking success of re-configuration
  * Expected results: optimisation procedures lead to higher HO success > rate for certain cell-cell neighbour couple with minimised > operational effort
##### 5.1.3.1.8 QoS related radio parameters optimization
Optimizing QoS related radio parameters is to ensure good quality/performance
and optimal resource utilization with minimal operational configuration and
optimization effort.
**It is beneficial to optimize** QoS related radio parameters for the purpose
of performance improvement and meet QoS target for EUTRAN.
There are a lot of parameters which influence QoS target. There are radio
parameters controlling radio bearer configuration etc. which influence
significantly the performance experience. For example, the radio parameters
influencing retransmission & discard operation in RLC layer, Congestion
Control parameters, etc.
Potential actors of this use case can be Element Manager (EM), Network Manager
(NM), Domain Manager (DM) and human operator.
##### 5.1.3.1.9 **MBMS network Optimization**
Dynamic shifting and optimisation of MBSFN areas leads to better radio
resource utilisation and cost effectiveness considering dynamic change of
distribution of MBMS subscribers.
A typical example of MBMS subscribers change is depicted in Figure 1 below. We
assume that originally there are eight cells within the coverage of the MBSFN
Area X meaning MBMS services can be delivered to all the eight cells via SFN
transmission mode. However due to the dynamic changes of the users
distribution (e.g. daily activities) there will be no MBMS subscribers in cell
8 for a certain period of time. In this case, it would be beneficial to shrink
the coverage the MBSFN Area X to only cover from cell 1 to cell 7 where there
are still MBMS users. When cell 8 is ruled out of the MBSFN Area X, there will
be more radio resources in the cell 8 that can be used to bear point to point
services from the RRM (Radio Resource Management) point of view.
{width="4.4in" height="2.501388888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.3.1.9-1: An example of MBSFN Area optimisation
As input for troubleshooting, bad Node B synchronization, misdirected
antennas, wrongly set power levels etc.
It might be more suitable to collect the results of UE measurements, and
trigger corrective actions in a network element that has a network level view,
rather than independently for every cell or every Node B.
The logical node that has such network overview could be the SON functionality
in the management domain of eUTRAN.
### 5.1.4 Evolution of existing SA5 specifications
A reuse of the existing UMTS management standard solutions will have the
following benefits:
  * It is proven in operation;
  * It will minimise both the standardisation and product development efforts (i.e. the cost and time);
  * It provides a base for on which more functionality can be developed (compared with making everything new from the start);
  * It will shorten the time to market for E-UTRAN and EPC systems;
  * It will facilitate a seamless coexistence with UMTS management systems.
### 5.1.5 Establishment of new eNodeB in network
#### 5.1.5.1 Automatic Radio Network configuration data preparation
**[REQ_EST_CON_1]** Radio parameters for the new eNodeB should be generated as
much as possible without manual intervention.
**[REQ_EST_CON_2]** Radio parameters of network nodes already existing and
operating in the field, and whose configuration requires updates due to the
insertion of the new eNodeB, should be updated in an automated manner.
**[REQ_EST_CON_3]** The generation of the radio configuration of the new
eNodeB should work in a multi-vendor environment.
#### 5.1.5.2 Self-Configuration of a new eNodeB
The following requirements apply to the macro eNB only. Requirements for the
HNB can be found in TR 32.821.
The following requirements apply to the software download into the eNB
  * [REQ_EST_CON_01] The software download should be automated as much as possible so that no or only minimal manual intervention is required.
  * [REQ_EST_CON_02] The actor at NM level should have monitoring and interaction capabilities regarding the software download into the eNB.
  * [REQ_EST_CON_03] The software download functions used during the establishment of a new eNodeB in the network should be reused as much as possible for software upgrade.
The following requirements apply to the automatic OAM connectivity
establishment
  * [REQ_EST_CON_04] The OAM connectivity (incl. the IP address allocation) shall be established in a fully automated manner.
  * [REQ_EST_CON_05] The amount of parameters that needs to be preconfigured should be minimized.
  * [REQ_EST_CON_06] The automatic establishment of the OAM connectivity shall be fully secured.
### 5.1.6 Trace in E-UTRAN/EPC
The need for trace functionality is the same as for a UMTS system (non
E-UTRAN/EPC). Scenarios are described in TS 32.421 [2].
A fault can be due to node internal (vendor specific) decision, why it is
beneficial to trace vendor specific data as well. To allow for this we need to
have the possibility to add vendor specific data to the Equipment trace for
E-UTRAN. This requires 3 new depth levels. To allow for such data to be
recorded in the trace file, vendor specific data should be allowed in the
trace file for E-UTRAN.
### 5.1.7 KPIs in E-UTRAN/EPC
The following guidelines and principles shall be valid for the E-UTRAN KPIs
specified in SA5:
**REQ-KPI-CON-001** Measure properties that the operator can control by means
of dimensioning and optimisation
**REQ-KPI-CON-002** Measure properties that are of economical value for the
operator to improve
**REQ-KPI-CON-003** Focus for the KPIs shall be on End-to-End (E2E)
performance and End User Perceived Service performance:
  * E2E Service Performance is the combined performance of the network nodes involved in the service delivery and the terminal/terminal equipment.
  * End User Perceived Service Performance is how the user of the service perceives the service including the performance of the used terminal.
**REQ-KPI-CON-004** The KPIs shall be well described, including a clear
rationale,
### 5.1.8 Site Management
Observing the evolution of network infrastructure, it is evident that site
(i.e. all the equipment and their links at the site) management is getting
complex. Operators foresee substantial OPEX reduction if site resources such
as power, floor space and antenna systems can be efficiently managed for
sharing by say GSM BTS, WCDMA RBS, transmission equipment etc. This view
necessitates the modelling of site resources as a subsystem or system.
### 5.1.9 Void
### 5.1.10 Configuration Management of E-UTRAN/EPC
#### 5.1.10.1 General
The consistent management of handover relationships over different element
managers is a tedious task. Possible functions include
  * _Cell data synchronisation_ : The attributes of external cell objects and the corresponding (master) cell object have to be consistent...
  * _Detection of unidirectional handovers_ : Most handover relationships are bidirectional. Unidirectional handovers may be due to erroneous configurations.
#### 5.1.10.2 Pool Management
Each eNodeB may be connected to multiple \"\"MMEs. The MMEs may be grouped in
pool called \"MME Pool\" as shown below. The two dotted lines illustrate the
idea that some eNodeB can access members of one Pool while other eNodeBs can
access members of another Pool. The NRM IRP should support such scenario.
Figure 5.1.10.2-1: MME Pool
The eNodeB, operated by one operator can also be connected to MMEs operated by
multiple (different) operators. These operators can organize their MME Pools
as well. The NRM IRP should also model such scenario.
Figure 5.1.10.2-2: MME Pools in Multi CN operators scenario
In addition to support the modelling of \"MME Pool\", the NRM IRP
specification should also support the modelling of the \"MSC pool\" and the
\"SGSN pool\" scenarios, using identical principle.
### 5.1.11 Void
### 5.1.12 Neighbourhood list handling
**REQ-MGMT_EUTRAN_EPC-CON-XX1** The need for planning the Neighbour Relation
List shall be minimized.
## 5.2 Specification level requirements
### 5.2.1 Void
### 5.2.2 Void
### 5.2.3 Void
### 5.2.4 Use cases
#### 5.2.4.1 SON Use cases
##### 5.2.4.1.1 Void
##### 5.2.4.1.2 Establishment of new eNodeB in network
###### 5.2.4.1.2.1 Void
###### 5.2.4.1.2.2 Self-Configuration of a new eNodeB
This use case starts with the first initial self test (see clause 5.1.3.1.2)
and ends when the eNodeB is taken into operation. The self optimization starts
when the eNodeB is taken into operation (see clause 5.1.3.1.1)
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Put the eNodeB after | | | | physical installation | | | | into the operational | | | | state in an automated | | | | manner. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | eNodeB and the OAM (sub) | | | | systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The eNodeB is physically | | | | installed and physically | | | | connected to an IP | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The field personnel | | | | start the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. It is also | | | | possible that the | | | | process is triggered | | | | automatically after the | | | | completion of an eNodeB | | | | self-test.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | The order of the bullet | | | | points in the list below | | | | does not imply any | | | | statements on the order | | | | of execution. | | | | | | | | [SC1] An eNodeB IP | | | | address is allocated to | | | | the new eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC2] Basic | | | | information about the | | | | transport network (e. g. | | | | gateways) environment is | | | | provided to the eNodeB. | | | | With this information | | | | the eNodeB is able to | | | | exchange IP packets with | | | | other internet hosts. | | | | | | | | [SC3] The eNodeB | | | | provides information | | | | about its type, hardware | | | | and other relevant data | | | | about itself to the OAM | | | | (sub) systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | [SC4] The address(es) | | | | of the OAM (sub) | | | | system(s) providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process (e.g. subsystem | | | | for software download, | | | | subsystem for | | | | configuration data | | | | download) is provided to | | | | the eNodeB. The address | | | | is equal to an IP | | | | address and a port | | | | number, or a DNS name | | | | and port number, or an | | | | URI. | | | | | | | | [SC5] The address(es) | | | | of the OAM | | | | (sub)system(s) providing | | | | support for normal OAM | | | | functions after | | | | completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process are provided to | | | | the eNodeB. The address | | | | is equal to an IP | | | | address and a port | | | | number, or a DNS name | | | | and port number, or an | | | | URI. | | | | | | | | [SC6] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | system providing support | | | | for the software | | | | download. | | | | | | | | [SC7] The decision | | | | which software or | | | | software packages have | | | | to be downloaded to the | | | | eNodeB is taken. | | | | | | | | [SC8] The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC9] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | system providing support | | | | for the configuration | | | | data download. | | | | | | | | [SC10] The (transport | | | | and radio) configuration | | | | data for the eNodeB is | | | | made available by either | | | | preparing it or making | | | | prepared configuration | | | | data available. | | | | | | | | [SC11] The (transport | | | | and radio) configuration | | | | data is downloaded into | | | | the eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC12] Dependent nodes | | | | (MMEs, eNodeBs) are | | | | updated with new | | | | configuration data as | | | | well (if required). | | | | | | | | [SC13] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | (sub) system(s) | | | | providing support for | | | | normal OAM functions | | | | after completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | [SC14] The S1-links | | | | are be set up. | | | | | | | | [SC15] The (planned) | | | | X2-links are be set up. | | | | | | | | **[SC16] The inventory | | | | system in the OAM is | | | | informed that a new | | | | eNodeB is in the | | | | field.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step n (M\|O) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The eNodeB is | | | | operational and able to | | | | carry traffic. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 5.2.4.1.3 Void
##### 5.2.4.1.4 Void
##### 5.2.4.1.5 Void
##### 5.2.4.1.6 Void
##### 5.2.4.1.7 Void
##### 5.2.4.1.8 Void
##### 5.2.4.1.9 Void
### 5.2.5 Requirements
#### 5.2.5.1 Evolution of existing SA5 specifications
**REQ-REUSE_TS-ADM-001** High level specifications, like 32.101 [8], 32.102
[9] and 32.300 [10] shall be reused. Small modifications will need to be done
in some cases.
**REQ-REUSE_TS-ADM-002** The Methodology specifications shall be reused.
**REQ-REUSE_TS-ADM-003** Interface IRPs shall be reused. Small modifications
will need to be done in some cases.
**REQ-REUSE_TS-ADM-004** State Management IRP shall be reused.
**REQ-REUSE_TS-ADM-005** Security, Trace, SuM (that is not interface IRPs) TSs
shall be reused. Small modifications will need to be done in some cases.
**REQ-REUSE_TS-ADM-006** The NRM for Subscription Management, Generic
Resources, Inventory Management Repeater, IMS shall be reused.
See Annex A for the exact list of specifications.
**REQ-FUN-1** : The physical cell identifier shall be assigned fully
automatically without manual intervention.
**REQ-FUN-3** : The assigned physical cell identifier shall be collision free.
Editor\'s note: There was no consensus for REQ-FUN-3.
#### 5.2.5.2 Automatic installation of NEs
A newly installed eNodeB communicates with the DM managing E-UTRAN in several
stages. At the initial stage, the eNodeB will need the identity of each MME
with which it will share an S1 interface. The identities or MME pool
identities must be provided to the eNodeB. The eNodeB uses the information to
establish the necessary S1 connections.
**REQ-INST_ENB-CON-001** Devise a data format for structuring the identities
of MMEs. The detail modelling of this data will depend on the E-UTRAN Network
Resource Model, which is FFS.
**REQ-INST_ENB-FUN-002** While defining the NRM for EPC, make sure that the
NRM contains elements that support automatic configuration of the S1
connection between eNodeBs and their corresponding MMEs. Especially, the
object representing an MME should include an attribute that contains the
identity of its S1 interface.
**REQ-INST_ENB-CON-003** The Itf-N is reused for the communication between the
NMS and the DM managing EPC.
**REQ-INST_ENB-FUN-004** While defining the NRM for E-UTRAN, make sure that
the NRM contains elements necessary to support automatic configuration of the
S1 connection between eNodeBs and their corresponding MMEs.
**REQ-INST_ENB-CON-005** Reuse Itf-N for the communication between the NMS and
the DM managing E-UTRAN.
#### 5.2.5.3 Trace in E-UTRAN/EPC
To minimise the specification work for the trace functionality of E-UTRAN/EPC:
**REQ-Sub_Equip_Trace-CON-001** Reuse Subscriber and Equipment Trace for
E-UTRAN and EPC (32.421 [2], 32.422 [3] and 32.423 [4]).
> The following general updates are required:
>
> \- Lists of systems need to be completed with E-UTRAN and EPC, where
> applicable.
>
> \- Lists of network elements need to be completed with network elements in
> E-UTRAN and EPC, where applicable.
>
> \- Lists of interfaces need to be completed with interfaces in E-UTRAN and
> EPC, where applicable.
**REQ-Sub_Equip_Trace-CON-002** Reuse Trace IRP for E-UTRAN and EPC (32.441
[5], 32.442 [6] and 32.443 [7]).
> The following general updates are required:
>
> \- Lists of systems need to be completed with E-UTRAN and EPC, where
> applicable.
>
> \- Lists of network elements need to be completed with network elements in
> E-UTRAN and EPC, where applicable.
>
> \- Lists of interfaces need to be completed with interfaces in E-UTRAN and
> EPC, where applicable.
**REQ-Sub_Equip_Trace-CON-003** Do trace parameter propagation over X2
interface (in 32.421 [2] and 32.422 [3]) at handover. At handover between AGW
pools (where there is no X2 interface), use the same route as the actual
handover signalling for trace parameter propagation.
To find faults in the air interface signalling, it would be beneficial to
include trace of the air interface as well.
**REQ-Sub_Equip_Trace-CON-004** Extend trace to also include air interface
(RRC) signalling (in 32.421 [2] and 32.422 [3]).
The trace should start as early as possible. It should be started earlier than
it is started for UMTS.
**REQ-Sub_Equip_Trace-CON-005** Include the information in CN INVOKE TRACE
(adapted for E-UTRAN/EPC) in the \"call set up message\" from EPC to E-UTRAN
and within EPC.
It should be possible to initiate the trace in one DM and forward the
initiation over the Itf-P2P (in order to facilitate Signalling Based
Activation from a radio network DM).
All trace log data from different nodes and/or DMs should be possible to
collect and analyse at a selected location.
**REQ-Sub_Equip_Trace-CON-006** Include IP address for trace log data to be
sent to in the trace initiation.
It should be possible to provide node internal vendor specific data to be
recorded.
**REQ-Sub_Equip_Trace-CON-007** Extend the Trace Depth parameter from 3 to 6
values and add a new File Content Item in TS 32.423 which should be Vendor
specific data (which should always be written to the end of the file to enable
easy discard of this information by a user who is not able to decode it).
The Trace Depth values would now be:
* * *
Trace Depth Meaning Minimum Recording of some IEs in the signalling messages
plus any vendor specific extensions to this definition, in decoded format.
Medium Recording of some IEs in the signalling messages together with the
radio measurement IEs plus any vendor specific extensions to this definition,
in decoded format. Maximum Recording entire signalling messages plus any
vendor specific extensions to this definition, in encoded format. Minimum +
Vendor specific data Recording of some IEs in the signalling messages plus any
vendor specific extensions to this definition, in decoded format + Vendor
specific data. Medium+ Vendor specific data Recording of some IEs in the
signalling messages together with the radio measurement IEs plus any vendor
specific extensions to this definition, in decoded format + Vendor specific
data. Maximum+ Vendor specific data Recording entire signalling messages plus
any vendor specific extensions to this definition, in encoded format + Vendor
specific data.
* * *
The proposal would be to change this from the 3 values (2 bits) to 8 values (3
bits) leaving the last 2 values spare.
#### 5.2.5.4 KPIs in E-UTRAN/EPC
KPIs should, when possible, be specified independently from the underlying
technology (e.g. WCDMA).
The KPI in E-UTRAN/EPC should be defined by following categories:
**Accessibility:** See the definition in Itu-T E800.
**Retainability:** See the definition in Itu-T E800.
**Mobility:** To evaluate the performance of the network mobility, e.g.,
handover, location update. Etc;
**Integrity:** See the definition in Itu-T E800.
**Usability:** To evaluate the performance of the network usability, e.g.,
traffic volume, CPU usage, etc;
#### 5.2.5.5 Void
#### 5.2.5.6 Fault Management of E-UTRAN/EPC
Exchange of fault data over the Itf-P2P has not yet been described in 3GPP. It
is proposed to investigate also here potential benefits in terms of automation
of operational tasks and self-healing mechanisms.
#### 5.2.5.7 Configuration Management of E-UTRAN/EPC
Support of Pool Management
To guide the specification of NRM IOCs, the following terms/descriptions (3
bullets) and Requirement statements are used. The terms/descriptions here
should have identical meaning with those described by SA2 [1]. They are
grouped here only for convenience purpose. If it differs from SA2 definitions,
it will be changed to reflect description in [1] accordingly.
  * An MME Pool consists of one or more MME nodes. All MME nodes of one MME Pool serve the same one and only one MME Pool Area.
  * A particular MME Node can be a member of one and only one MME Pool.
  * A particular TA can be a member of one or more MME Pool Area(s). In the latter case, the MME Pool Areas involved are called overlapping MME Pool Areas.
Editor's notes: whether "member" or "be contained" should be used in the
bullet above is FFS.
"**MME Pool Area:** An MME Pool Area is defined as an area within which a UE
may be served without need to change the serving MME. An MME Pool Area is
served by one or more MMEs (\"pool of MMEs\") in parallel. MME Pool Areas are
a collection of complete Tracking Areas. MME Pool Areas may overlap each
other." [1]
O&M system needs to support the following requirements:
**REQ-xxx-CON-001** Create/Destroy an MME Pool
**REQ-xxx-CON-002** Add/Remove MME node to/from MME Pool
**REQ-xxx-CON-003** Move MME nodes from one MME Pool to another MME Pool
**REQ-xxx-CON-004** Move MME node (of MME Pool) out of and into service
**REQ-xxx-CON-005** Create/Destroy an MME Pool Area
**REQ-xxx-CON-006** Add/Remove TAs to/from MME Pool Area (including add/remove
related eNodeB to/from MME Pool Area)
**REQ-xxx-CON-007** Connect or Associate one MME Pool Area with one MME Pool
#### 5.2.5.8 Performance Management of E-UTRAN/EPC
Exchange of performance data over the Itf-P2P has not yet been described in
3GPP. It is proposed to investigate also here potential benefits in terms of
automation of operational tasks and self-healing mechanisms.
**REQ-PMS-CON-001** PM IRP will be reused for the collection and monitoring of
the performance measurements for E-UTRAN/EPC.
**REQ-PMS-CON-002** Alarm IRP will be reused for performance alarm;
**REQ-PMS-CON-003** The peformance measurement standardization must be
motivated by sufficient use case, requirement, or solutions.
#### 5.2.5.9 Establishment of new eNodeB in network
The business level requirement [REQ_EST_CON_02] regarding the software
download into the eNodeB is decomposed into the following specification level
requirements
  * [REQ_EST_FUN_01] After the successful download and activation of the software the actor on NM level should be informed about this. The notification should include detailed information on the type, version, etc. of the downloaded software. After a failed download or failed activation the actor at NM level should be informed as well.
  * [REQ_EST_FUN_02] The details of the interaction capabilities of the actor at NM level are FFS.
#### 5.2.5.10 Optimisation of neighbourhood list
**REQ-MGMT_EUTRAN_EPC-CON-XX6** A Searchlist is needed for each cell. The
Searchlist should be configurable by standard means, for example the Itf-N
interface.
# 6 E-UTRAN/EPC Management Architecture
## 6.1 Generic requirements for the management architecture
**REQ-ARCH-CON-001** The O&M Architecture should scale gracefully,
particularly for the Home Cell deployment.
**REQ-ARCH-NON-002** E-UTRAN O&M Architecture and specifications should be
finalised within the first release of E-UTRAN, such that it is available for
first deployments of E-UTRAN.
**REQ-ARCH-CON-003** The EM-NM interface (Itf-N) should always be terminated
in the EM irrespective of whether EM resides within the Radio Node or not.
**REQ-ARCH-CON-004** For information logically flowing between the Element and
the Network Manager (i.e. through the Element Manager), the amount of
information to be translated should be kept to a minimum. The X2 interface
shall not be used for the indirect transfer between Network Management nodes
of data originating in the Management System which is used for O&M purposes
only. Note that the X2 establishment is outside the scope of SA5.
## 6.2 Management Reference Models
### 6.2.1 Existing Management Reference Model
This following picture depicts the existing Management Reference Model from TS
32.101. Unless otherwise stated this model is equally applicable to E-UTRAN/
EPC.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="4.095833333333333in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1:
### 6.2.2 Use Case Specific Management Reference Models
For the management of E-UTRAN / EPC numerous high level business use cases
have been identified. More are expected to be identified in future. Each of
this use cases is supported by a Use Case Specific Management Reference Model.
The approach for the definition of this Reference Model is described in
Chapter 6.3.
### 6.2.3 E-UTRAN / EPC Management Reference Model
The E-UTRAN/EPC Management Reference Model is the combination of the existing
Management Reference Model and the Use Case Specific Management Reference
Models.
## 6.3 Procedure for the specification of the E-UTRAN/EPC Function Specific
Management Reference Models
The E-UTRAN/EPC Function Specific Management Reference Model is defined by
applying the following steps to each E-UTRAN/EPC high level business use case.
**Functional decomposition of each use case:**
The high level use cases stated in the business level requirements are
decomposed into smaller (atomic) functions or steps. These steps are then
documented in the use case template (column Step 1 to column Step n) in the
specification level requirements.
**Definition of the Logical Architecture for each use case:**
In a next step logical functions or functional blocks are identified. Each
block supports one or more atomic functions. All functional blocks represent
the logical architecture. The logical architecture does not specify where the
functions are located. The logical architecture specifies the interactions and
relationships between the functional blocks as well.
**Definition of the Use Case Specific Reference Model for each use case**
After SA5 has agreed on the logical architecture in terms of logical functions
it has to be decided where these functions should be located in the existing
Management Reference Model (NE, EM NM) or if a new entity should be defined.
Note that the different logical functions do not need to be located all at the
same place.
Relationships on open interfaces require full standardisation. Relationships
between Functional Blocks inside one entity of the Management Reference Model
or on closed interfaces are not standardized.
## 6.4 Specification of the E-UTRAN/EPC Use Case Specific Management Reference
Model
### 6.4.1 Requirements
If possible the logical functions should be mapped to the existing Management
Reference Model from TS 32.101. Only in case this is not possible the existing
Management Reference Model shall be extended.
### 6.4.2 Use Case Specific Logical Architecture
#### 6.4.2.1. Use case self-configuration of eNodeBs
Figure 6.4.2.1-1 depicts the Logical Architecture for the use case \"self-
configuration of new eNodeBs\".\ The lines between the Functional Blocks
indicate that there might be a relationship between them. Blocks not connected
by lines might have relationships as well.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.4375in"}
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: Logical Architecture for the use case \"self-configuration
of a new eNodeBs\"
**_Logical Function Blocks_**
**Address Allocation Function (AAF):**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC1], [SC3].
The AAF can be split into a client part and a server part.
**OAM Connectivity Establishment Function (OAM CO_EF):**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC2], [SC3], [SC4],
[SC5], [SC13].
The CO_EF can be split into a client part and a server part.
**Software Download Function (SW_DLF):**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC3], [SC6], [SC7],
[SC8].
The SW_DLF can be split into a client part and a server part.
**Inventory Update Function:**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC15].
**Self-Configuration Monitoring and Control Function (SC_MCF):**
This functional block supports the following functions: FFS
This function monitors the self-configuration process and provides the
operator with this information. This function must be able to get information
about all other functional blocks. In addition to this it allows the operator
to control the execution of the self-configuration process.
Editor\'s note: The functionality of this block requires further investigation
and is not yet agreed. The functions supported by this block have to be added
to the specification level requirements.
**Self-Configuration Policy Control Function (SC_PCF:**
This functional block supports the following functions: FFS
The self-configuration process may be controlled via policies or rules. This
function allows configuring these policies.
Editor\'s note: The functionality of this block requires further investigation
and is not yet agreed. The functions supported by this block have to be added
to the specification level requirements.
**Call Processing Link (CPL) Connectivity Establishment Function (CO_EF):**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC14], [SC15].
**Radio Network Configuration Data Download Function (RN_CD_DLF):**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC9], [SC11], [SC12].
**Transport Network Configuration Data Download Function (TN_CD_DLF):**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC9], [SC11], [SC12].
**Radio Network and Transport Network Configuration Data Preparation
Function**
This functional block supports the following functions: [SC10].
#### 6.4.2.x Use case X
Describe here the Logical Architecture for the use case X.
### 6.4.3 Void
#### 6.4.3.1 Use case self-configuration of eNodeBs
#### 6.4.3.x Void
## 6.5 Void
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
## 7.1 Establishment of new eNodeB in network
### 7.1.1 Automatic Radio Network configuration data preparation
The work is started but not finished.
The proposal is to continue the work in Rel-9 as a study.
### Self-configuration of a new eNodeB
A Work Item is started, UID_390005 Self-Establishment of eNBs.
The proposal is to continue the work in the WI.
## 7.2 Optimisation of the neighbourhood list
A Work Item is started, UID_390006 SON Automatic Neighbour Relations (ANR)
List Management.
The proposal is to continue the work in the WI.
## 7.3 Coverage and capacity optimisation
The work is started but not finished.
The proposal is to continue the work in WI for UID_390007 SON Self-
Optimization & Self-Healing handling.
## 7.4 Optimisation of parameter due to trouble shooting
Only a use case is provided. No proposal to continue exists.
## 7.5 Continuous optimisation of due to dynamic changes in the network
Only a use case is provided. No proposal to continue exists.
## 7.6 Handover optimisation
Only a use case is provided. Work is started in work item UID_390007 SON Self-
Optimization & Self-Healing handling, which is proposed to continue. RAN 3 is
also working on this topic, which is why it is proposed that SA5 do not
duplicate work done in RAN3.
## 7.7 QoS related radio parameters optimisation
The work is started when the TR is about to be concluded. Therefore the work
should continue in a new study item of its own.
## 7.8 MBMS network optimisation
No input is submitted. No proposal on how to continue exists.
## 7.9 Evolution of existing SA5 specifications
The work is completed and it is recommended to reuse all specifications listed
in Annex A.
## 7.10 Trace in E-UTRAN/EPC
A Work Item is started.
The proposal is to continue the work in the WI.
## 7.11 KPIs in E-UTRAN/EPC
A Work Item is started for E-UTRAN. No input is submitted for EPC.
The proposal is to continue the work in the WI E-UTRAN. For EPC no proposal
for how to continue exists.
## 7.12 Site management
A first description is made.
No proposal on how to continue exists.
## 7.13 Fault management of E-UTRAN/EPC
A first description is made.
It is proposed to reuse the \'Fault Management for UMTS..
## 7.14 Configuration of E-UTRAN/EPC
Two work items are started: EPC NRM and E-UTRAN NRM.
The proposal is to continue the work in the WIs for the object models. For
interface IRPs, it is proposed to reuse the Interface IRPs for UTRAN.
### 7.14.1 Pool management
The work is continued in the Work Item for EPC NRM.
The proposal is to continue the work in the WI EPC NRM.
## 7.15 Performance management of E-UTRAN/EPC
Two Work Items are started.
The proposal is to continue the work in the WIs.
###### ### Annex A: Reuse of 3GPP TSs for E-UTRAN and EPC management
# A.1 TSs to be reused
The following TSs shall be reused for E-UTRAN:
* * *
TS 32.101 Telecommunication management; Principles and high level requirements
TS 32.102 Telecommunication management; Architecture TS 32.111-1
Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part 1: 3G fault management
requirements TS 32.111-2 Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS
32.111-3 Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part 3: Alarm
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.111-5 Telecommunication management; Fault
Management; Part 5: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) definitions TS 32.140 Telecommunication management;
Subscription Management (SuM) requirements TS 32.141 Telecommunication
management; Subscription Management (SuM) architecture TS 32.150
Telecommunication management; Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and
definitions TS 32.151 Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) template TS 32.152 Telecommunication
management; Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) Unified
Modelling Language (UML) repertoire TS 32.153 Telecommunication management;
Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology specific templates TS 32.154
Telecommunication management; Backward and Forward Compatibility (BFC);
Concept and definitions TS 32.171 Telecommunication management; Subscription
Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Requirements TS 32.172 Telecommunication management; Subscription
Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.175 Telecommunication management;
Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definition TS 32.300
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Name convention
for Managed Objects TS 32.301 Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
TS 32.302 Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM);
Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS
32.303 Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM);
Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.305 Telecommunication management;
Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definition TS 32.307 Telecommunication
management; Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.311
Telecommunication management; Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP)
management; Requirements TS 32.312 Telecommunication management; Generic
Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS) TS
32.313 Telecommunication management; Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP)
management; Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set
(SS) TS 32.317 Telecommunication management; Generic Integration Reference
Point (IRP) management; Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Solution Set (SS)
TS 32.321 Telecommunication management; Test management Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.322 Telecommunication management; Test
management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS
32.323 Telecommunication management; Test management Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set
(SS) TS 32.325 Telecommunication management; Test management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions TS 32.331
Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.332 Telecommunication management; Notification
Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.333
Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set
(SS) TS 32.335 Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution definitions
TS 32.341 Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.342 Telecommunication management;
File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)
TS 32.343 Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA)
Solution Set (SS) TS 32.345 Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
definitions TS 32.351 Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance
(CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.352
Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.353 Telecommunication
management; Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.361
Telecommunication management; Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Requirements TS 32.362 Telecommunication management; Entry Point (EP)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.363
Telecommunication management; Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS
32.365 Telecommunication management; Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions TS 32.371
Telecommunication management; Security Management concept and requirements TS
32.372 Telecommunication management; Security services for Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.373 Telecommunication
management; Security services for Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.375
Telecommunication management; Security services for Integration Reference
Point (IRP): File integrity solution TS 32.381 Telecommunication management;
Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS
32.382 Telecommunication management; Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.383 Telecommunication
management; Security Services for Integration Reference Points (IRP): Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.391
Telecommunication management; Delta synchronization Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.392 Telecommunication management; Delta
synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS
32.393 Telecommunication management; Delta synchronization Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA)
Solution Set (SS) TS 32.395 Telecommunication management; Delta
synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language
(XML) file format definition TS 32.401 Telecommunication management;
Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements TS 32.404 Performance
Management (PM); Performance measurements -- Definitions and template TS
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice TS
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS) TS 32.411 Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.412
Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.413 Telecommunication
management; Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.415
Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions TS 32.421
Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace concepts
and requirements TS 32.422 Telecommunication management; Subscriber and
equipment trace; Trace control and configuration management TS 32.423
Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace data
definition and management TS 32.432 Telecommunication management; Performance
measurement: File format definition TS 32.435 Telecommunication management;
Performance measurement: eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format
definition TS 32.436 Telecommunication management; Performance measurement:
Abstract Syntax Notation 1 (ASN.1) file format definition TS 32.441
Telecommunication management; Trace Management Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Requirements TS 32.442 Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information service (IS) TS 32.443
Telecommunication management; Trace Management Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS
32.600 Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Concept
and high-level requirements TS 32.601 Telecommunication management;
Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements TS 32.602 Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS
32.603 Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.607 Telecommunication management;
Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.611
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.612 Telecommunication
management; Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.613 Telecommunication management;
Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.615
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Bulk CM
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file
format definition TS 32.621 Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements TS 32.622 Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM) TS 32.623 Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.625
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Generic network
resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) file format definition TS 32.661 Telecommunication management;
Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM; Requirements TS 32.662
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM;
Information service (IS) TS 32.663 Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.664
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Management Information Protocol
(CMIP) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.665 Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions TS 32.667 Telecommunication management;
Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.671
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); State Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.672 Telecommunication
management; Configuration Management (CM); State Management Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.673 Telecommunication
management; Configuration Management (CM); State Management Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA)
Solution Set (SS) TS 32.674 Telecommunication management; Configuration
Management (CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common
Management Information Protocol (CMIP) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.675
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); State Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
file format definition TS 32.681 Telecommunication management; Inventory
Management (IM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.682
Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) TS 32.683 Telecommunication management;
Inventory Management (IM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.690
Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM): Requirements TS
32.691 Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM) network
resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.692
Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM) network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM) TS 32.695
Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM) network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk Configuration Management (CM)
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition TS 32.721
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network
resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.722
Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network
resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS
32.723 Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); Repeater
network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.725 Telecommunication
management; Configuration Management (CM); Repeater network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
file format definition TS 32.731 Telecommunication management; Service
Specific Core Network (CN) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements TS 32.732
Telecommunication management; Service Specific Core Network (CN) IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.733 Telecommunication management;
Service Specific Core Network (CN) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.735 Telecommunication
management; Service Specific Core Network (CN) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) file format definition
TS 32.751 Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements TS 32.752
Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.753
Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS 32.755 Telecommunication management;
Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition
TS 32.761 Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio
Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Requirements TS 32.762 Telecommunication management; Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) TS 32.763
Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS) TS
32.765 Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio
Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition
* * *
###### ### Annex B: Use case comparison to NGMN SON
The table shows the use case comparison between the present document and NGMN
SON.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SON use cases in TR | SON use cases | Comments | | 32.816 | defined in NGMN | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Establishment of new | Hardware | The 3GPP use case | | eNodeB in network | Installation | "Establishment of | | | | new eNodeB in | | | Network | network" relates to | | | authentication | NGMN use cases | | | | applicable in | | | Software | network deployment | | | Installation | phase. | | | | | | | Transport Parameter | | | | Setup | | | | | | | | Radio Parameter | | | | Setup | | | | | | | | Testing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Optimisation of the | Radio Parameter | | | neighbourhood list | Optimisation: | | | | Neighbour cell list | | | | optimization | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coverage and | Radio Parameter | The 3GPP use case | | capacity | Optimisation: | "coverage and | | optimisation | Interference Control | capacity | | | | optimisation" | | | | relates to NGMN use | | | | cases applicable in | | | | network planning | | | | phase and | | | | optimization phase. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Optimisation of | Performance | **The 3GPP use case | | parameter due to | Management in real | "Optimisation of | | trouble shooting | time | parameter due to | | | | trouble shooting" | | | Direct KPI reporting | relates to several | | | in real time | NGMN use cases in | | | | network optimization | | | Information | phase.** | | | Correlation for | | | | Fault Management | The NGMN use cases | | | | **\"** Performance | | | Subscriber and | Management in real | | | Equipment trace | time\", \"Direct KPI | | | | reporting in real | | | Cell outage | time\", | | | Compensation | \"Information | | | | Correlation for | | | Compensation for | Fault Management\" | | | Outage of higher | and \"Subscriber and | | | level network | Equipment trace\" | | | elements | are used to collect | | | | information for | | | Fast recovery on | troubleshooting. | | | instable NEM system | | | | | The NGMN use cases | | | Mitigation of outage | \"Cell outage | | | of units | Compensation\", | | | | \"Compensation for | | | | Outage of higher | | | | level network | | | | elements\", \"Fast | | | | recovery on instable | | | | NEM system\" and | | | | \"Mitigation of | | | | outage of units\" | | | | are used to take | | | | action on system | | | | recovery. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Continuous | Radio Parameter | The 3GPP use case | | optimisation due to | Optimisation: | "Continuous | | dynamic changes in | Neighbour cell list | optimisation due to | | the network (like | optimization | dynamic changes in | | traffic variation) | | the network" relates | | | Radio Parameter | to several NGMN use | | | Optimisation: | cases on | | | Interference Control | continuously online | | | | optimization. | | | Radio Parameter | | | | Optimisation: HO | | | | parameterization | | | | optimization | | | | | | | | Radio Parameter | | | | Optimisation: QoS | | | | related parameter | | | | optimization | | | | | | | | Reduction of Energy | | | | Consumption | | | | | | | | Performance | | | | Management in real | | | | time | | | | | | | | Direct KPI reporting | | | | in real time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover | Radio Parameter | | | Optimisation | Optimisation: HO | | | | parameterization | | | | optimization | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | QoS related radio | Radio Parameter | | | parameters | Optimisation: QoS | | | optimization | related parameter | | | | optimization | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **MBMS network | | No related NGMN use | | Optimization** | | case | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | NodeB Location | No related SA5 use | | | | case | | | NodeB Hardware | | | | | | | | Automatic Generation | | | | of Radio Parameters | | | | | | | | Planning of | | | | transport parameters | | | | of a new eNodeB | | | | | | | | Planning of security | | | | Node, aGW and OMC | | | | | | | | Radio Parameter | | | | Optimisation: | | | | Optimization | | | | Scenarios with Home | | | | BTS/Pico BTS | | | | | | | | **Transport | | | | Parameter | | | | Optimisation: | | | | Routing | | | | Optimisation** | | | | | | | | **Transport | | | | Parameter | | | | Optimisation: | | | | Optimization | | | | Scenarios with Home | | | | BTS/Pico BTS** | | | | | | | | **Hardware / | | | | Capacity extension** | | | | | | | | **Autonomous | | | | Inventory** | | | | | | | | **Automatic SW | | | | Download to eNodeB** | | | | | | | | **Automated NEM | | | | upgrade** | | | | | | | | Cell outage | | | | detection | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#