# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In the Logical Layered Architecture (LLA) of TMN [1], Network-OSFs (N-OSF) are
concerned with the management function on Network Management Level (NML), and
Element-OSFs (E-OSF) with the management function on Element Management Level
(EML).\ These two logical layers respectively play the role of Network
Management Function (NMF).
This report provides Element Management Layer (EML) operation system functions
and function sets.\ The content is associated with the 3GPP TS 32.xyz-series.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies and defines the needs in the E-OSFs.\ The
intention is not to define new requirements for the eventual standardization
of new Interface IRP or NRM IRP and/or System Context.
The present document proposes to define the E-OSFs including the following
main aspects:
  * Define functional scope of Element-OSF (E-OSF)
  * Define functional requirement of Elements-OSF (E-OSF)
The present document identifies a set of functions require by operators to
operate mobile networks.\ By identifying these functional capabilities and
then comparing them with the 3GPP IRP capabilities, widely used functions and
omissions in the 3GPP set of IRPs are indicated.\ Change Requests and new IRPs
are expected to be created in order to narrow the functional gap.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation M.3010 (2000): \"Principles for a Telecommunications
management network\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation M.3400: \"TMN management functions\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following apply:
BML Business Management Layer
B-OS Business Management Layer-Operations Systems
B-OSF Business Management Layer-Operations Systems Function
EML Element Management Layer
E-OS Element Management Layer-Operations Systems
E-OSF Element Management Layer-Operations Systems Function
FM Fault Management
LLA Logical Layered Architecture
NE Network Element
NEF Network Element Function
NEL Network Element Layer
NML Network Management Layer
NMS Network Management System
N-OS Network Management Layer-Operations Systems
N-OSF Network Management Layer-Operations Systems Function
O&M Operations & Maintenance
OS Operations System
OSF Operations Systems Function
SML Service Management Layer
SMS Short Message Service
S-OS Service Management Layer-Operations Systems
S-OSF Service Management Layer-Operations Systems Function
TMN Telecommunication Management Network
# 4 TMN Logical Layered Architecture (LLA)
To deal with the complexity of telecommunications management, the management
functionality could be considered to be partitioned into logical layers (see
[1]). The LLA is a concept for the structuring of management functionality
which organizes the functions into a grouping called \"logical layers\" and
describes the relationship between layers. A logical layer reflects particular
aspects of management and implies the clustering of management information
supporting that aspect.
The grouping of management functionality implies grouping OSFs into layers. A
specialization of OSFs based upon different layers of abstraction is business,
service, network and element. Some TMN implementations may include business
OSFs that are concerned with a total enterprise (i.e. all services and
networks) and carry out overall business coordination. Service OSFs are
concerned with services offered by one or more networks and should normally
perform a customer interfacing role. Network OSFs are concerned with the
management of networks, and Element OSFs with the management of individual
elements.
Four (4) specializations of the OS physical block are defined to support a
physical realization of function blocks in logical layers:
  1. Business-Operations Systems (B-OS),
  2. Service-Operations Systems (S-OS)
  3. Network-Operations Systems (N-OS)
  4. Element-Operations Systems (E-OS).
These physical blocks are named according to the predominant functional block
they contain. Specifically, B-OS, S-OS, N-OS and E-OS predominantly contain
B-OSF, S-OSF, N-OSF and E-OSF respectively.\ When physical blocks contain more
than one kind of specialized OS functional block that provide substantial
functionality to the physical block, thus spanning more than one logical
layer, the physical block is named according to the highest hierarchically
layered function block. For example, a physical block containing both N-OSF
and E-OSF, providing substantial network functionality is called an N-OS.
# 5 Functional scope of E-OSF and N-OSF
## 5.1 Element Management Layer (EML)
The EML manages each Network Element on an individual or group basis and
supports an abstraction of the functions provided by the Network Element Layer
(NEL).
The EML has one or more element OSFs and/or MFs that are individually
responsible, on a devolved basis from the Network Management Layer (NML), for
some subset of Network Element Functions (NEF).\ As an objective, a vendor
independent view should be provided to the NML.
The EML has the following three (3) principle roles:
1) Control and coordination of a subset of Network Elements on an individual
NEF basis. In this role, the element OSFs support interaction between the NML
and the NEL by processing the management information being exchanged between
network OSFs and individual NEFs. Element OSFs should provide full access to
NE functionality.
2) The EML might also control and coordinate a subset of Network Elements on
collective basis. In this role, element OSFs may also provide a single entity
view of a group of NEFs.\ In addition, these element OSFs may manage the
relationships (e.g. connectivity) between NEFs.
3) Maintaining statistical, log and other data about elements within its scope
of control.
OSFs in the EML interact with OSFs in the same or other layers within the same
TMN through a q3 reference point and in other TMNs through an x reference
point.
Figure 5.1-1 show the reference point related E-OS, q reference point between
E-OSF, TF and NEF.f Class between OSF and a WSF.x reference point between
E-OSFs and the S-OSF of a TMN or the equivalent.
Figure 5.1-1: E-OS reference point
Logical Layered Architecture (LLA) is a concept for the structuring of
management functionality which organizes the functions into groups called
\"logical layers\" and describes the relationship between layers.
A logical layer reflects particular aspects of management arranged by
different levels of abstraction. Functional interactions between OSF function
blocks within different logical layers are described by the reference point.
The EML manages each Network Element on an individual or group basis and
supports an abstraction of the functions provided by the Network Element
layer. The EML has one or more element OSFs that are individually responsible,
on a devolved basis from the NML, for some subset of NEFs.
Interactions between E-OSF and NEF or N-OSF within a TMN take place at the q
reference points. And the interactions between E-OSF and S-OSF in the other
TMN take place at the x reference.
Figure 5.1-2 shows the case.
NOTE: All mediation functions, including those physically located elsewhere
(e.g. in a network element), are logically located in the element management
layer.
Figure 5.1-2: E-OSF reference point
## 5.2 Network Management Layer (NML)
The NML has the responsibility for the management of a network as supported by
the EML, includes the management aspects of any management entity which
implements E-OSF.
At this layer, functions addressing the management of a wide geographical area
are located. Complete visibility of the whole network is typical and, as an
objective, a technology independent view should be provided to the SML.
The NML has the following four principal roles:
1) Control and coordination of the network view of all Network Elements within
its scope or domain.
2) Provision, cessation or modification of network capabilities for the
support of service to customers.
3) Maintenance of network capabilities.
4) Maintaining statistical, log and other data about the network and interact
with the SML on performance, usage, availability, etc.
Thus, the NML provides the functionality to manage a network by coordinating
activity across the network and supports the \"network\" demands made by the
SML. It knows what resources are available in the network, how these are
interrelated and geographically allocated and how the resources can be
controlled. It has an overview of the network. Furthermore, this layer is
responsible for the technical performance of the actual network and should
control the available network capabilities and capacity to give the
appropriate accessibility and Quality of Service (QoS).
OSFs in the network management layer interact with OSFs in the same or other
layers within the same TMN through a q3 reference point and in other TMNs
through an x reference point.
# 6 Functional requirement of E-OSF
## 6.1 Fault Management (FM)
According to 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [2], the FM focus on fault detection, isolation
and correction of abnormal operation of the telecommunication network and its
environment. However, some other function should also be included in E-OSF.
### 6.1.1 Alarm surveillance function set
#### 6.1.1.1 Overview
E-OSF should support following function set:
  * Alarm view function set;
  * Alarm status function set;
  * Alarm presentation function set;
  * Alarm filter function set.
#### 6.1.1.2 Alarm view function set
Management entity that implements E-OSF should provide the following alarm
views at least. Any problematic equipment in the network can be detected from
the topological view. In addition, any problematic board should be detected
from the locating view (optional).
In this view, alarms should be displayed in topological way and O&M operator
can browse, analyze and operate on the alarms. It should display summary of
alarm information, including the number of alarms, number of alarms with
different levels, specific network status and the physical network equipment.
Topological alarm view should support the display of alarms that meet the
filtering criteria. The alarms on the topological alarm view should be updated
in real-time, so as to reflect the active network status in time.
#### 6.1.1.3 Alarm status function set
Alarms can be divided into current alarm (active alarm) and history alarm.
Current alarms refer to the alarms that has not been cleared and which is
active until the fault that caused the alarm is corrected and a \"clear
alarm\" is generated. The alarms that have been cleared are called history
alarms, which should be saved in history alarm database for future query.
History alarm should accurately record \"all the alarms that have been
reported in real time\"
E-OSF should support the following alarm status, which should be associated
with 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3]:
  * Unacknowledged active alarm: unacknowledged and not cleared alarms;
  * Acknowledged active alarm: acknowledged and not cleared alarms;
  * Unacknowledged history alarm: unacknowledged but not cleared alarms;
  * Acknowledged history alarm: acknowledged and cleared alarms.
#### 6.1.1.4 Alarm prompt customization function set
E-OSF should support the following way to customize the alarm prompt.-
Customization of alarm prompt colourManagement entity that implements E-OSF
should display the alarm level in different colour. In addition, the colour of
the alarm severity can be customized in specific case.
For example,
> 1) In the topological map, when multiple alarms happened at the same time in
> the same NE, only the colour that indicate the highest severity alarms among
> these alarms on the same NE should be displayed. When highest severity
> alarms are cleared, colour that indicates the next level severity alarm in
> the remained alarms should be displayed.
>
> 2) In the alarm list, the alarm should be sorted in the order of severity of
> alarms.
>
> 3) Customization of audible alarm
>
> For newly received alarm, management entity that implements E-OSF should
> generate audible prompt that could be customized by the O&M operator.
#### 6.1.1.5 Alarm filter function set
Management entity that implements E-OSF should support the filtering of alarms
submitted by NEs. Those comply with the filtering criteria should not be
displayed on the active alarm window, but it should not affect the report and
the storage of alarms.
Management entity that implements E-OSF should provide functional modules so
that O&M operator can set the filtering criteria and control the alarm
presentation. The filtering criteria include but are not limited to the
following attribute or combination of attribute:
  * Alarm equipment
  * Time of the alarm generation
  * Type of the alarm
  * Level of the alarm
  * Possible reason
#### 6.1.1.6 Suppress alarm function set
It should be possible to suppress all alarms from one or more NEs during a
specified period. This might be needed when maintenance work is a heavy burden
or \"re-homing\" of an NE. All logging as well as reporting should be
suppressed, but the suppressed alarms should be stored. Even though
notification is subscribed through Itf-N for one NE, this NE can not send
notification to NMS when suppress alarm function is enabled. In the case of no
NMS for operators, there is no alarm prompt, but the suppressed alarm must be
found in storage.
### 6.1.2 Fault localization function set
#### 6.1.2.1 Overview
E-OSF should support fault localization function set [4];
Fault localization policy function set:
  * Verification of parameters and connectivity function set.
  * Network fault localization function set.
  * Running of diagnostic function set.
### 6.1.3 Alarm operation function set
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
E-OSF should support alarm operation function set:
  * Alarm query function set
  * Alarm synchronization function set
  * Alarm confirmation function set
  * Alarm severity change function set
#### 6.1.3.2 Alarm query function set
Management entity that implements E-OSF should support flexible active alarm
and history alarm query, but the conditions for the combined query include but
not limited to the following:
  * Alarm equipment
  * Alarm generation time
  * Alarm type
  * Alarm level
  * Possible alarm reason
On the fault management GUI, the detailed alarm information queried can be
displayed on the fault management GUI, also exported and printed.
#### 6.1.3.3 Alarm synchronization function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF should support alarm synchronization,
including:
1) Automatic synchronization
> Management entity that implements E-OSF can automatically synchronize NE
> alarms, and it is applicable to the following cases:
  * When management entity that implements E-OSF is establishing > management connection with NE;
  * When there is a communication failure between management entity > which implements E-OSF and NEs, it is restored;
  * When there is an management entity which implements E-OSF failure, > it is recovered;
  * When active management entity that implements E-OSF is being swapped > to backup Management entity which implements E-OSF.
2) Periodical synchronization
> Management entity that implements E-OSF can periodically synchronize NE
> alarms during operation, the synchronization interval can be defined by
> users.
3) Manual synchronization
> Refer to management entity which implements E-OSF support O&M operator to
> manually synchronize when needed.
#### 6.1.3.4 Alarm acknowledgement function set
Management entity that implements E-OSF should support the alarm
acknowledgement, and can record the acknowledgement reason, the time when the
acknowledgement happened. Management entity that implements E-OSF should
distinguish alarms acknowledgement from alarms un-acknowledgement. Alarm
acknowledgement refers to alarm IRP definition.
1) Alarm acknowledgement
> The acknowledgement of an alarm is a maintenance function that aids the
> operators in his day-to-day management activity of his network. The E-OSF
> should acknowledge an alarm to indicate some activity have been started to
> resolve this specific problem.
2) Cancel alarm acknowledgement
> Management entity that implements E-OSF should support the cancellation of
> alarms acknowledged. The alarms acknowledged should only be cancelled by
> user who acknowledges the alarm.
3) Clear alarm
> Management entity that implements E-OSF should support to clear alarms,
> including automatic clear and manual clear.
>
> Automatic clear function means the active alarm should change to history
> alarm automatically when alarm clear message is received from NE.
>
> Manual clear function means the active alarm should change to clear alarm
> manually, and which should not affect NEs. If the failure of NE is not
> recovered, the alarms should be reported in real-time.
>
> For cleared but not acknowledged alarms, management entity that implements
> E-OSF should mark it in some way to remind operator.
4) History alarm statistics and report generation
> Management entity which implements E-OSF should provide history alarm
> statistics function and can generate and export related report.
5) History alarm storage time
> Management entity that implements E-OSF should save the history alarm for
> some period and delete expired alarms automatically.
#### 6.1.3.5 Alarm severity function set
Management that implement the E-OSF should provide the capability to change
the alarm severity for certain alarms and the alarm should be reported or
logged with severity updated, severity available has been listed in 3GPP TS
32.111‑2 [3]. This function does not affect the original alarm severity within
NE.
EXAMPLE: The severity of alarm for some circuit boards is \"Warning\"
predefined by vendors. From an operator\'s perspective, the possibility that
this circuit board in trouble leads to traffic break is greatly increased.
Therefore, the operator would decide to change the severity of alarm for these
circuit boards from \"Warning\" to \"Major\" or \"Critical\".
### 6.1.4 Alarm forwarding
#### 6.1.4.1 Overview
Management entity that implements E-OSF should provide external interface that
can support alarm forwarding.\ Alarm forwarding includes the following
functions set:
  * Alarm EMAIL notification function set
  * Alarm SMS notification function set
  * Alarm light and voice notification function set
  * Alarm smoothing function set
#### 6.1.4.2 Alarm EMAIL notification
Management entity that implements E-OSF should support the email notification
function of the alarms. For certain alarms, when the user has confirmed the
person to be notified from the FM interface, management entity which
implements E-OSF should automatically send the alarm information and the
related contents to the email box of the registered person to be notified. In
the meanwhile, Management entity that implements E-OSF should provide Email
address management function.
#### 6.1.4.3 Alarm SMS notification
Management entity that implements E-OSF should support the SMS notification
function of the alarms. For certain alarm, when the user has confirmed the
person to be notified from the FM interface, management entity which
implements E-OSF should automatically send the alarm information and the
related contents to the mobile phone of the registered person to be notified.
In the meantime, management entity that implements E-OSF should provide mobile
phone number management function for the SMS delivery.
#### 6.1.4.4 Alarm light and sound notification function set
Management entity that implements E-OSF should support the interface that is
used to connect the external equipment that can display the problematic NE
with light and sound.
#### 6.1.4.5 Alarm smoothing
Alarm smoothing is used to deal with alarms that is often happened and
cancelled automatically. When this kind of alarm is happened, it should be
forwarded after smooth. The alarm is smoothed by the method of alarm
forwarding delay. It means that the operator can set the delay time to forward
the alarms on management entity which implements E-OSF. During the period of
delay, if the alarm has automatically been cancelled, there is no need to
forward the notification by email or SMS, otherwise forwarding should be
implemented.
## 6.2 Performance Management (PM)
### 6.2.1 Overview
PM is an important function of network management, requiring management entity
which implements E-OSF to define the measurement tasks of NE performance and
collect, save and display the performance data in a proper way. Through the
collection, real time observation, storage and analysis, it should provide
basic data and give recommendations on how to improve the network service
quality and how to allocate/plan of network resources, so as to monitor and
optimize the NE performance.
Management of measurement includes the following function sets:
  * Definition of measurement task function set
  * Query of the measurement tasks function set
  * Modification of measurement function set
  * Delete measurement task function set
  * Activation of measurement task function set
  * Hang up of measurement task function set
  * Figure of measurement task status change function set
### 6.2.2 The management of measurement task function set
#### 6.2.2.1 Definition of measurement task function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF allows user to define the following
properties of the NE performance measurement:
  * Measured object: list of certain type of NEs that need to be > measured.
  * Performance indicator set: Performance indicator set corresponds to > measurement indicator set. The counter in the set can be > self-defined. One measurement task can include one or several > performance indicator sets.
  * Measurement start time: If it is not assigned, it means start > immediately, and time is in year/month/day/hour/min.
  * Measurement stop time: If it is not assigned, it means keep > monitoring, and time is in year/month/day/hour/min.
  * Measurement period: It refers to the periods in a day that need to > be measured, and the start time of each period is exactly > xx\'clock.
  * Measurement schedule: It is divided into weekly schedule or monthly > schedule. Weekly schedule defines in which days the measurement is > done in a week, and monthly schedule defines in which days the > measurement is done in a month. The combination of measurement > plan and measurement periods defines measurement time.
  * Granularity of the measurement: it refers to the interval between > measurement data collections. The required granularity is 15 min.
  * Interval between reports: interval between reports should be a > multiple of the interval between measurement data collections.
After measurement task is finished, the initial status is \"inactive\". The
measurement task should be activated before it becomes valid. When several
measurement tasks request the measuring of the same Counter in the same NE,
the task can be accepted. The actual periods that management entity that
implements E-OSF obtained the statistics of the Counter is the combination of
these measurement tasks.
#### 6.2.2.2 Query of the measurement task function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF provides functions for querying
parameters and status of the measurement tasks. The parameters of measurement
tasks definition refer to clause 8.2.1. The value for the measurement status
can be: \"inactive\" and \"active\".
#### 6.2.2.3 Modification of measurement task function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF should enable the user to modify
measurement parameter before user modify the measurement task, the task should
be confirmed by user in \"inactive\" status, and if it is activated, user need
to hang up the task first; I.e. the user can only modify parameters of
measurement tasks which are \"inactive\".
#### 6.2.2.4 Delete measurement task function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF should enable the user to delete
measurement task before user delete the measurement task, the task should be
confirmed by user in \"inactive\" status, and if it is activated, user need to
hang up the task first; I.e. the user can only delete measurement tasks which
are \"inactive\".
#### 6.2.2.5 Activation of measurement task function set
The activation of measurement task refers to management entity which
implements E-OSF can activate measurement task which is in \"inactive\" status
through the activation action. After the activation is done, measurement task
should change from \"inactive\" status to \"active\" status. Then collect and
submit performance data according to the measurement task defined start time,
stop time, measurement period, measurement plan, collection granularity and
report granularity.
#### 6.2.2.6 Hang up of measurement task function set
Through hang up operation, change measurement task from \"active\" status to
\"inactive\" status. From user\'s point of view, in this status management
entity which implements E-OSF can not collect or report performance data.
#### 6.2.2.7 Figure of measurement task status change
Figure 6.2.2.7: Measurement task status change
### 6.2.3 Performance data management function set
Performance data management refers to management entity which implements E-OSF
effectively collect, store, query and generate report of performance data.
#### 6.2.3.1 Collection of performance data function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF obtains performance data in file
format, and this file is called performance data file. Performance data file
is organized by NEs.
NOTE: Performance data file is not organized by measurement tasks because
several measurement tasks can send measurement requests to the same counter.
The measurement time can be overlapping.\ So if the file is organized in this
way, it may cause the statistics of the same counter in the same period to
appear in the performance data files of different tasks.
The delay of performance data entrance (into the database) should be less than
30 min. For example the data of 10:00---11:00 should be entered into the
Management entity which implements E-OSF database by 11:30 at the latest.
If the assigned Counter does not finish the entrance after the maximum delay
threshold, Management entity which implements E-OSF should trigger an alarm
indicating the performance data collection is overdue.
#### 6.2.3.2 Storage of performance data function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF obtained performance data should be
stored in database and management entity which implements E-OSF should storage
the performance data for at least 2 months. The performance data file
management entity which implements E-OSF obtained from NEs should be saved for
at least 24 hours THIS CLAUSE DOES NOT EXIST.
#### 6.2.3.3 Query of performance data function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF can query the performance data
according to NE, time, performance data etc, and the result can be exported as
a file (XML or TXT or Excel format).
#### 6.2.3.4 Generation of performance data report function set (optional)
Management entity which implements E-OSF can generate statistic report of
performance data, and display the information with line, column or pie charts.
Management entity which implements E-OSF can self-define the statistics
report, management entity which implements E-OSF should be able to print out
the statistics.
### 6.2.4 Performance threshold management function set
Performance threshold management can automatically compare the current
performance indicator or the calculation result of performance indicators with
the pre-defined threshold. If the value is above the threshold, it should
generate relative performance alarm. Once the value is returned back to
normal, this alarm should be deleted automatically.
Performance threshold management include the creation, modification, query,
deletion, hang up and restoration of performance threshold.
Performance alarm and alarm clear operation should follow the rules in the
fault management part of this document.
#### 6.2.4.1 Creation of performance threshold function set
The performance threshold can be defined according to needs. It is setting
threshold for performance measurement items (independent counter or the
combination of multiple counters). Management entity which implements E-OSF
should monitor performance measurement items defined by performance threshold,
generate alarm when the performance data have passed threshold. The alarm type
is service quality alarm (over the threshold alarm).
The parameters need to be defined:
  * The monitored performance measurement item can be a single counter > or the calculation result of combined counters.
  * The level of alarms which generate performance alarm (see the FM > part of the present document for requirements on performance alarm > information and operation)
  * The NE scope which the performance alarm should apply.
#### 6.2.4.2 Query and modification of performance threshold function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF can query current performance
threshold list and performance threshold status (active, hang up), and can
modify the threshold.
#### 6.2.4.3 The deletion of performance threshold function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF can delete defined performance
threshold. After deletion, management entity which implements E-OSF should not
report related performance alarm.
#### 6.2.4.4 The hang up and restore of performance threshold function set
Management entity which implements E-OSF can switch the performance threshold
between active and inactive by hang up and restore operations.
When the performance threshold is active, management entity which implements
E-OSF should monitor the performance data and generate performance alarms.
When performance threshold is in hang up status, management entity which
implements E-OSF should stop monitoring the performance data, and should not
generate related performance alarms.
## 6.3 Configuration Management (CM)
The CM function is mainly responsible for overall management of all the NE
hardware and software configuration data or the exchange data, displaying the
equipment\'s working status by figures or texts.\ The information is displayed
in different layers, and it can integrate, query, edit, delete, preset,
backup, authenticate and rollback configuration data.
### 6.3.1 General management function
#### 6.3.1.1 NE/network resource configuration management
The NE objects that can be managed by the system
  * CN_CS: the parameter configuration of MSC, VLR, HLR/AUC etc；
  * UTRAN: the parameter configuration of RNC, NodeB and that of related > ATM；
  * CN_PS: the parameter configuration of GGSN, SGSN, DNS, FW and that > of related ATM；
  * Management entity which implements E-OSF: can query the > configuration information of NMS equipment (including database > server, application server, WEB server, work station, PC, LAN > switch, router, printer etc) including host name, IP, port, > operating system and software version etc.
##### 6.3.1.1.1 Creation, modification and deletion of NE
The creation, modification and deletion of NE refer to create, modify and
delete the logical definition of NE in management entity which implements
E-OSF, defining the NEs to be managed by management entity which implements
E-OSF.
1) Create NE
After management entity which implements E-OSF installation, it does not have
NE data of the network but management entity which implements E-OSF should
provide NE creation function. When creating NEs, user should input the
following contents:
  * NE type
  * NE name
  * NE address: refers to the physical address which can locate the NE
  * The vendors that provide the NE equipments
With the above information, management entity which implements E-OSF can find
the NEs which comply with the above information in the managed network,
establishing the communications between management entity which implements
E-OSF and NEs. When NE is created, management entity which implements E-OSF
can establish the connection with NEs, and through the connection, it can
configure the NEs.
2) Delete NE
User can delete an NE which does not exist or has been modified but still
exist in management entity which implements E-OSF, including the related
configuration data.
3) Query/modify NE
User should be able to query or modify the properties of the NE, which were
listed when the NE was created.
##### 6.3.1.1.2 NE management software
  * Query the version, status, activation time of the NE software > package and patch;
  * Patch backup of the NE software package and patch;
  * The download of the NE software package and patch;
  * The activation and handover of the NE software package and patch;
  * The log function of the NE software package and patch;
  * The management of multiple of NE software package and patches.
#### 6.3.1.2 The management of configuration data
1) Query of configuration data
> Management entity which implements E-OSF should be able to query the current
> configuration data of the NE.
2) Synchronization of configuration data
> Synchronization of configuration data refers to management entity which
> implements E-OSF collects and the current configuration data and save it.
3) Download and activation of configuration data
> Management entity which implements E-OSF downloads the configuration data to
> NE and activates them.
4) Rollback of configuration data
> When management entity which implements E-OSF have downloaded the
> configuration data to NE and activated them, it can rollback to the original
> status if necessary (for example, configuration of exchange data).
### 6.3.2 Configuration of the managed objects
#### 6.3.2.1 The configuration of radio access network
1) RNC data configuration
> Signalling data configuration, hardware data configuration, ATM exchange
> configuration, data configuration between RNCs, data configuration between
> NodeB and RNC, data configuration between RNC and MSC, data configuration
> between RNC and SGSN etc.
2) NodeB configuration
> Data configuration of NodeB and that between NodeB and RNC
#### 6.3.2.2 Configuration of core network
1) MSC/VLR data configuration
> Including data configuration of system, data configuration of signalling,
> data configuration of services, data configuration of pre-analysis,
> signalling data, circuit data, GT analysis, BTS related exchange data
> configuration, data configuration of ATM, number analysis (calling number
> analysis, called number analysis, call transfer, roaming number analysis,
> handling of calling number display), routing analysis, EOS analysis etc.
2) SGSN data configuration
> Including data configuration of system, data configuration of signalling, GT
> analysis, Gb interface configuration, routing data configuration, DNS
> configuration, Iu-PS interface configuration, ATM data configuration,
> loading sharing management etc.
3) GGSN data configuration
> Including APN configuration, address pool configuration, Gi interface
> configuration, Gn configuration, RADIUS configuration, loading sharing
> management etc.
4) HLR data configuration
> HLR system data configuration, signalling data configuration, HLR user data
> configuration, user capacity data configuration, HLR physical data
> configuration, HLR capacity data configuration, system parameter
> configuration, GT analysis, roaming VLR data configuration, call forwarding
> number, data configuration of local MSC/VLR, load sharing management, HLR
> service support etc.
5) DNS and Firewall data configuration
> _To be decided._
## 6.4 Security Management
Security management provides effective control mechanism that can limit the
user access and operation over the NEs in the management entity which
implements E-OSF, guaranteeing each legal user can login normally, use the
software module he is authorized to use, get access to NE he is allowed to
visit, make use of commands he is entitled to use and prevent overstepping.
This should ensure the security of network equipment and the secure operation
of NMS, making records of the authentications and authorizations in the system
so that the operations are undeniable.
### 6.4.1 Security management mechanism
Security management mechanism should be implemented through user management,
user group management, authorization management, authentication, billing.
Management entity which implements E-OSF should support multiple user
management and manage user in groups. One user should belong to one or more
user groups.
User privilege is given based on the user groups, but not on single user.
System administrator can make relative security management policy according to
needs, flexibly add or delete user accounts or give relative privileges.
Management entity which implements E-OSF should make a record of user login or
authentication.
### 6.4.2 User management, user group management, privilege management
Management entity which implements E-OSF has and only has one super
administrator group, in which there is a default super administrator. The
super administrator group and the default super administrator can not be
deleted.\ Only members in super administrator group can do user management,
user group management, privilege management.
#### 6.4.2.1 User management
1) Add a user
> Add a new user needs to give the user name, password, and assign the user
> group that the user is in.
2) Delete a user
> Delete an existing user and it should no longer exist.
3) Lock a user
> Lock an existing user. The user should not be able to visit management
> entity which implements E-OSF until he is unlocked.
4) Unlock a user
> Unlock a locked user, and he should be able to visit management entity which
> implements E-OSF again.
5) Query user information
> Query user information, including, user name, the lock status, and user
> privilege etc.
6) Modify user password
> User can modify his own password, member of super administrator group can
> modify any user password which can not be saved or transmitted in plain
> text.
>
> Management entity which implements E-OSF user should not be bound to
> operating systems on the management entity which implements E-OSF Client
> end.
#### 6.4.2.2 User group
1) Add a user group
> Add a new user group, need to give the name of the user group and can assign
> the privilege of this user group.
2) Modify user group
> Modify an existing user group, need to give the name of the user group and
> can modify the privilege of this user group.
3) Delete user group
> Delete an existing user group and it should no longer exist. If a user only
> belongs to this group, it should be deleted.
4) Lock a user group
> Lock an existing user group, meaning lock the related privileges of the
> users under this group.
5) Unlock a user group
> Unlock a user group and the users under this group should regain the
> privileges.
6) Query the user group information
> Query user group information, including: user group name, the lock status of
> user group, users in the user group, privilege of the user group etc.
#### 6.4.2.3 Privilege management
Privilege management can assign the contents of the privilege and the given of
privileges to user groups.
The privilege includes the following parameters:
  * Allow or prohibit the use of software module
  * Allow or prohibit the access of NE or NE groups
  * Allow or prohibit the operation on NE.
Overlapping of privileges: when a user belong to several groups at the same
time, different privilege can be given to the same user group, the same
privilege can be given to different user groups.
### 6.4.3 Identification, authentication, billing
#### 6.4.3.1 Identification
When a user is login to management entity which implements E-OSF, send its
identification information to management entity which implements E-OSF
security management system and management entity which implements E-OSF
security subsystem should check the information according to management entity
which implements E-OSF local identification information so that the system
should know if the user is legal.
#### 6.4.3.2 Authentication
When a user is using management entity which implements E-OSF software module,
the system should authenticate its privilege.
#### 6.4.3.3 Accounting
For all the authentications and identifications, account should be done so
that the operations are undeniable. Accounting information includes the
user\'s information, time and operation result etc. The accounting management
requirements refer to \"log management\".
## 6.5 Software system Management
### 6.5.1 Function overview and work division
The chapter lists the requirements from management entity which implements
E-OSF software management and system maintenance points of view.
### 6.5.2 Management entity which implements E-OSF software management
The software management of management entity which implements E-OSF system
refers to managing management entity which implements E-OSF system software
configuration, running status, file backup and system security etc. to ensure
that the system can securely run management entity which implements E-OSF.
#### 6.5.2.1 Software version management
The system should make a record of all the software modules, patch version and
the function remarks etc running on managed entity which implements E-OSF in
detail.
### 6.5.2 Management entity which implements E-OSF software management
The software management of management entity which implements E-OSF system
refers to managing management entity which implements E-OSF system software
configuration, running status, file backup and system security etc. to ensure
that the system can securely run management entity which implements E-OSF.
#### 6.5.2.1 Software version management
The system should make a record of all the software modules, patch version and
the function remarks etc running on managed entity which implements E-OSF in
detail.
#### 6.5.2.2 Software patch management
##### 6.5.2.2.1 Load of patch
The system should provide function by which the software patch can be loaded
to management entity which implements E-OSF, and the patch loading progress
can be shown. If the patch loading process has any problem, the system should
provide roll back function so that the system to go back to the status before
the patch is loaded. If the patch loading is finished, update the new patch
number.
##### 6.5.2.2.2 Activation of the patch
The system should provide patch activation function, so that the patch
application can work properly.
##### 6.5.2.2.3 Deactivation of patches
If the software patches can not work normally in the management entity which
implements E-OSF, the system should provide deactivation function.
##### 6.5.2.2.4 Unload patches
The system should provide management entity which implements E-OSF software
patch unload function.
##### 6.5.2.2.5 Patch number and record
The system should have detailed version record and function description of all
the patches on the management entity which implements E-OSF.
### 6.5.3 Maintenance E-OSF implementation system
Maintenance function of management entity which implements E-OSF system mainly
include the monitoring and management of related file system resource, memory,
CPU resource, data storage room etc. The sampling time and threshold of the
indicators can be set by users. It can also view the system process, the
process name, status of progress, start time, stop time, running host as well
as process type etc. It should also be able to break and activate some
processes.
#### 6.5.3.1 Database maintenance function
The database maintenance function of management entity which implements E-OSF
system provides the following means to database maintenance for the user:
  * Monitor the space occupied by database
  * Automatically record the increase of database everyday;
  * User can conveniently check the status of the database connection > progress
  * Provide user interface through which user can query and modify > database.
System should provide a limit function for each level of threshold for
database space. When there is a threshold overflow, there should be an alarm
of the relevant level which should prompt the maintenance to backup history
data, clear useless data or add more storage space.
#### 6.5.3.2 System log function
The log management function of management entity which implements E-OSF is
mainly used to query, count and document the system log, include to start,
exit, stop and restart Management entity which implements E-OSF database and
application process. It also manages the system information generated in
important operational process and help management entity which implements
E-OSF maintenance.
#### 6.5.3.3 System backup function
The purpose of system backup is to recover the management entity which
implements E-OSF to the original status before the failure according to the
file system backup and database backup.
Management entity which implements E-OSF system backup includes file system
backup and database backup. The backup mode required by management entity
which implements E-OSF system includes:
  * Manual backup and manual backup on a regular basis,
  * Online backup and offline backup,
  * Full backup and incremental backup.
The configuration of backup parameter: the user selects backup method, backup
contents, backup time and backup media.
Data recovery: when the data is corrupted, management entity which implements
E-OSF can restore the correct data. The recovery can be done through backup or
obtain the information from NEs.
System recovery: When the system is corrupted, it can be recovered to normal
according to backup data.
#### 6.5.3.4 Remote access function (optional)
Provide relative dial up access or VPN access, and guarantee the normal and
secure operation of the access modes, prevent illegal users so as to protect
the normal operation of NMS, ensure the data security and business
confidentiality.
### 6.5.4 High system availability (optional)
In order to increase the system availability, management entity which
implements E-OSF should provide redundancy configuration so that when one
management entity which implements E-OSF failed, the system can still handle
alarms and maintain the NEs with commands. An effective redundancy system
should at least provide fault management function and configuration management
function.
### 6.5.5 System expandability
In order to adapt to the ever-increasing information of NEs and the handling
the change information, management entity which implements E-OSF system
software and hardware should be expandable.
###### ### Annex A: E-OSF and 3GPP IRP set comparison
# A.1 Fault management and AlarmIRP
Table:
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Functional | Satisfied | Importance | | | | R | by AlarmIRP | | | | | equirements | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | FM | Alarm | Alarm view | getA | Should Have | | | s | function | larmList(M) | | | | urveillance | set | | | | | function | | getAl | | | | set | | armCount(O) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | **Alarm | getA | Should Have | | | | status | larmList(M) | | | | | function | | | | | | set** | Acknowle | | | | | | dgeAlarm(M) | | | | | | | | | | | | unacknow | | | | | | ledgeAlarms | | | | | | (O) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | **Alarm | NA | Should have | | | | prompt | | | | | | cu | | | | | | stomization | | | | | | function | | | | | | set** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | **Alarm | getA | Should have | | | | filter | larmList(M) | | | | | function | | | | | | set** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Fault | **Fault | NA | Should have | | | l | l | | | | | ocalization | ocalization | | | | | function | policy | | | | | set | function | | | | | | set** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | **V | NA | May have | | | | erification | | | | | | of | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | and | | | | | | c | | | | | | onnectivity | | | | | | function | | | | | | set** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ** | NA | May have | | | | Sub-Network | | | | | | fault | | | | | | l | | | | | | ocalization | | | | | | function | | | | | | set. see**| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | |** Running | NA | May have | | | | of | | | | | | diagnostic | | | | | | function | | | | | | set**| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Alarm |** Alarm | getA | Should Have | | | operation | query | larmList(M) | | | | function | function | | | | | set | set**| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | |** Alarm | getA | Should Have | | | | sync | larmList(M) | | | | | hronization | | | | | | function | | | | | | set**| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | |** Alarm | unacknow | Should Have | | | | c | ledgeAlarms | | | | | onfirmation | (O) | | | | | function | | | | | | set -**| | | | | | Cancel | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | c | | | | | | onfirmation | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | |** Alarm | clearAlarms | Should Have | | | | c | (O) | | | | | onfirmation | | | | | | function | | | | | | set -**| | | | | | Clear the | | | | | | alarm | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | |** Alarm | getA | Should Have | | | | c | larmList(M) | | | | | onfirmation | | | | | | function | getAl | | | | | set -**| armCount(O) | | | | | History | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | statistics | | | | | | and report | | | | | | generation | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | |** Alarm | NA | Should have | | | | c | | | | | | onfirmation | | | | | | function | | | | | | set - | | | | | | History | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | storage | | | | | | time**| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | |** Alarm | NA | Should Have | | | | severity | | | | | | function | | | | | | set** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Alarm | Alarm EMAIL | NA | Should have | | | forwarding | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | function | | | | | | set | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Alarm SMS | NA | Should have | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | function | | | | | | set | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Alarm light | NA | Should have | | | | and sound | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | function | | | | | | set | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#