# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
One of the targets of SON is to keep the network quality and performance with
minimum operator attention and maintenance costs. Self-healing is a SON
functionality which detects problems itself and solves or mitigates these
problems to avoid user impact and to significantly reduce maintenance costs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is focused on studying on Self-healing of SON. The
document comprises Use Cases, Requirements and Solutions of Self-healing. The
findings and proposals of the study may be used to help generate new Technical
Specifications (TS) and/or enhance existing Technical Specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
alarm: See 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [2].
fault: See 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [2].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Self-healing overview
## **4.1 General description**
Self-healing is a functionality of SON. The purpose of Self-healing is to
solve or mitigate the faults which could be solved automatically by triggering
appropriate recovery actions.
From the point of view of fault management, for each detected fault,
appropriate alarms shall be generated by the faulty network entity, regardless
of whether it is an ADAC or an ADMC fault。
So, the trigger of Self-healing is alarm. The Self-healing functionality
monitors the alarms, and when it finds alarm/s which could be solved
automatically, it gathers more necessary correlated information (e.g.
measurements, testing result, etc) and does deep analysis, and then according
to the analysis result, it triggers appropriate recovery actions to solve the
fault automatically.
The Self-healing functionality also monitors the execution of the recovery
action/s and decides the next step accordingly. After a Self-healing iteration
ended, the Self-healing functionality shall generate and forward appropriate
notifications to inform the IRPManager about all the changes performed.
# 5 Use cases of Self-healing
Editor note: This clause describes the use cases of Self-healing.
# 6 Requirements of Self-healing
Editor note: Based on the use cases, this clause describes the requirements of
Self-healing.
# 7 Solutions for Self-healing
Editor note: This clause describes the solutions of Self-healing.
# 8 Conclusions
Editor note: This clause gives the conclusions of the study.
# 9 Recommendations
TBD
#