# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification.
# Introduction
The present document specifies test methods to allow the minimum performance
requirements for the acoustic characteristics of GSM and 3G terminals when
used to provide narrowband or wideband telephony to be assessed.
The objective for narrowband services is to reach a quality as close as
possible to ITU-T standards for PSTN circuits. However, due to technical and
economic factors, there cannot be full compliance with the general
characteristics of international telephone connections and circuits
recommended by the ITU-T.
The performance requirements are specified in TS 26.131; the test methods and
considerations are specified in the main body of the text.
# 1 Scope
The present document is applicable to any terminal capable of supporting
narrowband or wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone service or as the
telephony component of a multimedia service. The present document specifies
test methods to allow the minimum performance requirements for the acoustic
characteristics of GSM and 3G terminals when used to provide narrowband or
wideband telephony to be assessed.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal Acoustic Characteristics for Telephony;
Requirements\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation B.12 (1988): \"Use of the decibel and the neper in
telecommunications\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation G.103 (1998): \"Hypothetical reference connections\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation G.111 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) in an
international connection\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation G.121 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) of national
systems\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation G.122 (1993): \"Influence of national systems on
stability and talker echo in international connections\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.711 (1988): \"Pulse code modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation P.11 (1993): \"Effect of transmission impairments\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation P.38 (1993): \"Transmission characteristics of
operator telephone systems (OTS)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation P.50 (1993): \"Artificial voices\".
[11] 3GPP TS 03.58 (Release 1997): \"Digital Cellular Telecommunications
System (Phase 2+) Characterization test methods and quality assessment for
hands-free mobiles\".
[12] IEC Publication 60651: "Sound Level Meters".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation P.51 (1996): \"Artificial mouth\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation P.57 (2005): \"Artificial ears\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation P.58 (1996): \"Head and torso simulator for
telephonometry.\"
[16] ITU-T Recommendation P.79 (2007) with Annex A: \"Calculation of loudness
ratings for telephone sets.\"
[17] 3GPP TS 06.77 (R99): "Minimum Performance Requirements for Noise
Suppresser Application to the AMR Speech Encoder".
[18] ITU-T Recommendation P.64: \"Determination of sensitivity/frequency
characteristics of local telephone systems\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation P.581: \"Use of head and torso simulator (HATS) for
hands-free and handset terminal testing\".
[20] ITU-T Recommendation P.340: \"Transmission characteristics and speech
quality parameters of hands-free terminals\".
[21] ITU-T Recommendation G.712: \"Transmission performance characteristics of
pulse code modulation channels\".
[22] ITU-T Recommendation P.501: \"Test signals for use in telephonometry\".
[23] ITU-T Recommendation O.41: \"Psophometer for use on telephone-type
circuits\".
[24] ITU-T Recommendation O.131: \"Quantizing distortion measuring equipment
using a pseudo-random noise test signal\".
[25] ISO 9614: \"Acoustics - Determination of sound power levels of noise
sources using sound intensity\".
[26] ISO 3745: \"Acoustics - Determination of sound power levels of noise
sources using sound pressure - Precision methods for anechoic and hemi-
anechoic rooms\".
[27] ITU-T Recommendation O.132: \"Quantizing distortion measuring equipment
using a sinusoidal test signal\".
[28] ETSI TS 103 737: \"Transmission requirements for narrowband wireless
terminals (handset and headset) from a QoS perspective as perceived by the
user\".
[29] ETSI TS 103 738: \"Transmission requirements for narrowband wireless
terminals (handsfree) from a QoS perspective as perceived by the user\".
[30] ETSI TS 103 739: \"Transmission requirements for wideband wireless
terminals (handset and headset) from a QoS perspective as perceived by the
user\".
[31] ETSI TS 103 740: \"Transmission requirements for wideband wireless
terminals (handsfree) from a QoS perspective as perceived by the user\".
[32] ITU-T Recommendation P.380: \"Electro-acoustic measurements on
headsets\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the term _narrowband_ refers to
signals sampled at 8 kHz; _wideband_ refers to signals sampled at 16 kHz.
For the purposes of the present document, the terms dB, dBr, dBm0, dBm0p and
dBA, shall be interpreted as defined in ITU-T Recommendation B.12 [2]; the
term dBPa shall be interpreted as the sound pressure level relative to 1
pascal expressed in dB (0 dBPa is equivalent to 94 dB SPL).
A 3GPP softphone is a telephony system running on a general purpose computer
or PDA complying with the 3GPP terminal acoustic requirements (TS 26.131 and
26.132).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ADC Analogue to Digital Converter
CSS Composite Source Signal
DAC Digital to Analogue Converter
DRP Eardrum Reference Point
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EEC Electrical Echo Control
EEP Ear Entrance Point
EL Echo Loss
ERP Ear Reference Point
FFT Fast Fourier Transform
HATS Head and Torso Simulator
LSTR Listener Sidetone Rating
MRP Mouth Reference Point
MS Mobile Station
OLR Overall Loudness Rating
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PDA Personal Digital Assistant
POI Point of Interconnection (with PSTN)
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RLR Receive Loudness Rating
RMS Root Mean Squared
SLR Send Loudness Rating
SS System Simulator
STMR Sidetone Masking Rating
SS System Simulator
TX Transmission
UE User Equipment
# 4 Interfaces
Access to terminals for acoustic testing is always made via the acoustic or
air interfaces. The Air Interface is specified by the GSM 05, GSM 45 and 3G 25
series specifications and is required to achieve user equipment (UE)
transportability. Measurements can be made at this point using a system
simulator (SS) comprising the appropriate radio terminal equipment and speech
transcoder. The losses and gains introduced by the test speech transcoder will
need to be specified.
The POI with the public switched telephone network (PSTN) is considered to
have a relative level of 0 dBr, where signals will be represented by 8-bit
A-law, according to ITU-T Recommendation G.711 [7]. Measurements may be made
at this point using a standard send and receive side, as defined in ITU-T
Recommendations.
Five classes of acoustic interface are considered in this specification:
\- Handset UE including softphone UE used as a handset;
\- Headset UE including softphone UE used with headset;
\- Vehicle Mounted Hands-free UE including softphone UE mounted in a vehicle;
\- Desktop-mounted hands-free UE including softphone UE with external
loudspeaker(s) used in hands-free mode;
\- Hand-held hands-free UE including softphone UE with internal loudspeaker(s)
used in hands-free mode.
(See definition of softphone in Clause 3.1)
NOTE: The test setup for a softphone UE shall be derived according to the
following rules:
\- When using a softphone UE as a handset: the test setup shall correspond to
handset mode.
\- When using a softphone UE with headset: the test setup shall correspond to
headset mode.
\- When a softphone UE is mounted in a vehicle: the test setup shall
correspond to vehicle-mounted hands-free mode.
\- When using a softphone UE in hands-free mode:
\- When using internal loudspeaker(s), the test setup shall correspond to
hand-held hands-free.
\- When using external loudspeaker(s), the test setup shall correspond to
desktop-mounted hands-free.
# 5 Test configurations
This section describes the test setups for terminal acoustic testing.
NOTE: If the terminal has several mechanical configurations (e.g., sliding
design open or closed), all manufacturer-defined configurations shall be
tested.
## 5.1 Setup for terminals
The general access to terminals is described in figure 1. The preferred
acoustic access to GSM and 3G terminals is the most realistic simulation of
the "average" subscriber. This can be made by using HATS (head and torso
simulator), with appropriate ear simulation and appropriate mountings of
handset terminals to the HATS in a realistic but reproducible way. Hands-free
terminals shall use the HATS or free field microphone techniques in a
realistic but reproducible way.
HATS is described in ITU-T Recommendation P.58 [15], appropriate ears are
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.57 [14] (Type 3.3), proper positioning of
handsets in realistic conditions is found in ITU-T Recommendation P.64, and
the test setups for various types of hands-free terminals can be found in
ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
Unless stated otherwise, if a volume control is provided, the setting is
chosen such that the nominal RLR is met as close as possible.
The preferred way of testing is the connection of a terminal to the system
simulator with exact defined settings and access points. The test sequences
are fed in either electrically using a reference codec, using the direct
signal processing approach, or acoustically using ITU-T specified devices.
NOTE 1: Includes DTX functionality.
NOTE 2: Connection to PSTN should include electrical echo control (EEC).
Figure 1: GSM/3G Interfaces for specification and testing of terminal acoustic
characteristics
### 5.1.1 Setup for handset terminals
When using a handset UE, the handset is placed on HATS as described in ITU-T
Recommendation P.64 Annex E [18]. A suitable position shall be defined for
each handset UE and documented in the test report. The artificial mouth shall
conform to ITU-T Recommendation P.58 [15]. The artificial ear shall conform to
ITU-T Recommendation P.57 [14]. Type 3.3 ear shall be used and positioned on
HATS according to ITU-T Recommendation P.58 [15].
**Position and calibration of HATS**
The sending and receiving characteristics shall be tested with the HATS. It
shall be indicated what application force was used. If not stated otherwise in
TS 26.131, an application force of 8 ± 2 N shall be used.
The horizontal positioning of the HATS reference plane shall be guaranteed
within ± 2º.
### 5.1.2 Setup for headset terminals
Recommendations for the setup and positioning of headsets are given in ITU-T
Recommendation P.380. If not stated otherwise, headsets shall be placed in
their recommended wearing position. Some insert earphones might not fit
properly in Type 3.3 ear simulators. For such insert type headsets, an ITU-T
Recommendation P.57 [14] Type 2 ear simulator may be used in conjunction with
the HATS mouth simulator. The HATS should be equipped with two artificial ears
as specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.57 [14]. For binaural headsets two
artificial ears are required.
### 5.1.3 Setup for hands-free terminals
#### 5.1.3.1 Vehicle-mounted hands-free
If not stated otherwise, the artificial head (HATS -- head and torso
simulator, according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.58 [15]) is positioned in the
driver\'s seat for the measurement as shown in figure 3a. The position has to
be in line with the average users' position; therefore, all positions and
sizes of users have to be taken into account. Typically, all except the
tallest 5% and the shortest 5% of the driving population have to be
considered. The size of these persons can be derived, e.g., from the
\'anthropometric data set\' for the corresponding year (e.g., based on data
used by car manufacturers). The position of the HATS (mouth/ears) within the
positioning arrangement is given individually by each car manufacturer. The
position used has to be reported in detail in the test report. If no
requirements for positioning are given the distance from the microphone to the
MRP is defined by the test lab.
By using suitable measures (e.g., marks in the car, relative position to
A-pillar, B-pillar, height from the floor, etc.) an exact reproduction of the
artificial head position must be possible at any later time.
NOTE -- Different positions of the artificial head may greatly influence the
test results. Depending on the application, different positions of the
artificial head may be chosen for the tests. It is recommended to check the
worst-case position, e.g., those positions where the SNR and/or the speech
quality in send may be worst.
Figure 2: void
Figure 3: void
Figure 3a: Test Configuration for vehicle mounted hands-free, using HATS
#### 5.1.3.2 Desktop hands-free
For HATS test equipment, the definition of hands-free terminals and setup for
desktop hands-free terminals can be found in ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
Measurement setup using a free-field microphone and a discrete P.51 [13]
artificial mouth for desktop hands-free terminals can be found in ITU-T
Recommendation P.340.The positioning for different types of desktop hands-free
terminals is given in ETSI TS 103 738 and ETSI TS 103 740.
#### 5.1.3.3 Hand-held hands-free
Either HATS or a free-field microphone with a discrete P.51 [13] artificial
mouth may be used to measure a hand-held hands-free type UE.
If HATS measurement equipment is used, it shall be configured to the hand-held
hands-free UE according to figure 4. The HATS should be positioned so that the
HATS Reference Point is at a distance _d_ ~HF~ from the centre point of the
visual display of the Mobile Station. The distance _d_ ~HF~ is specified by
the manufacturer. A vertical angle θ~HF~ may be specified by the manufacturer.
Where it is not specified, the nominal distance _d_ ~HF~ shall be 42 cm and
θ~HF~ shall be 0º.
NOTE: The nominal distance of 42 cm corresponds to the distance between the
HATS reference point and lip-plane (12 cm) with an additional 30 cm giving a
realistic figure as a reference usage of hand-held terminals.
{width="3.5701388888888888in" height="2.873611111111111in"}
Figure 4: Configuration of hand-held hands-free UE relative to the HATS
If a free-field microphone and a discrete P.51 [13] mouth are used, they shall
be configured to the hand-held hands-free UE according to figure 5 for
receiving measurements and figure 6 for sending measurements. The microphone
should be located at a distance _d_ ~HF~ from the centre of the visual display
of the UE. The mouth simulator should be located at a distance _d_ ~HF~-12 cm
from the centre of the visual display of the UE. The distance _d_ ~HF~ is
specified by the manufacturer. Where it is not specified the nominal distance
_d_ ~HF~ shall be 42 cm.
{width="4.276388888888889in" height="1.8701388888888888in"}
Figure 5: Configuration of hand-held hands-free UE; free-field microphone for
receiving measurements
{width="2.9881944444444444in" height="1.8805555555555555in"}
Figure 6: Configuration of hand-held hands-free UE; discrete P.51 artificial
mouth for sending measurements
#### 5.1.3.4 Softphone including speakers and microphone
This test setup is applicable to laptop computers or similar devices as seen
in figure 7 through figure 11.
Where the manufacturer gives conditions of use, these will apply for testing.
If the manufacturer gives no other requirement, the softphone will be
positioned according the following conditions:
Measurement with artificial ear and microphone:
Artificial mouth (for sending tests)
{width="5.988888888888889in" height="2.7402777777777776in"}
Figure 7: Configuration of a softphone relative to the artificial mouth side
view
Free field microphone (for receiving):
{width="5.99375in" height="2.15625in"}
Figure 8: Configuration of a softphone relative to the free field microphone
side view
Position of a softphone on the table:
{width="5.3597222222222225in" height="5.330555555555556in"}
Figure 9: Configuration of a softphone relative to the free-field microphone
or artificial mouth viewed from above
Measurement with HATS:
{width="5.690972222222222in" height="2.75in"}
Figure 10: Configuration of a softphone relative to the HATS side view
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.404861111111111in"}
Figure 11: Configuration of a softphone relative to the HATS viewed from above
#### 5.1.3.5 Softphone with separate speakers
This test setup is applicable to laptop computers or similar devices as seen
in figure 12 through figure 15.
Where the manufacturer gives conditions of use, these will apply for testing.
If the manufacturer gives no other requirement, the softphone will be
positioned according to the following conditions:
Where separate loudspeakers are used, the system will be positioned as in
figure 12 or figure 13.
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="4.172916666666667in"}
Figure 12: Configuration of a softphone using external speakers relative to
microphone or artificial mouth viewed from above
{width="5.995138888888889in" height="6.207638888888889in"}
Figure 13: Configuration of a softphone using external speakers relative to
the HATS viewed from above
Where an external microphone and speakers are used, the system will be
positioned as in figure 14 or figure 15.
{width="5.995138888888889in" height="5.934027777777778in"}
Figure 14: Configuration of a softphone using\ external speakers and a
microphone relative to microphone or artificial mouth viewed from above
{width="4.565972222222222in" height="3.0833333333333335in"}
Figure 15: Configuration of a softphone using\ external speakers and a
microphone relative to the HATS viewed from above
### 5.1.4 Position and calibration of HATS
The horizontal positioning of the HATS reference plane shall be guaranteed
within ± 2° for testing hands-free equipment.
The HATS shall be equipped with a Type 3.3 Artificial Ear. For hands-free
measurements the HATS shall be equipped with two artificial ears. The pinnae
are specified in Recommendation P.57 [14] for Type 3.3 artificial ears. The
pinnae shall be positioned on HATS according to ITU-T Recommendation P.58
[15].
The exact calibration and equalization procedures as well as how to combine
the two ear signals for the purpose of measurements can be found in ITU-T
Recommendation P.581. If not stated otherwise, the HATS shall be diffuse-field
equalized. The reverse nominal diffuse field curve as found in table 3 of
ITU-T Recommendation P.58 [15] shall be used. For measurements requiring
diffuse-field correction values for closer frequency spacing than that which
is specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.58 [15], the interpolation method found
in annex A shall be used.
For hand-held hands-free UE, the setup corresponding to \'portable hands-
free\' in ITU-T Recommendation P.581 should be used.
## 5.2 Setup of the electrical interfaces
### 5.2.1 Codec approach and specification
In this approach, a codec is used to convert the digital input/output bit-
stream of the system simulator to the equivalent analogue values. With this
approach a system simulator simulating the radio link to the terminal under
controlled and error-free conditions is required. The system simulator has to
be equipped with a high-quality codec with characteristics as close as
possible to ideal.
Definition of 0 dBr point:
D/A converter - a Digital Test Sequence (DTS) representing the codec
equivalent of an analogue sinusoidal signal with an RMS value of 3,14 dB below
the maximum full‑load capacity of the codec shall generate 0 dBm across a 600
ohm load;
A/D converter - a 0 dBm signal generated from a 600 ohm source shall give the
digital test sequence (DTS) representing the codec equivalent of an analogue
sinusoidal signal with an RMS value of 3,14 dB below the maximum full‑load
capacity of the codec.
**Narrowband telephony testing**
For testing of a GSM or 3G terminal supporting narrowband telephony, the
system simulator shall use the AMR speech codec as defined in the 3GPP TS 26
series of specifications, at the source coding bit-rate of 12,2 kbit/s.
**Wideband telephony testing**
For testing of a GSM or 3G terminal supporting wideband telephony, the system
simulator shall use the AMR-WB speech codec as defined in 3GPP TS 26 series of
specifications, at the source coding bit-rate of 12,65 kbit/s.
### 5.2.2 Direct digital processing approach
In this approach, the digital input/output bit-stream of the terminal
connected through the radio link to the system simulator is operated upon
directly.
**Narrowband telephony testing**
For testing of a GSM or 3G terminal supporting narrowband telephony, the
system simulator shall use the AMR speech codec as defined in the 3GPP TS 26
series of specifications, at the source coding bit-rate of 12,2 kbit/s.
**Wideband telephony testing**
For testing of a GSM or 3G terminal supporting wideband telephony, the system
simulator shall use the AMR-WB speech codec as defined in the 3GPP TS 26
series of specifications, at the source coding bit rate of 12,65 kbit/s.
## 5.3 Accuracy of test equipment
Unless specified otherwise, the accuracy of measurements made by test
equipment shall exceed the requirements defined in table 1a.
Table 1a: Test equipment measurement accuracy
* * *
Item Accuracy Electrical Signal Power ± 0,2 dB for levels ≥ -50 dBm ± 0,4 dB
for levels \ a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
> artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively,
> a speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
> used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
> spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is
> calibrated under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level
> shall be -4,7 dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged
> over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14 frequencies given in
table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], bands 4 to 17. For the calculation,
the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for each
frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each
frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23b), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 [16], table 1.
#### 7.2.2.2 Receiving loudness rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be -16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The receiving
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14 frequencies given in
table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], bands 4 to 17. For the calculation,
the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged
test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16].
d) DRP-ERP correction is used. No leakage correction shall be applied.
### 7.2.3 Connections with desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE should be tested within the vehicle (for totally
integrated vehicle hands-free systems) or in a vehicle simulator, as described
in 3GPP TS 03.58 [11].
Free-field measurements for vehicle-mounted hands-free are for further study.
#### 7.2.3.1 Sending loudness rating (SLR)
> a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
> artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively,
> a speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
> used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
> spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is
> calibrated under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level
> shall be --4,7 dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged
> over the complete test signal sequence. The broadband signal level is then
> adjusted to --28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in ITU-
> Recommendation P.581) and the spectrum is not altered.
>
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as references to determine the sending sensitivity
> SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14 frequencies given in
table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], bands 4 to 17. For the calculation,
the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for each
frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each
frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23b), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 [16], table 1.
#### 7.2.3.2 Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be -16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated
from each band of the 14 frequencies given in table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation
P.79 [16], bands 4 to 17.
> For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16].
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction, as
described in ITU‑T Recommendation P.340 shall be applied. To compute the
receiving loudness rating (RLR) for a hands-free terminal (see also ITU-T
Recommendation P.340), when using the combination of left and right artificial
ear signals from the HATS, the HFL~E~ has to be 8 dB instead of 14 dB. For
further information see ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
### 7.2.4 Connections with hand-held hands-free UE
#### 7.2.4.1 Sending loudness rating (SLR)
> a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
> artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively,
> a speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
> used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
> spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is
> calibrated under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level
> shall be --4,7 dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged
> over the complete test signal sequence. The broadband signal level is then
> adjusted to --28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in ITU-T
> Recommendation P.581) and the spectrum is not altered.
>
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as references to determine the sending sensitivity
> SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14 frequencies given in
table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], bands 4 to 17. For the calculation,
the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for each
frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each
frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23b), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 [16], table 1.
#### 7.2.4.2 Receiving loudness rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be -16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated
from each band of the 14 frequencies given in table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation
P.79 [16], bands 4 to 17.
> For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16].
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction as
described in ITU‑T Recommendation P.340 shall be applied. To compute the
receiving loudness rating (RLR) for hands-free terminals (see also ITU-T
Recommendation P.340), when using the combination of left and right artificial
ear signals from the HATS, the HFL~E~ has to be 8 dB instead of 14 dB. For
further information see ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
### 7.2.5 Connections with headset UE
Same as for handset.
## 7.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
For idle noise measurements in sending and receiving directions, care should
be taken that only the noise is windowed out by the analysis and the result is
not impaired by any remaining reverberation or by noise and/or interference
from various other sources. Some examples are air-conducted or vibration-
conducted noise from sources inside or outside the test chamber, disturbances
from lights and regulators, mains supply induced noise including grounding
issues, test system and system simulator inherent noise as well as radio
interference from the UE to test equipment such as ear simulators, microphone
amplifiers, etc.
### 7.3.1 Sending
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1.
The noise level at the output of the SS is measured with psophometric
weighting. The psophometric weighting filter is described in ITU-T
Recommendation O.41.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
The measured part of the noise shall be 170,667 ms (which equals 8192 samples
in a 48 kHz sample rate test system). The spectral distribution of the noise
is analyzed with an 8k FFT using windowing with ≤ 0,1 dB leakage for non bin-
centered signals. This can be achieved with a window function commonly known
as a "flat top window". Within the specified frequency range, the FFT bin that
has the highest level is searched for; the level of this bin is the maximum
level of a single frequency disturbance.
To improve repeatability, the test sequence (optional activation followed by
the noise level measurement) may be contiguously repeated one or more times.
The total noise powers obtained from such repeats shall be averaged. The total
result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
The single frequency maximum powers obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10*log~10~ of this average in dB.
### 7.3.2 Receiving
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
The noise level shall be measured with A‑weighting at the DRP with diffuse-
field correction. The A-weighting filter is described in IEC 60651.
The measured part of the noise shall be 170,667 ms (which equals 8192 samples
in a 48 kHz sample rate test system). The spectral distribution of the noise
is analyzed with an 8k FFT using windowing with ≤ 0.1 dB leakage for non bin-
centred signals. This can be achieved with a window function commonly known as
a "flat top window". Within the specified frequency range, the FFT bin that
has the highest level is searched for; the level of this bin is the maximum
level of a single frequency disturbance.
To improve repeatability, considering the test sequence (optional activation
followed by the noise level measurement) may be contiguously repeated one or
more times.
The total noise powers obtained from such repeats shall be averaged. The total
result shall be 10*log~10~ of this average in dB.
The single frequency maximum powers obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10*log~10~ of this average in dB.
## 7.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 7.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P. 50 [10]. Alternatively,
a speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. Measurements shall
be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred
numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz inclusive. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for
each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 7.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be -16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. Measurements shall
be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred
numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz inclusive. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The HATS is diffuse-field equalized. The sensitivity is expressed in terms
of dBPa/V. Information about correction factors is available in ITU-T
Recommendation P.57 [14].
Optionally, the measurements may be repeated with 2 N and 13 N application
force. For these test cases no normative values apply.
### 7.4.3 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence. The broadband signal level is then adjusted to --28,7
dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in ITU-T Recommendation P.581)
and the spectrum is not altered.
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as references to determine the sending sensitivity
> SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. Measurements
shall be made at 1/3-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred
numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz inclusive. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 7.4.4 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P. 50 [10]. Alternatively,
a speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be -16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. Measurements shall be made at 1/3-octave
intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for
frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz inclusive. For the calculation the averaged
measured level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal
level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
### 7.4.5 Hand-held hands-free UE sending
> a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
> artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively,
> a speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
> used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
> spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is
> calibrated under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level
> shall be --4,7 dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged
> over the complete test signal sequence. The broadband signal level then is
> adjusted to --28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in ITU-T
> Recommendation P.581) and the spectrum is not altered.
>
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. Measurements
shall be made at 1/3-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred
numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz inclusive. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 7.4.6 Hand-held hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be -16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave band frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. Measurements shall be made at 1/3-octave
intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for
frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz inclusive. For the calculation, the averaged
measured level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal
level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
## 7.5 Sidetone characteristics
### 7.5.1 Connections with handset UE
The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a speech-
like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be used. The
type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The spectrum of
the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated under free-
field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa
measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete test
signal sequence.
#### 7.5.1.1 void
#### 7.5.1.2 Connections with handset UE -- HATS method
The handset UE is setup as described in clause 5. The application force shall
be 13 N on the Type 3.3 artificial ear.
Where a user-operated volume control is provided, the measurements shall be
carried out at the nominal setting of the volume control. In addition, the
measurement is repeated at the maximum volume control setting.
Measurements shall be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.40
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency
band (ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], table 4, bands 4 to 17) is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
The sidetone path loss (LmeST), as expressed in dB, and the Sidetone Masking
Rating (STMR), expressed in dB, shall be calculated from formula 5-1 of ITU-T
Recommendation P.79 [16], using m = 0.225 and the weighting factors in table
B.2 (unsealed condition) of ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16]. No leakage
correction (L~E~) shall be applied. DRP-ERP correction is used.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 7.5.2 Headset UE
The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P. 50 [10]. Alternatively, a speech-
like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be used. The
type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The spectrum of
the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated under free-
field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa
measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete test
signal sequence.
Measurements shall be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.10
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency
band (ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], table 4, bands 4 to 17) is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
The sidetone path loss (_LmeST_), as expressed in dB, shall be calculated from
each band of the 14 frequencies given in table 1 of ITU-T Recommendation P.79
[16], bands 4 to 17. The STMR (in dB) shall be calculated from formula B-4 of
ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], using m = 0.225 and the weighting factors in
table B.2 (unsealed condition) of ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16]. No leakage
correction (L~E~) shall be applied. DRP-ERP correction is used.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 7.5.3 Hands-free UE (all categories)
No requirement other than echo control.
## 7.6 Stability loss
Where a user-controlled volume control is provided it is set to maximum.
**Handset UE:** The handset is placed on a hard plane surface with the
earpiece facing the surface.
**Headset UE:** The requirement applies for the closest possible position
between microphone and headset receiver within the intended wearing position.
NOTE: Depending on the type of headset it may be necessary to repeat the
measurement in different positions.
**Hands-free UE (all categories):** No requirement other than echo loss.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
[10] is applied. The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order to
not overload the codec.
The test signal is a PN-sequence complying with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sampling rate system) and a crest
factor of 6 dB instead of 11 dB. The PN-sequence is generated as described in
P.501 with W(k) constant within the frequency range 200-4000 Hz and zero
outside this range. The duration of the test signal is 250 ms. With an input
signal of ‑3 dBm0, the attenuation from input to output of the system
simulator shall be measured under the following conditions:
a) The handset or the headset, with the transmission circuit fully active,
shall be positioned on a hard plane surface with at least 400 mm free space in
all directions; the earpiece shall face towards the surface as shown in figure
15c;
b) The headset microphone is positioned as close as possible to the
receiver(s) within the intended wearing position;
c) For a binaural headset, the receivers are placed symmetrically around the
microphone.
{width="6.699305555555555in" height="4.73125in"}
NOTE: All dimensions in mm.
Figure 15c. Test configuration for stability loss measurement on handset or
headset UE
The attenuation from input to output of the system simulator shall be measured
in the frequency range from 200 Hz to 4 kHz. The spectral distribution of the
output signal is analysed with a 4k FFT (for a 48 kHz sample rate test
system), thus the measured part of the output signal is 85.333 ms. To avoid
leakage effects, the frequency resolution of the FFT must be the same as the
frequency spacing of the PN-sequence.
## 7.7 Acoustic echo control
### 7.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the GSM or 3G networks at the POI should be at
least 46 dB during single talk. This value takes into account the fact that UE
is likely to be used in a wide range of noise environments.
### 7.7.2 Acoustic echo control in a hands-free UE
The hands-free UE is setup in a room with acoustic properties similar to a
typical "office-type" room; a vehicle-mounted hands-free UE should be tested
in a vehicle or vehicle simulator, as specified by the UE manufacturer (see
also 3GPP TS 03.58 [11]). The ambient noise level shall be less than ‑70
dBPa(A). The attenuation from reference point input to reference point output
shall be measured using a speech-like test signal.
The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B,
clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation, the averaged measured echo
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
Before the actual test, a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
[10] is applied. The training sequence level shall be presented at a level of
‑16 dBm0 in order to not overload the codec.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or PN-sequence test signal shall be
used.
**Logarithmically spaced multi-sine:**
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~ = 250 Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i = 1..11
CF = 14 dB ± 1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The length of the test signal shall
be ≥ 1,0 s.
**PN-sequence:**
The PN-sequence shall comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501 with a length of
4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sampling rate system) and a crest factor of 6 dB
instead of 11 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250 ms. The test signal
level is ‑3 dBm0 (from 100 Hz to 3.5 kHz).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to 3,14 dBm0 with a sinusoidal
signal, CF = 3 dB. A test signal with a CF of, maximum, 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get the
best dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 7.7.3 Acoustic echo control in handset UE
The handset is set up according to clause 5. The ambient noise level shall be
≤ ‑64 dBPa(A). The attenuation from the reference point input to reference
point output shall be measured using the speech-like test signal defined
below.
The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B,
clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation, the averaged measured echo
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
[10] is applied. The training sequence level shall be presented at a level of
‑16 dBm0 in order to not overload the codec.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or a PN-sequence test signal shall
be used.
**Logarithmically spaced multi-sine:**
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~ = 250 Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i = 1..11
CF = 14dB ± 1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The length of the test signal shall
be ≥ 1,0 s.
**PN-sequence:**
The PN-sequence shall comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501 with a length of
4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sample rate test system) and a crest factor of 6 dB
instead of 11 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250 ms. The test signal
level is ‑3 dBm0 (from 100 Hz to 3.5 kHz).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to 3,14 dBm0 with a sinusoidal
signal, CF = 3 dB. A test signal with a CF of, maximum, 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get the
best dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 7.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The headset is set up according to clause 5. The ambient noise level shall be
≤ ‑64 dBPa(A). The attenuation from reference point input to reference point
output shall be measured using the speech-like test signal defined below.
The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B,
clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation, the averaged measured echo
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
[10] is applied. The training sequence level shall be presented at a level of
‑16 dBm0 in order to not overload the codec.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or a PN-sequence test signal shall
be used.
**Logarithmically spaced multi-sine:**
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~ = 250 Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i = 1..11
CF = 14 dB ± 1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The length of the test signal shall
be ≥ 1,0 s.
**PN-sequence:**
The PN-sequence shall comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501 with a length of
4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sample rate test system) and a crest factor of 6 dB
instead of 11 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250 ms. The test signal
level is ‑3 dBm0 (from 100 Hz to 3,5 kHz).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to 3,14 dBm0 with a sinusoidal
signal, CF = 3 dB. A test signal with a CF of, maximum, 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get the
best dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
## 7.8 Distortion
### 7.8.1 Sending distortion
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine‑wave signal with a frequency of 1020 Hz. The sine-
wave signal level shall be calibrated to the following RMS levels at the MRP:
5, 0, ‑4,7, ‑10, ‑15, ‑20 dBPa. The test signals have to be applied in this
sequence, i.e., from high levels down to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 s. The measured
part of the signal shall be 170.667 ms (which equals 2 * 4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement. An appropriate speech or speech-like activation signal shall be
chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50 [10]. A recommendation for the
use of an activation signal as part of the measurement is defined in figure
16. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation signal is recommended
to be equal to the subsequent test tone RMS level. In practice, certain types
of processing may be impacted due to the introduction of the activation
signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify disabling of the
activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation signal was used
or not, along with the characteristics of the activation signal, as specified
by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal to total distortion power of the signal output of the
SS shall be measured with the psophometric noise weighting (see ITU‑T
Recommendations G.712, O.41 and 0.132). The psophometric filter shall be
normalized (0 dB gain) at 800 Hz as specified in ITU-T Recommendation O.41.
The weighting function shall be applied to the total distortion component only
(not to the signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band-stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0.7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1,4142 * f~S~, where f~S~ is
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be ≤ 0.2 dB. The attenuation of the band-stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be ≥ 60 dB. Alternatively, the described characteristics can
be implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from an
FFT. The total distortion component is defined as the measured signal within
the frequency range 200 Hz to 4 kHz, after applying psophometric and stop
filters (hence no correction for the lost power due to the stop filter, known
as "bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To improve repeatability, considering the variability introduced by speech
coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation signal followed by
the test signal) may be contiguously repeated one or more times.. The single
signal-to-total-distortion power ratios obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 16: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a "Bandlimited composite source signal with
speech-like power density spectrum" signal according to ITU-T Recommendation
P.501 with 48,62 ms voiced part (1), 200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101,38 ms
pause (3), followed by the same signal but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6),
followed by the voiced part only (7). The pure test tone is applied and after
50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is made over the following 170,667 ms
(9).
NOTE 1: Void.
NOTE 2: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 3: For hands-free terminals tested in environments defined in subclause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, referring to subclause 5.3.
### 7.8.2 Receiving
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine‑wave signal with frequency of 1020 Hz. The signal
shall be applied at the signal input of the SS at the following levels: 0, ‑3,
‑10, ‑16, ‑20, ‑30, ‑40, ‑45 dBm0. The test signals have to be applied in this
sequence, i.e., from high levels down to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 s. The measured
part of the signal shall be 170.667 ms (which equals 2 * 4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement. An appropriate speech or speech-like activation signal shall be
chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50 [10]. A recommendation for the
use of an activation signal as part of the measurement is defined in figure
17. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation signal is recommended
to be equal to the subsequent test tone RMS level for low and medium test
levels. To avoid saturation of the SS speech encoder, it is recommended for
high test levels that the activation signal level be adjusted such that its
peak level equals the peak level of the test tone. In practice, certain types
of processing may be impacted due to the introduction of the activation
signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify disabling of the
activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation signal was used
or not, along with the characteristics of the activation signal, as specified
by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal to total distortion power shall be measured at the
applicable acoustic measurement point (DRP with diffuse-field correction for
handset and headset modes; free field for hands-free modes) with psophometric
noise weighting (see ITU‑T Recommendations G.712, O.41 and 0.132). The
psophometric filter shall be normalized to have 0 dB gain at 800 Hz as
specified in ITU-T Recommendation O.41. The weighting function shall be
applied to the total distortion component only (not to the signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band-stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0,7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1,4142 * f~S~, where f~S~ is
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be ≤ 0.2 dB. The attenuation of the band-stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be ≥ 60 dB. Alternatively, the described characteristics can
be implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from an
FFT. The total distortion component is defined as the measured signal within
the frequency range 200 Hz to 4 kHz, after applying psophometric and stop
filters (hence no correction for the lost power due to the stop filter, known
as "bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To improve repeatability, considering the variability introduced by speech
coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation signal followed by
the test signal) may be contiguously repeated one or more times. The single
signal-to-total-distortion power ratios obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 17: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a "Bandlimited composite source signal with
speech-like power density spectrum" signal according to ITU-T Recommendation
P.501 with 48,62 ms voiced part (1), 200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101,38 ms
pause (3), followed by the same signal but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6),
followed by the voiced part only (7). The pure test tone is applied and after
50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is made over the following 170,667 ms
(9).
NOTE 1: Void.
NOTE 2: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 3: For hands-free terminals tested in environments defined in subclause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, referring to subclause 5.3.
## 7.9 Ambient noise rejection
**Handset and headset UE** :
NOTE: The ambient noise rejection method has been updated to support basic
testing of UEs that include noise suppression. Other methods are being
investigated that may be more suitable for proper characterization of ambient
noise rejection by UEs.
a) A 1/2-inch pressure microphone is calibrated using a known sound source and
mounted at the MRP, without the HATS present. The measurement system is
calibrated to enable the sound pressure levels at the microphone to be
determined in 1/3-octave bands.
b) For calibration of the background noise generation system, flood the room
in which the measurement is to be made with a band-limited (100 Hz to 8 kHz)
pink-noise, accurate within ± 3 dB. The level at the MRP shall be adjusted to
70 dBSPL(A) (-24 dBPa(A)). The tolerance on this level is ± 1 dB. The
resulting sound spectrum is Prn (dBPa), measured in 1/3-octave bands.
To ensure that the sound field is sufficiently diffuse, the following applies:
The diffuse sound-field is calibrated in the absence of any local obstacles.
The averaged field shall be uniform to within ± 3 dB within a radius of 0,15 m
of the MRP, when measured in 1/3-octave bands from 100 Hz to 3,15 kHz.
NOTE 1: The pressure intensity index, as defined in ISO 9614, may prove to be
a suitable method for assessing the diffuse field.
NOTE 2: Where more than one loudspeaker is used to produce the desired sound
field, the loudspeakers must be fed with non‑coherent electrical signals to
eliminate standing waves and other interference effects.
c) The speech test signal to be used for measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10] (male and female). The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
at the MRP. The test signal level shall be +1,3 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The
resulting sound spectrum is Po dBPa, measured in 1/3-octave bands.
d) Mount the MS under test, according to subclause 5.1.1.
e) Set up a send speech path between the MS and the SS and reproduce the
artificial speech signal and pink noise signal simultaneously according to the
sequence in figure 17a:
Figure 17a: Conditioning and test sequence for ambient noise rejection.
NOTE: Windows I, II, III are used only for conditioning of the MS. Window IV
is used for the actual measurement of the MS speech send sensitivity and
window V for the measurement of the MS noise send sensitivity.
f) To determine the send noise sensitivity, measure as a function of frequency
in 1/3-octave bands (index j), the electrical output V~jrn~, (expressed as dB
rel. 1 V) at the audio output of the SS for the applied noise acoustic
pressure P~jrn~ (expressed as dB rel. 1 Pa) at the MRP. This measurement is
performed during the period determined by window V shown in figure 17a. Since
the MS sending sensitivity is not defined above 3,4 kHz, the measurement shall
be cut off at 3,4 kHz. For the bands below 315 Hz, the noise level shall be
referenced to the speech level at 315 Hz to yield the DELSM.
The room send noise sensitivity is expressed as: Sm jrn = Vjrn (dBV) ‑ Pjrn
(dBPa) dB rel. 1V/Pa
g) To determine the send speech sensitivity, measure as a function of
frequency in 1/3-octave bands (index j) the electrical output, V~j~,
(expressed as dB rel. 1 V) at the audio output of the SS for the applied
speech acoustic pressure, P~j0~, (expressed as dB rel. 1 Pa), at the MRP. This
measurement is performed during the period determined by window IV shown in
figure 17a.
The speech sending sensitivity is expressed as;
Smjs (dB) = Vj (dBV) ‑ Pjo (dBPa) dB rel. 1 V/Pa.
h) The difference between the room noise sensitivity and the speech sending
sensitivity, DELSM (∆jSM), in each 1/3-octave band for the MS is determined
as:
DELSM (∆jSM) = Sm~jrn~ - Sm~js~ (dB) (for j = 1 to 2, Smjs = Sm3s).
i) The Ambient noise rejection, ANR, is calculated as a single figure value
according to the following formula:
$\text{ANR} = - \frac{4}{5}\sum_{i = 1}^{\text{13}}\Delta_{\text{jSM}} \cdot
\text{10}^{- 0\text{.}\text{0175}W_{\text{jsi}}}$
j = The index of 1/3-octave bands centered at frequencies from 200 Hz to 3150
Hz inclusive.
W~jsi~ = the sending weighting factors from ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16],
table 1 for the j^th^ 1/3-octave band centre frequency.
**Hands-free UE (all categories):**
No test method for hands-free operations.
# 8 Wideband telephony transmission performance test methods
## 8.1 Applicability
The test methods in this clause shall apply when testing a UE that is used to
provide narrowband or wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone service, or
as part of a multimedia service.
The application force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear
shall be 8 ± 2 N. For the headset case, the application of the headset shall
comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.57 [14].
## 8.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 8.2.1 General
The SLR and RLR values for GSM or 3G networks apply up to the POI. However,
the main determining factors are the characteristics of the UE, including the
analogue to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue conversion (DAC).
In practice, it is convenient to specify loudness ratings to the Air
Interface. For the normal case, where the GSM or 3G network introduce no
additional loss between the Air Interface and the POI, the loudness ratings to
the PSTN boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness ratings measured at
the Air Interface.
### 8.2.2 Connections with handset UE
#### 8.2.2.1 Sending loudness rating (SLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20 frequencies given in
table G.1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], bands 1 to 20. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for
each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23b), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], table A2.
#### 8.2.2.2 Receiving loudness rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be ‑16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The receiving
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20 frequencies given in
table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], bands 1 to 20. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16].
d) DRP-ERP correction is applied. No leakage correction shall be applied.
### 8.2.3 Connections with desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE
Vehicle-mounted hands-free UE should be tested within the vehicle (for the
totally integrated vehicle hands-free systems) or in a vehicle simulator, as
described in 3GPP TS 03.58 [11].
Free-field measurements for vehicle-mounted hands-free are for further study.
#### 8.2.3.1 Sending loudness rating (SLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence. The broadband signal level then is adjusted to --28,7
dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in ITU-Recommendation P.581) and
the spectrum is not altered.
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as references to determine the sending sensitivity
> SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20 frequencies given in
table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], bands 1 to 20. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for
each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23b), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], table A.2.
#### 8.2.3.2 Receiving loudness rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be ‑16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated
from each band of the 20 frequencies given in table A.2 of ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], bands 1 to 20.
> For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16].
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction as
described in ITU‑T Recommendation P.340 shall be applied. To compute the
receiving loudness rating (RLR) for a hands-free terminal (see also ITU-T
Recommendation P.340), when using the combination of left and right artificial
ear signals from the HATS, the HFL~E~ has to be 8 dB instead of 14 dB. For
further information see ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
### 8.2.4 Connections with hand-held hands-free UE
#### 8.2.4.1 Sending loudness rating (SLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence. The broadband signal level then is adjusted to --28,7
dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in P.581) and the spectrum is
not altered.
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20 frequencies given in
table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], bands 1 to 20. For the
calculation the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for
each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23b), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], table A.2.
#### 8.2.4.2 Receiving loudness rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be ‑16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated
from each band of the 20 frequencies given in table A.2 of ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16], bands 1 to 20.
> For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16].
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction as
described in ITU‑T Recommendation P.340 shall be applied. To compute the
receiving loudness rating (RLR) for hands-free terminals (see also ITU-T
Recommendation P.340) when using the combination of left and right artificial
ear signals from the HATS the HFL~E~ has to be 8 dB, instead of 14 dB. For
further information see ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
### 8.2.5 Connections with headset UE
Same as for handset.
## 8.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
For idle noise measurements in sending and receiving directions, care should
be taken that only the noise is windowed out by the analysis and the result is
not impaired by any remaining reverberation or by noise and/or interference
from various other sources. Some examples are air-conducted or vibration-
conducted noise from sources inside or outside the test chamber, disturbances
from lights and regulators, mains supply induced noise including grounding
issues, test system and system simulator inherent noise as well as radio
interference from the UE to test equipment such as ear simulators, microphone
amplifiers, etc.
### 8.3.1 Sending
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1.
The noise level at the output of the SS is measured with A‑weighting. The
A-weighting filter is described in IEC 60651.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
The measured part of the noise shall be 170,667 ms (which equals 8192 samples
in a 48 kHz sample rate test system). The spectral distribution of the noise
is analyzed with an 8k FFT using windowing with ≤ 0,1 dB leakage for non bin-
centered signals. This can be achieved with a window function commonly known
as a "flat top window". Within the specified frequency range, the FFT bin that
has the highest level is searched for; the level of this bin is the maximum
level of a single frequency disturbance.
To improve repeatability, the test sequence (optional activation followed by
the noise level measurement) may be contiguously repeated one or more times.
The total noise powers obtained from such repeats shall be averaged. The total
result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
The single frequency maximum powers obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
### 8.3.2 Receiving
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
The noise shall be measured with A‑weighting at the DRP with diffuse-field
correction. The A-weighting filter is described in IEC 60651.
The measured part of the noise shall be 170,667 ms (which equals 8192 samples
in a 48 kHz sample rate test system). The spectral distribution of the noise
is analyzed with an 8k FFT using windowing with ≤ 0,1 dB leakage for non bin-
centered signals. This can be achieved with a window function commonly known
as a "flat top window". Within the specified frequency range the FFT bin that
has the highest level is searched for; the level of this bin is the maximum
level of a single frequency disturbance.
To improve repeatability, the test sequence (optional activation followed by
the noise level measurement) may be contiguously repeated one or more times.
The total noise powers obtained from such repeats shall be averaged. The total
result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
The single frequency maximum powers obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
## 8.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 8.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
The headset case is similar to the handset one, except for the application
force.
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. Measurements shall
be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred
numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz inclusive. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for
each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 8.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be ‑16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in clause 5. Measurements shall
be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred
numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz inclusive. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The HATS is diffuse-field equalized. The sensitivity is expressed in terms
of dBPa/V. Information about correction factors is available in ITU-T
Recommendation P.57 [14].
Optionally, the measurements may be repeated with 2 N and 13 N application
force. For these test cases no normative values apply.
### 8.4.3 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE sending
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence. The broadband signal level is then adjusted to --28,7
dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in ITU-T Recommendation P.581)
and the spectrum is not altered.
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as references to determine the sending sensitivity
> SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. Measurements
shall be made at 1/3-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred
numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz inclusive. For the
calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 8.4.4 Desktop and vehicle-mounted hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be ‑16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. Measurements shall be made at 1/3-octave
intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for
frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz inclusive. For the calculation, the averaged
measured level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal
level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
### 8.4.5 Hand-held hands-free UE sending
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated
under free-field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7
dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete
test signal sequence. The broadband signal level is then adjusted to --28.7
dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as defined in ITU-T Recommendation P.581)
and the spectrum is not altered.
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in
> 1/3-octaves) are used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5.1.3.3.
Measurements shall be made at 1/3-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series
of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz inclusive.
For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 8.4.6 Hand-held hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a
speech-like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be
used. The type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The
test signal level shall be ‑16 dBm0 measured at the digital reference point or
the equivalent analogue point. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in clause 5. If a HATS is
used, then it is free-field equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
over the total duration of the analysis; the right and left artificial ear
signals are voltage-summed for each 1/3-octave band frequency band; these
1/3-octave band data are considered as the input signal to be used for
calculations or measurements. Measurements shall be made at 1/3-octave
intervals as given by the R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for
frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz inclusive. For the calculation, the averaged
measured level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal
level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
## 8.5 Sidetone characteristics
### 8.5.1 Connections with handset UE
The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a speech-
like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be used. The
type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The spectrum of
the acoustic signal shall be produced by the HATS. The test signal level shall
be ‑4,7 dBPa measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the
complete test signal sequence.
The handset UE is set up as described in clause 5. The application force shall
be 13 N on the Type 3.3 artificial ear.
Where a user-operated volume control is provided, the measurements shall be
carried out at the nominal setting of the volume control. In addition the
measurement is repeated at the maximum volume control setting.
Measurements shall be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.40
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency
band (ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], table 4, bands 1 to 20) is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
The sidetone path loss (LmeST), as expressed in dB, and the Sidetone Masking
Rating (STMR), expressed in dB, shall be calculated from formula 5-1 of ITU-T
Recommendation P.79 [16], using m = 0.225 and the weighting factors in table
B2 (unsealed condition) of ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16]. No leakage
correction (L~E~) shall be applied. DRP-ERP correction is used.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 8.5.2 Headset UE
The test signal to be used for normative measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10]. Alternatively, a speech-
like test signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501 may be used. The
type of test signal used shall be stated in the test report. The spectrum of
the acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is calibrated under free-
field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa
measured at the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete test
signal sequence.
Measurements shall be made at 1/12-octave intervals as given by the R.40
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency
band (ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], table 4, bands 1 to 20) is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
The sidetone path loss (_LmeST_), as expressed in dB, shall be calculated from
each band of the 20 frequencies given in table G.1 of ITU-T Recommendation
P.79 Annex A [16], bands 1 to 20. The STMR (in dB) shall be calculated from
formula B-4 of ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], using m = 0.225 and the
weighting factors in table B.2 (unsealed condition) of ITU-T Recommendation
P.79 [16]. No leakage correction (L~E~) shall be applied. DRP-ERP correction
is used.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 8.5.3 Hands-free UE (all categories)
No requirement other than echo control.
### 8.5.4 Sidetone delay for handset or headset
The handset or headset terminal is setup as described in clause 5.
The test signal is a CS-signal complying with ITU-T Recommendation P.501 using
a PN-sequence with a length, T, of 4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sample rate test
system). The duration of the complete test signal is as specified in ITU-T
Recommendation P.501. The level of the signal shall be ‑4,7 dBPa at the MRP.
The cross-correlation function Φxy(τ) between the input signal Sx(t) generated
by the test system in send direction and the output signal Sy(t) measured at
the artificial ear is calculated in the time domain:
$\Phi_{\text{xy}}(\tau) = \frac{1}{T}\int_{t = \frac{-
T}{2}}^{\frac{T}{2}}S_{x}(t) \cdot S_{y}(t + \tau)$ (1)
The measurement window, _T_ , shall be identical to the test signal period, T,
with the measurement window synchronized to the PN-sequence of the test
signal.
The sidetone delay is calculated from the envelope E(τ) of the cross-
correlation function Φxy(τ). The first maximum of the envelope function occurs
in correspondence with the direct sound produced by the artificial mouth; the
second one occurs with a possible delayed sidetone signal. The difference
between the two maxima corresponds to the sidetone delay. The envelope E(τ) is
calculated by the Hilbert transformation H {xy(τ)} of the cross-correlation:
$H\left{ \text{xy}(\tau) \right} = \sum_{u = - \infty}^{+
\infty}\frac{\Phi_{\text{xy}}(u)}{\pi(\tau - u)}$ (2)
$E(\tau) = \sqrt{\left\lbrack \Phi_{\text{xy}}(\tau) \right\rbrack^{2} +
\left\lbrack H\left{ \text{xy}(\tau) \right} \right\rbrack^{2}}$ (3)
It is assumed that the measured sidetone delay is less than T/2.
## 8.6 Stability loss
Where a user-controlled volume control is provided it is set to maximum.
**Handset UE:** The handset is placed on a hard plane surface with the
earpiece facing the surface.
**Headset UE:** The requirement applies for the closest possible position
between microphone and headset receiver within the intended wearing position.
NOTE: Depending on the type of headset it may be necessary to repeat the
measurement in different positions.
**Hands-free UE (all categories):** No requirement other than echo loss.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
[10] is applied. The training sequence level shall be ‑16 dBm0 in order to not
overload the codec.
The test signal is a PN-sequence complying with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sampling rate system) and a crest
factor of 6 dB instead of 11 dB. The PN-sequence is generated as described in
P.501 with W(k) constant within the frequency range 100-8000 Hz and zero
outside this range. The duration of the test signal is 250 ms. With an input
signal of ‑3 dBm0, the attenuation from input to output of the system
simulator shall be measured under the following conditions:
a) The handset or the headset, with the transmission circuit fully active,
shall be positioned on a hard plane surface with at least 400 mm free space in
all directions. The earpiece shall face towards the surface as shown in figure
17c;
b) The headset microphone is positioned as close as possible to the
receiver(s) within the intended wearing position;
c) For a binaural headset, the receivers are placed symmetrically around the
microphone.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="5.0152777777777775in"}
NOTE: All dimensions in mm.
Figure 17c. Test configuration for stability loss measurement on handset or
headset UE
The attenuation from input to output shall be measured in the frequency range
from 100 Hz to 8 kHz. The spectral distribution of the output signal is
analysed with a 4k FFT (for a 48 kHz sample rate test system), thus the
measured part of the output signal is 85,333 ms. To avoid leakage effects the
frequency resolution of the FFT must be the same as the frequency spacing of
the PN-sequence.
## 8.7 Acoustic echo control
### 8.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the GSM or 3G networks at the POI should be at
least 46 dB during single talk. This value takes into account the fact that UE
is likely to be used in a wide range of noise environments.
### 8.7.2 Acoustic echo control in a hands-free UE
The hands-free UE is setup in a room with acoustic properties similar to a
typical "office-type" room; a vehicle-mounted hands-free UE should be tested
in a vehicle or vehicle simulator, as specified by the UE manufacturer (see
also 3GPP TS 03.58 [11]). The ambient noise level shall be less than ‑70
dBPa(A). The attenuation from reference point input to reference point output
shall be measured using a speech-like test signal.
The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B,
clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation, the averaged measured echo
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
[10] is applied. The training sequence level shall be presented at a level of
‑16 dBm0 in order to not overload the codec.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or a PN-sequence test signal shall
be used.
**Logarithmically spaced multi-sine:**
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~ = 250 Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i = 1..11
CF = 14 dB ± 1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The length of the test signal shall
be ≥ 1,0 s.
**PN-sequence:**
The PN-sequence shall comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501 with a length of
4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sampling rate system) and a crest factor of 6 dB
instead of 11 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250 ms. The test signal
level is ‑3 dBm0 (from 50 Hz to 7 kHz).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to 3,14 dBm0 with a sinusoidal
signal, CF = 3dB. A test signal with a CF of, maximum, 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get the
best dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 8.7.3 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The handset is set up according to clause 5. The ambient noise level shall be
≤ ‑64 dBPa(A). The attenuation from the reference point input to reference
point output shall be measured using the speech-like test signal defined
below.
The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B,
clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation, the averaged measured echo
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
[10] is applied. The training sequence level shall be presented at a level of
‑16 dBm0 in order to not overload the codec.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or a PN-sequence test signal shall
be used.
**Logarithmically spaced multi-sine:**
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~ = 250 Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i = 1..11
CF = 14dB ± 1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The length of the test signal shall
be ≥ 1,0 s.
**PN-sequence:**
The PN-sequence shall comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501 with a length of
4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sample rate test system) and a crest factor of 6 dB
instead of 11 dB. The length of the complete test signal composed of at least
four sequences of CSS shall be ≥ 1,0 s. The test signal level is ‑3 dBm0 (from
50 Hz to 7 kHz).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to 3,14 dBm0 with a sinusoidal
signal, CF = 3 dB. A test signal with a CF of, maximum, 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get the
best dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 8.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The headset is set up according to clause 5. The ambient noise level shall be
≤ ‑64 dBPa(A). The attenuation from the reference point input to reference
point output shall be measured using the speech-like test signal defined
below.
The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B,
clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation, the averaged measured echo
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
Before the actual test, a training sequence consisting of 10 s male artificial
voice and 10 s female artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
is [10] applied. The training sequence level shall be presented at a level of
‑16 dBm0 in order to not overload the codec.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or a PN-sequence test signal shall
be used.
**Logarithmically spaced multi-sine:**
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~ = 250Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i = 1..11
CF = 14 dB ± 1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The length of the test signal shall
be ≥ 1,0 s.
**PN-sequence:**
The PN-sequence shall comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501 with a length of
4 096 points (for a 48 kHz sample rate test system) and a crest factor of 6 dB
instead of 11 dB. The length of the complete test signal composed of at least
four sequences of CSS shall be ≥ 1,0 s. The test signal level is ‑3 dBm0 (from
50 Hz to 7 kHz).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to 3,14 dBm0 with a sinusoidal
signal, CF = 3 dB. A test signal with a CF of, maximum, 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get the
best dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
## 8.8 Distortion
### 8.8.1 Sending distortion
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine-wave signal with frequencies specified in clause 6.8
of 3GPP TS 26.131. The sine-wave signal level shall be calibrated to ‑4,7 dBPa
at the MRP for all frequencies, except for the sine-wave with a frequency 1020
Hz which shall be applied at the following levels at the MRP: 5, 0, ‑4,7, ‑10,
‑15, ‑20 dBPa. The test signals have to be applied in this sequence, i.e.,
from high levels down to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 s. The measured
part of the signal shall be 170,667 ms (which equals 2 * 4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement (see Note 1.). An appropriate speech or speech-like activation
signal shall be chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50 [10]. A
recommendation for the use of an activation signal as part of the measurement
is defined in figure 18. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation
signal is recommended to be equal to the subsequent test tone RMS level. In
practice, certain types of processing may be impacted due to the introduction
of the activation signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify
disabling of the activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation
signal was used or not, along with the characteristics of the activation
signal, as specified by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal to total distortion power of the signal output of the
SS shall be measured with the psophometric noise weighting (see ITU‑T
Recommendations G.712, O.41 and O.132). The psophometric filter shall be
normalized (0 dB gain) at 800 Hz as specified in ITU-T Recommendation O.41.
The weighting function shall be applied to the total distortion component only
(not to the signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band-stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0.7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1.4142 * f~S~,where f~S~ is
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be ≤ 0,2 dB. The attenuation of the band-stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be ≥ 60 dB. Alternatively, the described characteristics can
be implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from an
FFT. The total distortion component is defined as the measured signal within
the frequency range 100 Hz to 6 kHz, after applying psophometric and stop
filters (hence no correction for the lost power due to the stop filter, known
as "bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To improve repeatability, considering the variability introduced by speech
coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation signal followed by
the test signal) may be contiguously repeated one or more times. The single
signal-to-total-distortion power ratios obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 18: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a "Bandlimited composite source signal with
speech-like power density spectrum" signal according to ITU-T Recommendation
P.501 with 48,62 ms voiced part (1), 200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101,38 ms
pause (3), followed by the same signal but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6),
followed by the voiced part only (7). The pure test tone is applied and after
50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is made over the following 170,667 ms
(9).
NOTE 1: Depending on the type of codec the test signal used may need to be
adapted. If a sine-wave is not usable, an alternative test signal could be a
band-limited noise signal centered on the above frequencies.
NOTE 2: Void.
NOTE 3: Void.
NOTE 4: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 5: For hands-free terminals tested in environments defined in subclause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, referring to subclause 5.3.
### 8.8.2 Receiving
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine‑wave signal with frequencies specified in clause 6.8
of 3GPP TS 26.131. The signal level shall be ‑16 dBm0, except for the
sine‑wave signal with a frequency 1020 Hz that shall be applied at the signal
input of the SS at the following levels: 0, ‑3, ‑10, ‑16, ‑20, ‑30, ‑40, ‑45
dBm0. The test signals have to be applied in this sequence, i.e., from high
levels down to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 s. The measured
part of the signal shall be 170,667 ms (which equals 2 * 4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement (see Note 1.). An appropriate speech or speech-like activation
signal shall be chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50 [10]. A
recommendation for the use of an activation signal as part of the measurement
is defined in figure 19. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation
signal is recommended to be equal to the subsequent test tone RMS level for
low and medium test levels. To avoid saturation of the SS speech encoder, it
is recommended for high test levels that the activation signal level is
adjusted so that its peak level equals the peak level of the test tone. In
practice, certain types of processing may be impacted due to the introduction
of the activation signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify
disabling of the activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation
signal was used or not, along with the characteristics of the activation
signal, as specified by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal to total distortion power shall be measured at the
applicable acoustic measurement point (DRP with diffuse-field correction for
handset and headset modes; free field for hands-free modes) with the
psophometric noise weighting (see ITU‑T Recommendations G.712, O.41 and
O.132). The psophometric filter shall be normalized to have 0 dB gain at 800
Hz as specified in ITU-T Recommendation O.41. The weighting function shall be
applied to the total distortion component only (not to the signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band-stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0,7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1,4142 * f~S~, where f~S~ is
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be ≤ 0,2 dB. The attenuation of the band stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be ≥ 60 dB. Alternatively the described characteristics can be
implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from an FFT.
The total distortion component is defined as the measured signal within the
frequency range 100 Hz to 6 kHz, after applying psophometric and stop filters
(hence no correction for the lost power due to the stop filter, known as
"bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To improve repeatability, considering the variability introduced by speech
coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation signal followed by
the test signal) may be contiguously repeated one or more times. The single
signal-to-total-distortion power ratios obtained from such repeats shall be
averaged. The total result shall be 10 * log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 19: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a "Bandlimited composite source signal with
speech-like power density spectrum" signal according to ITU-T Recommendation
P.501 with 48,62 ms voiced part (1), 200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101,38 ms
pause (3), followed by the same signal but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6),
followed by the voiced part only (7). The pure test tone is applied and after
50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is made over the following 170,667 ms
(9).
NOTE 1: Void.
NOTE 2: Void.
NOTE 3: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 4: For hands-free terminals tested in environments defined in subclause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, referring to subclause 5.3.
## 8.9 Ambient noise rejection
**Handset and headset UE** :
NOTE: The ambient noise rejection method has been updated to support basic
testing of UEs that include noise suppression. Other methods are being
investigated that may be more suitable for proper characterization of ambient
noise rejection by UEs.
a) A 1/2-inch pressure microphone is calibrated using a known sound source and
mounted at the MRP, without the HATS present. The measurement system is
calibrated to enable the sound pressure levels at the microphone to be
determined in 1/3-octave bands.
b) For calibration of the background noise generation system, flood the room
in which the measurement is to be made with a band-limited (100 Hz to 8 kHz)
pink-noise, accurate within ± 3 dB. The level at the MRP shall be adjusted to
70 dBSPL(A) (-24 dBPa(A)). The tolerance on this level is ± 1 dB. The
resulting sound spectrum is Prn (dBPa), measured in 1/3-octave bands.
> To ensure that the sound field is sufficiently diffuse, the following
> applies:
>
> The diffuse sound-field is calibrated in the absence of any local obstacles.
> The averaged field shall be uniform to within ± 3 dB within a radius of 0,15
> m of the MRP, when measured in 1/3-octave bands from 100 Hz to 6,3 kHz.
NOTE 1: The pressure intensity index, as defined in ISO 9614, may prove to be
a suitable method for assessing the diffuse field.
> NOTE 2: Where more than one loudspeaker is used to produce the desired sound
> field, the loudspeakers must be fed with non‑coherent electrical signals to
> eliminate standing waves and other interference effects.
>
> c) The speech test signal to be used for measurements shall be the
> artificial voice according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50 [10] (male and
> female). The spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the artificial
> mouth is calibrated at the MRP. The test signal level shall be +1,3 dBPa,
> measured at the MRP. The resulting sound spectrum is Po (dBPa), measured in
> 1/3-octave bands.
d) Mount the MS under test, according to subclause 5.1.1.
e) Set up a send speech path between the MS and the SS and reproduce the
artificial speech signal and pink noise signal simultaneously according to the
sequence in figure 19a:
Figure 19a: Conditioning and test sequence for ambient noise rejection.
NOTE: Windows I, II, III are used only for conditioning of the MS. Window IV
is used for the actual measurement of the MS speech send sensitivity and
window V for the measurement of the MS noise send sensitivity.
f) To determine the send noise sensitivity, measure as a function of frequency
in 1/3-octave bands (index j), the electrical output, V~jrn~, (expressed as dB
rel. 1 V) at the audio output of the SS for the applied noise acoustic
pressure P~jrn~ (expressed as dB rel. 1 Pa) at the MRP. This measurement is
performed during the period determined by window V shown in figure 19a. Since
the MS sending sensitivity is not defined above 6,3 kHz, the measurement shall
be cut off at 6,3 kHz. For the bands below 315 Hz, the send noise sensitivity
shall be referenced to the send speech sensitivity at 315 Hz to yield the
DELSM.
> The send noise sensitivity is expressed as:
>
> Sm jrn = Vjrn (dBV) ‑ Pjrn (dBPa).
g) To determine the send speech sensitivity, measure as a function of
frequency in 1/3-octave bands (index j) the electrical output, V~j~,
(expressed as dB rel. 1 V), at the audio output of the SS for the applied
speech acoustic pressure, P~j0~, (expressed as dB rel. 1 Pa), at the MRP. This
measurement is performed during the period determined by window IV shown in
figure 19a.
> The send speech sensitivity is expressed as:
>
> Smjs (dB) = Vj (dBV) ‑ Pjo (dBPa) dB rel. 1 V/Pa.
h) The difference between the room noise sensitivity and the speech sending
sensitivity DELSM (∆jSM) in each 1/3-octave band for the MS is determined as:
DELSM (∆jSM) = Sm~jrn~ - Sm~js~ (dB) (for j = 1 to 2, Smjs = Sm3s).
i) The Ambient noise rejection ANR is calculated as a single figure value
according to the following formula:
$\text{ANR} = - \frac{4}{5}\sum_{i = 1}^{\text{16}}\Delta_{\text{jSM}} \cdot
\text{10}^{- 0\text{.}\text{0175}W_{\text{jsi}}}$
j = The index of 1/3-octave bands centered at frequencies from 200 Hz to 6300
Hz inclusive.
W~jsi~ = the sending weighting factors from ITU-T Recommendation P.79 Annex G
[16], table G.1 for the j^th^ 1/3-octave band centre frequency.
**Hands-free UE (all categories):**
No test method for hands-free operations.
###### ## Annex A: Interpolation method for diffuse-field correction
(normative)
Interpolated values for 1/12-octave bands shall be calculated from 1/3-octave
band values using table 3.
For measurements requiring diffuse-field correction values for closer
frequency spacing than 1/12-octave bands, linear interpolation on a log scale
from the 1/12-octave band interpolated values in table 3 shall be used.
Table 3: Interpolation parameters on 1/12-octave bands.
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Interpolated value (dB) Frequency (Hz) Interpolated value (dB)
95 0,000 1 000 5,000 100 0,000 1 060 5,375 106 0,000 1 120 5,750 112 0,000 1
180 6,125 118 0,000 1 250 6,500 125 0,000 1 320 6,800 132 0,000 1 400 7,150
140 0,000 1 500 7,550 150 0,000 1 600 8,000 160 0,000 1 700 8,550 170 0,000 1
800 9,175 180 0,000 1 900 9,850 190 0,000 2 000 10,500 200 0,000 2 120 11,500
212 0,125 2 240 12,550 224 0,250 2 360 13,500 236 0,390 2 500 14,050 250 0,500
2 650 13,850 265 0,525 2 800 13,250 280 0,500 3 000 12,400 300 0,480 3 150
12,000 315 0,500 3 350 11,750 335 0,600 3 550 11,650 355 0,725 3 750 11,600
375 0,875 4 000 11,500 400 1,000 4 250 11,425 425 1,135 4 500 11,375 450 1,275
4 750 11,275 475 1,375 5 000 11,000 500 1,500 5 300 10,400 530 1,625 5 600
9,550 560 1,650 6 000 8,600 600 1,800 6 300 8,000 630 2,000 6 700 7,375 670
2,450 7 100 6,800 710 3,000 7 500 6,450 750 3,500 8 000 6,500 800 4,000 8 500
7,150 850 4,325 9 000 8,250 900 4,550 9 500 9,450 950 4,750 10 000 10,450
* * *
Interpolated values for 1/12-octave bands can be also calculated from
1/3-octave band values using table 4 when frequencies are defined according to
IEC 1260.
Table 4: Interpolation parameters on 1/12-octave bands with frequencies
according to IEC 1260 (informative).
* * *
Frequency (Hz) Interpolated value (dB) Frequency (Hz) Interpolated value (dB)
92 0,000 972 4,850 97 0,000 1029 5,180 103 0,000 1090 5,555 109 0,000 1155
5,969 115 0,000 1223 6,353 122 0,000 1296 6,720 130 0,000 1372 7,025 137 0,000
1454 7,345 145 0,000 1540 7,720 154 0,000 1631 8,165 163 0,000 1728 8,740 173
0,000 1830 9,370 183 0,000 1939 10,100 194 0,000 2054 10,900 205 0,055 2175
12,000 218 0,193 2304 13,080 230 0,330 2441 13,860 244 0,470 2585 13,985 259
0,520 2738 13,525 274 0,520 2901 12,810 290 0,490 3073 12,175 307 0,490 3255
11,850 325 0,550 3447 11,700 345 0,650 3652 11,625 365 0,790 3868 11,560 387
0,931 4097 11,460 410 1,055 4340 11,420 434 1,183 4597 11,375 460 1,313 4870
11,170 487 1,441 5158 10,700 516 1,560 5464 9,950 546 1,635 5788 9,070 579
1,720 6131 8,300 613 1,875 6494 7,700 649 2,180 6879 7,100 688 2,675 7286
6,610 729 3,222 7718 6,410 772 3,750 8175 6,655 818 4,140 8660 7,477 866 4,400
9173 8,680 917 4,620 9716 9,950
* * *
#