# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The present document defines the detailed requirements for the correct
operation of the background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter
encoding/decoding and comfort noise generation in the narrowband telephony
speech service employing the Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) speech
coder within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This document gives the detailed requirements for the correct operation of the
background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding and
comfort noise generation for the AMR Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec during
Source Controlled Rate (SCR) operation.
The requirements described in this document are mandatory for implementation
in all UEs capable of supporting the AMR-WB speech codec.
The receiver requirements are mandatory for implementation in all networks
capable of supporting the AMR-WB speech codec, the transmitter requirements
only for those where downlink SCR will be used.
In case of discrepancy between the requirements described in this document and
the fixed point computational description of these requirements contained in
[1], the description in [1] will prevail.
# 2 Normative references
This document incorporates by dated and undated reference, provisions from
other publications. These normative references are cited at the appropriate
places in the text and the publications are listed hereafter. For dated
references, subsequent amendments to or revisions of any of these publications
apply to this document only when incorporated in it by amendment or revision.
For undated references, the latest edition of the publication referred to
applies.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.173 : \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; ANSI‑C code\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.190 : \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Transcoding functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.191 : \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Error concealment of lost
frames \".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.193 : \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate
operation \".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.201 : \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Frame Structure\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purpose of this document, the following definitions apply.
**Frame:** Time interval of 20 ms corresponding to the time segmentation of
the adaptive multi-rate wideband speech transcoder, also used as a short term
for traffic frame.
**SID frames:** Special Comfort Noise frames. It may convey information on the
acoustic background noise or inform the decoder that it should start
generating background noise.
**Speech frame:** Traffic frame that cannot be classified as a SID frame.
**VAD flag:** Voice Activity Detection flag.
**TX_TYPE:** Classification of the transmitted traffic frame (defined in [4]).
**RX_TYPE:** Classification of the received traffic frame (defined in [4]).
Other definitions of terms used in this document can be found in [2] and [4].
The overall operation of SCR is described in [4].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purpose of this document, the following symbols apply. Boldface
symbols are used for vector variables.
$f^{T}\ = \ \left\lbrack f_{1}\ f_{2}\ \text{.}\text{.}\text{.}\ f_{\text{16}}
\right\rbrack$ Unquantized ISF vector
${\hat{f}}^{T}\ = \ \left\lbrack {\hat{f}}_{1}\ {\hat{f}}_{2}\
\text{.}\text{.}\text{.}\ {\hat{f}}_{\text{16}} \right\rbrack$ Quantized ISF
vector
Unquantized ISF vector of frame _m_
Quantized ISF vector of frame _m_
{width="0.34652777777777777in" height="0.2076388888888889in"} Averaged ISF
parameter vector
$\text{en}_{\text{log}}$ Logarithmic frame energy
$\text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}}$ Averaged logarithmic frame energy
{width="0.16597222222222222in" height="0.1798611111111111in"} ISF parameter
prediction residual
{width="0.16597222222222222in" height="0.22152777777777777in"} Quantized ISF
parameter prediction residual
{width="0.5826388888888889in" height="0.5131944444444444in"}
{width="2.56875in" height="0.25in"}
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purpose of this document , the following abbreviations apply.
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
CN Comfort Noise
SCR Source Controlled Rate operation ( aka source discontinuous transmission )
UE User Equipment
SID SIlence Descriptor
LP Linear Prediction
ISP Immittance Spectral Pair
ISF Immittance Spectral Frequency
RSS Radio Subsystem
RX Receive
TX Transmit
VAD Voice Activity Detector
# 4 General
A basic problem when using SCR is that the background acoustic noise, which is
transmitted together with the speech, would disappear when the transmission is
cut, resulting in discontinuities of the background noise. Since the SCR
switching can take place rapidly, it has been found that this effect can be
very annoying for the listener - especially in a car environment with high
background noise levels. In bad cases, the speech may be hardly intelligible.
This document specifies the way to overcome this problem by generating on the
receive (RX) side synthetic noise similar to the transmit (TX) side background
noise. The comfort noise parameters are estimated on the TX side and
transmitted to the RX side at a regular rate when speech is not present. This
allows the comfort noise to adapt to the changes of the noise on the TX side.
# 5 Functions on the transmit (TX) side
The comfort noise evaluation algorithm uses the following parameters of the
AMR-WB speech encoder, defined in [2]:
\- the unquantized Linear Prediction (LP) parameters, using the Immittance
Spectral Pair (ISP) representation, where the unquantized Immittance Spectral
Frequency (ISF) vector is given by $f^{T} = \left\lbrack
f_{1}f_{2}\text{.}\text{.}\text{.}f_{\text{16}} \right\rbrack$;
The algorithm computes the following parameters to assist in comfort noise
generation:
\- the weighted averaged ISF parameter vector {width="0.34652777777777777in"
height="0.2076388888888889in"} (weighted average of the ISF parameters of the
eight most recent frames);
\- the averaged logarithmic frame energy
$\text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}}$ (average of the logarithmic energy of
the eight most recent frames).
These parameters give information on the level
($\text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}}$) and the spectrum
({width="0.34652777777777777in" height="0.2076388888888889in"}) of the
background noise.
The evaluated comfort noise parameters ({width="0.34652777777777777in"
height="0.2076388888888889in"} and$\text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}}$) are
encoded into a special frame, called a Silence Descriptor (SID) frame for
transmission to the RX side.
A hangover logic is used to enhance the quality of the silence descriptor
frames. A hangover of seven frames is added to the VAD flag so that the coder
waits with the switch from active to inactive mode for a period of seven
frames, during that time the decoder can compute a silence descriptor frame
from the quantized ISFs and the logarithmic frame energy of the decoded speech
signal. Therefore, no comfort noise description is transmitted in the first
SID frame after active speech. If the background noise contains transients
which will cause the coder to switch to active mode and then back to inactive
mode in a very short time period, no hangover is used. Instead the previously
used comfort noise frames are used for comfort noise generation.
The first SID frame also serves to initiate the comfort noise generation on
the receive side, as a first SID frame is always sent at the end of a speech
burst, i.e., before the transmission is terminated.
The scheduling of SID or speech frames on the network path is described in
[4].
## 5.1 ISF evaluation
The comfort noise parameters to be encoded into a SID frame are calculated
over _N_ =8 consecutive frames marked with VAD=0, as follows:
Prior to averaging the ISF parameters over the CN averaging period, a median
replacement is performed on the set of ISF parameters to be averaged, to
remove the parameters which are not characteristic of the background noise on
the transmit side. First, the spectral distances from each of the ISF
parameter vectors $f\left( i \right)$ to the other ISF parameter vectors
$f\left( j \right)$, _i_ =0,...,7, _j_ =0,...,7, _i_ ≠ _j_ , within the CN
averaging period are approximated according to the equation:
$\text{ΔR}_{\text{ij}} = \sum_{k = 1}^{\text{16}}\left( f_{i}\left( k \right)
- f_{j}\left( k \right) \right)^{2}$, (1)
where $f_{i}\left( k \right)$ is the _k_ th ISF parameter of the ISF parameter
vector $f\left( i \right)$ at frame _i_.
To find the spectral distance $\text{DS}_{i}$ of the ISF parameter vector
$f\left( i \right)$ to the ISF parameter vectors $f\left( j \right)$ of all
the other frames _j_ =0,...,7, _j_ ≠ _i_ , within the CN averaging period, the
sum of the spectral distances $\text{DR}_{\text{ij}}$ is computed as follows:
$\text{ΔS}_{i} = \sum_{j = 0,j \neq i}^{7}\text{ΔR}_{\text{ij}},$ (2)
for all _i_ =0,...,7, _i_ ≠ _j_.
The ISF parameter vector $f\left( i \right)$ with the smallest spectral
distance $\text{DS}_{i}$ of all the ISF parameter vectors within the CN
averaging period is considered as the median ISF parameter vector
$f_{\text{med}}$ of the averaging period, and its spectral distance is denoted
as $\text{DS}_{\text{med}}$. The median ISF parameter vector is considered to
contain the best representation of the short-term spectral detail of the
background noise of all the ISF parameter vectors within the averaging period.
If there are ISF parameter vectors $f\left( j \right)$ within the CN averaging
period with
$\frac{\text{DS}_{j}}{\text{DS}_{\text{med}}} > \text{TH}_{\text{med}}$, (3)
where $\text{TH}_{\text{med}} = 2\text{.}\text{25}$ is the median replacement
threshold, then at most two of these ISF parameter vectors (the ISF parameter
vectors causing $\text{TH}_{\text{med}}$ to be exceeded the most) are replaced
by the median ISF parameter vector prior to computing the averaged ISF
parameter vector $f^{\text{mean}}$.
The set of ISF parameter vectors obtained as a result of the median
replacement are denoted as $f^{'}\left( n - i \right)$, where _n_ is the index
of the current frame, and _i_ is the averaging period index (_i_ =0,...,7).
When the median replacement is performed at the end of the hangover period
(first CN update), all of the ISF parameter vectors $f\left( n - i \right)$ of
the 7 previous frames (the hangover period, _i_ =1,...,7) have quantized
values, while the ISF parameter vector $f\left( n \right)$at the most recent
frame _n_ has unquantized values. In the subsequent CN updates, the ISF
parameter vectors of the CN averaging period in the frames overlapping with
the hangover period have quantized values, while the parameter vectors of the
more recent frames of the CN averaging period have unquantized values. When
the period of the eight most recent frames is non-overlapping with the
hangover period, the median replacement of ISF parameters is performed using
only unquantized parameter values.
The averaged ISF parameter vector $f^{\text{mean}}\left( n \right)$ at frame
_n_ shall be computed according to the equation:
$f^{\text{mean}}\left( n \right)\ = \ \frac{1}{8}\ \sum_{i =
0}^{7}{f^{'}\left( n\ - \ i \right)\ ,}$ (4)
where $f^{'}\left( n - i \right)$ is the ISF parameter vector of one of the
eight most recent frames (_i =_ 0,...,7) after performing the median
replacement, _i_ is the averaging period index, and _n_ is the frame index.
The averaged ISF parameter vector $f^{\text{mean}}\left( n \right)$ at frame
_n_ is quantized using the comfort noise ISF quantization tables The mean
removed ISF vector to be quantized is obtained according to the following
equation:
$r\left( n \right)\ = \ f^{\text{mean}}\left( n \right)\ - \ \overline{f},$
(5)
where $f^{\text{mean}}\left( n \right)$is the averaged ISF parameter vector at
frame _n_ , $\overline{f}$ is the constant mean ISF vector, $r\left( n
\right)$ is the computed ISF mean removed vector at frame _n_ , and _n_ is the
frame index.
## 5.2 Frame energy calculation
The frame energy is computed for each frame marked with VAD=0 according to the
equation :
$\text{en}_{\text{log}}\left( i \right)\ = \ \frac{1}{2}\text{log}_{2}\left(
\frac{1}{N}\sum_{n = 0}^{N - 1}{s^{2}\left( n \right)} \right)$ (6)
where is the high-pass-filtered input speech signal of the current frame _i_.
The energy is also adjusted according to the signalled speech modes
capabilities, as to provide high quality transitions from Comfort Noise to
Speech.
The averaged logarithmic energy is computed by:
$\text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}}\left( i \right) = \frac{1}{8}\sum_{n =
0}^{7}{\text{en}_{\text{log}}(i - n)}$. (7)
The averaged logarithmic energy is quantized using a 6 bit arithmetic
quantizer. The 6 bits for the energy index are transmitted in the SID frame
(see bit allocation in table 1).
## 5.3 Analysis of the variation and stationarity of the background noise
The encoder first determines how stationary background noise is. Dithering is
employed for non-stationary background noise. The information about whether to
use dithering or not is transmitted to the decoder using a binary information
(_CN~dith~_ -flag).
The binary value for the _CN~dith~_ -flag is found by using the spectral
distance $\text{ΔS}_{i}$ of the spectral parameter vector $f\left( i \right)$
to the spectral parameter vectors $f\left( j \right)$ of all the other frames
_j_ =0,..., _l~dtx~-1_ , _j_ ≠ _i_ within the CN averaging period (_l~dtx~_).
The computation of the spectral distance is described in Chapter 5.1. A sum of
spectral distances $D_{s} = \sum_{i = 0}^{7}\text{ΔS}_{i}$is then computed. If
D~S~ is small, _CN~dith~_ -flag is set to 0. Otherwise, _CN~dith~_ -flag is
set to 1. Additionally, variation of energy between frames is studied. The sum
of absolute deviation of _en~log~_(_i_) from the average _en~log~_ is
computed. If the sum is large, _CN~dith~_ -flag is set to 1, even if the flag
was earlier set to 0.
## 5.4 Modification of the speech encoding algorithm during SID frame
generation
When the TX_TYPE is not equal to SPEECH the speech encoding algorithm is
modified in the following way:
\- The non-averaged LP parameters which are used to derive the filter
coefficients of the filters {width="0.38819444444444445in" height="0.25in"}
and {width="0.38819444444444445in" height="0.25in"} of the speech encoder are
not quantized;
\- The open loop pitch lag search is performed, but the closed loop pitch lag
search is inactivated. The adaptive codebook memory is set to zero.
\- No fixed codebook search is made.
\- The memory of weighting filter {width="0.38819444444444445in"
height="0.25in"} is set to zero, i.e., the memory of
{width="0.38819444444444445in" height="0.25in"} is not updated.
\- The ordinary LP parameter quantization algorithm is inactive. The averaged
ISF parameter vector {width="0.40208333333333335in" height="0.25in"} is
calculated each time a new SID frame is to be sent. This parameter vector is
encoded into the SID frame as defined in subclause 5.1.
\- The ordinary gain quantization algorithm is inactive.
\- The predictor memories of the ordinary LP parameter quantization algorithm
is initialized when TX_TYPE is not SPEECH, so that the quantizers start from
known initial states when the speech activity begins again.
In the 23.85 kbit/s mode, when the TX_TYPE is equal to SPEECH and VAD is OFF,
the speech encoding algorithm is modified in the following way:
\- The generation of high-band gain _g~HB~_ is changed by adapting it during
non-active speech period towards estimated gain in order to ensure smooth
transition of high-band gain. _g~HB~_ is then
$g_{\text{HB}} = \frac{\text{hang}_{\text{DTX}}}{7}g_{\text{HB}} + (1 -
\frac{\text{hang}_{\text{DTX}}}{7})g_{\text{est}},$ (8)
where _hang~DTX~_ is DTX counter.
## 5.4 SID-frame encoding
The encoding of the comfort noise bits in a SID frame is described in [5]
where the indication of the first SID frame is also described. The bit
allocation and sequence of the bits from comfort noise encoding is shown in
Table 1.
# 6 Functions on the receive (RX) side
The situations in which comfort noise shall be generated on the receive side
are defined in [4]. In general, the comfort noise generation is started or
updated whenever a valid SID frame is received.
## 6.1 Averaging and decoding of the LP and energy parameters
When speech frames are received by the decoder the LP and the energy
parameters of the last seven speech frames shall be kept in memory. The
decoder counts the number of frames elapsed since the last SID frame was
updated and passed to the RSS by the encoder. Based on this count, the decoder
determines whether or not there is a hangover period at the end of the speech
burst (defined in [4] ). The interpolation factor is also adapted to the SID
update rate.
As soon as a SID frame is received comfort noise is generated at the decoder
end. The first SID frame parameters are not received but computed from the
parameters stored during the hangover period. If no hangover period is
detected, the parameters from the previous SID update are used.
The averaging procedure for obtaining the comfort noise parameters for the
first SID frame is as follows:
\- when a speech frame is received, the ISF vector is decoded and stored in
memory, moreover the logarithmic frame energy of the decoded signal is also
stored in memory.
\- the averaged values of the quantized ISF vectors and the averaged
logarithmic frame energy of the decoded frames are computed and used for
comfort noise generation.
The averaged value of the ISF vector for the first SID frame is given by:
${\hat{f}}^{\text{mean}}\left( i \right) = \frac{1}{8}\sum_{n =
0}^{7}{\hat{f}\left( i - n \right)}$ (9)
where $\hat{f}\left( i - n \right)$, _n_ > 0 is the quantized ISF vector of
one of the frames of the hangover period and where $\hat{f}\left( i - 0
\right)$= $\hat{f}\left( i - 1 \right)$ . The averaged logarithmic frame
energy for the first SID frame is given by:
$\hat{e}n_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}}\left( i \right) = \frac{1}{8}\sum_{n =
0}^{7}{\hat{e}n_{\text{log}}\left( i - n \right)}$ (10)
where $\hat{e}n_{\text{log}}\left( i - n \right)$ , _n_ > 0 is the logarithmic
vector of one of the frames of the hangover period computed for the decoded
frames and where $\hat{e}n_{\text{log}}\left( i - 0 \right)$ =
$\hat{e}n_{\text{log}}\left( i - 1 \right)$.
For ordinary SID frames, the ISF vector and logarithmic frame energy are
computed by table lookup. The ISF vector is given by the sum of the decoded
reference vector and the constant mean ISF vector.
During comfort noise generation the spectrum and energy of the comfort noise
is determined by interpolation between old and new SID frames.
When dithering is used, the ISF vector **f** is modified by
$f(i) = f(i) + \text{rand}( - L(i),L(i)),i = 1,\text{.}\text{.},\text{16}$
(11)
where _L_(_i_) = 100 + 0.8i Hz and _rand_(− _L_(_i_)_,L_(_i_)) is random
function generating values between − _L_(_i_) and _L_(_i_). A minimum gap of
175 Hz is ensured between elements of **f**.
Dithering insertion for energy parameter is similar to spectral dithering and
can be computed as follows:
$\text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}} = \text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}} +
\text{rand}( - L,L)$, (12)
where _L_ = 75 and $\text{en}_{\text{log}}^{\text{mean}}$ is the energy value
used for scaling the energy of the comfort noise excitation.
## 6\. 2 Comfort noise generation and updating
The comfort noise generation procedure uses the Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
(AMR-WB) speech decoder algorithm defined in [2].
When comfort noise is to be generated, the various encoded parameters are set
as follows:
In each subframe, the pulse positions and signs of the excitation are locally
generated using uniformly distributed pseudo random numbers. The excitation
pulses take values between +2047 and ‑2048 when comfort noise is generated.
The fixed codebook comfort noise excitation generation algorithm works as
follows:
for (i = 0; i \< 64; i++) _u_[i] = shr(random(),4);
where:
**_u_[0..63]** excitation buffer;
**random()** generates a random integer value, uniformly distributed between
-32768 and +32767;
The excitation gain is computed from the logarithmic frame energy parameter by
converting it to the linear domain.
The adaptive codebook gain values in each subframe are set to 0, also the
memory of the adaptive codebook is set to zero.
The pitch delay values in each subframe are set to 64.
The LP filter parameters used are those received in the SID frame.
The predictor memory of the ordinary LP parameter algorithm is initialized
when RX_TYPE is not SPEECH , so that the quantizer start from given initial
states when the speech activity begins again. With these parameters, the
speech decoder now performs the standard operations described in [2] and
synthesizes comfort noise. During CN generation, the high-band generation is
performed using estimated high-band gain like in 8.85, 12.65, 14.25, 15.85,
18.25, 19.85 or 23.05 kbit/s modes during active speech.
Updating of the comfort noise parameters (energy and LP filter parameters)
occurs each time a valid SID frame is received, as described in [4].
When updating the comfort noise, the parameters above should be interpolated
over the SID update period to obtain smooth transitions.
# 7 Computational details and bit allocation
A bit exact computational description of comfort noise encoding and generation
in form of an ANSI-C source code is found in [1].
The detailed bit allocation and the sequence of bits in the comfort noise
encoding is shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Source encoder output parameters in order of occurrence and bit
allocation for comfort noise encoding
* * *
Bits (MSB‑LSB) Description s1 -- s6 index of 1st ISF subvector s7‑ s12 index
of 2st ISF subvector s13 -- s18 index of 3nd ISF subvector s19 -- s23 index of
4th ISF subvector s24 -- s28 index of 5th ISF subvector s29 -- s34 index of
logarithmic frame energy s35 dithering flag
* * *
#