# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document introduces the set of default codecs applying to 3G
packet switched conversational multimedia applications within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document contains a specification for default multimedia codecs to
be used within 3GPP specified IP Multimedia Subsystem (IM Subsystem). IM
Subsystem as a subsystem includes specifically the conversational IP
multimedia services, whose service architecture, call control and media
capability control procedures have been defined in 3GPP specifications TS
24.229 [15], and are based on the 3GPP adopted version of IETF Session
Initiated Protocol (SIP).
The term codec is usually associated with a single media type. In case of
packet switched transport domain, which IM Subsystem will depend on, the
individual media types are independently encoded and packetised to appropriate
separate Real Time Protocol (RTP) packets. These packets are then transported
end-to-end inside UDP datagrams over real-time IP connections that have been
negotiated and opened between the terminals during the SIP call as specified
in 3GPP TS 24.229 [15].
From the codec definition viewpoint, the UEs operating within IM Subsystem
need to provide encoding/decoding of the derived codecs, and perform
corresponding packetisation/depacketisation functions. Logical bound between
the media streams is handled in the SIP session layer, and inter-media
synchronisation in the receiver is handled with the use of RTP time stamps.
Finally, since 3GPP networks are inherently error prone, error detection
and/or correction must also be provided by the individual codecs within IM
Subsystem, since they have a comprehensive view of the bit stream they produce
and therefore can apply the most efficient form of error detection and/or
correction.
# 1 Scope
The present document introduces the set of default codecs for packet switched
conversational multimedia applications within 3GPP IP Multimedia Subsystem.
Visual and sound communication are specifically addressed. The intended
applications are assumed to require low-delay, real-time functionality.
The present document is applicable, but not limited, to services such as PS
video telephony and Push to talk over Cellular (PoC) as well as Combined CS
and IMS services (CSI). For Multimedia Telepphony Service for IMS (MTSI), all
media handling, including codecs, is defined in TS 26.114 [50]. This
specification does not apply for MTSI.
The applicability of this specification to GERAN is FFS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[2] IETF RFC 4566: \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[3] IETF RFC 2429: \"RTP Payload Format for the 1998 Version of ITU-T Rec.
H.263 Video (H.263+)\".
[4] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications\",
Schulzrinne H. et al, July 2003.
[5] IETF RFC 3016: \"RTP Payload Format for MPEG-4 Audio/Visual Streams\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.263 (02/98): \"Video coding for low bit rate
communication\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.110: \"Codec for Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony Service;
General Description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.111: \"Codec for Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony Service;
Modifications to H.324\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech Codec; General description\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech Codec; Transcoding functions\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.073: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR); ANSI C source code\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.104: \"ANSI-C code for the floating-point AMR speech codec\".
[13] ISO/IEC 14496-2 (2004): \"Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects - Part 2: Visual\".
[14] (void)
[15] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP and
SDP\".
[16] 3GPP TS 26.171 (Release 5): \"AMR speech codec, wideband; General
description\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.190 (Release 5): \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing
functions AMR Wideband speech codec; Transcoding functions\".
[18] 3GPP TS 26.201 (Release 5): \"AMR speech codec, wideband; Frame
structure\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation H.263 -- Annex X (03/04): \"Annex X: Profiles and
levels definition\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP multimedia subsystem; stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.107: \"QoS Concept and Architecture\".
[22] 3GPP TS 23.207: \"End to end quality of service concept and
architecture\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[24] Void
[25] ITU-T Recommendation T.140 (1998): \"Protocol for multimedia application
text conversation\" (with amendment 2000).
[26] 3GPP TS 26.101: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech Codec; Frame Structure\".
[27] IETF RFC 2119: \"Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
Levels\".
[28] 3GPP TS 26.093: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate operation\".
[29] 3GPP TS 46.060: \"Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
[30] TIA/EIA -136-Rev.A, part 410 - \"TDMA Cellular/PCS -- Radio Interface,
Enhanced Full Rate Voice Codec (ACELP). Formerly IS-641. TIA published
standard, 1998\".
[31] ARIB, RCR STD-27H, \"Personal Digital Cellular Telecommunication System
RCR Standard\".
[32] IETF draft-westberg-realtime-cellular-01.txt, \"Realtime Traffic over
Cellular Access Networks\".
[33] IETF draft-larzon-udplite-03.txt, \"The UDP Lite Protocol\".
[34] 3GPP TS 26.092: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech Codec; Comfort noise aspects\".
[35] IETF RFC 4867: \"RTP payload format and file storage format for the
Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) audio
codecs\", April 2007.
[36] IETF RFC 2833: "RTP Payload for DTMF Digits, Telephony Tones and
Telephony Signals", May 2000.
[37] 3GPP TS 26.243: "ANSI C code for the Fixed-Point Distributed Speech
Recognition Extended Advanced Front-end".
[38] IETF RFC 4060 \"RTP Payload Formats for European Telecommunications
Standards Institute (ETSI) European Standard ES 202 050, ES 202 211, and ES
202 212 Distributed Speech Recognition Encoding\".
[39] 3GPP TS 26.173: \"ANCI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate - Wideband
(AMR-WB) speech codec\".
[40] 3GPP TS 26.204: \"ANSI-C code for the Floating-point Adaptive Multi-Rate
Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec\".
[41] ITU-T Recommendation H.264 (2003): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\" \| ISO/IEC 14496-10:2003: \"Information technology --
Coding of audio-visual objects -- Part 10: Advanced Video Coding\".
[42] ISO/IEC 14496-10/FDAM1: \"AVC Fidelity Range Extensions\".
[43] IETF RFC 3984 (2005): \"RTP Payload Format for H.264 Video\", S. Wenger,
M.M. Hannuksela, T. Stockhammer, M. Westerlund and D. Singer.
[44] 3GPP TS 23.221: "Architectural requirements".
[45] 3GPP TR 26.943: "Recognition performance evaluations of codecs for Speech
Enabled Services(SES); (Release 6)".
[46] 3GPP TS 22.279: "Combining CS and IMS services; Stage 1".
[47] 3GPP TS 23.279: "Combining CS and IMS services; Stage 2".
[48] 3GPP TS 26.141: "IP Multimedia System (IMS) Messaging and Presence; Media
formats and codecs".
[49] IETF RFC 4103 \"RTP payload for text conversation\".
[50] 3GPP TS 26.114, "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.:
**3G PS multimedia terminal:** terminal based on IETF SIP/SDP internet
standards modified by 3GPP for purposes of 3GPP packet switched network based
multimedia telephony
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AMR Adaptive MultiRate codec
AVC Advanced Video Codec
CSI Combination of CS and IMS services
DSR Distributed Speech Recognition
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IM Subsystem Internet protocol Multimedia Subsystem
ITU-T International Telecommunications Union-Telecommunications
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
PoC Push to talk over Cellular
RFC IETF Request For Comments
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
SDP Session Description Protocol
SES Speech Enabled Services
SIP Session Initiated Protocol
# 4 General
3G PS multimedia terminals provide real-time video, audio, or data, in any
combination, including none, over 3GPP IM Subsystem. Terminals are based on
IETF defined multimedia protocols SIP, SDP, RTP and RTCP. Communication may be
either 1-way or 2-way. Such terminals may be part of a portable device or
integrated into an automobile or other non-fixed location device. They may
also be fixed, stand-alone devices; for example, a video telephone or kiosk.
Multimedia terminals may also be integrated into PCs and workstations.
In addition, interoperation with other types of multimedia telephone
terminals, such as 3G-324M may be possible, however in such case a media
gateway functionality supporting 3G-324M - IM Subsystem interworking will be
required within or outside the IM subsystem.
For IMS terminals capable of Combined CS and IMS (CSI) operation [46][47],
Annex A of specification [48] provides information on how to combine IMS media
with CS calls.
# 5 System overview
The present document describes the required codec related elements for 3G PS
multimedia terminal:
  * codecs for 3G PS multimedia terminal;
  * media encapsulation and decapsulation rules for each codec.
# 6 Functional requirements
SIP protocol itself does not mandate any codecs. Standardisation of codecs
does not prevent the use of other codecs that can be signalled using the SDP
protocol. 3G PS multimedia terminals shall be able to use the same audio and
video codecs applied in 3G-324M [8]. This will ensure the interoperability
with 3G circuit switched multimedia telephony.
## 6.1 Audio
3G PS multimedia terminals offering audio communication (including PoC
services) shall support AMR narrowband speech codec [9], [10], [11] to [12].
The AMR wideband speech codec shall be supported when the 3G PS multimedia
terminal supports wideband speech working at 16 kHz sampling frequency [16],
[17], [39], [40].
The usage of telephone-event media format is recommended for DTMF.
Annex D provides guidelines for using audio in the context of PoC services.
## 6.2 Video
3G PS multimedia terminals offering video communication shall support ITU-T
recommendation H.263 [6] [19] baseline (Profile 0) Level 45.
H.263 [6] [19] version 2 Interactive and Streaming Wireless Profile (Profile
3) Level 45 should be supported.
ISO/IEC 14496-2 [13] (MPEG-4 Visual) Simple Profile at Level 3 should be
supported with the following constraints:
\- Number of Visual Objects supported shall be limited to 1.
\- The maximum frame rate shall be 30 frames per second.
\- The maximum f_code shall be 2.
\- The intra_dc_vlc_threshold shall be 0.
\- The maximum horizontal luminance pixel resolution shall be 352 pels/line.
\- The maximum vertical luminance pixel resolution shall be 288 pels/VOP.
\- If AC prediction is used, the following restriction applies: QP value shall
not be changed within a VOP (or within a video packet if video packets are
used in a VOP). If AC prediction is not used, there are no restrictions to
changing QP value.
H.264 (AVC) [41] Baseline Profile at Level 1.1 [42] should be supported with
constraint_set1_flag=1 and without requirements on output timing conformance
(Annex C of [41]). Each sequence parameter set of H.264 (AVC) shall contain
the vui_parameters syntax structure including the num_reorder_frames syntax
element set equal to 0.
The H.264 (AVC) decoder in a PSS client shall start decoding immediately when
it receives data (even if the stream does not start with an IDR access unit)
or alternatively no later than it receives the next IDR access unit or the
next recovery point SEI message, whichever is earlier in decoding order. The
decoding process for a stream not starting with an IDR access unit shall be
the same as for a valid H.264 (AVC) bitstream. However, the client shall be
aware that such a stream may contain references to pictures not available in
the decoded picture buffer. The display behaviour of the client is out of
scope of this specification.
NOTE 1: Terminals may use full-frame freeze and full-frame freeze release SEI
messages of H.264 (AVC) to control the display process.
NOTE 2: An H.264 (AVC) encoder should code redundant slices only if it knows
that the far-end decoder makes use of this feature (which is signaled with the
redundant-pic-cap MIME/SDP parameter as specified in [43]). H.264 (AVC)
encoders should also pay attention to the potential implications on end-to-end
delay.
NOTE 3: If a codec is supported at a certain level, then all (hierarchically)
lower levels shall be supported as well. Examples of lower levels include
Level 10 for H.263 Profile 0 and 3, Level 0 for MPEG-4 Visual Simple Profile
and Level 1 for H.264 (AVC) Baseline Profile. However, as for instance Level
20 is not hierarchically lower than Level 45 of H.263 Profile 0 and 3, support
for Level 45 does not imply support for Level 20.
NOTE 4: All levels are minimum requirements. Higher levels may be supported
and used for negotiation.
NOTE 5: If a codec is supported at a certain level, it implies that on the
receiving side, the decoder is required to support the decoding of bitstreams
up to the maximum capability of this level. On the sending side, the support
of a particular level does not imply that the encoder may produce a bitstream
up to the maximum capability of the level.
## 6.3 Real time text
3G PS multimedia terminals offering real time text conversation should support
ITU-T Recommendation T.140 [25] Text Conversation presentation coding.
## 6.4 Interactive and background data
SIP signalling offers initialisation of packet switched interactive or
background class reliable data services as well. However specification of such
data services are outside the scope of the present document.
## 6.5 Speech Enabled Service
3G PS multimedia terminals offering speech enabled services should support the
DSR Extended Advanced Front-end codec [37]
Speech enabled services may also be supported with AMR or AMR-WB audio codecs,
however it is noted that there is a substantial performance advantage from DSR
[45].
# 7 Call control
Functional requirements for call control are specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [20].
The required signalling functions and call control protocols are specified in
3GPP TS 24.229 [15].
# 8 Bearer control
The media control is based on declaration of terminal media capability sets in
SDP part of appropriate SIP messages.
Relation of application level SDP signalling and radio access bearer
assignment is defined outside the present document. The QoS architecture and
concept for WCDMA and GERAN is specified in 3GPP TS 23.107 [21]. The end-to-
end QoS framework involving GPRS and UMTS is specified in 3GPP TS 23.207 [22].
The applicable general QoS mechanism and service description for the GPRS in
GSM and UMTS is specified in 3GPP TS 23.060 [23].
# 9 Multimedia stream encapsulation
## 9.1 MIME media types
The terminal shall declare the mandatory and any optional media streams using
the codec specific MIME media types in the associated SDP syntax. The MIME
media types for the mandatory and optional codecs shall be according to the
corresponding types registered by IANA.
  * AMR narrowband speech codec MIME media type as specified in annex B.
  * AMR wideband speech codec MIME media type is specified in annex B.
  * H.263 [6] video codec MIME media type is specified in annex C.
  * MPEG-4 visual simple profile level 0 MIME media type as specified in > RFC 3016 [5].
  * H.264 (AVC) video codec MIME media type is specified in [43].
  * ITU-T Recommendation T.140 [25] Text Conversation MIME media type > as specified by RFC 4103 [49].
  * Telephone-event MIME media type as specified by RFC 2833 [36].
  * DSR MIME media type as specified in [38].
## 9.2 RTP payload
RTP payload formats specified by IETF shall be used for real time media
streams.
RTP payload format for the AMR narrowband speech codec is specified in annex
B.
RTP payload format for the AMR wideband speech codec is specified in annex B.
RTP payload format for the ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [6] video codec is
specified in IETF RFC 2429 [3].
RTP payload format for the MPEG-4 visual simple profile level 0 is specified
in IETF RFC 3016 [5].
RTP payload format for the ITU-T Recommendation H.264 (AVC) [41] video codec
is specified in [43], where the interleaved packetization mode shall not be
used. Receivers shall support both the single NAL unit packetization mode and
the non-interleaved packetization mode of [43], and transmitters may use
either one of these packetization modes.
RTP payload format for the ITU-T Recommendation T.140 [25] text conversation
coding is specified in IETF RFC 4103 [49].
RTP payload format for the telephone-event is specified in IETF RFC 2833 [36].
RTP payload format for the DSR Extended Advanced Front-end is specified in
[38].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Information on optional enhancements
This annex is intended for informational purposes only. This is not an
integral part of the present document.
# A.1 Video
This clause gives recommendations for the video codec implementations within
3G PS multimedia terminals.
Regardless of which specific video codec standard is used, all video decoder
implementations should include basic error concealment techniques. These
techniques may include replacing erroneous parts of the decoded video frame
with interpolated picture material from previous decoded frames or from
spatially different locations of the erroneous frame. The decoder should aim
to prevent the display of substantially corrupted parts of the picture. In any
case, it is recommended that the terminal should tolerate _every_ possible
bitstream without catastrophic behaviour (such as the need for a user-
initiated reset of the terminal).
3G PS terminal video encoders and decoders are recommended to support the 1:1
pixel format (square format).
## A.1.1 H.263 video codec
H.263 was approved as a standard in 1996. Since then, version 2 and version 3
enhancing version 1 have been approved in 1998 and 2000 respectively. As of
today, H.263 contains an extensive set of mandatory and optional coding tools.
H.263 [6] annex X [19] defines codec profiles for various target environments.
The Baseline Profile (Profile 0) stands for H.263 with no optional modes of
operation. It includes the basic coding tool set common in modern video coding
standards. It provides simple means to insert resynchronisation points within
the video bitstream, and, therefore, it enables recovery from erroneous or
lost data.
The Version 2 Interactive and Streaming Wireless Profile (Profile 3) provides
enhanced compression efficiency when compared to the Baseline Profile.
Moreover, it provides enhanced error resilience for delivery to wireless
devices. Specifically, Profile 3 includes the following optional coding modes:
1) Advanced INTRA Coding (annex I). Use of this mode improves the compression
efficiency for INTRA macroblocks (whether within INTRA pictures or
predictively-coded pictures);
2) Deblocking Filter (annex J). A deblocking filter improves image quality by
reducing blocking artifacts. When compared to deblocking filtering performed
as a postprocessing operation, the Deblocking Filter Mode reduces the amount
of required memory, as no additional picture memory is needed for the filtered
images. This mode also includes the four-motion-vector-per-macroblock feature
and picture boundary extrapolation for motion compensation, both of which can
further improve compression efficiency;
3) Slice Structured Mode (annex K). This mode provides a flexible mechanism to
insert resynchronisation points within the video bitstream for recovery from
erroneous or lost data.
4) Modified Quantisation (annex T). This mode enables flexible quantiser
control that can be used in sophisticated bit-rate control algorithms. In
addition, it improves chrominance fidelity.
[FFS]
# A.2 Audio
[FFS]
# A.3 Text
Use of the redundancy coding variant specified in RFC 4103 [49] is recommended
for error resilience.
###### ## Annex B (normative): AMR and AMR-WB RTP payload and MIME type
registration
The AMR and AMR-WB speech codec RTP payload, storage format and MIME type
registration are specified in [35].
###### ## Annex C (normative): ITU-T H.263 MIME media type registration
NOTE: The intention is to replace this normative annex with the IETF RFC
defining the H.263 [6] video codec MIME media type registration when the RFC
is available.
H.263 video codec MIME media type is specified as follows:
MIME media type name: video;
MIME subtype name: H263-2000;
Required parameters: None;
Optional parameters:
\- profile: H.263 profile number, in the range 0 through 8, specifying the
supported H.263 annexes/subparts;
\- level: Level of bitstream operation, in the range 0 through 99, specifying
the level of computational complexity of the decoding process. When profile
and level parameters are not specified, Baseline Profile (Profile 0) Level 10
are the default values.
The profile and level specifications can be found in [19]. Note that the RTP
payload format for H263-2000 is the same as for H263-1998 published in RFC
2429 [3], but additional annexes/subparts are specified along with the
profiles and levels.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Push-to-Talk over cellular (PoC)
For PoC the audio codecs specified in section 6.1, namely AMR or AMR-WB are
applicable. Speech codec bit rates and transport formats settings have to be
selected considering the available transmission bandwidth and the allowable
transport delay. In order not to introduce undue delay for RTP packetization,
it is recommended to limit the number of speech codec frames per packet to 20
and not to use interleaving.
Under the assumption of RTP packetization according to [35] using octet-
aligned mode, no interleaving and using 10 frames per RTP packet and depending
on the IP version in IMS, the following tables show the required bandwidth for
the available AMR and AMR-WB speech codec modes. Bandwidth restrictions may
imply that only the lowest AMR/AMR-WB modes can be used for PoC. In order to
maximize speech quality, it is recommended to use the respective highest
possible bit rate.
Table 1: Required bandwidth for PoC using AMR
* * *
AMR Mode Required bandwidth when IPv4 is used [bits/s] [Note] Required
bandwidth when IPv6 is used [bits/s] AMR 4.75 6840 7640 AMR 5.15 7240 8040 AMR
5.9 8040 8840 AMR 6.7 8840 9640 AMR 7.4 9640 10440 AMR 7.95 10040 10840 AMR
10.2 12440 13240 AMR 12.2 14440 15240 Note: For the usage of IP version in IMS
see TS 23.221 [44], subclause 5.1.
* * *
Table 2: Required bandwith for PoC using AMR-WB
* * *
AMR-WB Mode Required bandwidth when IPv4 is used [bits/s] [Note] Required
bandwidth when IPv6 is used [bits/s] AMR-WB 6.60 8840 9640 AMR-WB 8.85 11240
12040 AMR-WB 12.65 14840 15640 AMR-WB 14.25 16440 17240 AMR-WB 15.85 18040
18840 AMR-WB 18.25 20440 21240 AMR-WB 19.85 22040 22840 AMR-WB 23.05 25240
26040 AMR-WB 23.85 26040 26840 Note: For the usage of IP version in IMS see TS
23.221 [44], subclause 5.1.
* * *
#