# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# Introduction
The Quality of Experience (QoE), End-to-end Service Quality of Service (ESQoS)
and System Quality of Service (SQoS) are important factors when introducing
services to customers. When the next releases of 3G are launched to the mass
market, several new mobile telecommunication multimedia services will be
introduced to the general public. It is essential that a high quality if
service is experienced by the user of these new 3G services in order to
promote the idea of 3G as a global all-purpose communication tool for millions
of people with widespread availability of terminal equipment.
The possibility of using multimedia services via 3G in a practical and
reliable manner is extremely important in the near future. For these new
services, it is certain that a much larger amount of traffic is generated
between mobile terminals and services, i.e. traffic within 3G networks and
between 3G networks and other networks will be higher than has been the case
to date. This gives more importance to service quality requirements.
End-to-end multimedia service performance metrics are proposed to make it
possible for operators, device provider and service providers to more
conveniently evaluate their service quality as perceived by end-users. This
includes:
  * Definition of the performance characteristics that have most > relevance to end users (the \'Quality of Experience\' or QoE).
  * Definition of the mapping between QoE and end-to-end service > measured characteristics (the ESQoS), and mapping between ESQoS > and service specific characteristics (the SQoS).
In the present document a top-down approach is used to illustrate the
framework of all metrics.
The present document gives metrics of the end-to-end multimedia service
performance on 3G networks that support PSS, PSC, video telephony, MBMS and
IMS services, etc.
QoE parameters describe the end-to-end quality as experienced by the end
users. These are difficult to measure and quantify.
SQoS parameters are metrics that are close related to the network status, and
defined from the viewpoint of the service provider rather than the service
user. SQoS parameters can be viewed as the inherent attributes of the
networks, which are important in guaranteeing QoE requirements of the users.
ESQoS parameters describe the QoS of the end-to-end service. They are obtained
directly from the QoE parameters by mapping them into parameters more relevant
to operators, service providers and service providers.
In Annex A, PSS is taken as an example; several general models looking at
different part of network are given. A mapping between QoE, ESQoS and SQoS is
given using a mathematical approach, which defines a dimensioned relationship
between user experiences and lower tiers of network performance.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes and defines performance metrics for popular
multimedia services in 3G networks, including packed-switched streaming
service (PSS), multimedia broadcast multicast service (MBMS), video telephony
(VT), and IP multimedia subsystem service (IMS). The present document has a
top-down approach, which starts with the Quality of Experience (QoE)
parameters and metrics, and then provides End-to-end Service QoS (ESQoS) and
System Quality of Service (SQoS) parameters and metrics and mapping between
these different layers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.107:\"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Quality of Service (QoS) concept and architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.207:\"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; End-to-end Quality of Service (QoS) concept and architecture\".
[3] ETSI TS 102 250-2: \"Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality Aspects
(STQ);QoS aspects for popular services in GSM and 3G networks; Part 2:
Definition of Quality of Service parameters and their computation\".
[4] IETF RFC 2679: \"A One-way Delay Metric for IPPM\".
[5] IETF RFC 3133: \"Terminology for Frame Relay Benchmarking\".
[6] ITU-R Recommendation BS.1387-1: \"Method for objective measurements of
perceived audio quality\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Transparent end‑to‑end Packet-switched Streaming Service (PSS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols and
codecs\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation P.10/G.100: \"Vocabulary for performance and quality
of service\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AS Application Server
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
BM-SC Broadcast-Multicast - Service Centre
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
CSCF Call Session Control Function
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DNS Domain Name System
ESQoS End-to-end Service QoS
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
HSS Home Subscriber Server
I-CSCF Interrogating-CSCF
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP-CAN IP-Connectivity Access Network
LAV Least Acceptable Value
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MGW Media GateWay
P-CSCF Proxy-CSCF
PSC Packet-Switched Conversational service
PSS Packed-Switched Streaming service
QoE Quality of Experience
QoS Quality of Service
SQoS System Quality of Service
UE User Equipment
VLR Visitor Location Register
VT Video Telephony
# 4 General description and approach
## 4.1 Definitions
**Quality of Experience (QoE)**
The overall acceptability of an application or service, as perceived
subjectively by the end-user (see notes 1 and 2).
NOTE 1: Quality of Experience includes the complete end-to-end system effects
(client, terminal, network, services infrastructure, etc).
NOTE 2: Overall acceptability may be influenced by user expectations and
context.
For the purpose of the present document, QoE is limited to those parameters
that are reasonably expected to be under the control of the Service Provider,
i.e. it excludes aspects of specific terminal equipment implementation. In the
document, the exact E2E measurement point will be defined for each service.
QoE indicates performance metrics as expressed from the end service user\'s
point of view. They can be required or reported by the common users, and may
be stated irrespective of their measurability.
SA4 has defined Quality of Experience (QoE) metrics and their transport for
PSS and MBMS in [7] and [8], respectively. The PSS and MBMS QoE metrics
features are optional for both PSS and MBMS streaming server and clients, and
shall not disturb the PSS and MBMS service. A PSS or MBMS client supporting
the feature shall perform the quality measurements in accordance to the
measurement definitions, aggregate them into client QoE metrics and report the
metrics to the PSS or MBMS server using described procedures in [7] and [8]
for PSS and MBMS, respectively. The way the QoE metrics are processed and made
available is out of the scope of the present document.
In general, a Service Provider will set service requirements in line with the
end-user\'s expected QoE, which needs to be translated into parameters or
metrics that the service provider can control or measure. Thus, it is
necessary to map QoE metrics to measurable End-to-end Service QoS and System
QoS parameters, which provide the means for the service providers to guarantee
the service quality.
**End-to-end Service QoS (ESQoS)**
ESQoS is generally used to specify the performance of services from the
perspective of operators and service providers. As the number of new services
proliferates and becomes more complex, it is important for an operator to
measure a network\'s ESQoS accurately and continuously improve it to achieve
customer loyalty and maintain competitive edge.
ESQoS is measurable. It can be quantified exactly by several digital
parameters, unlike QoE.
**System Quality of Service (SQoS)**
The concept of SQoS is a subset of conventional QoS, which is defined in ITU-T
Recommendation E.800 as the collective effect of service performances which
together determines the satisfaction of a user of a service. It is
characterized by the combined aspects of performance factors applicable to all
services, such as:
\- service support performance;
\- service operability performance;
\- service accessibility performance;
\- service retainability performance;
\- service integrity performance;
\- service security performance;
Compared with ESQoS, SQoS denotes the point-to-point QoS, which is
specifically related to the units and links of network systems, rather than
the whole service or a network. SQoS can be viewed as the QoS consideration
from the viewpoint of network operators.
## 4.2 QoE parameters
From the user perspective, the QoE cannot be defined only from technical
measurements. It should be defined by user investigation using the following
methods:
1\. Users provide an opinion of QoE only with their feeling and experience.
The QoE metric is subjective.
2\. With some classic indicators of QoE, users can make a decision to choose
some of them as the necessary indicators of QoE.
Service performance is characterized by the following:
Because QoE parameters and metrics directly relate to the definition of the
service itself, it is possible to map the components of the service onto
measurable ESQoS and SQoS parameters or metrics, as these relate directly to
the performance of the components of the service.
This concept can be illustrated by considering the example of a video service,
where QoE includes items such as:
\- service setup delay;
\- re-buffering duration;
\- end to end delay;
\- corruption duration;
\- mean time between corruption;
\- content quality(e.g. digital TV-like quality, analog TV-like quality, DSL-
like video conference quality ISDN-like video conference quality, etc.);
\- audio/video synchronization (or \'lip sync\');
\- service availability.
Common user requirements for different services are therefore collected and
classified as our QoE, disregarding the measurability.
Users have different requirements for different services. So the QoE for
service analysis varies with the types of services, methods of delivery and
points of monitoring.
Figure 1 shows the model.
Figure 1: QoE
## 4.3 ESQoS parameters
As discussed, the user\'s definition of QoE does not consider measurability
and so ESQoS parameters need to be introduced. These express QoS from the
viewpoint of operators and service providers. ESQoS parameters are from end-
to-end perspective, i.e. across the full set of components which together
provide a service, and, most importantly can be measured and quantified.
ESQoS parameters depend on the type of service, and so there will be a set
corresponding to each service.
Figure 2 shows the model including both the QoE and ESQoS aspects.
Figure 2: QoE and ESQoS parameters
## 4.4 SQoS parameters
The quality of a service perceived by the user perceives is influenced by the
network as well as by the terminal equipment. As the intelligence and
complexity of an application used in 3G increases, application performance
becomes an important factor in determining the quality perceived by the user.
Within the present document, the influence of the terminal equipment and
application have not been included.
Services are applications running on the common network components. SQoS
parameters are specific metrics that provide measurements which reflect
network component status, and are defined from the viewpoint of the service
provider rather than the service user.
SQoS parameters can be classified to five classes as shown in figure 3.
NOTE: The network entities in the core network (CN) can be considered as
servers.
Figure 3: Five classes\' scopes
Each class also has three layers which reflect the protocol layers in the
network.
  * The first s the Application layer.
  * The second is the Transport layer.
  * The third consists of Network, Data link and Physical layers.
Figure 4 presents the overall model.
Figure 4: QoE, ESQoS and SQoS parameters
# 5 QoE parameters
## 5.1 General
The parameters and values in the following sections are necessary for the
support of 3G services.
Firstly, for mobile communication systems, service performance depends on
network availability factors expressed in terms of time availability (% of the
time) and radio coverage availability (% of the radio coverage).
Service-specific QoE parameters may include, for the telephony service as an
example, speech quality, level of background noise, level of echo, delay, etc.
This section provides a parameter list for a Audio/Video service, each
parameter would be calibrated on the following basis:
\- 95 % probability;
\- mean;
\- target value;
\- Least Acceptable Value (LAV).
This forms the basis of candidate material for standardization, and must be
aligned with the work of the ITU-T.
## 5.2 Service non**-** access
The service cannot be accessed by the UE when requested by the user. The
service non-access may be caused by the network unavailability or shutdown of
service server, etc.
## 5.3 Service failure
The service can be accessed, but something occurs once the service is in use
resulting in failure of service for the user. The service failure may be
caused by overload of server, handoff of user or network congestion, etc.
## 5.4 Service setting-up time
The service setting-up time is the period from the time of service request to
the time of service playing. The service setting-up time may vary from
microsecond to seconds, and depends on the service requested by the user.
## 5.5 Re**-** buffering
Re-buffering denotes the time and the frequency of re-buffering during the
usage of service. The main reason of re-buffering is the data network
transmission rate cannot keep up with the real-time play requirements of the
user\'s terminal.
## 5.6 Image corruption
Image corruption refers to the degree of corruption quality of a single image.
## 5.7 Edge noise
Edge Noise denotes the form of edge busyness that is characterized by
spatially varying distortion that occurs in close proximity to the edges of
objects in a video display.
## 5.8 Blurriness
Blurriness denotes the image/video quality as being indistinct.
## 5.9 Colour reproduction accuracy
Colour reproduction denotes the quality of accuracy in colour reproduction
procedure.
## 5.10 Blockiness
Blockiness refers to the degree of image distortions that occurs in DCT-block
edge compression due to compression error or packet loss.
## 5.11 Incontinuous image with block
Incontinuous image with block denotes the degree of data block consistency
among continuous frames.
## 5.12 Freeze image
Freeze image refers to the degree of frozen image when video is playing, which
is caused by inadequate received data or low frame transmission rate.
## 5.13 Audio quality
Audio quality describes the quality of audio as perceived by the user and
mainly is decided by the codec algorithm, network transmission delay and
capacity of terminal.
## 5.14 Audio/Video synchronization error
Audio/video synchronization error describes the time difference of the audio
and video signal at the user side. Audio/video synchronization error is mainly
caused by the network transmission delay and buffering delay.
# 6 ESQoS parameters
## 6.1 General
The ESQoS parameters can be obtained directly from the QoE. The process is
shown in figure 5.
Figure 5: The ESQoS parameters from QoE
There are perfect and reasonable definitions of service QoS parameters in the
TS 102 250-2 [3] of ETSI STQ Mobile. Parts of the outputs of TS 102 250-2 [3]
are introduced to E2EMSPM\'s End-to-End Service QoS area for reference.
## 6.2 Service non-availability
### 6.2.1 Abstract definition
The Service Non-Availability describes the probability that the first data
packet of the stream cannot be received by the UE when requested by the user.
The \"packet reception\" is completed by appearance of the \"buffering\"
message on the player at user side.
### 6.2.2 Equation
$\text{Streaming\ Service\ Non-Availability\ }\ \lbrack\text{\%}\rbrack\ =
\frac{\text{unsuccessful\ stream\ request\ attempts}\ }{\text{all\ stream\
request\ attempts}}\ \times \text{100}\ \text{\%}$
### 6.2.3 Trigger point
* * *
Event from abstract equation Trigger point from customer\'s point of view
Technical description / protocol part Service access attempt Start: Stream
request Start: RTSP: Setup Successful attempt Stop: \"Buffering\" message
Stop: Reception of first data packet Unsuccessful attempt Stop trigger point
not reached.
* * *
NOTE: The main causes of Service unavailable are:
1) Radio access is blocked or failed.
2) Transport network is busy or failed.
3) A server is busy or failed.
This parameter also depends on the connecting time limitation of the client.
## 6.3 Service failure ratio
### 6.3.1 Abstract definition
The Service Failure Ratio describes the probability that the service cannot be
available for the UE of the user once the service is running. The typical case
of \"service failure\" is by appearance of unexpected interruption of video
or/and audio.
### 6.3.2 Equation
$\text{Service\ Failure\ Ratio}\ = \frac{\text{times\ of\ incomplete\ service\
provision}\ }{\text{all\ successful\ service\ connections}}\ \times
\text{100}\ \text{\%}$
### 6.3.3 Trigger point
* * *
Event from abstract equation Trigger point from customer\'s point of view
Technical description / protocol part Service connection succeed Start:
\"Buffering\" message Start: Reception of the first data packet Complete
service provisioning Stop: service provisioning is over Stop: Reception of the
last data packet incomplete service provisioning Stop trigger point not
reached.
* * *
NOTE: The main causes of Service Failure are:
1) Network congestion.
2) Inadequate UE resources.
3) Some servers are failed.
## 6.4 Initial connection time
### 6.4.1 Abstract definition
The Initial Connection Time describes the time period needed to complete the
establishment of service session.
### 6.4.2 Equation
$\text{Initial\ Connection\ Time}\ = t_{\text{reception\ of\ first\ data\
packet}} - t_{\text{service\ request}}$
### 6.4.3 Trigger Point
* * *
Event from abstract equation Trigger point from customer\'s point of view
Technical description / protocol part Time when service is requested Start:
Service request Start: RTSP: Setup Time when first data packet is received
Stop: \"buffering\" message Stop: Reception of first data packet
* * *
## 6.5 Initial buffering time
### 6.5.1 Abstract definition
The Initial Buffering Time describes the interval from the time of reception
of first data packet to the time of service playing.
### 6.5.2 Equation
$\text{Initial\ Buffering\ Time}\ = t_{\text{service\ playing}} -
t_{\text{reception\ of\ first\ data\ packet}}$
### 6.5.3 Trigger Point
* * *
Event from abstract equation Trigger point from customer\'s point of view
Technical description / protocol part Time when first data packet is received
Start: \"buffering\" message Start: Reception of first data packet Time when
service is playing Stop: Video / Audio playing Stop: The number of received
packet reaches the threshold to play the service
* * *
## 6.6 Re-buffering frequency
### 6.6.1 Abstract definition
The Re-Buffering Frequency describes the times of occurrence of re-buffering
during the service is provisioning.
### 6.6.2 Equation
$\text{Re-Buffering\ Frequency}\ = \frac{\text{times\ of\ re-
buffering}}{\text{total\ time\ of\ service\ provision}}$
### 6.6.3 Trigger point
* * *
Event from abstract equation Trigger point from customer\'s point of view
Technical description / protocol part Times of occurrence of re‑buffering The
number of \"buffering\" messages The buffer for the service is empty Total
time of service provisioning The total time of playing The period of data
transmission for service
* * *
## 6.7 Re-buffering time
### 6.7.1 Abstract definition
The Re-Buffering Time describes the average time of an event of re-buffering
during the service is provisioning.
### 6.7.2 Equation
$\text{Re-Buffering\ Time}\ = \frac{\text{total\ time\ of\ re-
buffering}}{\text{total\ times\ of\ re-buffering}}$
### 6.7.3 Trigger point
* * *
Event from abstract equation Trigger point from customer\'s point of view
Technical description / protocol part Total time of re-buffering The total
show time of \"buffering\" message The time from buffer is empty to the packet
of the buffer reaches the threshold of service provisioning Times of
occurrence of re-buffering The number of \"buffering\" messages The buffer for
the service is empty
* * *
## 6.8 Audio quality
### 6.8.1 Abstract definition
The parameter Audio Quality describes the audio quality as perceived by the
end-user.
ITU-R has defined an algorithm defined for audio information. It can be found
in [6].
### 6.8.2 Equation
To be defined.
### 6.8.3 Trigger point
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Event from abstract | Trigger point from | Technical | | equation | customer\'s point of | description / | | | view | protocol part | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | to be determined | Start: Begin of | Start: Service | | | audio service | players signal when | | | | the | | | reproduction | | | | | reproduction of the | | | | service starts | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | to be determined | Stop: End of audio | Stop: RTSP: TEARDOWN | | | service | | | | | | | | reproduction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.9 Intra-frame video quality
### 6.9.1 Abstract definition
The parameter Inter-Frame Video Quality measures the quality within a single
video frame. It is noted that a standardized algorithm for the evaluation of
intra-frame video quality does not exist, and further study is needed. In this
document, PSNR is used to denote the intra-frame video quality.
### 6.9.2 Equation
$\begin{matrix} \text{Dist}_{n} =
\sum_{}^{}\sum_{}^{}{\text{MSE}(x_{i,k},y_{i,k})} \ \text{PSNR} =
\frac{(\sum_{}^{}{\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}(\frac{\text{255} \times
\text{255}}{\text{Dist}_{n}})})}{N} \ \end{matrix}$
where _x~j,k~_ and _y~j,k~_ are the pixel values of the n^th^ original and
reconstructed frames, respectively, _N_ is the total number of frames, and
MSE(_a_ ,_b_) is the mean square error between value _a_ and _b_ , i.e.,
MSE(_a_ ,_b_) = (a-b)^2^.
### 6.9.3 Trigger point
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Event from abstract | Trigger point from | Technical | | equation | customer\'s point of | description / | | | view | protocol part | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | to be determined | Start: Begin of | Start: Service | | | video service | players signal when | | | | the | | | reproduction | | | | | reproduction of the | | | | service starts | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | to be determined | Stop: End of video | Stop: RTSP: TEARDOWN | | | service | | | | | | | | reproduction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.10 Inter-frame video quality
### 6.10.1 Abstract definition
The parameter Inter-Frame Video Quality measures the quality of continuous
video frames. It is noted that a standardized algorithm for the evaluation of
inter-frame video quality does not exist, and further study is needed. In this
document, standard deviation of PSNR (STD_PSNR) is used to denote the inter-
frame video quality.
### 6.10.2 Equation
$\text{STD}_{\text{PSNR}} = \sqrt{\frac{\sum_{}^{}{(\text{PSNR}_{n} -
\text{PSNR})^{2}}}{N}}$
This metric captures the variability of PSNR over the entire video sequence.
### 6.10.3 Trigger point
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Event from abstract | Trigger point from | Technical | | equation | customer\'s point of | description / | | | view | protocol part | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | to be determined | Start: Begin of | Start: Service | | | video service | players signal when | | | | the | | | reproduction | | | | | reproduction of the | | | | service starts | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | to be determined | Stop: End of video | Stop: RTSP: TEARDOWN | | | service | | | | | | | | reproduction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.11 Audio/Video de-synchronization error
### 6.11.1 Abstract definition
The parameter Audio/Video De-Synchronization Error describes the percentage of
time difference of the audio and video signal at the user side exceeds a
predefined threshold.
### 6.11.2 Equation
$\text{Audio/Video\ De-Synchronizatin\ Error}\ = \frac{\text{total\ time\ of\
audio/video\ de-synchronization}}{\text{total\ time\ of\ service\ provision}}$
### 6.11.3 Trigger point
* * *
Event from abstract equation Trigger point from customer\'s point of view
Technical description / protocol part Total time of audio/video de-
synchronization Accumulative time that audio/video is de- synchronous
Difference of the audio and video signal exceeds a predefined threshold Total
time of service provisioning The total time of playing The period of data
transmission for service
* * *
# 7 SQoS parameters
## 7.1 SQoS parameters of each layer
SQoS parameters are defined according to one of three layers (Application,
Transport and sub-Transport) as well as the network structure, SQoS parameters
are first classified according to the layers.
Some parameters are selected according to protocol layers and give the
definitions of each parameter. Most of the definitions are cited from
documents of standards.
### 7.1.1 Application
#### 7.1.1.1 Frame rate
Definition: The playing rate of frames, i.e. 30 frame/sec denotes a playing of
30 frames in one second.
#### 7.1.1.2 Frame loss ratio
Definition: Frame loss ratio indicates the extent of frame loss between the
sender and receiver. Frame loss ratio=number of the unreceived frames / number
of all sending frames.
#### 7.1.1.3 Frame error ratio
Definition: Frame error ratio=number of all error frame received/ number of
all frames sent.
#### 7.1.1.4 Transaction rate
Definition: The average rate for servers to transact the data packet. Those
servers may include: SGSN, GGSN, VLR, HLR, AuC, web server, media server, etc.
#### 7.1.1.5 Transaction delay
Definition: The sum of the time for a data packet to wait in queue and receive
the service during the server transaction.
### 7.1.2 Transport
#### 7.1.2.1 Bandwidth
Definition: The quantity of data transmitted per unit time in the network,
usually expressed as bps.
#### 7.1.2.2 Transfer delay
Definition: dT, the transfer delay from Src to Dst at time T is defined by the
statement: Src sent the first bit of a unit data to Dst at wire-time T and
that Dst received the last bit of that packet at wire-time T+dT.
NOTE: If the transfer delay from Src to Dst at T is undefined (informally,
infinite), this means that Src sent the first bit of a unit data to Dst at
wire-time T and that Dst did not receive that unit data [4].
#### 7.1.2.3 Jitter
Definition: The differential time between the packet actual arrival time and
its expected arrival time according to a standard clock.
#### 7.1.2.4 Packet loss ratio
Definition: Packet loss ratio=the number of unreceived packets/the number of
packets sent.
#### 7.1.2.5 Packet error ratio
Definition: Packet error ratio the number of received frames that contain an
error in the frame payload divided by the total number of transmitted frames.
### 7.1.3 Sub-transport
#### 7.1.3.1 Frame loss ratio
Definition: Frame loss ratio= the number of unreceived frames/the number of
all sending frames.
#### 7.1.3.2 Residual frame error ratio
Definition: The residual frame error ratio is the number of undetected error
frames divided by the total number of transmitted frames in one direction of a
single virtual connection.
#### 7.1.3.3 Frame discard ratio
Definition: The number of received frames that are discarded because of a
frame error divided by the total number of transmitted frames in one direction
of a single virtual connection. Frame errors are defined as follows:
1) Frames those are too long or too short;
2) Frames that are not a multiple of 8 bits in length;
3) Frames with an invalid or unrecognized DLCI;
4) Frames with an abort sequence;
5) Frames with improper flag delimitation;
6) Frames that fail FCS [5].
#### 7.1.3.4 Residual bit ratio
Definition: Indicates the undetected bit error ratio in the delivered SDUs. If
no error detection is requested, Residual bit error ratio indicates the bit
error ratio in the delivered SDUs [1].
#### 7.1.3.5 Access delay
Definition: The delay time in queue of the station waiting for base station to
assign a channel.
#### 7.1.3.6 Block ratio
Definition: The frequency of channel arrangement request failure.
#### 7.1.3.7 Soft handoff rate
Definition: The average rate for clients to handoff from one district to
another.
## 7.2 SQoS parameters of each class
Some SQoS parameters are selected that is important enough for the five
classes as table 1.
Table 1: SQoS parameters of each class
+----------------------------+------------------------------+ | Class | SQoS parameters | +----------------------------+------------------------------+ | Client | 1) Frame rate | | | | | | 2) Frame loss ratio | | | | | | 3) Frame error ratio | +----------------------------+------------------------------+ | Radio access network | 1) Access delay | | | | | | 2) Soft handoff rate | | | | | | 3) Block ratio | +----------------------------+------------------------------+ | Wireless transport network | 1) Bandwidth | | | | | | 2) Transfer delay | | | | | | 3) Jitter | | | | | | 4) Packet loss ratio | | | | | | 5) Frame loss ratio | | | | | | 6) Frame error ratio | | | | | | 7) Frame discard ratio | | | | | | 8) Residual bit error ratio | +----------------------------+------------------------------+ | Wired transport network | 1) Bandwidth | | | | | | 2) Transfer delay | | | | | | 3) Jitter | | | | | | 4) Packet loss ratio | | | | | | 5) Frame loss ratio | | | | | | 6) Frame error ratio | | | | | | 7) Frame discard ratio | | | | | | 8) Residual bit error ratio | +----------------------------+------------------------------+ | Transaction Node | 1) Transaction rate | | | | | | 2) Transaction delay | | | | | | 3) Transaction capacity | +----------------------------+------------------------------+
## 7.3 SQoS parameters of each service
The general applicable SQoS parameters for each service (IMS, MBMS, PSS, and
Video Telephone) are listed in table 2 according to both class and layers. A
specific list of transaction node SQoS of each service is listed in table 3.
Table 2: General applicable SQoS parameters for service
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Applicable SQoS | | | | parameters | | | | | | | | of IMS, MBMS,PSS, VT | | | | class | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Client | **Application |** Frame rate**| | | Layer** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Frame loss | | | | ratio,** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Frame error | | | | ratio** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Transport Layer** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Under transports** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radio access network | **Application | | | | Layer** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Transport Layer** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Under transports** | **Block ratio** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Access delay** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Soft handoff | | | | rate** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wireless transport | **Application | | | | Layer** | | | Network | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Transport Layer** | **Bandwidth** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Transfer Delay** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Jitter** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Packet loss | | | | ratio** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Under transports** | **Frame loss ratio, | | | | Frame error ratio, | | | | Frame discard ratio, | | | | Residual bit error | | | | ratio** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wired transport | **Application |** Bandwidth**| | | Layer** | | | Network | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Transport Layer** | **Transfer Delay** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Jitter** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | **Packet loss | | | | ratio** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Under transports** | **Frame loss ratio, | | | | Frame error ratio, | | | | Frame discard ratio, | | | | Residual bit error | | | | ratio** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transaction Node | **Application |** Transaction rate**| | | Layer** | | | | | Transaction delay | | | | | | | | Transaction capacity | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Transport Layer** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Under transports** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The SQoS metrics of each service are different in the transaction node class.
Table 3: Specific SQoS parameters for transaction node of each service
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service and | PSS | IMS | MBMS | Video | | SQoS | | | | Telephony | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Applicable | Base | Base | Base | Base | | Functional | Station, | Station, | Station, | Station, | | Entity | SGSN, GGSN, | **S | SGSN, GGSN, |** S | | | VLR, HLR, | GSN,GGSN,**| VLR, HLR, | GSN,GGSN,** | | | AuC, web | VLR, HLR, | AuC, BM-SC, | VLR, HLR, | | | server, | AuC,**,IP- | CBC, Data | AuC, MGW | | | media | CAN,P-CSCF, | Sources and | | | | server | I-CSCF,S-CS | Content | | | | | CF,HSS,DHCP | Provider | | | | | ,DNS,MGW,MG | | | | | | CF,BGCF,AS, | | | | | | MRFC,MRFP** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SQoS | 1) | | | | | Parameter | Transaction | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | Transaction | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | | Transaction | | | | | | capacity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 8 Mapping between ESQoS and SQoS
## 8.1 General
Firstly, a general mapping between ESQoS and SQoS parameters for all the new
services is presented, and then the specific characters of them are given.
Table 4: the ESQoS and SQoS parameters mapping
ESQoS SQoS | **Service Non-Availability** | **Service failure ratio** | **Initial connection time** | **Initial buffering time** | **Rebuffering frequency** | **Rebuffering time** | **Audio quality** | **Intra-frame/inter-frame Video quality** | **Audio/video de-synchronization error** |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Client** | **Application** | **Frame rate** |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Frame loss ratio,** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Frame error ratio** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
| **Transports** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| **Under transports** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Radio access network** | **Application** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| **Transports** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| **Under transports** | **Block ratio** | √ | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **Access delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Soft handoff rate** | √ | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Wireless transport** **Network** | **Application** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| **Transports** | **Bandwidth** | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Transfer Delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Jitter** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Packet loss ratio** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
| **Under transports** | **Frame loss ratio, Frame error ratio, Frame discard ratio, Residual bit error ratio** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
**Wired transport** **Network** | **Application** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| **Transports** | **Bandwidth** | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Transfer Delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Jitter** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
|  | **Packet loss ratio** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
| **Under transports** | **Frame loss ratio, Frame error ratio, Frame discard ratio, Residual bit error ratio** |  |  |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ |   
**Transaction** **Node** | **Application** | **Base Station** | **Transaction rate** | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **SGSN** | **Transaction rate** | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **GGSN** | **Transaction rate** | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **HLR** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **VLR** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **AuC** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 8.2 PSS
The specific transaction nodes that PSS involves are HLR, VLR, AuC, web
servers and media servers, so these nodes are listed in table 5.
Table 5: the ESQoS and SQoS parameters mapping of PSS
ESQoS SQoS | **Service Non-Availability** | **Service failure ratio** | **Initial connection time** | **Initial buffering time** | **Rebuffering frequency** | **Rebuffering time** | **Audio quality** | **Intra-frame/inter-frame Video quality** | **Audio/video de-synchronization error** |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Transaction Node | **Application** | **Web server** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **Media server** | **Transaction rate** |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 8.3 MBMS
The specific transaction nodes that MBMS involves are BM-SC, CBC, Data Sources
and Content Provider, so these nodes are listed in table 6.
Table 6: the ESQoS and SQoS parameters mapping of MBMS
ESQoS SQoS | **Service Non-Availability** | **Service failure ratio** | **Initial connection time** | **Initial buffering time** | **Rebuffering frequency** | **Rebuffering time** | **Audio quality** | **Intra-frame/inter-frame Video quality** | **Audio/video de-synchronization error** |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Transaction Node | **Application** | **BM-SC** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **CBC** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **Data Sources** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **Content Provider** | **Transaction rate** |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √ | √  
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 8.4 Video telephony
The specific transaction nodes that Video Telephony involves are VLR and MGW,
so these nodes are listed in table 7.
Table 7: the ESQoS and SQoS parameters mapping of VT
ESQoS SQoS | **Service Non-Availability** | **Service failure ratio** | **Initial connection time** | **Initial buffering time** | **Rebuffering frequency** | **Rebuffering time** | **Audio quality** | **Intra-frame/inter-frame Video quality** | **Audio/video de-synchronization error** |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Transaction Node | **Application** | **MGW** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 8.5 IMS
The specific transaction nodes that IMS involves are **HLR, VLR, AuC, IP-CAN,
P-CSCF, I-CSCF, S-CSCF, HSS, DHCP, DNS, MGW, MGCF, BGCF, AS, MRFC and MRFP** ,
so these nodes are listed in table 8.
Table 8: the ESQoS and SQoS parameters mapping of IMS
ESQoS SQoS | **Service Non-Availability** | **Service failure ratio** | **Initial connection time** | **Initial buffering time** | **Rebuffering frequency** | **Rebuffering time** | **Audio quality** | **Intra-frame/inter-frame Video quality** | **Audio/video de-synchronization error** |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Transaction Node | **Application** | **IP-CAN** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **P-CSCF** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **I-CSCF** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **S-CSCF** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **HSS** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **DHCP** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **DNS** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **MGW** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **MGCF** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **BGCF** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **AS** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **MRFC** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | **MRFP** | **Transaction rate** | √ |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction delay** |  |  | √ |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | **Transaction capacity** | √ |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
###### ### Annex A: PSS Performance Analysis with Theoretical Models
# A.1 Introduction
The \"End-to-end Multimedia Services Performance Metrics\" work item is
conducting a research on the performance metrics for popular multimedia
services, including streaming, multimedia broadcast multicast service (MBMS),
video telephony and IP Multimedia subsystem Service (IMS), etc. This annex
will support and justify the results in the present document.
In this annex, the performance evaluation for end-to-end multimedia services
based on System QoS (SQoS) and end‑to‑End Service QoS (ESQoS) parameters is
conducted, to provide the possible operational methods for operators/service
providers to guarantee the quality of the provided services. The quantitative
study of ESQoS and SQoS parameters would benefit both operators/service
providers and end users as well. It would offer models and metrics for
operators/service providers to better manage network capacity and deploy
services. It would also guide operators/service providers to provide the best
service in limited bandwidth with little latency and packet loss.
In this annex, packet-switched streaming service is taken as an example.
# A.2 Scope
Theoretical models are introduced to study the ESQoS and SQoS parameters. The
inherent relationship between the ESQoS and SQoS parameters of PSS is
described, which provide the possible operational methods for the
operators/service providers to guarantee of the service performance.
First, some general models are proposed to study the performance parameters of
the multimedia services. Then, the accurate and concrete models are created to
figure out the relationships of the ESQoS and SQoS parameters.
Further, these methods and models can be extended to other multimedia
services.
# A.3 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] CACC, Department of ECE, Duke University, Kishor S. Trivedi, Dharmaraja
Selvamuthu, Xiaomin Ma: \"Analytic Modeling of Handoffs in Wireless Cellular
Networks\", 2002.
[2] MISCHA SCHWARTZ, broadband integrated networks, Prentice Hall, 1996.
[3] Lin C. Performance evaluation of computer networks and computer systems,
Tsinghua University Press, 2001.
# A.4 General models
Three classes of general models are presented including radio access network
modelling, transport network modelling, node modelling. And there are two
types of node models: simple node model and complex node model. These models
can be used to study the performance metrics of various multimedia services
and the network conditions. In this annex, queuing models are introduced to
get the metrics, including the delay, failure ratio and loss ratio.
## A.4.1 Radio access network model
Some analytical models are introduced for the radio access network to evaluate
some important parameters, such as the block ratio of new calls, the failure
ratio of handoff calls.
### A.4.1.1 Model description
As an example, a queuing model can be used for Streaming Service in the access
cell [1].
The new calls and handoff calls share a fixed numbers of channels in the cell,
and the left channels are reserved. A new call will be connected if an idle
channel is available among the sharing channels, otherwise the call is
blocked. A handoff call will be connected if an idle channel is available in
the cell, otherwise the call is failed.
For simplicity, assume that the arrival stream of new calls, the stream of
handoff arrivals, the channel holding time for new calls and handoff calls are
all of exponential distributions. Besides, the model also considers the
platform failure and the base repeater failure. All failures are assumed to be
mutually independent. Times to platform and base repeater failures and repair
are assumed to be exponentially distributed.
The parameters\' definitions are as follows:
$\lambda_{n}$: the rate of arrival stream of new calls.
$\lambda_{h}$: the rate of stream of handoff arrivals.
$\mu_{c}$: the channel holding time for new calls.
$\mu_{n}$: the channel holding time for handoff calls.
$N_{b}$: the number of the base repeaters in the cell.
$M$: the channel number of each base repeater.
$g$: the reserved resources.
$\frac{1}{\lambda_{s}}$: mean time of platform failure.
$\frac{1}{\mu_{s}}$: mean time of platform repair.
$\frac{1}{\lambda_{b}}$: mean time of base repeater failure.
$\frac{1}{\mu_{b}}$: mean time of base repeater repair.
Now the system can be basically modelled as a queue, which can be presented by
a Markov chain.
Solving the model, the block ratio of new calls and the failure ratio of
handoff calls can be easily obtained.
### A.4.1.2 The block ratio of new calls and the failure ratio of handoff
calls
Let:
$\lambda = \lambda_{n} + \lambda_{h}$
$\mu = \mu_{c} + \mu_{h}$
$A = \frac{\lambda}{\mu}$
$A_{1} = \frac{\lambda_{h}}{\mu_{c} + \mu_{h}}$
Solving the Markov chain, it can be obtained:
$P_{d}\left( N,g \right) = \frac{\frac{A^{N - g}}{N!}A_{1}^{g}}{\sum_{n =
0}^{N - g - 1}{\frac{A^{n}}{n!} + \sum_{n = N - g}^{N}{\frac{A^{N -
g}}{n!}A_{1}^{n - \left( N - g \right)}}}}$
$P_{b}\left( N,g \right) = \frac{\sum_{n = N - g}^{N}{\frac{A^{N -
g}}{n!}A_{1}^{n - \left( \text{N-}g \right)}}}{\sum_{n = 0}^{N - g -
1}{\frac{A^{n}}{n!} + \sum_{n = N - g}^{N}{\frac{A^{N - g}}{n!}A_{1}^{n -
\left( N - g \right)}}}}$
$= A^{N - g}\frac{\sum_{k = 0}^{g}\frac{A_{1}^{k}}{\left( k + N - g
\right)!}}{\sum_{n = 0}^{N - g - 1}{\frac{A^{n}}{n!} + \sum_{n = N -
g}^{N}{\frac{A^{N - g}}{n!}A_{1}^{n - \left( N - g \right)}}}}$
$\left{ {\frac{\mu_{s}}{\lambda_{s} + \mu_{s}}\frac{1}{k!}\left(
\frac{\mu_{b}}{\lambda_{b}} \right)^{k}\left\lbrack 1\ + \sum_{j =
1}^{N_{b}}{\frac{1}{j!}\left( \frac{\mu_{b}}{\lambda_{b}} \right)^{j}}
\right\rbrack^{- 1},\ \text{if}\ s\ = \
1\text{.}}^{\frac{\lambda_{s}}{\lambda_{s} + \mu_{s}}\frac{1}{k!}\left(
\frac{\mu_{b}}{\lambda_{b}} \right)^{k}\left\lbrack 1\ + \sum_{j =
1}^{N_{b}}{\frac{1}{j!}\left( \frac{\mu_{b}}{\lambda_{b}} \right)}^{j}
\right\rbrack^{- 1},\ \text{if}\ s\ = \ 0,} \right.\ $
{width="3.557638888888889in" height="1.2638888888888888in"}
{width="3.63125in" height="1.9465277777777779in"}
{width="3.527083333333333in" height="1.2395833333333333in"}
Where $I(e)$ is the indicator function: $I(e) = 1$ if expression e is true;
otherwise $I(e) = 0$;
;
is the block ratio of new calls and is the failure ratio of handoff calls.
## A.4.2 Transport network model
There are two types of network: wireless network and wired network. First the
average transfer delay of a packet in the wired network is analyzed. In the
transfer delay model, the transfer time is ignored. Then consider the transfer
time of a mount of data in the whole transport network.
The transport network is very complex and to get the transfer delay of a
packet is not so easy. For simplicity, the transport network with a Jackson
network is modeled and the average transfer delay of a packet is analyzed [2].
### A.4.2.1 Model description
It is assumed that the packet switching network as a Jackson network to
analysis the average transfer delay of a packet in the network.
$\gamma$: The total load of the network from outside.
$\lambda_{i}$: The load on link i.
$L$: The number of links in the network.
{width="0.22916666666666666in" height="0.1763888888888889in"}: The average
length of a packet.
$R_{i}$: The data transport rate of link i.
The analysis to the transfer time is very simple. The parameters used are as
follows.
{width="0.19583333333333333in" height="0.1763888888888889in"}: The size of the
data to be transported.
$d_{\text{wireless}}$ The mean bandwidth in wireless network.
$d_{\text{wired}}$ The mean bandwidth in wired network.
### A.4.2.2 The mean transfer delay and the transfer time
Solving the transfer delay model, it can be obtained:
is the mean transfer delay of a packet over the network.
It can be easily to get the transfer time:
is the transfer time of data D over the wireless and wired transport network.
## A.4.3 Node model
The work \"node\" there means all the entities handling data in the network
including the gateway, router, and server. There are four class of traffic in
the network according to 3GPP. Among all the nodes, some just handle one class
of traffic or some information requests and some need to handle all the four
class of traffic. According to the class of data flow handled by each node,
the nodes are classified into two kinds: simple nodes and complex nodes. A
simple node only handles one class of traffic or some information requests and
a complex node handles all the four class of traffic.
### A.4.3.1 Simple node model
In all the nodes related to the streaming service, the web server, media
server, HLR, VLR and AuC are considered as the simple node.
Because these nodes just handle one class of traffic or some information
requests, so a simple node is modelled as a queuing system. Solving the mode
the transaction delay and the data loss ratio in the node can be get.
#### A.4.3.1.1 Model description
Assume that the data unit arrival into the node is Poisson distributed, and
the transaction time of a data unit is exponentially distributed. These data
units are scheduled using FIFO algorithm. And the buffer size is B (data
unit). The parameters are defined as follows:
$\lambda$: The arrival rate of data units.
$\frac{1}{\mu}$: The mean transaction time to a data unit of the node.
$B$: The buffer size in the node.
The model is as figure A.1.
{width="2.9583333333333335in" height="0.9270833333333334in"}
Figure A.1: A queuing model of a simple node
#### A.4.3.1.2 The transaction delay and the data loss ratio
Solving the model, it can be obtained.
$T_{w}$ is the transaction delay and $P_{B}$ is the data loss ratio.
### A.4.3.2 Complex node model
In all the nodes related to the streaming service, the BS, SGSN and GGSN are
considered as the complex node.
These nodes need to handle four class of data flow: conversational class,
streaming class, interactive class and background class. Their delay
requirements are getting stricter, and the transfer priority in a node is
according to the delay requirements. So the complex node is modeled as a
queuing system with four queues and a single server. Solving the mode, the
transaction delay and the data loss ratio in the node can be get.
#### A.4.3.2.1 Model description
In the conversational class the voice traffic is analyzed and in the streaming
class the video traffic is analyzed.
**The voice traffic model**
In the book Broadband Integrated Networks, Mischa Schwartz points out two
models: fluid flow model and MMPP (Markov-modulated Poisson Process) model.
Here the MMPP model is adopted. The MMPP model is as follows [3].
The model is a queuing system and the data source is combined by several voice
sources as figure A.2. Each voice source has two states: on and off. When the
source is in the state on, it generates voice data with Poisson arrival or
rather it is silent. The model is as figure A.3.
{width="2.4791666666666665in" height="0.9583333333333334in"}
Figure A.2: A queuing model for voice traffic
{width="1.3125in" height="0.875in"}
Figure A.3: Two-state model
The parameters are defined as follows:
{width="0.19375in" height="0.19375in"}: The number of voice source in the
voice model.
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.1527777777777778in"}: The transfer
rate from the off state to on state.
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}: The transfer
rate from the on state to off state.
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.19375in"}: The mean output data rate
when the voice source is in the on state.
**The video traffic model**
Also adopting the way in the book \"Broadband Integrated Networks\", an
equivalent process of the sum of M identical two state \"minisources\" for the
video traffic of N video source is defined. The model is as figure A.4.
Figure A.4: The model of video traffic
The traffics of interactive class and background class are both assumed to be
Poisson arrival.
And because the protocol of the data link layer is ATM, so it is assumed that
the transaction time to each class data of the node is a constant.
All the buffers are infinite.
So the model of a complex node is as figure A.5.
Figure A.5: The model of a complex node
: The transfer rate of the conversational traffic from the off state the on
state.
: The transfer rate of the streaming traffic from the off state the on state.
: The transfer rate of the conversational traffic from the on state to the off
state.
: The transfer rate of the streaming traffic from the on state to the off
state.
: The output data rate when the voice source is in the on state
: The output data rate when the video source is in the on state
: The arrival rate of interactive traffic data units.
: The arrival rate of background traffic data units.
: The transaction time of the node to the conversational traffic.
: The transaction time of the node to the streaming traffic.
: The transaction time of the node to the interactive traffic.
: The transaction time of the node to the background traffic.
#### A.4.3.2.2 The transaction delay
is the transaction delay of the conversational traffic in the node.
is the transaction delay of the streaming traffic in the node.
is the transaction delay of the interactive traffic in the node.
is the transaction delay of the background traffic in the node.
# A.5 Modelling the relationship between ESQoS and SQoS
The models of this section aim to describe the relationship of each ESQoS
parameter and their relative SQoS parameters pointed out in the present
document. Not all the SQoS parameters are analyzed with these models. It only
gives some example to justify how to get the mapping between the ESQoS and
SQoS in the present document.
## A.5.1 Service Non-Availability
### A.5.1.1 Relative SQoS and other parameters
The parameters used for the service non-availability model are list in table
A.1.
Table A.1: the SQoS and other parameters in our model of service non-
availability
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | class | layer | SQoS | Other | Model | Pa | | | | | pa | | rameters | | | | | rameters | | to | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | alculate | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Radio | Under | Block | The | Radio | the | | access | tr | ratio | channel | access | block | | network | ansports | | number | network | ratio of | | | | | | model | new | | | | | The | | calls | | | | | reserved | | | | | | | channel | | ![] | | | | | number | | (media/i | | | | | | | mage53.w | | | | | The rate | | mf){widt | | | | | of | | h="0.902 | | | | | arrival | | 77777777 | | | | | stream | | 77778in" | | | | | of new | | height | | | | | calls | | ="0.2777 | | | | | | | 77777777 | | | | | The | | 7778in"} | | | | | channel | | | | | | | holding | | | | | | | time for | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | calls | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | holding | | | | | | | time for | | | | | | | handoff | | | | | | | calls | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epeaters | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of each | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | reserved | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | esources | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | platform | | | | | | | failure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | platform | | | | | | | repair | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | failure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | repair | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Soft | | | | | | | handoff | | | | | | | rate | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | Base | Tra | Buffer | Node | Tra | | nsaction | station, | nsaction | size | model | nsaction | | node | | rate | | | failure | | | SGSN, | | | | ratio | | | GGSN, | | | | | | | HLR, | | | | ![] | | | VLR, | | | | (media/i | | | AuC, Web | | | | mage54.w | | | server | | | | mf){widt | | | | | | | h="0.763 | | | | | | | 88888888 | | | | | | | 88888in" | | | | | | | height | | | | | | | ="0.2777 | | | | | | | 77777777 | | | | | | | 7778in"} | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Tra | | | | | | | nsaction | | | | | | | capacity | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The first three columns are from the present document.
Other columns means the parameters affected the ESQoS also, but they are not
SQoS parameters.
The general models used in our model are list in the column model. And the
parameter to be analyzed are list behind the model column.
The radio access network and the web server for service non-availability
without the wireless and wired network failure and the transaction nodes in
the network are analyzed.
The parameters\' locations used in our model are as figure A.6.
Figure A.6: The locations of parameters used in service non-availability model
NOTE: The parameter transaction rate and transaction capacity can be got by
testing the transaction node. And the buffer size can also be easily got from
the node.
The soft handoff rate, the new call arrival rate, new call holding time and
handoff call holding time are statistical parameters. They can be got from the
cell\'s statistical data of the cell.
The mean time of platform failure, mean time of platform repair, mean time of
base repeater failure and the mean time of base repeater repair can be got by
analysing the base station\'s performance. It is not included in our work. The
base repeater\'s number and the channel number of base repeaters are the
cell\'s setting parameters.
### A.5.1.2 Model description
Ignoring the wireless and wired network failure, the failure ratio of a data
unit transferred in the network can be expressed as follows:
{width="3.6194444444444445in" height="1.7243055555555555in"}
All the parameters\' definitions are from clause 4.
In the base station, the service non-availability can be changed by adjusting
some parameters as table A.2.
Table A.2: The simple relation between service non-availability and\ other
parameters in the base station
+----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Parameters | Service non-availability | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Transaction rate$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Transaction capacity$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Reserved channel number$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Soft handoff rate$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | New call arrival rate$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Handoff call holding time$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | New call holding time$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Base repeater number$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Channels number of a base repeater$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of platform failure$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of platform repair$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of base repeater failure$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of base repeater repair$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
In the transaction node (SGSN, GGSN, VLR, HLR, AuC, web server), the service
non-availability can be changed by adjusting some parameters as table A.3.
Table A.3: The simple relation between service non-availability and\ other
parameters in the transaction nodes
+-------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Parameters | Service non-availability | +-------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Transaction rate$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Transaction capacity$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+--------------------------+
## A.5.2 Service Failure Ratio
### A.5.2.1 Relative SQoS and other parameters
The parameters affect the service failure ratio are list in table A.4.
Table A.4: the SQoS and other parameters in the model of service failure ratio
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | class | * | **SQoS** | **Other | * |** Pa | | | _layer_ _| | para |_ Model**| rameters | | | | | meters** | | to | | | | | | | cal | | | | | | | culate** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Radio | Under | Block | The rate | Radio | the | | access | tr | ratio | of | access | failure | | network | ansports | | arrival | network | ratio of | | | | | stream | model | handoff | | | | | of new | | calls | | | | | calls | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | holding | | | | | | | time for | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | calls | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | holding | | | | | | | time for | | | | | | | handoff | | | | | | | calls | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epeaters | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of each | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | reserved | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | esources | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | platform | | | | | | | failure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | platform | | | | | | | repair | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | failure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mean | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | repair | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Soft | | | | | | | handoff | | | | | | | rate | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | Base | Tra | Buffer | Node | Tra | | nsaction | station, | nsaction | size | model | nsaction | | node | SGSN, | rate | | | failure | | | GGSN, | | | | | | | HLR, | | | | | | | VLR, | | | | | | | AuC, | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | server | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | Tra | | | | | | | nsaction | | | | | | | capacity | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The radio access network and the media server for service failure ratio are
analyzed, ignoring the wireless and wired network failure and the transaction
nodes in the network.
The first three columns are from the present document.
Other columns means the parameters affected the QoE ESQoS also, but they are
not SQoS parameters.
The general models used in our model are list in the column model. And the
parameter to be analyzed are list behind the model column.
The radio access network and the media server for service failure ratio are
analyzed without the wireless and wired network failure and the transaction
nodes in the network.
The parameters\' locations used in our model are as figure A.7.
Figure A.7: The locations of parameters used in service failure ratio model
NOTE: The parameter transaction rate and transaction capacity can be got by
testing the transaction node. And the buffer size can also be easily got from
the node.
The soft handoff rate, the new call arrival rate, new call holding time and
handoff call holding time are statistical parameters. They can be got from the
cell\'s statistical data.
The mean time of platform failure, mean time of platform repair, mean time of
base repeater failure and the mean time of base repeater repair can be got by
analysing the base station\'s performance. It is not included in our work. The
base repeater\'s number and the channel number of base repeaters are the
cell\'s setting parameters.
### A.5.2.2 Model description
Ignoring the wireless and wired network failure, the failure ratio of a data
unit transferred in the network can be expressed as follows:
{width="2.7319444444444443in" height="0.8819444444444444in"}
All the parameters\' definitions are from clause 4.
In the base station, the service failure ratio can be changed by adjusting
some parameters as table A.5.
Table A.5: The simple relation between service failure ratio and other
parameters in the base station
+----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Parameters | Service non-availability | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Transaction rate$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Transaction capacity$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Soft handoff rate$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | New call arrival rate$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Handoff call holding time$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | New call holding time$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Base repeater number$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Channels number of a base repeater$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of platform failure$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of platform repair$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of base repeater failure$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | Mean time of base repeater repair$\uparrow$ | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +----------------------------------------------+--------------------------+
In the transaction node (SGSN, GGSN, VLR, HLR, AuC, media server), the service
failure ratio can be changed by adjusting some parameters as table A.6.
Table A.6: The simple relation between service failure ratio and\ other
parameters in the transaction nodes
+-------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameters | Service failure ratio | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | Transaction rate$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | Transaction capacity$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+-----------------------+
An example is given to understand the further explain about the relationship.
In the radio access network, to decrease the service non-availability, both of
the soft handoff rate and the new call arrival rate can be decreased. The two
parameters are both related to the cell\'s radius.
Increase the total channel number or decrease the reserved channel number can
also decrease the service non‑availability. The total channel number can be
computed from the base repeater number and the channels number of a repeater.
The mean time of the repeater\'s failure and the mean time of repair also
affect the total channel number.
To increase the mean time platform failure or decrease the mean time of repair
also decreases the service non-availability.
In these transaction nodes, developing the performance (the transaction rate,
transaction capacity and the buffer size) of them will decrease the service
non-availability and the service failure ratio.
Adjusting the value of the soft hand rate, new call arriving rate, base
repeater number, channels number of a base repeater, mean time of platform
failure, mean time of platform repair, mean time of base repeater failure,
mean time of base repeater repair, transaction rate, transaction capability
and buffer size has the same effect on the service non-availability and the
service failure ratio. But decreasing the reserved channel number will
decrease the service non-availability and increase the service failure ratio.
## A.5.3 Initial Connection Time
### A.5.3.1 Relative SQoS and other parameters
The parameters affect the initial connection time are list in table A.7.
Table A.7: the SQoS and other parameters in our model of initial connection
time
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | class | layer | SQoS | Other | Model | Pa | | | | | pa | | rameters | | | | | rameters | | to | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | alculate | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | **Appli | |** Frame | | | | client**| cation** | | size**| | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** |** Tran | **Ban |** The | **T | ** | | Wireless | sports** | dwidth**| total | ransport | Transfer | | t | | | t | network | time** | | ransport | | | ransport | model**| | | n | | | data | | | | etwork** | | | size | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | ocols)**| | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | |** T | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | delay**| | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** Wired | **Tran |** Ban | **The |** T | ** | | t | sports**| dwidth** | total | ransport | Transfer | | ransport | | | load | network | time**| | n | | | from | model** | | | etwork**| | | o | | Transfer | | | | | utside** | | delay | | | | | | | | | | | | The load | | | | | | | on one | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | links | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | length | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | link\'s | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | total | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | otocols) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | **T | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | delay** | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Tra |** Base | **Tra |** Buffer | **Node |** Tra | | nsaction | st | nsaction | size**| model** | nsaction | | node**| ation,** | delay**| | | delay** | | | SGSN, | | | | | | | GGSN, | | | | | | | HLR, | | | | | | | VLR, | | | | | | | AuC, Web | | | | | | | server, | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | server | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | **Tra | | | | | | | nsaction | | | | | | | rate** | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The transfer delay and time of wireless /wired networks, the related
transaction delay of transaction nodes for initial connection time are
analyzed, disregarding radio access network\'s delay.
The parameters\' locations used in our model are as figure A.8.
Figure A.8: The locations of parameters used in service initial connection
time model
NOTE: The parameter transaction rate and transaction capacity can be got by
testing the transaction node. And the buffer size in the transaction node can
also be easily got from the node.
The total data size during the connection procedure depends on the frame size
in the client and the protocols used. It includes the data for the initiation
between client and the server and the first frame data.
The data transport rate of one link and links number are the network\'s
framework parameters.
The load on one link, total load on the network and average length of packet
can be got from the network\'s statistical data.
### A.5.3.2 Model description
The initial connection time () can be considered as a function of the transfer
delay and the transfer time in network and the transaction delay in all the
relative transaction nodes. The expression can be get as follows:
And varies in the same manner as all the parameters.
can be got from formula
can be got from formula .
All the parameters\' definitions are from clause 4.
In the client, the initial connection time can be changed by adjusting some
parameters as table A.8.
Table A.8: The simple relation between initial connection time and other
parameters in the client
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
In the wireless network, the initial connection time can be changed by
adjusting some parameters as table A.9.
Table A.9: The simple relation between initial connection time and\ other
parameters in the wireless network
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Bandwidth$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Total data size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
In the wired network, he initial connection time can be changed by adjusting
some parameters as table A.10.
Table A.10: The simple relation between initial connection time and\ other
parameters in the wired network
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Bandwidth$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Total data size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Total load$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Load on one link$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Links number$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Average length of packet$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Data transport rate of one link$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
In the transaction nodes (base station, SGSN, GGSN, VLR, HLR, AuC, media
server), the initial connection time can be changed by adjusting some
parameters as table A.11.
Table A.11: The simple relation between initial connection time and\ other
parameters in the transactions nodes
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Transaction rate$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Transaction capacity$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
## A.5.4 Initial Buffering Time
### A.5.4.1 Relative SQoS and other parameters
The parameters affect the initial buffering time are list in table A.12.
Table A.12: the SQoS and other parameters in our model of initial buffering
time
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | class | layer | SQoS | Other | Model | Pa | | | | | pa | | rameters | | | | | rameters | | to | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | alculate | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | **Appli |** Frame | **Frame | | | | client** | cation**| rate** | size**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | Buffer | | | | | | | size | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** |** Tran | **Ban |** The | **T | ** | | Wireless | sports** | dwidth**| total | ransport | Transfer | | t | | | t | network | time** | | ransport | | | ransport | model**| | | n | | | data | | | | etwork** | | | size | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | ocols)**| | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | |** T | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | delay**| | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** Wired | **Tran |** Ban | **The |** T | ** | | t | sports**| dwidth** | total | ransport | Transfer | | ransport | | | load | network | time**| | n | | | from | model** | | | etwork**| | | o | | Transfer | | | | | utside** | | delay | | | | | | | | | | | | The load | | | | | | | on one | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | links | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | length | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | link\'s | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | total | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rocedure | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | otocols) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | **T | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | delay** | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Tra |** Base | **Tra |** Buffer | **Node |** Tra | | nsaction | st | nsaction | size**| model** | nsaction | | node**| ation,** | delay**| | | delay** | | | SGSN, | | | | | | | GGSN, | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | server | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | **Tra | | | | | | | nsaction | | | | | | | rate** | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The transfer delay and time of wireless /wired networks, the related
transaction delay of transaction node for initial buffering time are analyzed,
ignoring delay of radio access network.
The parameters\' locations used in our model are as figure A.9.
Figure A.9: The locations of parameters used in service initial buffering time
model
NOTE: The parameter transaction rate and transaction capacity can be got by
testing the transaction node. And the buffer size in the transaction node can
also be easily got from the node.
The total data size during the connection procedure depends on the buffer size
in the client and the protocols used. Why the frame size and frame rate are
listed here? Because they affect the buffer size the system set.
The data transport rate of one link and links number are the network\'s
framework parameters.
The load on one link, total load on the network and average length of packet
can be got from the network\'s statistical data.
### A.5.4.2 Model description
The initial connection time () can be considered as a function of the transfer
delay and the transfer time in network and the transaction delay in all the
relative transaction nodes. The expression can be get as follows:
And varies in the same manner as all the parameters.
.
can be got from formula
can be got from formula .
All the parameters\' definitions are from section 4.
In the client, the initial buffering time can be changed by adjusting some
parameters as table A.13.
Table A.13: The simple relation between initial buffering time and other
parameters in the client
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
In the wireless network, the initial buffering time can be changed by
adjusting some parameters as table A.14.
Table A.14: The simple relation between initial buffering time and\ other
parameters in wireless network
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Bandwidth$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Total data size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
In the wired network, the initial buffering time can be changed by adjusting
some parameters as table A.15.
Table A.15: The simple relation between initial buffering time and other
parameters in wired network
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Bandwidth$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Total data size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Total load$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Load on one link$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Links number$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Average length of packet$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Data transport rate of one link$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
In the transaction nodes (base station, SGSN, GGSN, VLR, HLR, AuC, media
server), the initial buffering time can be changed by adjusting some
parameters as table A.16.
Table A.16: The simple relation between initial buffering time and\ other
parameters in the transaction nodes
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Parameters | Initial connection time | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Transaction rate$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Transaction capacity$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | Buffer size$\uparrow$ | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | $\uparrow$ means value increases; | | | | | | $\downarrow$ means value decreases. | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------+
## A.5.5 Re-Buffering Frequency
### A.5.5.1 Relative SQoS and other parameters
The rebuffering is a important metric to reflect the network\'s condition. The
majority of SQoS parameters affect it.
The model analyse the SQoS parameters\' effect in the application and
transports layers.
Table A.17: the SQoS and other parameters in our model of service rebuffering
frequency
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | class | layer | SQoS | Other | Model | | | | | parameters | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | client | Application | Frame rate | Frame size | Model the | | | | | | whole | | | | | Buffer size | transport | | | | | | process | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Frame loss | | | | | | ratio | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Frame error | | | | | | ratio | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Radio | Under | Access | Channels | | | access | transports | delay | | | | network | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Wireless | Transports | Bandwidth | Wireless | | | transport | | | transport | | | network | | | condition | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Transport | | | | | | delay | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Jitter | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Packet loss | | | | | | ratio | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Under | Frame loss | | | | | transports | ratio, | | | | | | Frame error | | | | | | ratio, | | | | | | Frame | | | | | | discard | | | | | | ratio, | | | | | | Residual | | | | | | bit error | | | | | | ratio | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Wired | Transports | Bandwidth | network | | | transport | | | load, | | | network | | | network | | | | | | framework | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Transport | | | | | | delay | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Jitter | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Packet loss | | | | | | ratio | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Under | Frame loss | | | | | transports | ratio, | | | | | | Frame error | | | | | | ratio, | | | | | | Frame | | | | | | discard | | | | | | ratio, | | | | | | Residual | | | | | | bit error | | | | | | ratio | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Transaction | Base | Transaction | Buffer size | | | node | station, | delay | | | | | SGSN, GGSN, | | | | | | Media | | | | | | server | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Transaction | | | | | | rate | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### A.5.5.2 Model description
Assumed the send data is initially distributed of . After the transportation,
affected by the frame loss rate, the frame error rate, bandwidth and delay,
the data is distributed of at the end. Here delay means transfer delay and
transaction delay. The model is as figure A.10.
Figure A.10: the model of transportation
The effect of frame loss rate and frame error rate on the send data are the
same. So it can be assume that the data become after affected by the frame
loss rate and frame error rate. And it become after affected by the change of
bandwidth, then become because of the delay at last. The functions , , can be
analyzed after our simulation.
The initial data size in the buffer . When the data in the buffer exceed , the
player starts to play, and when data is less than , the rebuffering starts.
The frame rate is V when it is playing.
means the amount of arrival data, so is a monotonic increasing function. So
its inverse function exists.
When , the system start rebuffering. And , where is the time when the
rebuffering finishes.
So the rebuffering frequency is:
is the indicator function: if expression e is true; otherwise .
is the total time to test.
## A.5.6 Re-Buffering Time
### A.5.6.1 Relative SQoS and other parameters
The model is the same as clause 5.5.
### A.5.6.2 Model description
The rebuffering time of this time is:
And the mean rebuffering time is:
###### ### Annex B: Analysis of QoE
# B.1 Introduction
The SA4 \"End-to-end Multimedia Services Performance Metrics\" work item is
conducting a research on the performance metrics for popular multimedia
services, including streaming, multimedia broadcast multicast service (MBMS),
video telephony and IP Multimedia subsystem Service (IMS), etc. This annex is
an extension to the present document, which will support and justify the
results in the present document.
In this annex, a subjective test is conducted to acquire the QoE. And the
results of the test are listed in the following sections.
And also, in this annex, packet-switched streaming service is taken as an
example.
# B.2 Process
From the user perspective, the service performance indicators cannot be
defined only according to researcher\'s experience. It should be acquired by
user investigation as well as experience.
## B.2.1 Collection of QoE
The selected testers are kept unknown about any indicators. After watching
given audio/video multimedia contents with different quality levels and
experiencing those services, they take down the performance indicators only
with their feeling and experience.
Then according to their record and description, the scope of QoE is
determined.
The common user\'s requirements of service performance are collected and
classified as our QoE, disregarding the measurability.
See clause 3.1.
## B.2.2 Weightiness of Selected QoE
With DSCQS (see ITU-R Recommendation BT.500), testers are asked to mark each
service and content in comparison with the reference. Those services and
contents are provided with different quality levels of each selected
indicator.
# B.3 Results
## B.3.1 Collection of QoE
  * Service Non-Access.
  * Service Failure.
  * Service Setting-up Time.
  * Re-Buffering.
  * Image corruption.
  * Blurriness.
  * Blockiness.
  * Colour Reproduction Accuracy.
  * Edge Noise.
  * Freeze image.
  * Incontinuous Image with block.
  * Audio Quality.
  * Audio/Video Synchronization Error.
## B.3.2 Comparison of Weightiness among Selected QoE Parameters
{width="5.877083333333333in" height="6.493055555555555in"}
Figure B.1
###### ### Annex C: Comparison with TS 102 250 of ETSI STQ Mobile
# C.1 Introduction
The SA4 \"End-to-end Multimedia Services Performance Metrics\" work item is
conducting a research on the performance metrics for popular multimedia
services, including streaming, multimedia broadcast multicast service (MBMS),
video telephony and IP multimedia subsystem service (IMS), etc. This annex is
an extension to the present document, which will support and justify the
results in the present document.
In this annex, a comprehensive comparison of work between E2EMSPM and ETSI STQ
Mobile is conducted to justify the work of E2EMSPM. And the results of the
analysis are listed in the following sections.
# C.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ETSI TS 102 250-1 (V1.1.1 - 10/2003): \"Speech Processing, Transmission
and Quality Aspects (STQ); QoS aspects of popular services in GSM and 3G
networks; Part 1: Identification of Quality of Service aspects\".
[2] ETSI TS 102 250-2 (V1.4.1 - 03/2006): \"Speech Processing, Transmission
and Quality Aspects (STQ); QoS aspects of popular services in GSM and 3G
networks; Part 2: Definition of Quality of Service parameters and their
computation\".
[3] ETSI TS 102 250-3 (V1.3.2 - 09/2005): \"Speech Processing, Transmission
and Quality Aspects (STQ); QoS aspects of popular services in GSM and 3G
networks; Part 3: Typical procedures for Quality of Service measurement
equipment\".
[4] ETSI TS 102 250-4 (V1.1.1 - 10/2003): \"Speech Processing, Transmission
and Quality Aspects (STQ); QoS aspects of popular services in GSM and 3G
networks; Part 4: Requirements for Quality of Service measurement equipment\".
[5] ETSI TS 102 250-5 (V1.3.1 - 11/2005): \"Speech Processing, Transmission
and Quality Aspects (STQ); QoS aspects of popular services in GSM and 3G
networks; Part 5: Definition of typical measurement profiles\".
[6] ETSI TS 102 250-6 (V1.2.1 - 10/2004): \"Speech Processing, Transmission
and Quality Aspects (STQ); QoS aspects of popular services in GSM and 3G
networks; Part 6: Post processing and statistical methods\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23 107 (V6.4.0 - 03/2006): \"3rd Generation partnership Project;
Technical Speciﬁcation Group Services and System Aspects; Quality of Service
(QoS) Concept and architecture (Release 6)\".
# C.3 Comparison with 3GPP E2EMSPM and ETSI STQ Mobile
In this part, the difference is illuminated between 3GPP E2EMSPM and ETSI STQ
Mobile on multimedia services from the following points of view.
## C.3.1 Research Scope
### C.3.1.1 Framework
E2EMSPM has a systematic framework of End-to-end Multimedia Services
Performance Metrics is as figure C.1.
Figure C.1: Systematic Framework of End-to-end Multimedia Services Performance
Indicators
ETSI STQ Mobile focuses on the similar area of End-to-End Service QoS.
### C.3.1.2 Quality of experience
E2EMSPM brings up the concept of Quality of Experience (QoE). Yet ETSI STQ
Mobile specifies the use of perceptual models for the evaluation of content
quality, whenever applicable (e.g. TS 102 250-2 specifies the use of ITU-R
Recommendation P.862.2 for speech quality evaluation).
The judgement of measurement results (e.g. target setting) and the correlation
between measurement results and actual customer satisfaction are out of the
scope of ETSI STQ Mobile.
QoE is how a user perceives the quality of service - how satisfied he or she
is with the service. Although QoE is a subjective metric, it is important to
quantify it. From the user\'s perspective, QoE cannot be defined only
according to researcher\'s experience. It should be acquired by user
investigation as well as experience.
The common user\'s requirements to different services are collected and
classified as QoE, disregarding the measurability. Users have different
requirements for different services. So the QoE for service analysis vary with
the types of services.
### C.3.1.3 End-to-End Service Quality of Service
E2EMSPM considers service-related metrics of End-to-End Service Quality of
Service (ESQoS). The measurements and provisioning of ESQoS are defined in
terms of service capability and resource availability. ESQoS is generally used
to specify services\' quality considered by operators and service providers.
The ability to measure ESQoS will give the operator some sense of the
service\'s performance to the overall level of customer satisfaction.
ETSI STQ Mobile TS 102 250-2 [2] draws some steps in overall service QoS
definition and analysis of mobile services. STQ takes the following QoS
aspects from service perspective which are used for each service to define
service QoS parameters.
  * Network Availability.
  * Network Accessibility.
  * Service Accessibility.
  * Service Integrity.
  * Service Retainability.
Figure C.2 shows the model for quality of service parameters in ETSI STQ Part
2. The model has four layers.
{width="4.052083333333333in" height="3.667361111111111in"}
Figure C.2: ETSI STQ Mobile QoS aspects and the corresponding QoS parameters
So when end-to-end service QoS is concerned, both ETSI STQ Mobile and E2EMSPM
have the similar study area on this topic. There are perfect and reasonable
definitions of service QoS parameters in the TS of ETSI STQ. Part of the
outputs of ETSI STQ Mobile should be introduced to E2EMSPM\'s End-to-End
Service QoS area for reference.
### C.3.1.4 System Quality of Service
Generally, \"UMTS Quality of Service (QoS) Concept and architecture\" by 3GPP
[8] is often referenced. It is a standard, describing UMTS bearers\'
structure, their management functions, and defines service quality classes and
their attributes.
System Quality of Service (SQoS) defined in E2EMSPM is intrinsically a
technical concept and is a subset of UMTS QoS. Compared with ESQOS, SQoS
denotes the point-to-point QoS, which is specially related to the units and
links of network systems. SQoS can be viewed as the QoS consideration from the
viewpoint of network operators. It is measured and expressed in terms of
network units and network links, which usually has little meaning to a user.
Although a better network SQoS in many cases will result in better ESQoS,
fulfilling all traffic SQoS parameters might not guarantee the satisfaction of
the user or a high ESQoS.
In E2EMSPM the System QoS parameters are classified to five classes
horizontally according to the different phases along with the whole network
connection, including radio access network, wireless transport network, wired
transport network, client transaction and network node transaction as shown in
figure C.3. Some analytical models are introduced for every special section to
evaluate some important parameters.
SQoS is out of the scope of ETSI STQ Mobile.
Figure C.3: Network phases to analyse System Qos
### C.3.1.5 Mapping of End-to-End Service QoS and System QoS
E2EMSPM introduces the theoretical models to study the relationship of End-to-
End Service QoS and System QoS. The inherent relationship between the End-to-
End Service QoS and System QoS parameters of PSS is described, which provide
the possible operational methods for the operators/service providers to
guarantee the service performance. E2EMSPM also gives some example to justify
how we get the mapping between the End-to-End Service QoS and System QoS.
The relationship of End-to-End Service QoS and System QoS is beyond the scope
of ETSI STQ Mobile.
## C.3.2 Research Method
### C.3.2.1 Statistics Model Analysis
Extensive studies involving high-speed network measurements indicate that the
multimedia traffic in high-speed networks have self-similar and impulsive
characteristics. The existence of self-similarity shows that Poisson process
cannot accurately describe the real network traffic. In such high-speed mobile
network the assumption of exponentiality does not apply any more.
ETSI STQ Mobile TS 102 250-6 [6] adopts the statistical model to calculate the
QoS metrics of GSM and 3G networks. These models are more precise than
traditional theoretical models. However, ETSI STQ Mobile focuses on the
measurement of quality metrics for services that are already functional. The
prediction of service performance (e.g. based on statistical models of traffic
patterns and network characteristics) is out of the scope of ETSI STQ Mobile.
It is very difficult to implement the calculation due to the lack of raw data,
if the new multimedia services haven\'t become commercial deployment or they
are just in the initial stage of deployment in GSM and 3G network.
Nowadays, there still have not authoritative statistical model to handle the
coming multimedia services\' raw data with self-similar and impulsive
characteristics. Although the self-similar models can describe the statistical
data more precisely, they will encounter difficulties with in-depth
performance indicators analysis and calculation of the self-similar network
traffic.
### C.3.2.2 Theory Model Analysis of Queue
Traditional telecom service traffic is adequately described by Markovian
models (e.g. Poisson), which are amenable to accurate analysis. Generally,
theses models assume independence between events, and exponentially inter-
event distributions.
Although queue theory fails to fit actual traffic of high-speed mobile
networks, E2EMSPM still adopted these models to analyse the network traffic,
mainly because Markovian models are mathematically tractable.
### C.3.2.3 Possible Further Work
The above two methods have its own advantages respectively for the fresh
multimedia services, the optimal research method should combine statistics
model with queue theory model to complement with each other.
The combined method might be adopted in future work beyond the scope of both
ETSI STQ Mobile and E2EMSPM.
# C.4 Brief Introduction of the Work in ETSI STQ
The ETSI Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality Aspects (STQ) workgroup
is actively working on QoS. STQ has published its Technical Specification, TS
102 250 \"QoS aspects for popular services in GSM and 3G networks\" [Part 1 to
6], which covers the following.
Part 1 [1] identifies QoS aspects for popular services in GSM and 3G networks.
For each service the QoS indicators are listed. They are considered to be
suitable for the quantitative characterization of the dominant technical QoS
aspects as experienced from the end-user perspective.
Part 2 [2] defines QoS parameters and their computation for popular services
in GSM and 3G networks. The technical QoS indicators, listed in part 1, are
the basis for the parameter set chosen. The parameter definition is split into
two parts: the abstract definition and the generic description of the
measurement method with the respective trigger points. Only measurement
methods not dependent on any infrastructure provided are described in the
present document. The harmonized definitions given in the present document are
considered as the prerequisites for comparison of QoS measurements and
measurement results.
Part 3 [3] describes typical procedures used for QoS measurements over GSM,
along with settings and parameters for such measurements.
Part 4 [4] defines the minimum requirements of QoS measurement equipment for
GSM and 3G networks in the way that the values and trigger-points needed to
compute the QoS parameter as defined in Part 2 can be measured following the
procedures defined in Part 3. Test equipment fulfilling the specified minimum
requirements will be allowed to perform the proposed measurements in a
reliable and reproducible way.
Part 5 [5] specifies test profiles which are required to enable benchmarking
of different GSM or 3G networks both within and outside national boundaries.
It is necessary to have these profiles so that when a specific set of tests
are carried out then customers are comparing \"like for like\" performance.
Part 6 [6] describes procedures to be used for statistical calculations in the
field of QoS measurement of GSM and 3G networks using probing systems.
#