# Foreword {#foreword-1}
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
\
# 1 Scope {#scope-1}
The present document establishes the minimum RF and performance requirements
for NR User Equipment (UE) supporting satellite access operation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.521-5: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 5: Satellite access Radio Frequency
(RF) and performance requirements \".
[3] Recommendation ITU-R M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.108: \"NR; Satellite Node radio transmission and reception\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.101-4: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 4: Performance requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\"
[8] 3GPP TS 38.331: \" Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall description; Stage-2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[12] 3GPP TR 38.811: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-terrestrial
networks\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Geosynchronous Earth Orbit:** Earth-centered orbit at approximately 35786
kilometres above Earth\'s surface and synchronised with Earth\'s rotation. A
geostationary orbit is a non-inclined geosynchronous orbit, i.e. in the
Earth's equator plane.
**Low Earth Orbit:** Orbit around the Earth with an altitude between 300 km,
and 1500 km.
**Non-terrestrial networks:** Networks, or segments of networks, using an
airborne or space-borne vehicle to embark a transmission equipment relay node
or base station.
**Satellite:** A space-borne vehicle embarking a bent pipe payload or a
regenerative payload telecommunication transmitter, placed into Low-Earth
Orbit (LEO), Medium-Earth Orbit (MEO), or Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO).
**Satellite Access Node:** see definition in TS 38.108[4].
**UE transmission bandwidth configuration** : Set of resource blocks located
within the UE channel bandwidth which may be used for transmitting or
receiving by the UE.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔF~Global~ Granularity of the global frequency raster
ΔF~Raster~ Band dependent channel raster granularity
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~interferer~ Bandwidth of the interferer
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~Interferer~ Frequency of the interferer
F~Interferer~ (offset) Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center
frequency of the interferer and the carrier frequency of the carrier measured)
F~Ioffset~ Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center frequency of
the interferer and the closest edge of the carrier measured)
F~OOB~ The boundary between the NR out of band emission and spurious emission
domains
F~REF~ RF reference frequency
F~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating F~REF~
F~uw~ (offset) The frequency separation of the center frequency of the carrier
closest to the interferer and the center frequency of the interferer
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
N~REF~ NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN)
N~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating N~REF~
P~Interferer~ Modulated mean power of the interferer
P~uw~ Power of an unwanted DL signal
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BW Bandwidth
BWP Bandwidth Part
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
CW Continuous Wave
DFT-s-OFDM Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-OFDM
DM-RS Demodulation Reference Signal
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FR Frequency Range
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GEO Geosynchronous Earth Orbit
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
IBB In-band Blocking
ITU-R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
LEO Low Earth Orbiting
MBW Measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band
MEO Medium Earth Orbiting
MOP Maximum Output Power
MPR Allowed maximum power reduction
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Degradation
NGEO Non-Geostationary Earth Orbiting
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
NS Network Signalling
NTN Non-Terrestrial Network
OCNG OFDMA Channel Noise Generator
OOB Out-of-band
PRB Physical Resource Block
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RAN Radio Access Network
RE Resource Element
REFSENS REFerence SENSitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RSRP Reference Signal Receive Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Receive Quality
RX Receiver
SAN Satellite Access Node
SC Single Carrier
SCS Subcarrier spacing
SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SRS Sounding Reference Symbol
SS Synchronization Symbol
TN Terrestrial Network
TX Transmitter
TxD Tx Diversity
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The present document is a Single-RAT specification for satellite NR UE,
covering RF characteristics and minimum performance requirements. Conformance
to the present specification is demonstrated by fulfilling the test
requirements specified in the conformance specification 3GPP TS 38.521-5 [2].
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification 3GPP TS 38.521-5 [2] defines
test tolerances. These test tolerances are individually calculated for each
test. The test tolerances are used to relax the minimum requirements in this
specification to create test requirements. For some requirements, including
regulatory requirements, the test tolerance is set to zero.
The measurement results returned by the test system are compared - without any
modification - against the test requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The shared risk principle is defined in Recommendation ITU‑R M.1545 [3].
## 4.2 Applicability of minimum requirements
a) In this specification the Minimum Requirements are specified as general
requirements and additional requirements. Where the Requirement is specified
as a general requirement, the requirement is mandated to be met in all
scenarios
b) For specific scenarios for which an additional requirement is specified, in
addition to meeting the general requirement, the UE is mandated to meet the
additional requirements.
c) The spurious emissions power requirements are for the long-term average of
the power. For the purpose of reducing measurement uncertainty, it is
acceptable to average the measured power over a period of time sufficient to
reduce the uncertainty due to the statistical nature of the signal.
## 4.3 Specification suffix information
Specification suffix information is not defined for the time being in Release
17.
## 4.4 Relationship with other core specifications
The present document establishes the minimum RF and performance requirements
for NR User Equipment (UE) operating in a Non-Terrestrial Network. The present
document for the single-RAT specification of a satellite NR UE side is used
together with the technical specification 3GPP TS 38.108 [4] specifying the
Satellite Access Node (SAN).
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present Release of specifications.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
Releases.
Requirements throughout the RF specifications are in many cases defined
separately for different frequency ranges (FR). The frequency ranges in which
NTN satellite can operate according to this version of the specification are
identified as described in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Definition of frequency ranges
Frequency range designation Corresponding frequency range
* * *
FR1 410 MHz -- 7125 MHz
The present specification covers FR1 operating bands.
## 5.2 Operating bands
### 5.2.1 General
NTN satellite covers FR1 operating bands in the present specification.
### 5.2.2 Operating bands with conducted requirements
NTN satellite is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table
5.2.2-1.
**Table 5.2.2-1: NTN satellite bands in FR1**
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NTN satellite | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex mode | | operating band | operating band\ | operating band\ | | | | Satellite | Satellite | | | | Access Node | Access Node | | | | receive / UE | transmit / UE | | | | transmit | receive | | | | | | | | | F~UL,low~ -- | F~DL,low~ -- | | | | F~UL,high~ | F~DL,high~ | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | n256 | 1980 MHz -- | 2170 MHz -- | FDD | | | 2010 MHz | 2200 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n255 | 1626.5 MHz -- | 1525 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1660.5 MHz | 1559 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NOTE: NTN | | | | | satellite bands | | | | | are numbered in | | | | | descending | | | | | order from | | | | | n256. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
### 5.2.3 reserved (for radiated requirements)
[To be updated]
## 5.3 UE channel bandwidth
### 5.3.1 General
The UE channel bandwidth supports a single RF carrier in the uplink or
downlink at the UE. From a SAN perspective, different UE channel bandwidths
may be supported within the same spectrum for transmitting to and receiving
from UEs connected to the SAN.
From a UE perspective, the UE is configured with one or more BWP / carriers,
each with its own UE channel bandwidth. The UE does not need to be aware of
the SAN channel bandwidth or how the SAN allocates bandwidth to different UEs.
The placement of the UE channel bandwidth for each UE carrier is flexible but
can only be completely within the SAN channel bandwidth.
The relationship between the channel bandwidth, the guardband and the maximum
transmission bandwidth configuration is shown in Figure 5.3.1-1.
{width="6.041666666666667in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 5.3.1-1: Definition of the channel bandwidth and the maximum
transmission bandwidth configuration for one channel
### 5.3.2 Maximum transmission bandwidth configuration
The maximum transmission bandwidth configuration N~RB~ for each UE channel
bandwidth and subcarrier spacing is specified in Table 5.3.2-1.
**Table 5.3.2-1: Maximum transmission bandwidth configuration N~RB~**
+-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | SCS (kHz) | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | **30** | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +===========+=======+=======+=======+=======+========+ | | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | +-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | 15 | 25 | 52 | 79 | 106 | 160 | +-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | 30 | 11 | 24 | 38 | 51 | 78 | +-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | 60 | N/A | 11 | 18 | 24 | 38 | +-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+
### 5.3.3 Minimum guardband and transmission bandwidth configuration
The minimum guardband for each UE channel bandwidth and SCS is specified in
Table 5.3.3-1,
Table 5.3.3-1: Minimum guardband for each UE channel bandwidth and SCS (kHz)
+-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | SCS (kHz) | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | **30** | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +===========+=======+=======+=======+=======+========+ | 15 | 242.5 | 312.5 | 382.5 | 452.5 | 592.5 | +-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | 30 | 505 | 665 | 645 | 805 | 945 | +-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | 60 | N/A | 1010 | 990 | 1330 | 1290 | +-----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+--------+
NOTE: The minimum guardbands have been calculated using the following
equation: (BW~Channel~ x 1000 (kHz) - N~RB~ x SCS x 12) / 2 - SCS/2, where
N~RB~ are from Table 5.3.2-1.
Figure 5.3.3-1: Void
The number of RBs configured in any channel bandwidth shall ensure that the
minimum guardband specified in this clause is met.
{width="5.445454943132108in" height="2.7424245406824146in"}
Figure 5.3.3-2: UE PRB utilization
In the case that multiple numerologies are multiplexed in the same symbol, the
minimum guard band on each side of the carrier is the guard band applied at
the configured UE channel bandwidth for the numerology that is
transmitted/received immediately adjacent to the guard band.
{width="4.5625in" height="1.8958333333333333in"}
Figure 5.3.3-3: Guard band definition when transmitting multiple numerologies
NOTE: Figure 5.3.3-2 is not intended to imply the size of any guard between
the two numerologies. Inter-numerology guard band within the carrier is
implementation dependent.
### 5.3.4 RB alignment
The RB alignment refers to NR RB alignments as specified in 3GPP TS 38.101-1
[5] clause 5.3.4.
### 5.3.5 UE channel bandwidth per operating band
The requirements in this specification apply to the combination of channel
bandwidths, SCS and operating bands shown in Table 5.3.5-1. The transmission
bandwidth configuration in Table 5.3.2-1 shall be supported for each of the
specified channel bandwidths. The channel bandwidths are specified for both
the Tx and Rx path.
Table 5.3.5-1: Channel bandwidths for each NTN satellite band
+---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | NTN satellite | SCS | UE Channel | | | | | | band | | bandwidth | | | | | | | kHz | (MHz) | | | | | +===============+=====+===============+====+====+====+============+ | | | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | **30** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **(NOTE)** | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | n256 | 30 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | | 60 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | n255 | 30 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | | 60 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | Deployment of | | | | | | | | 30 MHz | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth for | | | | | | | | NTN SAN needs | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | preceded by | | | | | | | | introduction | | | | | | | | of all | | | | | | | | applicable Tx | | | | | | | | RF, Rx RF, | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | demodulation | | | | | | | | requirements. | | | | | | | +---------------+-----+---------------+----+----+----+------------+
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
### 5.4.1 Channel spacing
#### 5.4.1.1 Channel spacing for adjacent NTN satellite carriers
The channel spacing for adjacent NTN satellite carriers refers to the NR
channel spacing as specified in 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [5] clause 5.4.1.1.
### 5.4.2 Channel raster
#### 5.4.2.1 NR-ARFCN and channel raster
The global frequency channel raster defines a set of RF reference frequencies
F~REF.~ The RF reference frequency is used in signalling to identify the
position of RF channels, SS blocks and other elements.
The global frequency raster is defined for all frequencies from 0 to 100 GHz.
The granularity of the global frequency raster is ΔF~Global~.
RF reference frequencies are designated by an NR Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (NR-ARFCN) in the range (0...2016666) on the global frequency
raster. The relation between the NR-ARFCN and the RF reference frequency
F~REF~ in MHz is given by the following equation, where F~REF-Offs~ and N~REF-
Offs~ are given in Table 5.4.2.1-1 and N~REF~ is the NR-ARFCN.
F~REF~ = F~REF-Offs~ + ΔF~Global~ (N~REF~ -- N~REF-Offs~)
Table 5.4.2.1-1: NR-ARFCN parameters for the global frequency raster
Frequency range (MHz) ΔF~Global~ (kHz) F~REF-Offs~ (MHz) N~REF-Offs~ Range of
N~REF~
* * *
0 -- 3000 5 0 0 0 -- 599999
The channel raster defines a subset of RF reference frequencies that can be
used to identify the RF channel position in the uplink and downlink. The RF
reference frequency for an RF channel maps to a resource element on the
carrier. For each operating band, a subset of frequencies from the global
frequency raster are applicable for that band and forms a channel raster with
a granularity ΔF~Raster~, which may be equal to or larger than ΔF~Global~.
The mapping between the channel raster and corresponding resource element is
given in clause 5.4.2.2. The applicable entries for each operating band are
defined in clause 5.4.2.3.
#### 5.4.2.2 Channel raster to resource element mapping
The mapping between the RF reference frequency on the channel raster and the
corresponding resource element refers to the NR requirements specified in 3GPP
TS 38.101-1 [5] clause 5.4.2.2.
#### 5.4.2.3 Channel raster entries for each operating band
The RF channel positions on the channel raster in each NTN satellite operating
band are given through the applicable NR-ARFCN in Table 5.4.2.3‑1, using the
channel raster to resource element mapping in clause 5.4.2.2.
For NTN satellite operating bands with 100 kHz channel raster, ΔF~Raster~ = 20
× ΔF~Global~. In this case every 20^th^ NR-ARFCN within the operating band are
applicable for the channel raster within the operating band and the step size
for the channel raster in Table 5.4.2.3‑1 is given as \.
Table 5.4.2.3-1: Applicable NR-ARFCN per operating band
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NTN satellite | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink | Downlink | | operating band | | | | | | (kHz) | Range of N~REF~ | Range of N~REF~ | | | | | | | | | (First -- | (First -- | | | | \ | \ | | | | -- Last) | -- Last) | +=================+============+=================+=================+ | n256 | 100 | 396000 -- | 434000 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 402000 | 440000 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n255 | 100 | 325300 -- | 305000 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 332100 | 311800 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE : The | | | | | channel numbers | | | | | that designate | | | | | carrier | | | | | frequencies so | | | | | close to the | | | | | operating band | | | | | edges that the | | | | | carrier extends | | | | | beyond the | | | | | operating band | | | | | edge shall not | | | | | be used. | | | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.4.3 Synchronization raster
#### 5.4.3.1 Synchronization raster and numbering
The synchronization raster indicates the frequency positions of the
synchronization block that can be used by the UE for system acquisition when
explicit signalling of the synchronization block position is not present.
A global synchronization raster is defined for all frequencies. The frequency
position of the SS block is defined as SS~REF~ with corresponding number GSCN.
The parameters defining the SS~REF~ and GSCN for all the frequency ranges are
in Table 5.4.3.1-1.
The resource element corresponding to the SS block reference frequency SS~REF~
is given in clause 5.4.3.2. The synchronization raster and the subcarrier
spacing of the synchronization block is defined separately for each band.
Table 5.4.3.1-1: GSCN parameters for the global frequency raster
+-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | Frequency range | SS Block | GSCN | Range of GSCN | | | frequency | | | | | position | | | | | SS~REF~ | | | +=================+=================+==============+===============+ | 0 -- 3000 MHz | N * 1200kHz + | 3N + (M-3)/2 | 2 -- 7498 | | | M * 50 kHz, | | | | | | | | | | N=1:2499, M ϵ | | | | | {1,3,5}^1^ | | | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | default value | | | | | for operating | | | | | bands with | | | | | which only | | | | | support SCS | | | | | spaced channel | | | | | raster(s) is | | | | | M=3. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.3.2 Synchronization raster to synchronization block resource element
mapping
The mapping between the synchronization raster and the corresponding resource
element of the SS block refers to 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [5] clause 5.4.3.2.
#### 5.4.3.3 Synchronization raster entries for each operating band
The synchronization raster for each band is give in Table 5.4.3.3-1. The
distance between applicable GSCN entries is given by the \
indicated in Table 5.4.3.3-1.
Table 5.4.3.3-1: Applicable SS raster entries per operating band
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NTN satellite | SS Block SCS | SS Block | Range of GSCN | | operating band | | pattern^1^ | | | | | | (First -- | | | | | \ | | | | | -- Last) | +================+==============+================+================+ | n256 | 15 kHz | Case A | 5429 -- \ | | | | | -- 5494 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | n255 | 15 kHz | Case A | 3818 -- \ | | | | | -- 3892 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 30 kHz | Case B | 3824 -- \ | | | | | -- 3886 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE : SS | | | | | Block pattern | | | | | is defined in | | | | | clause 4.1 in | | | | | 3GPP TS 38.213 | | | | | [7]. | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.4.4 TX--RX frequency separation
The default TX channel (carrier centre frequency) to RX channel (carrier
centre frequency) separation for operating bands is specified in Table
5.4.4-1.
Table 5.4.4-1: UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
NTN Satellite Operating Band TX -- RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation
n256 190 MHz
n255 -101.5 MHz
* * *
# 6 Conducted transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics for satellite access
UEs are specified at the antenna connector of the UE with a single or multiple
transmit antenna(s). For UE with integral antenna only, a reference antenna
with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed. Handheld power class 3 UE is assumed in
Release 17 for satellite access.
All requirements in this section are applicable to devices supporting GSO
and/or NGSO satellites.
All requriements in this section, other than frequency error in clause 6.4.1,
shall be verified when Doppler conditions are set to zero and delay conditions
are set to constant for all types of satellites.
## 6.2 Transmitter power
### 6.2.1 UE maximum output power
The following UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth of NR carrier unless
otherwise stated. The period of measurement shall be at least one sub frame
(1ms).
Table 6.2.1-1: UE Power Class
+-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | NR satellite band | Class 3 (dBm) | Tolerance (dB) | +===================================+===============+================+ | n256 | 23 | ±2 | +-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | n255 | 23 | ±2 | +-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: P~PowerClass~ is the | | | | maximum UE power specified | | | | without taking into account the | | | | tolerance | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Power class 3 is default | | | | power class unless otherwise | | | | stated | | | +-----------------------------------+---------------+----------------+
### 6.2.2 UE maximum output power reduction
UE is allowed to reduce the maximum output power due to higher order
modulations and transmit bandwidth configurations. For UE power class 3, the
allowed maximum power reduction (MPR) is defined as Table 6.2.2-1 in 3GPP TS
38.101-1[5] clause 6.2.2.
### 6.2.3 UE additional maximum output power reduction
#### 6.2.3.1 General
Additional emission requirements can be signalled by the network. Each
additional emission requirement is associated with a unique network signalling
(NS) value indicated in RRC signalling by an NR frequency band number of the
applicable operating band and an associated value in the field
_additionalSpectrumEmission._ Throughout this specification, the notion of
indication or signalling of an NS value refers to the corresponding indication
of an NR satellite band number of the applicable operating band, the IE field
_freqBandIndicatorNR_ and an associated value of _additionalSpectrumEmission_
in the relevant RRC information elements [6]_._
To meet the additional requirements, additional maximum power reduction
(A-MPR) is allowed for the maximum output power as specified in Table 6.2.1-1.
Unless stated otherwise, the total reduction to UE maximum output power is
max(MPR, A-MPR) where MPR is defined in clause 6.2.2. Outer and inner
allocation notation used in clause 6.2.3 is defined in 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [5]
clause 6.2.2. In absence of modulation and waveform types the A-MPR applies to
all modulation and waveform types.
Table 6.2.3.1-1 specifies the additional requirements with their associated
network signalling values and the allowed A-MPR and applicable operating
band(s) for each NS value. The mapping of NR satellite band numbers and values
of the _additionalSpectrumEmission_ to network signalling labels is specified
in Table 6.2.3.1-1A.
Table 6.2.3.1-1: Additional maximum power reduction (A-MPR)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Network | Requ | NR | Channel | R | A-MPR | | si | irements | s | b | esources | (dB) | | gnalling | (clause) | atellite | andwidth | blocks | | | label | | Band | (MHz) | ( | | | | | | | _N_ ~RB~) | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | NS_01 | | Table | 5, 10, | Table | N/A | | | | 5.2-1 | 15, 20 | 5.3.2-1 | | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | | [5] | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_24 | 6. | n256 | 5, 10, | Table | Clause | | | 5.3.3.13 | | 15, 20 | 6. | 6.2.3.15 | | | in 3GPP | | | 2.3.15-1 | in 3GPP | | | TS | | | in 3GPP | TS | | | 38.101-1 | | | TS | 38.101-1 | | | [5] | | | 38.101-1 | [5]^2^ | | | | | | [5] | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_02N | 6 | n255 | 5, 10, | | N/A | | | .5.3.3.2 | | 15, 20 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_100 | 6 | n256^1^ | | | Table | | | .5.2.4.2 | | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | 6 | | | TS | | | | .2.3.1-2 | | | 38.101-1 | | | | in 3GPP | | | [5] | | | | TS | | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | | [5] | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | This NS | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ignalled | | | | | | | for NR | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | UTRA | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | eployed. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | upper 5 | | | | | | | MHz of | | | | | | | the band | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | ecified, | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | herefore | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | a guard | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
[The NS_01 label with the field _additionalPmax_ [8] absent is default for all
NTN satellite bands.]
Table 6.2.3.1-1A: Mapping of network signalling label
NR satellite band Value of additionalSpectrumEmission
* * *
                                                                                                                                               **0**                                 **1**     **2**     **3**   **4**   **5**   **6**   **7**
n256 NS_01 NS_24 NS_100  
n255 NS_01 NS_02N  
NOTE: _additionalSpectrumEmission_ corresponds to an information element of
the same name defined in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 38.331 [8].
### 6.2.4 Configured transmitted power
The requirements for configured transmitted power defined in subclause 6.2.4
of 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [5] clause 6.2.4 shall apply to NTN satellite UE.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics.
### 6.3.1 Minimum output power
The minimum controlled output power of the UE is defined as the power in the
channel bandwidth for all transmit bandwidth configurations (resource blocks),
when the power is set to a minimum value.
The minimum output power is defined as the mean power in at least one sub-
frame (1 ms). The minimum output power shall not exceed the values specified
in Table 6.3.1-1.
Table 6.3.1-1: Minimum output power
+-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | Minimum output power | Measurement bandwidth | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | (MHz) | +===================+======================+=======================+ | 5 | -40 | 4.515 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | 10 | -40 | 9.375 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | 15 | -40 | 14.235 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | 20 | -40 | 19.095 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.3.2 Transmit OFF power
Transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power in the channel bandwidth when
the transmitter is OFF. The transmitter is considered OFF when the UE is not
allowed to transmit on any of its ports.
The transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power in a duration of at least
one sub-frame (1 ms) excluding any transient periods. The transmit OFF power
shall not exceed the values specified in Table 6.3.2-1.
Table 6.3.2-1: Transmit OFF power
Channel bandwidth (MHz) 5, 10, 15, 20
* * *
REF_SCS (kHz) 15 Transmit OFF power (dBm) -50 Measurement bandwidth (MHz)
MBW=REF_SCS*(12*N~RB~+1)/1000
### 6.3.3 Transmit ON/OFF time mask
The requirements for transmit ON/OFF time mask defined in 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [5]
clause 6.3.3 shall apply for NTN satellite UE.
### 6.3.4 Power control
The requirements for Power control defined in 3GPP TS 38.101-1 [5] clause
6.3.4 shall apply for NTN satellite UE.
## 6.4 Transmit signal quality
### 6.4.1 Frequency error
The NTN satellite UE basic measurement interval of modulated carrier frequency
is 1 UL slot. The NTN satellite UE pre-compensates the uplink modulated
carrier frequency by the estimated Doppler shift according to 3GPP TS 38.300
[9] clause 16.14.2. The mean value of basic measurements of NTN UE modulated
carrier frequency shall be accurate to within ± 0.1 PPM observed over a period
of 1 ms of cumulated measurement intervals compared to ideally pre-compensated
reference uplink carrier frequency.
[NOTE: The ideally pre-compensated reference uplink carrier frequency consists
of the UL carrier frequency signalled to the UE by SAN and UL pre-compensated
Doppler frequency shift. For the test case, the location of the UE is
explicitly provided to the UE from the test equipment.]
Requirement will be verified for at least two cases of which one has zero
Doppler conditions.
### 6.4.2 Transmit modulation quality
The requirements for transmit modulation quality defined in 3GPP TS 38.101-1
[5] clause 6.4.2 shall apply for NTN satellite UE except for the requirements
for Pi/2 BPSK modulation.
## 6.5 Output RF spectrum emissions
### 6.5.1 Occupied bandwidth
Occupied bandwidth is defined as the bandwidth containing 99 % of the total
integrated mean power of the transmitted spectrum on the assigned channel. The
occupied bandwidth for all transmission bandwidth configurations (Resources
Blocks) shall be less than the channel bandwidth specified in Table 6.5.1-1.
Table 6.5.1-1: Occupied channel bandwidth
                                         NR NTN satellite channel bandwidth (MHz)
* * *
                                         5, 10, 15, 20
**Occupied channel bandwidth (MHz)** Same as NR NTN satellite channel
bandwidth
### 6.5.2 Out of band emission
#### 6.5.2.1 General
The Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
assigned channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-
linearity in the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. This out of
band emission limit is specified in terms of a spectrum emission mask and an
adjacent channel leakage power ratio.
To improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution
bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be
integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent
noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
#### 6.5.2.2 Spectrum emission mask
The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies (Δf~OOB~) starting
from the ± edge of the assigned NR channel bandwidth. For frequencies offset
greater than Δf~OOB~, the spurious requirements in clause 6.5.3 are
applicable.
NOTE: For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the
lowest frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be
set at the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest
frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at
the highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table
6.5.2.2-1 for the specified channel bandwidth.
Table 6.5.2.2-1: General NR spectrum emission mask
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | Channel | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | bandwidth | | | (MHz) | (MHz) / | | | | | Spectrum | | | | | emission limit | | | | | (dBm) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | 5 | 10, 15, 20 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ± 0-1 | -13 | -13 | 1 % of channel | | | | | BW | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ± 1-5 | -10 | -10 | 1 MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ± 5-6 | -13 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ± 6-10 | -25 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ± | | -13 | | | 5-BW~Channel~ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ± | | -25 | | | BW~Channel~-( | | | | | BW~Channe~l+5) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.5.2.3 "Reserved"
#### 6.5.2.4 Adjacent channel leakage ratio
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
To improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution
bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be
integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent
noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
##### 6.5.2.4.1 NR ACLR
NR Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (NR~ACLR~) is the ratio of the
filtered mean power centred on the assigned NR channel frequency to the
filtered mean power centred on an adjacent NR channel frequency at nominal
channel spacing.
The assigned NR channel power and adjacent NR channel power are measured with
rectangular filters with measurement bandwidths specified in Table
6.5.2.4.1-1.
If the measured adjacent channel power is greater than --50 dBm then the
NR~ACLR~ shall be higher than the value specified in Table 6.5.2.4.1-2.
Table 6.5.2.4.1-1: NR ACLR measurement bandwidth
Channel bandwidth (MHz) 5,10,15,20
* * *
REF_SCS (kHz) 15 NR ACLR measurement bandwidth (MHz)
MBW=REF_SCS*(12*N~RB~+1)/1000
Table 6.5.2.4.1-2: NR ACLR requirement
            Power class 3
* * *
NR ACLR 30 dB
##### 6.5.2.4.2 UTRA ACLR
UTRA adjacent channel leakage power ratio (UTRA~ACLR~) is the ratio of the
filtered mean power centred on the assigned NR channel frequency to the
filtered mean power centred on an adjacent(s) UTRA channel frequency.
UTRA~ACLR~ is specified for the first adjacent UTRA channel (UTRA~ACLR1~)
which center frequency is ± 2.5 MHz from NR channel edge and for the 2^nd^
adjacent UTRA channel (UTRA~ACLR2~) which center frequency is ± 7.5 MHz from
NR channel edge.
The UTRA channel power is measured with a RRC filter with roll-off factor α =
0.22 and bandwidth of 3.84 MHz. The assigned NR channel power is measured with
a rectangular filter with measurement bandwidth specified in Table
6.5.2.4.1-1.
If the measured adjacent channel power is greater than -- 50 dBm then the
UTRA~ACLR1~ and UTRA~ACLR2~ shall be higher than the value specified in Table
6.5.2.4.2-1.
Table 6.5.2.4.2-1: UTRA ACLR requirement
                Power class 3
* * *
UTRA~ACLR1~ 33 dB UTRA~ACLR2~ 36 dB
UTRA ACLR requirement is applicable when signalled by the network with network
signalling value indicated by the field _additionalSpectrumEmission_.
### 6.5.3 Spurious emission
#### 6.5.3.1 General spurious emissions
Unless otherwise stated, the spurious emission limits apply for the frequency
ranges that are more than F~OOB~ (MHz) in Table 6.5.3.1-1 from the edge of the
channel bandwidth. The spurious emission limits in Table 6.5.3.1-2 apply for
all transmitter band configurations (N~RB~) and channel bandwidths.
Table 6.5.3.1-1: Boundary between NR out of band and general spurious emission
domain
Channel bandwidth OOB boundary F~OOB~ (MHz)
* * *
BW~Channel~ BW**~Channel~** \+ 5
Table 6.5.3.1-2: Requirement for general spurious emissions limits
Frequency Range Maximum Level Measurement bandwidth NOTE
* * *
9 kHz ≤ f \-\, or NTN-
TDLC\-\ where \'\\' indicates the desired delay spread and
\'\\' indicates the maximum Doppler frequency (Hz).
Table B.2.2-1 show the propagation conditions that are used for the
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment for NLOS and LOS
propagation conditions.
Table B.2.2-1: Channel model parameters for NTN
Combination name Model Maximum Doppler frequency
* * *
NTN-TDLA100-200 NTN-TDLA100 200 Hz NTN-TDLC5-200 NTN-TDLC5 200 Hz
## B.2.3 MIMO Channel Correlation Matrices
The MIMO channel correlation matrices defined in B.2.3 apply for the antenna
configuration using uniform linear arrays at both gNB and UE.
### B.2.3.1 MIMO Correlation Matrices using Uniform Linear Array (ULA)
The MIMO channel correlation matrices defined in B.2.3.1 apply for the antenna
configuration using uniform linear array (ULA) at both gNB and UE.
#### B.2.3.1.1 Definition of MIMO Correlation Matrices
Table B.2.3.1.1-1 defines the correlation matrix for the gNB.
Table B.2.3.1.1-1: gNB correlation matrix
                    One antenna   Two antennas
* * *
gNB Correlation
Table B.2.3.1.1-2 defines the correlation matrix for the UE:
Table B.2.3.1.1-2: UE correlation matrix
                   One antenna   Two antennas
* * *
UE Correlation
Table B.2.3.1.1-3 defines the channel spatial correlation matrix. The
parameters, _α_ and _β_ in Table B.2.3.1-3 defines the spatial correlation
between the antennas at the gNB and UE.
Table B.2.3.1.1-3: correlation matrices
1x2 case
* * *
2x1 case  
2x2 case
#### B.2.3.1.2 MIMO Correlation Matrices at High, Medium and Low Level
The _α_ and _β_ for different correlation types are given in Table
B.2.3.1.2-1.
Table B.2.3.1.2-1: The _α_ and _β_ parameters for ULA MIMO correlation
matrices
Correlation Model α β
* * *
Low correlation 0 0
The correlation matrices low correlation are defined in Table B.2.3.1.2-2
below.
Table B.2.3.1.2-2: MIMO correlation matrices for low correlation
1x2 case
* * *
2x1 case  
2x2 case  
Note: **I** ~d~ is the _d_ × _d_ identity matrix.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Downlink physical channels
# C.1 General
This annex specifies the downlink physical channels that are needed for
setting a connection and channels that are needed during a connection.
# C.2 Setup (Conducted)
Table C.2-1 describes the downlink Physical Channels that are required for
connection set up.
Table C.2-1: Downlink Physical Channels required for connection set-up
Physical Channel
* * *
PBCH SSS PSS PDCCH PDSCH PBCH DMRS PDCCH DMRS PDSCH DMRS CSI-RS
# C.3 Connection (Conducted)
The following clauses, describes the downlink Physical Channels that are
transmitted during a connection i.e., when measurements are done.
## C.3.1 Measurement of Performance requirements
Table C.3.1-1 is applicable for measurements in which uniform RS-to-EPRE
boosting for all downlink physical channels, unless otherwise stated.
Table C.3.1-1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection (FDD
and TDD)
+------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value (Note 2) | +==============================+======+========================+ | SSS transmit power | W | Test specific | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PSS to SSS | dB | 0 | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PBCH to SSS | dB | 0 | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PBCH to PBCH | dB | 0 | | DMRS | | | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PDCCH to SSS | dB | 0 | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PDCCH to PDCCH | dB | 0 | | DMRS | | | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PDSCH to SSS | dB | 0 | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PDSCH to PDSCH | dB | Test specific (Note 1) | | DMRS | | | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of CSI-RS to SSS | dB | -10*log10(L) (Note 3) | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of OCNG to SSS | dB | 0 | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of PDCCH OCNG to | dB | 0 | | SSS | | | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | EPRE ratio of LTE CRS to NR | dB | 0 (Note 4) | | SSS | | | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+ | Note 1: Value is derived | | | | from Table 4.1-1 in TS | | | | 38.214 [12] based on | | | | \"Number of DM-RS CDM groups | | | | without data\" and \"DMRS | | | | Type\" parameters specified | | | | for each test. | | | | | | | | Note 2: The value is the | | | | energy of per RE for a | | | | single antenna port before | | | | pre-coding. | | | | | | | | Note 3: is the CDM group | | | | size of NZP CSI-RS specified | | | | for each test. | | | | | | | | Note 4: It is only | | | | applicable to LTE-NR | | | | coexistence tests. | | | +------------------------------+------+------------------------+
###### ## Annex D (informative): Void
###### ## Annex E (normative): Environmental conditions
# E.1 General
This annex specifies the environmental requirements of the UE. Within these
limits the requirements of the present documents shall be fulfilled.
# E.2 Environmental (Conducted)
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s).
## E.2.1 Temperature
The UE shall fulfil all the requirements in the temperature range defined in
Table E.2.1-1.
Table E.2.1-1: Temperature conditions
* * *
Temperature Temperature conditions +15°C to +35°C For normal conditions (with
relative humidity of 25 % to 75 %)
* * *
Outside this temperature range the UE, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the UE
exceed the transmitted levels as defined in clause 6.2 of TS 38.101-1 [6] for
extreme operation.
## E.2.2 Voltage
The UE shall fulfil all the requirements in the voltage range defined in Table
E.2.2-1.
Table E.2.2-1: Voltage conditions
+-----------------------------+-------------------+ | Power source | Normal conditions | | | | | | voltage | +-----------------------------+-------------------+ | AC mains | nominal | +-----------------------------+-------------------+ | Regulated lead acid battery | 1,1 * nominal | +-----------------------------+-------------------+ | Non regulated batteries: | Nominal | | | | | Leclanché | 1,1 * Nominal | | | | | Lithium | Nominal | | | | | Mercury/nickel & cadmium | | +-----------------------------+-------------------+
Outside this voltage range the UE if powered on, shall not make ineffective
use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the UE exceed the
transmitted levels as defined in TS 38.101-1[6, Clause 6.2] for extreme
operation. In particular, the UE shall inhibit all RF transmissions when the
power supply voltage is below the manufacturer declared shutdown voltage.
## E.2.3 Vibration
The UE shall fulfil all the requirements when vibrated at the following
frequency/amplitudes.
Table E.2.3-1: Vibration conditions
* * *
Frequency ASD (Acceleration Spectral Density) random vibration 5 Hz to 20 Hz
0,96 m2/s3 20 Hz to 500 Hz 0,96 m2/s3 at 20 Hz, thereafter --3 dB/Octave
* * *
Outside the specified frequency range the UE, if powered on, shall not make
ineffective use of the radio frequency spectrum. In no case shall the UE
exceed the transmitted levels as defined in TS 38.101-1[6] for extreme
operation.
#