# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics and minimum
performance requirements of NR Satellite Access Node (SAN).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.181: \"NR; Satellite Node conformance testing\".
[4] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\".
[8] ITU-R Recommendation SM.328: \"Spectra and bandwidth of emissions\".
[9] ITU-R Recommendation SM.1541-6: \"Unwanted emissions in the out-of-band
domain\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.212: \"NR; Multiplexing and channel coding\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.101-5: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 5: Satellite access Radio Frequency (RF) and performance
requirements"
[12] 3GPP TR 38.901: \"Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz\"
[13] 3GPP TR 38.811: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-terrestrial
networks\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**basic limit:** emissions limit relating to the power supplied by a single
transmitter to a single antenna transmission line in ITU-R SM.329 [2] used for
the formulation of unwanted emission requirements for FR1.
**beam:** beam (of the antenna) is the main lobe of the radiation pattern of
an _antenna array._
NOTE: For certain _antenna array_ , there may be more than one beam.
**beam centre direction:** direction equal to the geometric centre of the
half-power contour of the beam.
**beam direction pair:** data set consisting of the _beam centre direction_
and the related _beam peak direction._
**beam peak direction:** direction where the maximum EIRP is found.
**beamwidth:** beam which has a half-power contour that is essentially
elliptical, the half-power beamwidths in the two pattern cuts that
respectively contain the major and minor axis of the ellipse.
**Channel edge:** lowest or highest frequency of the NR carrier, separated by
the _SAN channel bandwidth_.
**directional requirement: requirement which is applied in a specific
direction within the _OTA coverage range_ for the Tx and when the AoA of the
incident wave of a received signal is within the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ or the
_minSENS RoAoA_ as appropriate for the receiver.**
**equivalent isotropic radiated power:** equivalent power radiated from an
isotropic directivity device producing the same field intensity at a point of
observation as the field intensity radiated in the direction of the same point
of observation by the discussed device.
NOTE: Isotropic directivity is equal in all directions (i.e. 0 dBi).
**equivalent isotropic sensitivity:** sensitivity for an isotropic directivity
device equivalent to the sensitivity of the discussed device exposed to an
incoming wave from a defined AoA.
NOTE 1: The sensitivity is the minimum received power level at which specific
requirement is met.
NOTE 2: Isotropic directivity is equal in all directions (i.e. 0 dBi).
**feeder link:** Wireless link between satellite-Gateway and satellite.
**Geostationary Earth Orbit:** Circular orbit at 35,786 km above the Earth\'s
equator and following the direction of the Earth\'s rotation. An object in
such an orbit has an orbital period equal to the Earth\'s rotational period
and thus appears motionless, at a fixed position in the sky, to ground
observers.
**Low Earth Orbit:** Orbit around the Earth with an altitude between 300 km,
and 1500 km.
**Highest Carrier:** The carrier with the highest carrier frequency
transmitted/received in a specified frequency band.
**Lowest Carrier:** The carrier with the lowest carrier frequency
transmitted/received in a specified frequency band.
**maximum carrier output power:** mean power level measured per carrier at the
indicated interface, during the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified
reference condition.
**maximum carrier TRP output power:** mean power level measured per RIB during
the _transmitter ON period_ for a specific carrier in a specified reference
condition and corresponding to the declared _rated carrier TRP output_ power
(P~rated,c,TRP~).
**maximum total output power:** mean power level measured within the
_operating band_ at the indicated interface, during the _transmitter ON
period_ in a specified reference condition.
**maximum total TRP output power:** mean power level measured per RIB during
the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified reference condition and
corresponding to the declared _rated total TRP output_ power (P~rated,t,TRP~).
**measurement bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**minSENS:** the lowest declared EIS value for the OSDD\'s declared for OTA
sensitivity requirement**.**
**minSENS RoAoA:** The _reference RoAoA_ associated with the OSDD with the
lowest declared EIS.
**minimum elevation angle** : Minimum angle under which the satellite can be
seen by a UE.
**non-terrestrial networks:** Networks, or segments of networks, using an
airborne or space-borne vehicle to embark a transmission equipment relay node
or SAN.
**operating band:** frequency range in which NR operates (paired or unpaired),
that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements.
NOTE: The _operating band_(s) for a SAN is declared by the manufacturer
according to the designations in tables 5.2-1 and 5.2-2.
**OTA coverage range** : a common range of directions within which TX OTA
requirements that are neither specified in the _OTA peak directions sets_ nor
as _TRP requirement_ are intended to be met.
**OTA peak directions set:** set(s) of  _beam peak directions_ within which
certain TX OTA requirements are intended to be met, where all  _OTA peak
directions set(s)_ are subsets of the  _OTA coverage range._
NOTE: The  _beam peak directions_ are related to a corresponding contiguous
range or discrete list of  _beam centre directions_ by the  _beam direction
pairs_ included in the set.
**OTA REFSENS RoAoA:** the RoAoA determined by the contour defined by the
points at which the achieved EIS is 3dB higher than the achieved EIS in the
reference direction assuming that for any AoA, the receiver gain is optimized
for that AoA.
NOTE: This contour will be related to the average element/sub-array radiation
pattern 3dB beamwidth.
**OTA sensitivity directions declaration:** set of manufacturer declarations
comprising at least one set of declared minimum EIS values (with _SAN channel
bandwidth_), and related directions over which the EIS applies.
NOTE: All the directions apply to all the EIS values in an OSDD.
**polarization match:** condition that exists when a plane wave, incident upon
an antenna from a given direction, has a polarization that is the same as the
receiving polarization of the antenna in that direction.
**radiated interface boundary** : _operating band_ specific radiated
requirements reference where the radiated requirements apply.
NOTE: For requirements based on EIRP/EIS, the _radiated interface boundary_ is
associated to the far-field region.
**Radio Bandwidth:** **frequency difference between the upper edge of the
highest used carrier and the lower edge of the lowest used carrier.**
**rated beam EIRP:** For a declared beam and _beam direction pair_ , the
_rated beam EIRP_ level is the maximum power that the SAN is declared to
radiate at the associated _beam peak direction_ during the _transmitter ON
period._
**rated carrier output power:** mean power level associated with a particular
carrier the manufacturer has declared to be available at the indicated
interface, during the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified reference
condition.
**rated carrier TRP output power:** mean power level declared by the
manufacturer per carrier, for SAN operating in single carrier, multi-carrier,
or carrier aggregation configurations that the manufacturer has declared to be
available at the RIB during the _transmitter ON period._
**rated total output power:** mean power level associated with a particular
_operating band_ the manufacturer has declared to be available at the
indicated interface, during the _transmitter ON period_ in a specified
reference condition.
**rated total TRP output power:** mean power level declared by the
manufacturer, that the manufacturer has declared to be available at the RIB
during the _transmitter ON period._
**reference beam direction pair: declared _beam direction pair _, including
reference_ beam centre direction _and reference_ beam peak direction _where
the reference_ beam peak direction _is the direction for the intended maximum
EIRP within the_ OTA peak directions set._**
**receiver target:** AoA in which reception is performed by _SAN types 1-H_ or
_SAN type 1-O._
**receiver target redirection range:** union of all the _sensitivity RoAoA_
achievable through redirecting the _receiver target_ related to particular
OSDD.
**receiver target reference direction: direction inside the _OTA sensitivity
directions declaration _declared by the manufacturer for conformance testing.
For an OSDD without_ receiver target redirection range _, this is a direction
inside the_ sensitivity RoAoA._**
**reference RoAoA** : the _sensitivity RoAoA_ associated with the _receiver
target reference direction_ for each OSDD.
**requirement set:** one of the NR SAN requirement\'s set as defined for _SAN
type 1-H_ , _SAN type 1-O._
**SAN channel bandwidth** : RF bandwidth supporting a single NR RF carrier
with the _transmission bandwidth_ configured in the uplink or downlink.
NOTE 1: The _SAN channel bandwidth_ is measured in MHz and is used as a
reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
NOTE 2: It is possible for the SAN to transmit to and/or receive from one or
more satellite UE bandwidth parts that are smaller than or equal to the _SAN
transmission bandwidth configuration_ , in any part of the _SAN transmission
bandwidth configuration_.
**SAN RF Bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which a SAN transmits and/or receives
single or multiple carrier(s) within a supported _operating band._
NOTE: In single carrier operation, the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ is equal to the _SAN
channel bandwidth_.
**SAN RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of one of the edges of the _SAN RF
Bandwidth_.
**SAN transmission bandwidth configuration** : set of resource blocks located
within the _SAN channel bandwidth_ which may be used for transmitting or
receiving by the SAN.
**SAN type 1-H:** Satellite Access Node operating at FR1 with a requirement
set consisting of conducted requirements defined at individual _TAB
connectors_ and OTA requirements defined at RIB.
**SAN type 1-O:** Satellite Access Node operating at FR1 with a requirement
set consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the RIB.
**SAN total assigned bandwidth:** Bandwidth of the total assigned band
(frequencies range) as defined in SM.1541-6
**SAN transponder bandwidth: Total bandwidth of the carrier(s) in operation by
one SAN transponder.**
NOTE: When the SAN transponder operates one carrier only, the SAN transponder
bandwidth is equal to the SAN channel bandwidth of this carrier.
**SAN transponder:** part of the SAN permitting to receive, channelize and
transmit signals within an allocated bandwidth.
**satellite:** A space-borne vehicle embarking a bent pipe payload or a
regenerative payload telecommunication transmitter, placed into Low-Earth
Orbit (LEO) or Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO).
**Satellite Access Node** : node providing NR user plane and control plane
protocol terminations towards NTN Satellite capable UE, and connected via the
NG interface to the 5GC. It encompass a transparent NTN payload on board a NTN
platform, a gateway and gNB functions.
**satellite-gateway:** An earth station or gateway is located at the surface
of Earth, and providing sufficient RF power and RF sensitivity for accessing
to the satellite.
**sensitivity RoAoA: RoAoA within the _OTA sensitivity directions declaration_
, within which the declared EIS(s) of an OSDD is intended to be achieved at
any** instance of time **for a specific SAN direction setting.**
**TAB connector:** _transceiver array boundary_ connector.
**total radiated power: is the total power radiated by the antenna.**
NOTE: The _total radiated power_ is the power radiating in all direction for
two orthogonal polarizations. _Total radiated power_ is defined in both the
near-field region and the far-field region.
**transceiver array boundary:** conducted interface between the transceiver
unit array and the composite antenna.
**transmission bandwidth:** RF Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from
a satellite UE or SAN, measured in resource block units.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
β Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied
bandwidth on the assigned channel.
BeW~θ,REFSENS~ Beamwidth equivalent to the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ in the θ-axis
in degrees. Applicable for FR1 only.
BeW~φ,REFSENS~ Beamwidth equivalent to the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ in the φ-axis
in degrees. Applicable for FR1 only.
BW~Channel~ _SAN channel bandwidth._
BW~Config~ _Transmission bandwidth configuration_ , where BW~Config~ = _N_
~RB~ x SCS x 12.
BW~GB,low~ The minimum guard band defined in clause 5.3.3 for lowest assigned
component carrier.
BW~GB,high~ The minimum guard band defined in clause 5.3.3 for highest
assigned component carrier.
BW~SAN~ The _SAN transponder bandwidth_
∆f Separation between the _channel edge_ frequency and the nominal -3 dB point
of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
ΔF~Global~ Global frequency raster granularity.
∆f~max~ f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the measuring filter.
Δf~OOB~ Maximum offset of the out-of-band boundary from the uplink _operating
band_ edge.
Δ~minSENS~ Difference between conducted reference sensitivity and minSENS.
Δ~OTAREFSENS~ Difference between conducted reference sensitivity and OTA
REFSENS.
ΔF~Raster~ Channel raster granularity.
EIS~minSENS~ The EIS declared for the _minSENS RoAoA._
EIS~REFSENS~ OTA REFSENS EIS value.
F~C~ _RF reference frequency_ on the channel raster, given in table 5.4.2.2-1.
F~C,low~ The Fc of the _lowest carrier_ , expressed in MHz.
F~C,high~ The Fc of the _highest carrier_ , expressed in MHz.
F~DL,low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band._
F~DL,high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band._
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency.
F~offset,high~ Frequency offset from F~C,high~ to the upper _SAN RF Bandwidth
edge._
F~offset,low~ Frequency offset from F~C,low~ to the lower _SAN RF Bandwidth
edge._
f_offset Separation between the _channel edge_ frequency and the centre of the
measuring.
f_offset~max~ The offset to the frequency Δf~OBUE~ outside the downlink
_operating band._
F~REF~ RF reference frequency.
F~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating F~REF.~
F~UL,low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink _operating band._
F~UL,high~ The highest frequency of the uplink _operating band._
Physical resource block number.
N~RB~ _Transmission bandwidth configuration_ , expressed in resource blocks.
N~REF~ NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (NR-ARFCN).
N~REF-Offs~ Offset used for calculating N~REF~ scaling per cell, as calculated
in clause 6.1.
P~EIRP,N~ EIRP level for channel N.
P~max,c,TABC~ The _maximum carrier output power per TAB connector._
P~max,c**,** TRP~ _Maximum carrier TRP output power_ measured at the RIB(s),
and corresponding to the declared _rated carrier TRP output power_
(**P~rated,c,TRP~**).
P~max,c,EIRP~ The maximum carrier EIRP when the SAN is configured at the
maximum rated carrier output TRP (P~rated,c,TRP~).
P~rated,c,sys~ P~rated,c,sys,GEO~ for SAN GEO class or P~rated,c,sys,LEO~ for
SAN LEO class.
P~rated,c,sys,GEO~ The sum of P~rated,c,TABC~ for all _TAB connectors_ for a
single carrier of the SAN GEO class.
P~rated,c,sys,LEO~ The sum of P~rated,c,TABC~ for all _TAB connectors_ for a
single carrier of the SAN LEO class.
P~rated,c,TABC~ P~rated,c,TABC,GEO~ for SAN GEO class or P~rated,c,TABC,LEO~
for SAN LEO class.
P~rated,c,TABC,GEO~ The _rated carrier output power per TAB connector_ of the
SAN GEO class _._
P~rated,c,TABC,LEO~ The _rated carrier output power per TAB connector_ of the
SAN LEO class _._
**P~rated,c,TRP~** _Rated carrier TRP output power_ declared per RIB.
P~rated,t,TRP~ _Rated total TRP output power_ declared per RIB.
P~REFSENS~ Conducted Reference Sensitivity power level.
SS~REF~ SS block reference frequency position.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AA Antenna Array
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AoA Angle of Arrival
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BW Bandwidth
CA Carrier Aggregation
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
CW Continuous Wave
DFT-s-OFDM Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-OFDM
DM-RS Demodulation Reference Signal
EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power
EIS Equivalent Isotropic Sensitivity
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FR Frequency Range
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GEO Geostationary Earth Orbiting
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
LEO Low Earth Orbiting
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
NTN Non-Terrestrial Network
OOB Out-of-band
OOBE Out-of-band Emissions
OSDD OTA Sensitivity Directions Declaration
OTA Over-The-Air
PRB Physical Resource Block
PT-RS Phase Tracking Reference Signal
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RB Resource Block
RDN Radio Distribution Network
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RIB Radiated Interface Boundary
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RoAoA Range of Angles of Arrival
RX Receiver
SAN Satellite Access Node
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
SSB Synchronization Signal Block
TAB Transceiver Array Boundary
TRP Total Radiated Power
TX Transmitter
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship with other core specifications
The present document is a single-RAT specification for a SAN, covering RF
characteristics and minimum performance requirements. Conducted and radiated
core requirements are defined for the SAN architectures and SAN types defined
in clause 4.3.
The applicability of each requirement is described in clause 4.6.
## 4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
Conformance to the present specification is demonstrated by fulfilling the
test requirements specified in the conformance specification TS 38.181 [3].
The minimum requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specifications TS 38.181 [3] define test
tolerances. These test tolerances are individually calculated for each test.
The test tolerances are used to relax the minimum requirements in this
specification to create test requirements. For some requirements, including
regulatory requirements, the test tolerance is set to zero.
The measurement results returned by the test system are compared - without any
modification - against the test requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The shared risk principle is defined in recommendation ITU‑R M.1545 [4].
## 4.3 Requirement reference points
### 4.3.1 SAN type 1-H
For _SAN type 1-H_ , the requirements are defined for two points of reference,
signified by radiated requirements and conducted requirements.
{width="5.2in" height="2.169139326334208in"}
Figure 4.3.1-1: Radiated and conducted reference points for _SAN type 1-H_
Radiated characteristics are defined over the air (OTA), where the radiated
interface is referred to as the _Radiated Interface Boundary_ (RIB). Radiated
requirements are also referred to as OTA requirements. The (spatial)
characteristics in which the OTA requirements apply are detailed for each
requirement.
Conducted characteristics are defined at individual or groups of _TAB
connectors_ at the _transceiver array boundary_ , which is the conducted
interface between the transceiver unit array and the composite antenna.
The transceiver unit array is part of the composite transceiver functionality
receiving and transmitting modulated signal to ensure radio links with users.
The satellite payload is composed by a transceiver unit array and a composite
antenna array. The transceiver unit array contains an implementation specific
number of transmitter units and an implementation specific number of receiver
units.
The composite antenna contains a radio distribution network (RDN) and an
antenna array. The RDN is a linear passive network which distributes the RF
power generated by the transceiver unit array to the antenna array, and/or
distributes the radio signals collected by the antenna array to the
transceiver unit array, in an implementation specific way.
How a conducted requirement is applied to the _transceiver array boundary_ is
detailed in the respective requirement clause.
### 4.3.2 SAN type 1-O
For _SAN type 1-O_ , the radiated characteristics are defined over the air
(OTA), where the _operating band_ specific radiated interface is referred to
as the _Radiated Interface Boundary_ (RIB). Radiated requirements are also
referred to as OTA requirements. The (spatial) characteristics in which the
OTA requirements apply are detailed for each requirement.
{width="4.925in" height="2.126453412073491in"}
Figure 4.3.2-1: Radiated reference points for _SAN type 1-O_
## 4.4 Satellite Access Node classes
The requirements in this specification apply to Satellite Access Node unless
otherwise stated. The associated deployment scenarios are exactly the same for
SAN with and without connectors.
For SAN _type 1-O_ and _SAN type 1-H_ , two SAN classes (LEO and GEO) are
defined in Table 4.4-1.
Table 4.4-1 SAN classes
+-----------+-------------------------+ | SAN Class | Satellite constellation | +===========+=========================+ | GEO | GEO satellite | +-----------+-------------------------+ | LEO | LEO 600 km satellite | | | | | | LEO 1200 km satellite | +-----------+-------------------------+
## 4.5 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements, or as mandatory requirements set by local and
regional regulation. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances the regional requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.5-1 lists all requirements in the present specification that may be
applied differently in different regions.
**T** able 4.5-1: List of regional requirements
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Clause number | Requirement | Comments | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 5.2 | _Operating bands_ | Satellite _operating | | | | bands_ may be applied | | | | regionally. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 6.6.4, | Out-of-band emission, | For n255 operation in | | | | US, Limits in FCC Title | | 9.7 | OTA unwanted emissions | 47 apply. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 6.6.5 | Tx spurious emissions, | For n255 operation in | | | | US, Limits in FCC Title | | | OTA Tx spurious | 47 apply. | | | emissions | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
## 4.6 Applicability of minimum requirements
In table 4.6-1, the requirement applicability for each _requirement set_ is
defined. For each requirement, the applicable requirement clause in the
specification is identified. Requirements not included in a _requirement set_
is marked not applicable (NA).
Table 4.6-1: _Requirement set_ applicability
Requirement Requirement set
* * *
                                              *SAN type 1-H*    *SAN type 1-O*
Satellite Access Network output power 6.2  
Output power dynamics 6.3  
Transmit ON/OFF power NA  
Frequency error 6.5.1  
Modulation quality 6.5.2  
Time alignment error NA  
Occupied bandwidth 6.6.2  
ACLR 6.6.3  
Out-of-band emissions 6.6.4  
Transmitter spurious emissions 6.6.5  
Transmitter intermodulation NA NA Reference sensitivity level 7.2  
Dynamic range 7.3  
ACS 7.4.1  
In-band blocking NA  
Out-of-band blocking 7.5  
Receiver spurious emissions NA  
Receiver intermodulation NA  
In-channel selectivity 7.8  
Performance requirements 8  
Radiated transmit power 9.2 9.2 OTA Satellite Access Network output power 9.3
OTA output power dynamics 9.4 OTA transmit ON/OFF power NA OTA frequency error
9.6.1 OTA modulation quality 9.6.2 OTA time alignment error NA OTA occupied
bandwidth 9.7.2 OTA ACLR NA 9.7.3 OTA out-of-band emission 9.7.4 OTA
transmitter spurious emission 9.7.5 OTA transmitter intermodulation NA OTA
sensitivity 10.2 10.2 OTA reference sensitivity level 10.3 OTA dynamic range
10.4 OTA ACS 10.5.1 OTA in-band blocking NA OTA out-of-band blocking NA 10.6
OTA receiver spurious emission NA OTA receiver intermodulation NA OTA in-
channel selectivity 10.9 Radiated performance requirements 11
NOTE: Co-location requirements are not applicable to SAN.
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the _operating
bands_ and _SAN channel bandwidths_ defined in the present release of
specifications.
NOTE: Other _operating bands_ and _SAN channel bandwidth_ s may be considered
in future releases.
Requirements throughout the RF specifications are in many cases defined
separately for different frequency ranges (FR). The frequency ranges in which
satellite can operate according to the present version of the specification
are identified as described in table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Definition of frequency ranges
Frequency range designation Corresponding frequency range
* * *
FR1 410 MHz -- 7125 MHz
## 5.2 Operating bands
Satellite is designed to operate in the _operating bands_ defined in table
5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: Satellite _operating bands_ in FR1
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Satellite | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex mode | | _operating |_ operating | _operating | | | band_ | band _\ | band_ \ | | | | SAN receive / | SAN transmit / | | | | UE transmit | UE receive | | | | | | | | | F~UL,low~ -- | F~DL,low~ -- | | | | F~UL,high~ | F~DL,high~ | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | n256 | 1980 MHz -- | 2170 MHz -- | FDD | | | 2010 MHz | 2200 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n255 | 1626.5 MHz -- | 1525 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1660.5 MHz | 1559 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NOTE: Satellite | | | | | bands are | | | | | numbered in | | | | | descending | | | | | order from | | | | | n256. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
## 5.3 Satellite Access Node channel bandwidth
### 5.3.1 General
The _SAN channel bandwidth_ supports a single RF carrier in the uplink or
downlink at the SAN. Different _UE channel bandwidths_ may be supported within
the same spectrum for transmitting to and receiving from UEs connected to the
SAN. The placement of the _UE channel bandwidth_ is flexible but can only be
completely within the _SAN channel bandwidth_. The SAN shall be able to
transmit to and/or receive from one or more UE bandwidth parts that are
smaller than or equal to the number of carrier resource blocks on the RF
carrier, in any part of the carrier resource blocks.
The relationship between the channel bandwidth, the guard band and the
_transmission bandwidth configuration_ is shown in figure 5.3.1-1.
.
Figure 5.3.1-1: Definition of channel bandwidth and _transmission bandwidth
configuration_ for one channel
### 5.3.2 Transmission bandwidth configuration
The _transmission bandwidth configuration_ N~RB~ for each _SAN channel
bandwidth_ and subcarrier spacing is specified in table 5.3.2.-1 for FR1.
Table 5.3.2-1: Transmission bandwidth configuration N~RB~ for FR1
SCS (kHz) 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 30 MHz
* * *
              **N~RB~**   **N~RB~**   **N~RB~**   **N~RB~**   **N~RB~**
15 25 52 79 106 160 30 11 24 38 51 78 60 N/A 11 18 24 38
NOTE: All Tx and Rx requirements are defined based on _transmission bandwidth
configuration_ specified in table 5.3.2-1 for FR1.
### 5.3.3 Minimum guardband and transmission bandwidth configuration
The minimum guard band for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ and SCS is specified
in table 5.3.3-1 for FR1.
Table 5.3.3-1: Minimum guard band (kHz) (FR1)
SCS (kHz) 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 30 MHz
* * *
15 242.5 312.5 382.5 452.5 592.5 30 505 665 645 805 945 60 N/A 1010 990 1330
1290
The number of RBs configured in any _SAN channel bandwidth_ shall ensure that
the minimum guard band specified in this clause is met.
{width="5.371212817147857in" height="2.124676290463692in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1: SAN PRB utilization
In the case that multiple numerologies are multiplexed in the same symbol, the
minimum guard band on each side of the carrier is the guard band applied at
the configured _SAN channel bandwidth_ for the numerology that is
transmitted/received immediately adjacent to the guard band.
{width="6.128472222222222in" height="1.8409722222222222in"}
Figure 5.3.3-2: Guard band definition when transmitting multiple numerologies
NOTE: Figure 5.3.3-2 is not intended to imply the size of any guard between
the two numerologies. Inter-numerology guard band within the carrier is
implementation dependent.
### 5.3.4 RB alignment
For each _SAN channel bandwidth_ and each numerology, _SAN transmission
bandwidth configuration_ must fulfil the minimum guard band requirement
specified in clause 5.3.3.
For each numerology, its common resource blocks are specified in clause
4.4.4.3 in TS 38.211 [5], and the starting point of its _transmission
bandwidth configuration_ on the common resource block grid for a given channel
bandwidth is indicated by an offset to "Reference point A" in the unit of the
numerology.
For each numerology, all _UE transmission bandwidth configurations_ indicated
to UEs served by the SAN by higher layer parameter _carrierBandwidth_ defined
in TS 38.331 [6] shall fall within the _SAN transmission bandwidth
configuration_.
### 5.3.5 SAN channel bandwidth per operating band
The requirements in this specification apply to the combination of _SAN
channel bandwidths_ , SCS and _operating bands_ shown in table 5.3.5-1 for
FR1. The _transmission bandwidth configuration_ in table 5.3.2-1 shall be
supported for each of the _SAN channel bandwidths_ within the SAN capability.
The _SAN channel bandwidths_ are specified for both the Tx and Rx path.
Table 5.3.5-1: _SAN channel bandwidths_ and SCS per _operating band_ in FR1
+--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | SAN | SCS (kHz) | _SAN channel | | | | | | Operating | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | Band | | (MHz) | | | | | +==============+===========+==============+====+====+====+========+ | | | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 30 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE) | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | n256 | 30 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | | 60 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | | 15 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | n255 | 30 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | | 60 | | 10 | 15 | 20 | | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | Deployment | | | | | | | | of 30 MHz | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | | for NTN SAN | | | | | | | | needs to be | | | | | | | | preceded by | | | | | | | | introduction | | | | | | | | of all | | | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | | | Tx RF, Rx | | | | | | | | RF, and | | | | | | | | demodulation | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equirements. | | | | | | | +--------------+-----------+--------------+----+----+----+--------+
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
### 5.4.1 Channel spacing
#### 5.4.1.1 Channel spacing for adjacent carriers
The spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the size
of the frequency block available and the _SAN channel bandwidths_. The nominal
channel spacing between two adjacent SAN carriers is defined as following:
\- For SAN FR1 _operating bands_ with 100 kHz channel raster,
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the _SAN channel bandwidths_ of
the two respective SAN carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted depending
on the channel raster to optimize performance in a particular deployment
scenario.
### 5.4.2 Channel raster
#### 5.4.2.1 NR-ARFCN and channel raster
The global frequency raster defines a set of _RF reference frequencies_
F~REF~. The _RF reference frequency_ is used in signalling to identify the
position of RF channels, SS blocks and other elements. The global frequency
raster is defined for all frequencies from 0 to 100 GHz. The granularity of
the global frequency raster is ΔF~Global~.
_RF reference frequencies_ are designated by an NR Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (NR-ARFCN) in the range [0...3279165] on the global frequency
raster. The relation between the NR-ARFCN and the _RF reference frequency_
F~REF~ in MHz is given by the following equation, where F~REF-Offs~ and N~Ref-
Offs~ are given in table 5.4.2.1-1 and N~REF~ is the NR-ARFCN.
F~REF~ = F~REF-Offs~ + ΔF~Global~ (N~REF~ -- N~REF-Offs~)
Table 5.4.2.1-1: NR-ARFCN parameters for the global frequency raster
Range of frequencies (MHz) ΔF~Global~ (kHz) F~REF-Offs~ (MHz) N~REF-Offs~
Range of N~REF~
* * *
0 -- 3000 5 0 0 0 -- 599999
The _channel raster_ defines a subset of _RF reference frequencies_ that can
be used to identify the RF channel position in the uplink and downlink. The
_RF reference frequency_ for an RF channel maps to a resource element on the
carrier. For each _operating band_ , a subset of frequencies from the global
frequency raster are applicable for that band and forms a channel raster with
a granularity ΔF~Raster~, which may be equal to or larger than ΔF~Global~.
The mapping between the _channel raster_ and corresponding resource element is
given in clause 5.4.2.2. The applicable entries for each _operating band_ are
defined in clause 5.4.2.3.
#### 5.4.2.2 Channel raster to resource element mapping
The mapping between the _RF reference frequency_ on the channel raster and the
corresponding resource element is given in table 5.4.2.2-1 and can be used to
identify the RF channel position. The mapping depends on the total number of
RBs that are allocated in the channel and applies to both UL and DL. The
mapping must apply to at least one numerology supported by the SAN.
Table 5.4.2.2-1: Channel Raster to Resource Element Mapping
                                   $$N_{\text{RB}}\text{mod}2 = 0$$   $$N_{\text{RB}}\text{mod}2 = 1$$
* * *
Resource element index 0 6 Physical resource block number
k, and N~RB~ are as defined in TS 38.211 [5].
#### 5.4.2.3 Channel raster entries for each _operating band_
The RF channel positions on the channel raster in each SAN _operating band_
are given through the applicable NR-ARFCN in table 5.4.2.3-1 for FR1, using
the channel raster to resource element mapping in clause 5.4.2.2.
For SAN _operating bands_ with 100 kHz channel raster, ΔF~Raster~ = 20 ×
ΔF~Global~. In this case, every 20^th^ NR-ARFCN within the _operating band_
are applicable for the channel raster within the _operating band_ and the step
size for the channel raster in table 5.4.2.3-1 is given as \.
Table 5.4.2.3-1: Applicable NR-ARFCN per _operating band_ in FR1
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | SAN operating | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink | Downlink | | band | | | | | | (kHz) | range of N~REF~ | range of N~REF~ | | | | | | | | | (First -- | (First -- | | | | \ | \ | | | | -- Last) | -- Last) | +=================+============+=================+=================+ | n256 | 100 | 396000 -- | 434000 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 402000 | 440000 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n255 | 100 | 325300 -- | 305000 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 332100 | 311800 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.4.3 Synchronization raster
#### 5.4.3.1 Synchronization raster and numbering
The synchronization raster indicates the frequency positions of the
synchronization block that can be used by the UE for system acquisition when
explicit signalling of the synchronization block position is not present.
A global synchronization raster is defined for all frequencies. The frequency
position of the SS block is defined as SS~REF~ with corresponding number GSCN.
The parameters defining the SS~REF~ and GSCN for all the frequency ranges are
in table 5.4.3.1-1.
The resource element corresponding to the SS block reference frequency SS~REF~
is given in clause 5.4.3.2. The synchronization raster and the subcarrier
spacing of the synchronization block are defined separately for each band.
Table 5.4.3.1-1: GSCN parameters for the global frequency raster
+-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | Range of | SS block | GSCN | Range of GSCN | | frequencies | frequency | | | | (MHz) | position | | | | | SS~REF~ | | | +=================+=================+==============+===============+ | 0 -- 3000 | N * 1200 kHz + | 3N + (M-3)/2 | 2 -- 7498 | | | M * 50 kHz, | | | | | | | | | | N = 1:2499, M ϵ | | | | | {1,3,5} (Note) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | default value | | | | | for _operating | | | | | bands_ which | | | | | only support | | | | | SCS spaced | | | | | channel | | | | | raster(s) is | | | | | M=3. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.3.2 Synchronization raster to synchronization block resource element
mapping
The mapping between the synchronization raster and the corresponding resource
element of the SS block is given in table 5.4.3.2-1.
Table 5.4.3.2-1: Synchronization Raster to SS block Resource Element Mapping
* * *
Resource element index k 120
* * *
_k_ is the subcarrier number of SS/PBCH block defined in TS 38.211 clause
7.4.3.1 [5].
#### 5.4.3.3 Synchronization raster entries for each operating band
The synchronization raster for each band is given in table 5.4.3.3-1. The
distance between applicable GSCN entries is given by the \
indicated in table 5.4.3.3-1 for FR1.
Table 5.4.3.3-1: Applicable SS raster entries per _operating band_ (FR1)
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN operating | SS Block SCS | SS Block | Range of GSCN | | band | | pattern\ | | | | | (NOTE) | (First -- | | | | | \ | | | | | -- Last) | +================+==============+================+================+ | n256 | 15 kHz | Case A | 5429 -- \ | | | | | -- 5494 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | n255 | 15 kHz | Case A | 3818 -- \ | | | | | -- 3892 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 30 kHz | Case B | 3824 -- \ | | | | | -- 3886 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: SS Block | | | | | pattern is | | | | | defined in | | | | | clause 4.1 in | | | | | TS 38.213 | | | | | [7]. | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
# 6 Conducted transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the conducted transmitter characteristics are
specified at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ , with a full complement
of transceiver units for the configuration in normal operating conditions.
## 6.2 Satellite Access Node output power
### 6.2.1 General
The SAN conducted output power requirement applies at _TAB connector_ for _SAN
type 1-H_.
The _rated carrier output power_ of the _SAN type 1-H_ shall be as specified
in table 6.2.1-2.
**Table 6.2.1-2:_SAN type 1-H_ rated output power limits for SAN classes**
SAN class P~rated,c,sys~ (NOTE) P~rated,c,TABC~ (NOTE)
* * *
SAN GEO class **P~rated,c,sys,GEO~** **P~rated,c,TABC,GEO~** SAN LEO class
**P~rated,c,sys,LEO~** **P~rated,c,TABC,LEO~** NOTE: P~rated,c,sys~ or
P~rated,c,TABC~ of SAN shall be based on manufacturer declaration and comply
with regulation requirement.
### 6.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
In normal conditions, P~max,c,TABC~ shall remain within +2 dB and -2 dB of the
_rated carrier output power_ P~rated,c,TABC~ for each _TAB connector_ as
declared by the manufacturer.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
### 6.3.1 General
Transmitted signal quality (as specified in clause 6.5) shall be maintained
for the output power dynamics requirements of this clause.
Power control is used to limit the interference level.
### 6.3.2 RE power control dynamic range
#### 6.3.2.1 General
The RE power control dynamic range is the difference between the power of an
RE and the average RE power for a SAN at maximum output power (P~max,c,TABC~)
for a specified reference condition.
For _SAN type 1-H_ this requirement shall apply at each _TAB connector_
supporting transmission in the _operating band_.
#### 6.3.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
RE power control dynamic range requirement is specified in table 6.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.3.2.2-1: RE power control dynamic range
+------------------------------+------------------------------+------+ | Modulation scheme used | RE power control dynamic | | | | range (dB) | | +==============================+==============================+======+ | on the RE | (down) | (up) | +------------------------------+------------------------------+------+ | QPSK (PDCCH) | -6 | +4 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+------+ | QPSK (PDSCH) | -6 | +3 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+------+ | 16QAM (PDSCH) | -3 | +3 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+------+ | 64QAM (PDSCH) (NOTE 2) | 0 | 0 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+------+ | NOTE 1: The output power per | | | | carrier shall always be less | | | | or equal to the maximum | | | | output power of the | | | | satellite access node. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This requirement is | | | | optional, subject to | | | | manufacturer declaration. | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+------+
### 6.3.3 Total power dynamic range
#### 6.3.3.1 General
The SAN total power dynamic range is the difference between the maximum and
the minimum transmit power of an OFDM symbol for a specified reference
condition.
For _SAN type 1-H_ this requirement shall apply at each _TAB connector_
supporting transmission in the _operating band_.
NOTE 1: The upper limit of the dynamic range is the OFDM symbol power for a
SAN when transmitting on all RBs at maximum output power. The lower limit of
the total power dynamic range is the average power for single RB transmission.
The OFDM symbol shall carry PDSCH and not contain RS or SSB.
#### 6.3.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
The downlink (DL) total power dynamic range for each SAN carrier shall be
larger than or equal to the level in table 6.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.3.3.2-1: Total power dynamic range
SAN channel Total power dynamic range (dB)
* * *
bandwidth (MHz) 15 kHz SCS 30 kHz SCS 60 kHz SCS 5 13.9 10.4 N/A 10 17.1 13.8
10.4 15 18.9 15.7 12.5 20 20.2 17 13.8
## 6.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 6.5 Transmitted signal quality
### 6.5.1 Frequency error
#### 6.5.1.1 General
Frequency error is the measure of the difference between the actual SAN
transmit frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used
for RF frequency and data clock generation.
For _SAN type 1-H_ this requirement shall be applied at each _TAB connector_
supporting transmission in the _operating band._
#### 6.5.1.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
The modulated carrier frequency of each carrier configured by the SAN shall be
accurate to within 0.05 ppm observed over 1 ms.
### 6.5.2 Modulation quality
#### 6.5.2.1 General
Modulation quality is defined by the difference between the measured carrier
signal and an ideal signal. Modulation quality can e.g. be expressed as Error
Vector Magnitude (EVM). The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the
difference between the ideal symbols and the measured symbols after the
equalization. This difference is called the error vector. Details about how
the EVM is determined are specified in Annex B.
For _SAN type 1-H_ this requirement shall be applied at each _TAB connector_
supporting transmission in the _operating band._
#### 6.5.2.2 Minimum Requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
The EVM levels of each carrier for different modulation schemes on PDSCH
outlined in table 6.5.2.2-1 shall be met using the frame structure described
in clause 6.5.2.3.
Table 6.5.2.2-1: EVM requirements for _SAN type 1-H_ carrier
Modulation scheme for PDSCH Required EVM
* * *
QPSK 17.5 % 16QAM 12.5 % 64QAM (NOTE) 8 % NOTE: EVM requirement for 64QAM is
optional, subject to manufacturer declaration.
#### 6.5.2.3 EVM frame structure for measurement
EVM shall be evaluated for each carrier over all allocated resource blocks and
downlink subframes. Different modulation schemes listed in table 6.5.2.2-1
shall be considered for rank 1.
For all bandwidths, the EVM measurement shall be performed for each carrier
over all allocated resource blocks and downlink subframes within 10 ms
measurement periods. The boundaries of the EVM measurement periods need not be
aligned with radio frame boundaries.
### 6.5.3 Time alignment error
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 6.6 Unwanted emissions
### 6.6.1 General
Unwanted emissions consist of out-of-band emissions and spurious emissions
according to ITU definitions [2]. In ITU terminology, out of band emissions
are unwanted emissions immediately outside the _SAN channel bandwidth_
resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in the transmitter but
excluding spurious emissions. Spurious emissions are emissions which are
caused by unwanted transmitter effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic
emission, intermodulation products and frequency conversion products, but
exclude out of band emissions.
The out-of-band emissions requirement for the SAN transmitter is specified
both in terms of Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) and out-of-band
emissions (OOBE). There is in addition a requirement for occupied bandwidth.
Table 6.6.1-1: void
For _SAN type 1-H_ the unwanted emission requirements are applied to sum of
power over all _TAB connectors_ for all the configurations supported by the
SAN, except for occupied bandwidth in subclause 6.6.2.
### 6.6.2 Occupied bandwidth
#### 6.6.2.1 General
The occupied bandwidth is the width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean transmitted power. See
also Recommendation ITU-R SM.328 [8].
The value of β/2 shall be taken as 0.5%.
The minimum requirement below may be applied regionally. There may also be
regional requirements to declare the occupied bandwidth according to the
definition in the present clause.
For SAN _type 1-H_ this requirement shall be applied at each _TAB connector_
supporting transmission in the _operating band._
#### 6.6.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
The occupied bandwidth for each carrier shall be less than the _SAN channel
bandwidth_.
### 6.6.3 Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio
#### 6.6.3.1 General
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
The requirements shall apply outside the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ or _Radio
Bandwidth_ whatever the type of transmitter considered (single carrier or
multi-carrier) and for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer's
specification.
#### 6.6.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-H_
The ACLR is defined with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the
transmission bandwidth configuration of the transmitted signal (BW~Config~)
centred on the assigned channel frequency and a filter centred on the adjacent
channel frequency according to the tables below.
The ACLR shall be higher than the value specified in Table 6.6.3.2-1/2.
Table 6.6.3.2-1: SAN ACLR limit for GEO class
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | SAN channel | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | adjacent | adjacent | the | | | of | channel | channel | adjacent | (dB) | | low | centre | carrier | channel | | | est/highest | frequency | (i | frequency | | | carrier | offset | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | below the | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | lowest or | | rresponding | | | (MHz) | above the | | filter | | | | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | 5, 10, 15, | BW~Channel~ | NR of same | Square | 14 | | 20 | | BW (NOTE 2) | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | NR of same | Square | 14 | | | BW~Channel~ | BW (NOTE 2) | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | _SAN | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | of the | | | | | | _low | | | | | | est/highest | | | | | | carrier_ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
Table 6.6.3.2-2: SAN ACLR limit for LEO class
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | SAN channel | SAN | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | bandwidth | adjacent | adjacent | the | | | of | channel | channel | adjacent | (dB) | | low | centre | carrier | channel | | | est/highest | frequency | (i | frequency | | | carrier | offset | nformative) | and | | | transmitted | below the | | co | | | BW~Channel~ | lowest or | | rresponding | | | (MHz) | above the | | filter | | | | highest | | bandwidth | | | | carrier | | | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | 5, 10, 15, | BW~Channel~ | NR of same | Square | 24 | | 20 | | BW (NOTE 2) | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | NR of same | Square | 24 | | | BW~Channel~ | BW (NOTE 2) | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | _SAN | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration_ | | | | | | of the | | | | | | _low | | | | | | est/highest | | | | | | carrier_ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
### 6.6.4 Out-of-band emissions
#### 6.6.4.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the out-of-band emission (OOBE) limits for SAN in FR1
are defined from BW~SAN~ channel edge up to frequencies separated from the
BW~SAN~ channel edge by 200% of the necessary bandwidth.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered and
for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer's specification.
_Basic limits_ are specified in the tables below, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the BW~SAN~ _channel edge_ frequency and the
nominal -3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the _channel edge_ frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- PSD~Channel~ [dBm/4kHz] represents the Power Spectral Density of the
channel(s) operating in BW~SAN~.
\- BW~SAN~ [MHz] is the considered SAN transponder bandwidth.
\- $\Delta_{Sat_ Class}\left\lbrack \text{dB} \right\rbrack$ is the _SAN class
parameter_ in dB identified to characterize different SAN classes.
6.6.4.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
For SAN operating in Bands n256, n255, the _requirements_ are specified in
table 6.6.4.2-1 for GEO and LEO class respectively, in line with Annex 5 of
ITU recommendation SM.1541-6 [9].
The SAN out-of-band emissions(OOBE) requirements for GEO and LEO classes are
therefore defined as described in Table 6.6.4.2‑1 below.
Table 6.6.4.2-1: SAN LEO and GEO Classes OBUE basic limits
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Basic limits | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (dBm) | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 47 | P~r | | | | | | ated,c,sys~ | | | | | | -- 60dB | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | * | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidth*s | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], | | | | | | s4.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Upper | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], s2.5 | | | | | | table 1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | lower | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | replaced by | | | | | | 0.7 times | | | | | | the | | | | | | waveguide | | | | | | cut-off | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | according | | | | | | to ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], for | | | | | | systems | | | | | | having an | | | | | | integral | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | in | | | | | | corporating | | | | | | a waveguide | | | | | | section, or | | | | | | with an | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | connection | | | | | | in such | | | | | | form, and | | | | | | of | | | | | | unperturbed | | | | | | length | | | | | | equal to at | | | | | | least twice | | | | | | the | | | | | | cut-off. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 6.6.5.2.2 Protection of the own Satellite Access Node receiver
This requirement shall be applied for NR FDD operation in order to prevent the
receivers of the SAN being de-sensitized by emissions from its own SAN
transmitter. It is measured at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ for any
type of SAN which has common or separate Tx/Rx _TAB connectors_.
The spurious emission _basic limits_ are provided in table 6.6.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.6.5.2.2-1: SAN spurious emissions _basic limits_ for protection of the
SAN receiver
Frequency range _Basic limits_ _Measurement bandwidth_
* * *
F~UL,low~ -- F~UL,high~ -96 dBm 100 kHz
##### 6.6.5.2.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
The additional spurious emissions requirement is not applicable for SAN.
##### 6.6.5.2.4 Co-location with other Satellite Access Nodes
The co-location requirement is not applicable for SAN.
## 6.7 Transmitter intermodulation
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
# 7 Conducted receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
Conducted receiver characteristics are specified at the _TAB connector_ for
_SAN type 1-H_ , with full complement of transceivers for the configuration in
normal operating condition.
Unless otherwise stated, the following arrangements apply for conducted
receiver characteristics requirements in clause 7:
\- Requirements shall be met for any transmitter setting.
\- The requirements shall be met with the transmitter unit(s) ON.
\- Throughput requirements do not assume HARQ retransmissions.
\- When SAN is configured to receive multiple carriers, all the throughput
requirements are applicable for each received carrier.
\- For ACS and blocking characteristics, the negative offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the lower _SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge or
_sub-block_ edge inside a _sub-block gap_ , and the positive offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the upper _SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge or
_sub-block_ edge inside a _sub-block gap_.
NOTE: In normal operating condition the SAN is configured to transmit and
receive at the same time.
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
### 7.2.1 General
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ at which a throughput
requirement shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
### 7.2.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in annex A.1 with parameters specified in
table 7.2.2-1 and 7.2.2-2 for _SAN type 1-H_ in all operating band in FR1.
Table 7.2.2-1: SAN GEO class reference sensitivity levels
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | power level, | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 5, 10, 15 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-1 | -99.3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-2 | -99.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-3 | -96.5 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-4 | -92.9 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-5 | -93.2 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-6 | -93.3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ is | | | | | the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. This | | | | | requirement | | | | | shall be met | | | | | for each | | | | | consecutive | | | | | application of | | | | | a single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel mapped | | | | | to disjoint | | | | | frequency | | | | | ranges with a | | | | | width | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to the number | | | | | of resource | | | | | blocks of the | | | | | reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel each, | | | | | except for one | | | | | instance that | | | | | might overlap | | | | | one other | | | | | instance to | | | | | cover the full | | | | | _SAN channel | | | | | bandwidth_. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
> Table 7.2.2-2: SAN LEO class reference sensitivity levels
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | Reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | power level, | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 5, 10, 15 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-1 | -102.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-2 | -102.5 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-3 | -99.6 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-4 | -96.0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-5 | -96.3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-6 | -96.4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ is | | | | | the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. This | | | | | requirement | | | | | shall be met | | | | | for each | | | | | consecutive | | | | | application of | | | | | a single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel mapped | | | | | to disjoint | | | | | frequency | | | | | ranges with a | | | | | width | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to the number | | | | | of resource | | | | | blocks of the | | | | | reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel each, | | | | | except for one | | | | | instance that | | | | | might overlap | | | | | one other | | | | | instance to | | | | | cover the full | | | | | _SAN channel | | | | | bandwidth_. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.3 Dynamic range
### 7.3.1 General
The dynamic range is specified as a measure of the capability of the receiver
to receive a wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal at the
_TAB connector_ for _SAN type 1-H_ inside the received _SAN_ channel
bandwidth. In this condition, a throughput requirement shall be met for a
specified reference measurement channel. The interfering signal for the
dynamic range requirement is an AWGN signal.
### 7.3.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in annex A.2 with parameters specified in
table 7.3.2-1 for LEO.
Table 7.3.2-1: SAN LEO class dynamic range
SAN channel bandwidth (MHz) Subcarrier spacing (kHz) Reference measurement
channel Wanted signal mean power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) /
BW~Config~ Type of interfering signal
* * *
5 15 G-FR1-A2-1 -76.4 -88.2 AWGN 30 G-FR1-A2-2 -77.1  
10 15 G-FR1-A2-1 -76.4 -85.0 AWGN 30 G-FR1-A2-2 -77.1  
60 G-FR1-A2-3 -74.1  
15 15 G-FR1-A2-1 -76.4 -83.2 AWGN 30 G-FR1-A2-2 -77.1  
60 G-FR1-A2-3 -74.1  
20 15 G-FR1-A2-4 -70.2 -81.9 AWGN 30 G-FR1-A2-5 -70.2  
60 G-FR1-A2-6 -70.5  
NOTE: The wanted signal mean power is the power level of a single instance of
the corresponding reference measurement channel. This requirement shall be met
for each consecutive application of a single instance of the reference
measurement channel mapped to disjoint frequency ranges with a width
corresponding to the number of resource blocks of the reference measurement
channel each, except for one instance that might overlap one other instance to
cover the full _SAN channel bandwidth_.
## 7.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
### 7.4.1 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
#### 7.4.1.1 General
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency at _TAB connector_
for _SAN type 1-H_ in the presence of an adjacent channel signal with a
specified center frequency offset of the interfering signal to the band edge
of a victim system.
#### 7.4.1.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel.
For SAN, the wanted and the interfering signal coupled to the _SAN type 1-H_
_TAB connector_ are specified in table 7.4.1.2-1 and the frequency offset
between the wanted and interfering signal in table 7.4.1.2-2 for ACS. The
reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in table
7.2.2-1 and 7.2.2-2 for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ in any operating band and
further specified in annex A.1. The characteristics of the interfering signal
is further specified in annex C.
The ACS requirement is applicable outside the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ or _Radio
Bandwidth_. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the _SAN RF
Bandwidth_ edges or _Radio Bandwidth_ edges.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type
1-H._
Table 7.4.1.2-1: Satellite Access Node ACS requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SAN channel | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | | bandwidth of the | power (dBm) | mean power (dBm) | | lowest/highest | | | | carrier received | | | | (MHz) | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 5, 10, 15, 20\ | P~REFSENS~ + 6 dB | SAN GEO class: -57 | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | (NOTE 2) | SAN LEO class: -60 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The SCS for | | | | the lowest/highest | | | | carrier received is | | | | the lowest SCS | | | | supported by the SAN | | | | for that bandwidth. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: P~REFSENS~ | | | | depends on the _SAN | | | | channel bandwidth_ | | | | as specified in | | | | table 7.2.2-1 and | | | | 7.2.2-2. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 7.4.1.2-2: Satellite Access Node ACS interferer frequency offset values
SAN channel bandwidth of the lowest/highest carrier received (MHz) Interfering
signal center frequency offset from the lower/upper SAN RF Bandwidth edge
(MHz) Type of interfering signal
* * *
5 ±2.5025  
10 ±2.5075 5 MHz CP-OFDM NR signal 15 ±2.5125 15 kHz SCS, 25 RBs 20 ±2.5025
### 7.4.2 In-band blocking
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 7.5 Out-of-band blocking
### 7.5.1 General
The out-of-band blocking characteristics is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel at the _TAB connector_ for
_SAN type 1-H_ in the presence of an unwanted interferer out of the _operating
band_ , which is a CW signal for out-of-band blocking.
### 7.5.2 Minimum requirements for _SAN type 1-H_
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to _SAN
type 1-H_ _TAB connector_ using the parameters in table 7.5.2-1.
The reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in
clause 7.2.2 for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ and further specified in annex
A.1.
The out-of-band blocking requirement apply from 1 MHz to F~UL,low~ - Δf~OOB~
and from F~UL,high~ + Δf~OOB~ up to 12750 MHz, including the downlink
frequency range of the FDD _operating band_ for SAN. The Δf~OOB~ for _SAN type
1-H_ is defined in table 7.5.2-2.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _TAB connector_ for _SAN type
1-H._
Table 7.5.2-1: Out-of-band blocking requirement for NR
* * *
Wanted signal mean power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) Type of
interfering signal
P~REFSENS~ +6 dB\ -44 CW carrier (NOTE)
NOTE: P~REFSENS~ depends on the _SAN channel bandwidth_.
* * *
Table 7.5.2-2: Δf~OOB~ offset for NR _operating bands_
SAN type _Operating band_ characteristics Δf~OOB~ (MHz)
* * *
_SAN type 1-H_ F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ \ 47 | P~r | | | | | | ated,c,TRP~ | | | | | | -- 60dB | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | * | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidth*s | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], | | | | | | s4.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Upper | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | as in ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], s2.5 | | | | | | table 1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | lower | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | replaced by | | | | | | 0.7 times | | | | | | the | | | | | | waveguide | | | | | | cut-off | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | according | | | | | | to ITU-R | | | | | | SM.329 | | | | | | [2], for | | | | | | systems | | | | | | having an | | | | | | integral | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | in | | | | | | corporating | | | | | | a waveguide | | | | | | section, or | | | | | | with an | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | connection | | | | | | in such | | | | | | form, and | | | | | | of | | | | | | unperturbed | | | | | | length | | | | | | equal to at | | | | | | least twice | | | | | | the | | | | | | cut-off. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 9 _.7.5.2.3 Protection of the SAN receiver_
The co-location requirement is not applicable for SAN in this version of the
specification.
##### 9.7.5.2.4 Additional spurious emissions requirements
The additional spurious emissions requirement is not applicable for SAN.
## 9.8 OTA transmitter intermodulation
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
# 10 Radiated receiver characteristics
## 10.1 General
Radiated receiver characteristics are specified at RIB for _SAN type 1-H or_
_SAN type 1-O_ , with full complement of transceivers for the configuration in
normal operating condition.
Unless otherwise stated, the following arrangements apply for the radiated
receiver characteristics requirements in clause 10:
\- Requirements shall be met for any transmitter setting.
\- The requirements shall be met with the transmitter unit(s) ON.
\- Throughput requirements defined for the radiated receiver characteristics
do not assume HARQ retransmissions.
\- When SAN is configured to receive multiple carriers, all the throughput
requirements are applicable for each received carrier.
\- For ACS and blocking characteristics, the negative offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the lower _SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge, and
the positive offsets of the interfering signal apply relative to the upper
_SAN RF Bandwidth_ edge.
\- Each requirement shall be met over the RoAoA specified.
NOTE 1: In normal operating condition the SAN in FDD operation is configured
to transmit and receive at the same time.
For FR1 requirements which are to be met over the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA_ absolute
requirement values are offset by the following term:
Δ~OTAREFSENS~ = 44.1 - 10*log~10~(BeW~θ,REFSENS*~BeW~φ,REFSENS~) dB for the
reference direction
and
Δ~OTAREFSENS~ = 41.1 - 10*log~10~(BeW~θ,REFSENS*~BeW~φ,REFSENS~) dB for all
other directions
For requirements which are to be met over the _minSENS RoAoA_ absolute
requirement values are offset by the following term:
Δ~minSENS~ = P~REFSENS~ -- EIS~minSENS~ (dB)
## 10.2 OTA sensitivity
#### 10.2.1 General
The OTA sensitivity requirement is a _directional requirement_ based upon the
declaration of one or more _OTA sensitivity direction declarations_ (OSDD),
related to a _SAN type 1-H_ and _SAN type 1-O_ receiver.
The _SAN type 1-H_ and _SAN type 1-O_ may optionally be capable of
redirecting/changing the _receiver target_ by means of adjusting SAN settings
resulting in multiple _sensitivity RoAoA_. The _sensitivity RoAoA_ resulting
from the current SAN settings is the active _sensitivity RoAoA_.
If the SAN is capable of redirecting the _receiver target_ related to the OSDD
then the OSDD shall include:
\- _SAN channel bandwidth_ and declared minimum EIS level applicable to any
active _sensitivity RoAoA_ inside the _receiver target redirection range_ in
the OSDD.
\- A declared _receiver target redirection range_ , describing all the angles
of arrival that can be addressed for the OSDD through alternative settings in
the SAN.
\- Five declared _sensitivity RoAoA_ comprising the conformance testing
directions as detailed in TS 38.181 [3].
\- The _receiver target reference direction_.
NOTE 1: Some of the declared _sensitivity RoAoA_ may coincide depending on the
redirection capability.
NOTE 2: In addition to the declared _sensitivity RoAoA_ , several _sensitivity
RoAoA_ may be implicitly defined by the _receiver target redirection range_
without being explicitly declared in the OSDD.
If the SAN is not capable of redirecting the _receiver target_ related to the
OSDD, then the OSDD includes only:
\- The set(s) of RAT, _SAN channel bandwidth_ and declared minimum EIS level
applicable to the _sensitivity RoAoA_ in the OSDD.
\- One declared active _sensitivity RoAoA_.
\- The _receiver target reference direction_.
NOTE 3: For SAN without target redirection capability, the declared (fixed)
_sensitivity RoAoA_ is always the active _sensitivity RoAoA_.
The OTA sensitivity EIS level declaration shall apply to each supported
polarization, under the assumption of _polarization match_.
### 10.2.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
For a received signal whose AoA of the incident wave is within the active
_sensitivity RoAoA_ of an OSDD, the error rate criterion as described in
clause 7.2 shall be met when the level of the arriving signal is equal to the
minimum EIS level in the respective declared set of EIS level and _SAN channel
bandwidth_.
## 10.3 OTA reference sensitivity level
### 10.3.1 General {#general-54 .list-paragraph}
The OTA REFSENS requirement is a _directional requirement_ and is intended to
ensure the minimum OTA reference sensitivity level for a declared _OTA REFSENS
RoAoA_. The OTA reference sensitivity power level EIS~REFSENS~ is the minimum
mean power received at the RIB at which a reference performance requirement
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
The OTA REFSENS requirement shall apply to each supported polarization, under
the assumption of _polarization match_.
### 10.3.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_ {#minimum-requirement-for-
san-type-1-o-10 .list-paragraph}
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in the corresponding table and annex A.1 when
the OTA test signal is at the corresponding EIS~REFSENS~ level and arrives
from any direction within the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA._
Table 10.3.2-1: SAN GEO class reference sensitivity levels
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | OTA reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | level, | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 5, 10, 15 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-1 | -99.3 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-2 | -99.4 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-3 | -96.5 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-4 | -92.9 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-5 | -93.2 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-6 | -93.3 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | | is the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. This | | | | | requirement | | | | | shall be met | | | | | for each | | | | | consecutive | | | | | application of | | | | | a single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel mapped | | | | | to disjoint | | | | | frequency | | | | | ranges with a | | | | | width | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to the number | | | | | of resource | | | | | blocks of the | | | | | reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel each, | | | | | except for one | | | | | instance that | | | | | might overlap | | | | | one other | | | | | instance to | | | | | cover the full | | | | | _SAN channel | | | | | bandwidth_. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 10.3.2-2: SAN LEO class reference sensitivity levels
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SAN channel | Sub-carrier | Reference | OTA reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel | level, | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | +================+================+================+================+ | 5, 10, 15 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-1 | -102.4 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-2 | -102.5 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-3 | -99.6 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 15 | G-FR1-A1-4 | -96.0 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 30 | G-FR1-A1-5 | -96.3 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20 | 60 | G-FR1-A1-6 | -96.4 - | | | | | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | | is the power | | | | | level of a | | | | | single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel. This | | | | | requirement | | | | | shall be met | | | | | for each | | | | | consecutive | | | | | application of | | | | | a single | | | | | instance of | | | | | the reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel mapped | | | | | to disjoint | | | | | frequency | | | | | ranges with a | | | | | width | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to the number | | | | | of resource | | | | | blocks of the | | | | | reference | | | | | measurement | | | | | channel each, | | | | | except for one | | | | | instance that | | | | | might overlap | | | | | one other | | | | | instance to | | | | | cover the full | | | | | _SAN channel | | | | | bandwidth_. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 10.4 OTA dynamic range
## 10.4.1 General
The OTA dynamic range is a measure of the capability of the receiver unit to
receive a wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal inside the
received _SAN channel bandwidth_.
The requirement shall apply at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of a
received signal and the interfering signal are from the same direction and are
within the _OTA REFSENS RoAoA._
The wanted and interfering signals apply to each supported polarization, under
the assumption of _polarization match_.
### 10.4.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in annex A.2 with parameters specified in
table 10.4.2-1 for LEO SAN.
Table 10.4.2-1: SAN LEO class dynamic range
SAN channel bandwidth (MHz) Subcarrier spacing (kHz) Reference measurement
channel Wanted signal mean power (dBm) Interfering signal mean power (dBm) /
BW~Config~ Type of interfering signal
* * *
5 15 G-FR1-A2-1 -76.4 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -88.2 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN 30 G-FR1-A2-2
-77.1 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~  
10 15 G-FR1-A2-1 -76.4 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -85.0 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN 30
G-FR1-A2-2 -77.1 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~  
60 G-FR1-A2-3 -74.1- Δ~OTAREFSENS~  
15 15 G-FR1-A2-1 -76.4- Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -83.2 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN 30 G-FR1-A2-2
-77.1 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~  
60 G-FR1-A2-3 -74.1 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~  
20 15 G-FR1-A2-4 -70.2 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ -81.9 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~ AWGN 30
G-FR1-A2-5 -70.2 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~  
60 G-FR1-A2-6 -70.5 - Δ~OTAREFSENS~  
NOTE: The wanted signal mean power is the power level of a single instance of
the corresponding reference measurement channel. This requirement shall be met
for each consecutive application of a single instance of the reference
measurement channel mapped to disjoint frequency ranges with a width
corresponding to the number of resource blocks of the reference measurement
channel each, except for one instance that might overlap one other instance to
cover the full _SAN channel bandwidth_.
## 10.5 OTA in-band selectivity and blocking
### 10.5.1 OTA adjacent channel selectivity
#### 10.5.1.1 General
OTA Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver\'s ability
to receive an OTA wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of an OTA adjacent channel signal with a specified centre frequency
offset of the interfering signal to the band edge of a victim system.
#### 10.5.1.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
The requirement shall apply at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of a
received signal and the interfering signal are from the same direction and are
within the _minSENS RoAoA_.
The wanted and interfering signals apply to each supported polarization, under
the assumption o _f polarization match_.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel.
For FR1, the OTA wanted signal and the interfering signal are specified in
table 10.5.1.2-1 and table 10.5.1.2-2 for OTA ACS. The reference measurement
channel for the OTA wanted signal is further specified in annex A.1. The
characteristic of the interfering signal is further specified in annex C.
The OTA ACS requirement is applicable outside the _SAN RF Bandwidth_ or _Radio
Bandwidth_. The OTA interfering signal offset is defined relative to the _SAN
RF Bandwidth edges_ or _Radio Bandwidth edges_.
Table 10.5.1.2-1: OTA ACS requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SAN channel | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | | bandwidth of the | power (dBm) | mean power (dBm) | | lowest/highest | | | | carrier received | (NOTE 2) | | | (MHz) | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 5, 10, 15, 20 | EIS~minSENS~ + 6 dB | SAN LEO class: -60 | | (NOTE 1) | | -- Δ~minSENS~ | | | | | | | | SAN GEO class: -57 | | | | -- Δ~minSENS~ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The SCS for | | | | the _lowest/highest | | | | carrier_ received is | | | | the lowest SCS | | | | supported by the SAN | | | | for that bandwidth | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: EIS~minSENS~ | | | | depends on the _SAN | | | | channel bandwidth_ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 10.5.1.2-2: OTA ACS interferer frequency offset for _SAN type 1-O_
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SAN channel | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | bandwidth of the | centre frequency | signal | | lowest/highest | offset from the | | | carrier received | lower/upper SAN RF | | | (MHz) | Bandwidth edge or | | | | sub-block edge | | | | inside a sub-block | | | | gap (MHz) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 5 | ±2.5025 | 5 MHz CP-OFDM NR | | | | signal, | | | | | | | | 15 kHz SCS, 25 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | ±2.5075 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | ±2.5125 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | ±2.5025 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 10.5.2 OTA in-band blocking
The requirement is not applicable in this version of the specification.
## 10.6 OTA out-of-band blocking
### 10.6.1 General
The OTA out-of-band blocking characteristics are a measure of the receiver
unit ability to receive a wanted signal at the _RIB_ at its assigned channel
in the presence of an unwanted interferer.
### 10.6.2 Minimum requirement for _SAN type 1-O_
#### 10.6.2.1 General minimum requirement {#general-minimum-requirement .list-
paragraph}
The requirement shall apply at the RIB when the AoA of the incident wave of
the received signal and the interfering signal are from the same direction and
are within the _minSENS RoAoA_.
The wanted signal applies to each supported polarization, under the assumption
of _polarization match._ The interferer shall be _polarization matched_ in-
band and the polarization maintained for out-of-band frequencies.
For OTA wanted and OTA interfering signals provided at the RIB using the
parameters in table 10.6.2.1-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel. The reference measurement channel for the OTA wanted
signal is identified in clause 10.3.2 for each _SAN channel bandwidth_ and
further specified in annex A.1.
For _SAN type 1-O_ the OTA out-of-band blocking requirement apply from 30 MHz
to F~UL,low~ - Δf~OOB~ and from F~UL,high~ + Δf~OOB~ up to 12750 MHz,
including the downlink frequency range of the SAN _operating band_. The
Δf~OOB~ for _SAN type 1-O_ is defined in table 10.6.2.1-2.
Table 10.6.2.1-1: OTA out-of-band blocking performance requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Wanted signal mean | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | power (dBm) | RMS field-strength | Signal | | | (V/m) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | EIS~minSENS~ + 6 dB | 0.0029 | CW carrier | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: EIS~minSENS~ | | | | depends on the | | | | _channel bandwidth_ | | | | as specified in | | | | clause 10.2. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The RMS | | | | field-strength level | | | | in V/m is related to | | | | the interferer EIRP | | | | level at a distance | | | | described as , where | | | | EIRP is in W and r | | | | is in m. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 10.6.2.1-2: Δf~OOB~ offset for satellite _operating bands_
SAN type _Operating band_ characteristics Δf~OOB~ (MHz)
* * *
_SAN type 1-O_ F~UL,high~ -- F~UL,low~ \ \- Step 1: Use the original TDL model from TR 38.811 [13].
>
> \- Step 2: Re-order the taps in ascending delays
>
> \- Step 3: Perform delay scaling according to the procedure described in
> clause 7.7.2 in TR 38.901 [12].
\- Step 4: Apply the quantization to the delay resolution 5 ns. This is done
simply by rounding the tap delays to the nearest multiple of the delay
resolution.
\- Step 5: If multiple Rayleigh taps are rounded to the same delay bin, merge
them by calculating their linear power sum.
\- Step 6: If there is a LOS path in the model, the power for all paths could
be slightly adjusted to keep the RMS delay spread is close to target delay
spread and mean power is 0dB.
\- Step 7: Round the amplitudes of taps to one decimal (e.g. -8.78 dB -8.8 dB)
\- Step 8: If the delay spread has slightly changed due to the tap merge,
adjust the final delay spread by increasing or decreasing the power of the
last tap so that the delay spread is corrected.
\- Step 9: Re-normalize the highest Rayleigh tap to 0 dB when there is no LOS
path in the model.
Note 1: Some values of the delay profile created by the simplification steps
may differ from the values in tables G.2.1.1-2 and G.2.1.1-3 for the
corresponding model.
Note 2: For Step 5 and Step 6, the power values are expressed in the linear
domain using 6 digits of precision. The operations are in the linear domain.
### D.2.1.1 Delay profiles for FR1
The delay profiles for FR1 are selected to be representative of low, medium
and high delay spread environment. The resulting model parameters are
specified in table D.2.1.1-1 and the tapped delay line models are specified in
tables D.2.1.1-2 \~ D.2.1.1-4.
Table D.2.1.1-1: Delay profiles for NR channel models
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Model | Number of\ | Delay | Maximum | Delay | | | channel | spread | excess tap | resolution | | | taps | | delay | | | | | (r.m.s.) | (span) | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | NTN-TDLA100 | 3 | 100 ns | 285 | 5ns | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NTN-TDLC5 | 2 | 5 ns | 60 | 5ns | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table D.2.1.1-2: NTN-TDLA100 (DS = 100 ns)
Tap # Delay (ns) Power (dB) Fading distribution
* * *
1 0 0 Rayleigh 2 110 -4.7 Rayleigh 3 285 -6.5 Rayleigh
Table D.2.1.1-3: NTN-TDLC5 (DS = 5 ns)
Tap # Delay (ns) Power (dB) Fading distribution
* * *
1 0 -0.6 LOS path 0 -8.9 Rayleigh 2 60 -21.5 Rayleigh
## D.2.2 Combinations of channel model parameters
The propagation conditions used for the performance measurements in multi-path
fading environment are indicated as a combination of a channel model name and
a maximum Doppler frequency, i.e., NTN-TDLA\-\ or NTN-
TDLC\-\ where \'\\' indicates the desired delay spread and
\'\\' indicates the maximum Doppler frequency (Hz).
Table D.2.2-1 show the propagation conditions that are used for the
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment.
Table D.2.2-1: Channel model parameters for FR1
Combination name Tapped delay line model Maximum Doppler frequency
* * *
NTN-TDLA100-200 NTN-TDLA100 200 Hz NTN-TDLC5-200 NTN-TDLC5 200 Hz
## D.2.3 MIMO channel correlation matrices
The MIMO channel correlation matrices defined in annex D.2.3 apply for the
antenna configuration using uniform linear arrays at both SAN and UE and for
the antenna configuration using cross polarized antennas.
### D.2.3.1 MIMO correlation matrices using Uniform Linear Array
The MIMO channel correlation matrices defined in annex D.2.3.1 apply for the
antenna configuration using uniform linear array (ULA) at both SAN and UE.
#### D.2.3.1.1 Definition of MIMO correlation matrices
Table D.2.3.1.1-1 defines the correlation matrix for the SAN.
Table D.2.3.1.1-1: SAN correlation matrix
                 gNB correlation
* * *
One antenna {width="0.6083333333333333in" height="0.29583333333333334in"} Two
antennas {width="1.2in" height="0.5041666666666667in"}
Table D.2.3.1.1-2 defines the correlation matrix for the UE:
Table D.2.3.1.1-2: UE correlation matrix
                   One antenna
* * *
UE correlation {width="0.5in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
Table D.2.3.1.1-3 defines the channel spatial correlation
matrix{width="0.2916666666666667in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}. The
parameters, _α_ and _β_ in table D.2.3.1.1-3 defines the spatial correlation
between the antennas at the SAN and UE respectively.
Table D.2.3.1.1-3: {width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.2916666666666667in"}correlation matrices
1x1 case $$R_{\text{spat}} = R_{\text{SAN}} = 1$$
* * *
1x2 case $$R_{\text{spat}} = R_{\text{SAN}} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & \alpha \
\alpha^{*} & 1 \ \end{bmatrix}$$
For cases with more antennas at either SAN or UE or both, the channel spatial
correlation matrix can still be expressed as the Kronecker product of
$R_{\text{UE}}$ and $R_{\text{SAN}}\ $according to ${R_{\text{spat}} = \
R_{\text{UE}} \otimes R}_{\text{SAN}}$.
#### D.2.3.1.2 MIMO correlation matrices at high, medium and low level
The α and β for different correlation types are given in table D.2.3.1.2-1.
Table D.2.3.1.2-1: Correlation for high, medium and low level
Low correlation Medium correlation High correlation
* * *
α β α β α β 0 0 0.9 0.3 0.9 0.9
The correlation matrices for high, medium and low correlation are defined in
table D.2.3.1.2-2, D.2.3.1.2-3 and D.2.3.1.2-4 as below.
Table D.2.3.1.2-2: MIMO correlation matrices for high correlation
1x1 case $$R_{\text{high}} = \text{I}_{1}$$
* * *
1x2 case {width="1.0in" height="0.4236111111111111in"}
Table D.2.3.1.2-3: MIMO correlation matrices for medium correlation
1x1 case N/A
* * *
1x2 case N/A
Table D.2.3.1.2-4: MIMO correlation matrices for low correlation
1x1 case $$R_{\text{low}} = \text{I}_{1}$$
* * *
1x2 case
In table D.2.3.1.2-4, {width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} is a {width="0.4236111111111111in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} identity matrix.
NOTE: For completeness, the correlation matrices were defined for high, medium
and low correlation but performance requirements exist only for low
correlation.
D.3 Moving propagation conditions
Figure D.3-1 illustrates the moving propagation conditions for the test of the
UL timing adjustment performance. The time difference between the reference
timing and the first tap is according Equation (D.3-1). The timing difference
between moving UE and stationary UE is equal to Δτ - (_T~A~_ −31)×16×64 _T~c~_
for 15kHz SCS, Δτ - (_T~A~_ −31)×16×32 _T~c~_ for 30kHz SCS and Δτ - (_T~A~_
−31)×16×8 _T~c~_ for 120kHz SCS. The relative timing among all taps is fixed.
The parameters for the moving propagation conditions are shown in Table D.3-1.
**Figure D.3-1: Moving propagation conditions**
(D.3-1)
**Table D.3-1: Parameters for UL timing adjustment**
+---------------+--------------------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Scenario X** | +===============+================================+ | Channel model | Stationary UE: AWGN | | | | | | Moving UE: NTN-TDLA100-200 Low | +---------------+--------------------------------+ | UE speed | 120 km/h | +---------------+--------------------------------+ | CP length | Normal | +---------------+--------------------------------+ | A | 15 kHz: 10 us | | | | | | 30 kHz: 5 us | +---------------+--------------------------------+ | ∆ω | 15 kHz: 0.04 s^-1^ | | | | | | 30 kHz: 0.08 s^-1^ | +---------------+--------------------------------+
###### ##
#