# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
One of the aims of 5G is providing bandwidth flexibility. Although this is
achieved in general, but for some spectrum allocations the ability to achieve
such flexibility needs further study.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report of the Study Item on Efficient
utilization of licensed spectrum that is not aligned with existing NR channel
bandwidths, approved at TSG RAN #89-e [2]. The purpose of this document is to
capture and document the outcome of the objectives stated in the SID.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-202103: SID "Study on Efficient utilization of licensed spectrum that
is not aligned with existing NR channel bandwidths"
> [3] R4-2200031: Reply LS on specification impact for methods on efficient
> utilization of licensed spectrum that is not aligned with existing NR
> channel bandwidths, RAN2
>
> [4] R4-2119411: Reply LS on specification impact for methods on efficient
> utilization of licensed spectrum that is not aligned with existing NR
> channel bandwidths, RAN1
>
> [5] R2-1902778, "Clarification to channel bandwidth signalling", Nokia,
> Nokia Shanghai Bell, Qualcomm
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Larger Channel BW than licensed BW:** Uses the closest NR channel bandwidth
defined in Rel-17 which is larger/wider than the irregular bandwidth. Also
referred to as Next Wider CBW.
**Irregular bandwidth** : an NR bandwidth that is not defined in Rel-17
**Overlapping UE channel BW from network perspective:** network supports the
irregular bandwidth (either by a single carrier or by two overlapping
carriers) while each UE operates in an existing lower regular NR channel
bandwidth
**Combined UE channel BW (one cell):** network supports the irregular
bandwidth as well as some new UEs with support of two overlapping (RF)
carriers. Also referred to as Overlapping UE channel BW from UE perspective.
**Overlapping CA:** the irregular bandwidth is handled by two overlapping
component carriers (CCs) with NR channel bandwidth defined in Rel-17. It is
network responsibility to prevent collisions between the different component
carriers.
**Single BB carrier:** means that from baseband (RAN1) perspective, there is a
single cell with a waveform according to a single carrier
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
CBW Channel Bandwidth
FR1 Frequency Range 1
OBUE Operating Band Unwanted Emissions
RF Radio Frequency
SCBW Smaller Channel Bandwidth (Existing immediate lower channel bandwidth)
UE User Equipment
WCBW Wider Channel Bandwidth (Existing immediate wider channel bandwidth)
# 4 Background
One of the aims of 5G is providing bandwidth flexibility. Although this is
achieved in general, for some spectrum allocations the ability to achieve such
flexibility needs further study.
Solutions for the following spectrum allocations have been requested so far:
Table 4-1: Summary of operators' input for irregular channel bandwidth
Band (s) Channel Bandwidth(s)
* * *
n5 7, 11 MHz n12, n85 6, 12 MHz n26 7 MHz n28 13 MHz n29 6, 11 MHz
Some techniques have been suggested for re-using existing channel bandwidths
which can include but are not limited to overlapping UE channel bandwidths,
and/or using larger bandwidths than operator licensed bandwidth. This Study
Item is needed to evaluate where existing techniques can be used to
efficiently utilize operator spectrum allocations, and whether and how new
channel bandwidths should be created. The Study shall also analyse if a
proprietary solution(s) is sufficient.
## 4.1 Objectives
The following objectives are listed in the SID [2]
1) Identify operator licensed channel bandwidths in FR1 that do not align with
existing NR channel bandwidths.
\- Only licensed spectrum wider than 5 MHz to be considered in this SID.
\- Spectrum block of 33MHz in n28 require further investigation since there is
dual duplexer assumption (2x30MHz) for this band.
2) Evaluate the potential use of larger channel bandwidths than operator
licensed bandwidth, including the impacts on regulatory emission
requirements/UE output power implications and UE ACS/blocking impacts
depending on the guard band and the SCS.
3) Study the use of overlapping UE channel bandwidths (from both UE and
network perspective) to cover operator's license spectrum for both UL and DL,
and if new gNB channel bandwidths are needed.
NOTE: For all considered solutions, new (dedicated) channel filters (e.g. non-
integer-multiples of 5MHz) are not considered for the UE and not prioritized
for the gNB.
4) Identify operator licensed bandwidths that are not compatible with the use
of techniques like overlapping UE channel bandwidths. Every proposed method
shall be summarized with respect to whether all considered spectrum scenarios
are supported or whether there are specific limitations. Some limitations for
a specific method shall not disqualify such method if there is a trade-off
between flexibility and implementation challenges.
5) Study the complexity and efficiency of adding new channel bandwidths vs.
using other including testing aspects.
6) Generic solution(s) should be intended as much as possible, with priority
should be given to approaches that avoid the introduction of new channel BWs
on the UE side. Proprietary solutions if proven relevant should not be
precluded. Spectrally efficient methods providing a fine channel bandwidth
granularity as well as low to moderate guard band width and signalling
overhead should be preferred
7) Impact on RAN1 and RAN2 should be considered and minimized
8) For any considered solution, Ues not supporting such solution (both legacy
and new Ues) should be able to use the next lower supported channel bandwidth
in the UL and DL without implications.
9) Impact (if any) on RAN4 requirements should be identified for the preferred
solutions.
# 5 General
## 5.1 UE channel bandwidth
The following text is copied from TS38.101-1 for information:
The UE channel bandwidth supports a single NR RF carrier in the uplink or
downlink at the UE. From a BS perspective, different UE channel bandwidths may
be supported within the same spectrum for transmitting to and receiving from
Ues connected to the BS. Transmission of multiple carriers to the same UE (CA)
or multiple carriers to different Ues within the BS channel bandwidth can be
supported.
From a UE perspective, the UE is configured with one or more BWP / carriers,
each with its own UE channel bandwidth. The UE does not need to be aware of
the BS channel bandwidth or how the BS allocates bandwidth to different Ues.
The placement of the UE channel bandwidth for each UE carrier is flexible but
can only be completely within the BS channel bandwidth.
# 6 Result, Analysis outcome
## 6.1 Study of larger Channel BW than licensed BW
### 6.1.1 General Aspects
This clause describes, in general terms, how to utilize an irregular Channel
Bandwidth by deploying the "larger channel Bandwidth" method.
The premise idea is that the system is configured with the larger channel
bandwidth, as indicated in the broadcast System Information (SIB1) as
described in 6.1.2.1, or UE is reconfigured to the larger channel bandwidth in
connected mode than SIB1 as described in 6.1.2.2, but the actual number of
scheduled RBs is restricted so that it matches actual spectrum allocation
ensuring sufficiently large guard bands.
{width="1.4305555555555556in" height="0.7777777777777778in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1: Using the next larger channel bandwidth (example for 7MHz).
NOTE: It should be checked further whether it is possible to configure the
next larger channel so that it goes over the band edge and which implications
it has.
NOTE: The UE UL channel bandwidth is assumed to be the next-smaller regular
channel bandwidth (in MHz) in this study.
One of the first aspects for this approach is the size of guard bands and the
anticipated number of schedulable RBs. For the standard channel bandwidths,
both values are captured in the corresponding specification to avoid any
misinterpretation on how many RBs can be configured and scheduled. Following
the same principle for every irregular channel bandwidth would be feasible,
but would create the same amount of technical specification work as if the
corresponding irregular channel bandwidth were explicitly added to the
specifications. Thus, the number of \"available\" RBs can be calculated based
on certain assumptions.
The maximum number of \"available\" or \"schedulable\" RBs for a particular
irregular channel bandwidth can be calculated based on the assumption of using
larger guard bands from a _larger_ channel bandwidth. As an example, while
considering the 7MHz channel bandwidth, the assumption is to consider next
larger 10MHz channel guard bands at both ends, from which number of available
RBs can be calculated.
NOTE: Since a UE will be configured with the channel bandwidth, which is
larger than the actual allocation, and it is not expected to provide the usual
stop-band attenuation at the edges of the irregular channel bandwidth, it is
necessary to verify the level of potential degradation of ACS/blocking. Sub-
clause 6.1.3 provides further information on UE filters and potential
performance.
NOTE: Similarly, the gNB operating with wider channel filters cannot be
expected to provide stop-band attenuation at the edges of the irregular
channel bandwidth to guarantee the co-existence. It is assumed that the gNB
channel filters are implemented such that regulatory unwanted emissions
requirements are met outside any operator spectrum block of irregular
bandwidth (this is a common case also in existing deployments).
Table 6.1.1-1 below presents example maximum number of available RBs for
different irregular channel bandwidths considered in this study item.
NOTE: Number of available RBs and spectral utilisation are taken from
R4-2112365. The gNB transmitter filter assumption used to derive the RB
numbers is FFS.
Table 6.1.1-1: Exemplary number of RBs based on the next larger channel guard
bands (15kHz SCS).
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Channel | Next | Next | Next | Channel | Uti | | (MHz) | larger | larger | larger | Nrb | lisation | | | channel | channel | channel | | (%) | | | (MHz) | guard | | | | | | | band | Nrb | | | | | | (kHz) | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | 6 | 10 | 312,5 | 52 | 29 | 87 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | 10 | 312,5 | 52 | 35 | 90 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 11 | 15 | 382,5 | 79 | 56 | 91,6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 | 15 | 382,5 | 79 | 62 | 93 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 13 | 15 | 382,5 | 79 | 67 | 92,8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6.1.1-2 below presents similar calculations for 30kHz SCS, from which
one can see that combination of 30kHz SCS and the next larger channel is not
generally a good approach for small channel bandwidths. The main reason is
that 30kHz SCS has much larger guard bands, which immediately impacts number
of available RBs. As a small summary, assuming using guard band from the next
larger channel the resulting spectrum Utilization would range from 87 to 92.8%
for an SCS of 15kHz and 72 to 88.6% for an SCS of 30kHz.
NOTE: Number of available RBs and spectral utilisation are taken from
R4-2112365. The gNB transmitter filter assumption used to derive the RB
numbers is FFS.
Table 6.1.1-2: Exemplary number of RBs based on the next larger channel guard
bands (30kHz SCS).
Channel (MHz) Next larger channel (MHz) Next larger channel guard band (kHz)
Next larger channel Nrb Channel Nrb Utilisation (%)
* * *
6 10 665 24 12 72 7 10 665 24 15 77,1 11 15 645 38 26 85,1 12 15 645 38 29 87
13 15 645 38 32 88,6
### 6.1.2 Signalling and configuration aspects
In this section we provide further signaling details on how to support
irregular channels in the DL. Two signaling methods are described. In 6.1.2.1
the next larger or next-after-next CBW is used for an FDD case with a 7 MHz
allocation as an example. The use of the method for a TDD case with a larger
irregular block size is also illustrated. In 6.1.2.2, the next smaller CBW is
used during initial access, and then once RRC connection is established, the
next larger CBW is used.
#### 6.1.2.1 Method using a larger channel bandwidth is broadcast in SIB1
##### 6.1.2.1.1 General
The gNB broadcasts the DL carrier bandwidth and the bandwidth of the initial
BWP (BWP#0) in SIB1. For the 7MHz allocation, SIB1 can indicate DL next larger
standard channel bandwidth, i.e. 10 MHz, and that the initial DL BWP can be
set to 5 MHz:
\- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon-> frequencyInfoDL->
scs-SpecificCarrierList-> carrierBandwidth = 52 PRBs / subcarrierSpacing = 15
kHz
\- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon->
initialDownlinkBWP-> genericParameters-> locationAndBandwidth = 25 PRBs
Once the UE established the RRC connection, the gNB can account for the UE
capabilities and configure the UE accordingly. At this point the gNB can
configure the UE with the larger channel bandwidth (that used by the UE for
initial access is not known to the gNB) and with an additional BWP with a
bandwidth that differs from the bandwidth of BWP#0. gNB may configure a larger
bandwidth part that will cover the whole 7MHz allocation.
\- ServingCellConfig-> downlinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List-> carrierBandwidth = 52
PRBs, subcarrierSpacing = 15 kHz
\- ServingCellConfig-> downlinkBWP-ToAddModList-> bwp-Common->
genericParameters-> locationAndBandwidth = 35 PRBs
with the BWP size taken from Table 6.1.1-1. The PRBs within this BWP can be
scheduled. the remaining PRBs in the downlink channel bandwidth are blanked.
Alternatively, the BWP size is set to 52 PRB with 35 PRBs scheduled.
NOTE: BWPs of sizes different from the already defined channel bandwidths are
not currently tested within the RAN4 defined requirements. As such, UE
behaviour under such configuration is not verified by RAN4 requirements.
Furthermore, the above configuration does not consider the PRB grid alignment
between SIB1 channel bandwidth and UE configured channel bandwidth based on
the 100 kHz channel raster.
For the UL the UE is configured with a UE channel bandwidth smaller than the
irregular block or equal to the UL BWP#0 size such that this is the only
possible channel bandwidth and location during initial access. For
_uplinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List_ and _scs-SpecificCarrierList_ symmetric
operation bands with fixed duplex distance and asymmetric UL/DL channel
bandwidth is band specific aspect which is defined in TS 38.101-1 and TS
38.101-2. Bands which utilize the wider channel bandwidth approach for the
irregular bandwidths may need to be adopted for this aspect.
Another example of interest to some operators is 5 MHz at the bottom of n12
being shared with 6 MHz at the bottom of n85. The details can be found in
Annex A.
##### 6.1.2.1.2 FDD
We begin by listing the prerequisites and assumptions for the method of using
a larger channel bandwidth as described in this subclause to verify that these
are consistent with existing specifications and features.
There is one carrier of carrier bandwidth $N_{\text{grid}}^{\text{size},\mu}$
for subcarrier spacing configuration _μ_ per serving cell and transmission
direction (UL or DL), with $N_{\text{grid}}^{\text{size},\mu}$ as defined in
[38.211]. The carrier bandwidth $N_{\text{grid}}^{\text{size},\mu}$ is
indicated in SIB1 by the _carrierBandwidth_ for subcarrier spacing
configuration _μ_ in the _scs-SpecificCarrierList_ and is thus cell specific.
Furthermore
\- the carrier bandwidth $N_{\text{grid}}^{\text{size},\mu}$ is the BS
transmission bandwidth configuration for subcarrier spacing configuration _μ_
(not necessarily the same as a BS maximum transmission configuration for a
channel bandwidth specified in 38.104)
\- the gNB configures all UEs in a cell with an initial BWP (denoted BWP#0)
and additional BWPs contained within the said carrier bandwidth indicated in
SIB1 for the DL and UL
\- the fields _downlinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List_ and _uplinkChannelBW-PerSCS-
List_ in dedicated signalling are only used for the purpose of configuring the
UE with a size and location of a UE _regular_ channel bandwidth in MHz to
ensure compliance with regulatory requirements consistent with the
clarification of the use of UE dedicated channel bandwidths (MHz) agreed in
[5].
The UE channel bandwidth must be located within the BS channel bandwidth as
per the existing clause 5.3.1 or 38.104,
\- The _BS channel bandwidth_ supports a single NR RF carrier in the uplink or
downlink at the Base Station. Different _UE channel bandwidths_ may be
supported within the same spectrum for transmitting to and receiving from UEs
connected to the BS. The placement of the _UE channel bandwidth_ is flexible
but can only be completely within the _BS channel bandwidth_.
and its corresponding maximum bandwidth configuration must fall within the
within the _BS transmission bandwidth configuration_ of the BS channel
bandwidth as per clause 5.3.4 of 38.104
\- For each numerology, all _UE transmission bandwidth configurations_
indicated to UEs served by the BS by higher layer parameter _carrierBandwidth_
defined in TS 38.331 [11] shall fall within the _BS transmission bandwidth
configuration_.
For irregular bandwidths implemented with larger bandwidths we assume that
similar rules apply:
\- the transmission bandwidth configuration (PRB) corresponding to the
irregular bandwidth is within the carrier bandwidths
$N_{\text{grid}}^{\text{size},\mu}$ of the DL and UL carriers indicated to the
UE by SIB1, that is, the BS transmission bandwidth configuration of the BS DL
that also contain blanked PRBs if larger than the irregular block size
\- the BS does not configure a UE with any dedicated channel bandwidth (MHz)
outside the carrier resource grid indicated in SIB1.
\- the _BS channel bandwidth_ supports a single NR RF carrier in the uplink or
downlink as specified in 38.104.
The UE need not be aware of the actual BS channel bandwidth, the carrier
location and bandwidth are indicated to the UE in SIB1:
\- From a UE perspective, the UE is configured with one or more BWP /
carriers, each with its own UE channel bandwidth. The UE does not need to be
aware of the BS channel bandwidth or how the BS allocates bandwidth to
different UEs.
The channel raster defines a subset of RF reference frequencies that can be
used to identify the RF channel position in the uplink and downlink. The
mapping between the channel raster and the corresponding resource element
within a resource grid of a carrier within the RF channel is specified in the
same way in 38.104 and 38.101-1:
\- The mapping between the _RF reference frequency_ on the channel raster and
the corresponding resource element is given in table 5.4.2.2-1 and can be used
to identify the RF channel position. The mapping depends on the total number
of RBs that are allocated in the channel and applies to both UL and DL. The
mapping must apply to at least one numerology supported by the BS.
Table 5.4.2.2-1: Channel Raster to Resource Element Mapping
                                                         $$N_{\text{RB}}\text{mod}2 = 0$$   $$N_{\text{RB}}\text{mod}2 = 1$$
* * *
Resource element index 0 6 Physical resource block number
> k, and N~RB~ are as defined in TS 38.211 [...]
We assume that the corresponding notions in 38.211 are N~RB~ =
$N_{\text{grid}}^{\text{size},\mu}$ and that is relative to a BWP starting at
the start of the carrier resource grid indicated by the common resource block,
$N_{\text{BWP},i}^{\text{start,}\mu}$ =, is thus the index of the centre PRB
within the resource grid of a numerology.
For the configuration examples below, we make the assumption that the N~RB~
can only take values corresponding to the maximum transmission bandwidth
configurations corresponding to channel bandwidths in the respective
conformance specifications for the BS and the UE. For an operating band with a
100kHz channel raster this implies that any regular BS and UE channel
bandwidth are always mapped to the channel raster. For operations in the field
this also means that a configured UE-specific bandwidth within a larger BS
channel bandwidth must be on the channel raster just like the BS channel
bandwidth.
The assumption that UE performance can only be ensured for RRC configurations
according to the conformance test specification implies restrictions on the
location and bandwidth of UE specific CHBW in operating bands with a 100 kHz
channel raster. If the _carrierBandwith_ of the carrier resource grid is an
odd/even number of PRBs and the maximum transmission bandwidth configuration
for the UE CHBW is even/odd for SCS = 15k, then the corresponding UE-specific
CHBW cannot be located anywhere within a wider BS carrier resource grid: the
said transmission bandwidth configuration cannot both be PRB aligned and
separated by a multiple of 100 kHz to the center SC of the resource grid on
the channel raster for m*180 + 90 = n*100 has no solution for any integers.
If, on the other hand, the _carrierBandwidth_ of the carrier resource grid is
an odd/even number and the maximum transmission bandwidth configuration for
the UE CHBW is odd/even for SCS = 15k, then the UE-specific CHBW can only be
located with 5 PRB granularity, solutions to m*180 = n*100.
Notwithstanding the above we assume that symmetric UE-specific channel
bandwidths (MHz) can be set at the default duplex spacing: the centre
frequencies of the UL and DL channel bandwidths as set by the parameters of
the _downlinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List_ and _uplinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List_ should
be at default duplex spacing that is, the default TX-RX _carrier_ centre
frequency separation as specified in clause 5.4.4 of 38.101-1. We also assume
that the BWP#0 are configured such that the UE can locate symmetric CHBW at
default duplex spacing during initial access.
Next, we illustrate the method for a 7 MHz block within an operating band with
a 100k channel raster and assuming the restrictions that
\- the SIB1 _carrierBandwidth_ and any UE specific channel bandwidth on the
100k channel raster, carrier bandwidths and maximum transmission bandwidth
configurations for UL and DL either all odd or all even, otherwise impossible
to put a narrower channel inside a wider BS/cell bandwidth
\- the _BS channel bandwidth_ supports a single NR RF carrier in the uplink or
downlink as specified in 38.104. UL/DL _carrierBandwidth_ in SIB1 only to a UE
channel bandwidth (Rel-15)
We also note that these restrictions may impact the number of PRB that can be
scheduled within the irregular spectrum block (the number of blanked PRB
within the carrier resource grid) or the actual irregular spectrum block size
that can be supported.
Figure 6.1.2.1.2-1 shows the configuration, the next-after-next larger
bandwidth is used in this case such that the resource grid size of this and
the smaller bandwidth used for the UL are both an odd number of PRBs. The size
of the BWP#0 is 25 PRB in both the UL and DL, located at duplex spacing such
that a UE only capable at locating its CHBW at the 100k channel raster can
attach. UEs supporting the asymmetric channel bandwidth combination 5 MHz and
15 MHz can utilize the irregular block (the cell bandwidth) and legacy UEs not
supporting this bandwidth combination can also be supported in the cell. UEs
not supporting the 5 MHz channel bandwidth will not attach to the cell thus
ensuring that unwanted emissions requirements in the UL are met by all capable
UEs.
{width="6.6875in" height="2.6145833333333335in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1.2-1: a 7 MHz irregular block within an FDD band.
The SIB1 procedure for initial attach is separate for the UL and DL. In case
some UE implementations do not allow different carrier grid for the UL and DL
(while still corresponding to UE CHBWs) then the next-after-next larger BW and
PRB blanking can be used both in the UL and DL. The downside of this
arrangement is that unwanted emissions are not ensure in case the UE uses a
bandwidth wider than the BWP#0 (25 PRB) during initial access. The Point A of
the UL and DL can be located with 5 kHz granularity.
The arrangement in Figure 6.1.2.1.2-1 would not support the case of an
irregular block 817-824/862-869 MHz at the lower part of n26. However, the DL
carrier grid corresponding to the 15 MHz CHBW can be shifted upwards by n*900
MHz (5 PRB) such that the 15 MHz CHBW is within the band range (above 814 MHz)
thus increasing the BS duplex spacing between the UL and DL carriers while
maintaining PRB alignment and the default duplex spacing for the 2 x 5 MHz UE-
specific bandwidths and the BWP#0. The default duplex spacing is not specified
for the BS (cell) bandwidth and the SIB1 procedure for initial attach is
separate for the UL and DL.
The methods only require one specification change: the UE must support the
asymmetric channel bandwidth pair 5/10 MHz or 5/15 MHz for Band n26. Regular
CHBW bandwidths are used for UE conformance tests, while the BS must meet the
unwanted emissions limits and other regulatory requirements also for the
irregular spectrum block.
##### 6.1.2.1.3 TDD
The method can readily be applied to the TDD case. Most TDD bands have an SCS-
based raster rather than a 100k raster for alignment with LTE and therefore
not subject to any potential restrictions that UE-specific CHBW cannot be
configured with PRB granularity within a carrier resource grid. However, TDD
is subject to restrictions on the center frequency of BWPs and the location of
the Point A. Asymmetric bandwidths are also supported for TDD in existing
specification with restrictions.
For the TDD case and bands we make the following additional assumptions:
\- the carrier resource grids indicated in SIB1 for the UL and DL, the BWPs
configured and UE-specific CHBW are all PRB aligned and use the same center
frequency
\- the carrier bandwidths for UL and DL (PRB) advertised in SIB1 are either
both even or odd, the same applies for the transmission bandwidth
configuration of the UE-specific CHBW are both either even or oddfor PRB
alignment
\- the UE dedicated regular channel bandwidths (MHz) with their corresponding
maximum transmission bandwidth configurations (including the larger) are
located within the DL and UL carrier bandwidths that may also include blanked
PRBs
This would also ensure that the UE-specific CHBW meet the existing conditions
for asymmetric bandwidths (Rel-16):
\- both center frequency and BWP-ID shall match between DL and UL carriers as
defined in 38.331
\- in a case a UE is configured with a full width of BWP within both UL/ DL
channels, the center frequency of UL/ DL channels shall be same
\- a position of Point A is common between UL and DL carriers as defined in
38.331
Figure 6.1.2.1.3-1 shows an example of a 55 MHz spectrum block with DL and UL
carrier grids of different sizes for SCS = 30k, about 145 PRBs used (not
blanked) in the DL. The DL carrier resource grid size of m~PRB~ = 189 PRB
corresponds to the next-after-next larger DL bandwidth of 70 MHz, while the UL
carrier bandwidth indicated in SIB1 is m~PRB~ - 2u = 133 PRB corresponds to
the next smaller bandwidth of 50 MHz with 2u the symmetric DL extension (both
the UL and DL carrier grids are thus either odd or even sized) also covering
blanked PRB. The bandwidth of BWP#0 is equal for the DL and UL and sized 133
PRBs or smaller. Thus legacy UEs only supporting symmetric CHBW can also
attach to the cell.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.602777777777778in"}Figure 6.1.2.1.3-1:
support of a 55 MHz irregular channel block for TDD.
It is recognised that the restrictions above can imply limitations on the
transmission bandwidth configuration of an irregular block (PRBs not blanked)
or the irregular spectrum block size supported. However, it suffices that UEs
support asymmetric bandwidths for the TDD band, a 50/70 MHz combination for
the case above.
The method above also works for TDD bands with a 100k channel raster. The case
of an irregular spectrum block at the band edge is described in section
6.1.2.4.
#### 6.1.2.2 Method using Next smaller channel bandwidth is broadcast in SIB1
The gNB broadcasts the DL carrier bandwidth and the bandwidth of the initial
BWP (BWP#0) in SIB1. For the 7MHz allocation, SIB1 can indicate DL next
smaller standard channel bandwidth, i.e., 5 MHz, and that the initial DL BWP
can be set to 25PRBs:
\- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon-> frequencyInfoDL->
scs-SpecificCarrierList-> carrierBandwidth = 25 PRBs / subcarrierSpacing = 15
kHz
\- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon->
initialDownlinkBWP-> genericParameters-> locationAndBandwidth = 25 PRBs
Once the UE established the RRC connection, the gNB can account for the UE
capabilities and re-configure the UE accordingly. At this point the gNB will
override the carrier bandwidth value that the UE obtained from SIB1 and
configure a dedicated BWP with a bandwidth that differs from the bandwidth of
BWP#0. For the 7MHz allocation, gNB will override the SIB1 channel bandwidth
by 10MHz and configure a larger BWP that will cover the whole 7MHz irregular
channel.
\- ServingCellConfig-> downlinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List-> carrierBandwidth = 52
PRBs, subcarrierSpacing = 15 kHz
\- ServingCellConfig-> downlinkBWP-ToAddModList-> bwp-Common->
genericParameters->locationAndBandwidth = 35 PRBs
While not ruled out by the RRC specification, configuration of a UE-specific
CHBW wider than the carrier bandwidth indicated by SIB1 and BWPs wider than
this resource grid require further consideration and may be subject to UE
capability.
It should be noted that BWPs of sizes different from the already defined
channel bandwidths are not currently tested within the RAN4 defined
requirements. As such, UE behaviour under such configuration is not verified
by RAN4 requirements.
The above configuration doesn't consider the PRB grid alignment between SIB1
channel bandwidth and UE configured channel bandwidth based on the 100 kHz
channel raster.
#### 6.1.2.3 Further Signalling and configuration aspects: Band Edge
The network only configures channel bandwidth according to UE capabilities.
RAN4 requirements do not cover the case when a UE is configured with a channel
that is not contained within a specified band. Thus, if the network were to
configure the UE channel bandwidth beyond the band edge, then the UE behavior
would be unknown.
However, one approach to avoid the unexpected UE behavior is for the NW to
ensure that the UE CBW filter will not exceed the NR band edges. This can be
achieved as long as the wider CBW is not wider than the NR band. The NW can
control the UE CBW filter location near band edges by setting the CRB0
location (within RIV _locationAndBandwidth_) and _carrierBandwidth._ Then the
NW can set BWP to utilize the RBs aligned to the left or right edge of the UE
carrier bandwidth using $N_{\text{BWP}}^{\text{size}}$, etc. In this manner
there is no need or the NW to schedule the UE CBW filter outside the NR band
edge, potentially leading to unknown UE behaviour. Further channel filter
configuration examples can be seen in Section 6.1.3 which show how the NW can
avoid setting the UE CBW filter outside the band edge.
For the FDD case with a 7 MHz irregular block at the band edge, the
arrangement in Figure 6.1.2.1.2-1 can be modified by shifting the DL carrier
grid corresponding to the 15 MHz CHBW upwards by n*900 MHz (5 PRB) as shown in
Figure 6.1.2.3-1 such that the 15 MHz CHBW is within the band range thus
increasing the BS duplex spacing between the UL and DL carriers while
maintaining PRB alignment and the default duplex spacing for the 2 x 5 MHz UE-
specific bandwidths and the BWP#0. The default duplex spacing is not specified
for the BS (cell) bandwidth and the SIB1 procedure for initial attach is
separate for the UL and DL.
{width="6.6875in" height="2.625in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-1: the FDD case with the irregular spectrum block at the band
edge.
For the TDD case illustrated in Figure 6.1.2.1.3-2 with a 55 MHz irregular
block at the band edge, a common center frequency for all CHBW and BWP can be
maintained but with the bandwidths adjusted to optimize the transmission
bandwidth configuration of the irregular block (PRBs not blanked) as shown in
Figure 6.1.2.3-2. The additional BWP#1 configured for UEs supporting
asymmetric bandwidth and the irregular channel bandwidth is also centred with
the PRBs at the upper edge blanked. Legacy UEs are configured with the BWP#0
or any other BWP within the 40 MHz block, each additional BWP with common
center frequency.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.654861111111111in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-2: the TDD case with the irregular spectrum block at the band
edge.
#### 6.1.2.4 Configuring a UE with a Channel not Fully Contained within the
Operating Band
The possibility of configuring a UE with a channel that is not fully contained
within the operating band supported by the UE was investigated in the context
of using some spectrum allocation in n12 and n85(See Annex \, the case of
n12 and n85).
RAN1 and RAN2 specifications are written agnostic to the operating bands and
channel placements, hence, the current signaling supports configuring a
channel that is not fully contained within the operating band. However, RAN1
and RAN2 clarified during the study that such a configuration was never
discussed or analyzed, hence, the UE behavior under such a configuration is
unknown.
Current RAN4 requirements are defined under the assumption that the BS and UE
channel bandwidths are fully contained within one of the operating bands
defined in the specifications. For example, Table 5.4.2.3-1 which defines the
channel raster for each band contains NOTE 1 which states that "The channel
numbers that designate carrier frequencies so close to the operating band
edges that the carrier extends beyond the operating band edge shall not be
used."
In order to support such a configuration, at least a new UE capability would
be needed. Also, in order to ensure that the UEs still meet the necessary
requirements (including regulatory) the network would have to limit the RBs
used by the UE to those that are confined within the operating band supported
by the UE(see also Section 6.1.2.3). The note pointed out in the paragraph
above would also have to be updated and any impact to legacy UEs should be
avoided.
### 6.1.3 UE channel filters
A typical UE architecture utilises a number of filters of two major types --
analogue and digital -- and it is generally up to the UE implementation how
they are combined. Nevertheless, it is often the case that a UE uses first the
wideband analogue filter which typically covers a whole band. In addition to
that, a UE may use another NR channel bandwidth specific analogue filter,
premise function on which is to filter our non-adjacent blockers. However,
since even the NR channel bandwidth specific analogue filter cannot ensure
\"brick-wall\" like filtering, a UE also applies digital filter after ADC to
eliminate adjacent interferer. Depending on the UE implementation, the digital
filter is a combination of the hardware and software components that allow the
UE to apply the corresponding filter coefficients to support a wide range of
standard channels, e.g. from 5MHz to 100MHz in case of FR1.
As an example, consider Figure 6.1.3-1. In this example, RBs are scheduled
close to the NR band edge. The potential adjacent interferer below the band
edge will be removed by the CBW filter with no degradation of ACS at the lower
side of the irregular BW since the filters have the same capability as the
regular CBW operation.
{width="4.223139763779527in" height="1.2230063429571303in"}
Figure 6.1.3-1: Example of the NW utilizing the lower RBs near the NR band
edge with BWP
However, for the scenario in the Figure 6.1.3-2 the wider channel filter
cannot protect against adjacent interferer(s) when the irregular spectrum
block is narrower than the channel filter and/or there are adjacent
interferers on both sides.
NOTE: for the text above multi-operator scenario can be considered further in
this example.
Current specifications do not define how a UE configures its digital filter
within the configured channel bandwidth. So, in the provided example below, a
UE implementation may configure the digital filter in accordance with the
carrier bandwidth \"ignoring\" the actual smaller bandwidth part size. This is
illustrated further in Figure 6.1.3-2. The wanted signal is smaller than
10MHz, but the UE filter is always set to 10MHz as signalled by the network.
As can be seen, if there is an adjacent interferer, then it can \"leak\" into
the wanted signal region.
{width="1.9430413385826772in" height="0.8554844706911636in"}
{width="1.928571741032371in" height="0.9922364391951006in"}
{width="1.6862095363079614in" height="0.9635487751531059in"}
Figure 6.1.3-2: Possible scenarios for the 10MHz channel filter.
To estimate anticipated performance described in Figure 6.1.3-2 when a UE
configures its digital filter according to the channel bandwidth potentially
allowing the adjacent interferer to \"leak\" into the wanted signal area, a
series of measurements were conducted using the same testbed and setup as used
for the commercial device conformance testing. The adjacent interfering signal
is always set in such a way that it is right next to the wanted irregular
channel bandwidth signal. Table 6.1.3-1 below summarises adjacent interfering
channel parameters used in measurements, where adjacent interferer offset is
the offset from the wanted signal center to the adjacent interfering signal
center.
Table 6.1.3-1: Summary of adjacent interfering signal parameters.
Irregular channel (MHz) Effective bandwidth (MHz) Adjacent interferer offset
(MHz) Adjacent interferer bandwidth (MHz)
* * *
9 8.28 7 5 8 7.2 6.5  
7 6.3 6  
6 5.22 5.5
The following common parameters were applied:
\- Center frequency: 1850MHz
\- UE channel: 10MHz
\- Wanted signal level at UE antenna: -82dBm
\- Adjacent interferer level at UE antenna: from -120dBm to -50dBm in step of
1dB
\- Adjacent interferer: 5MHz, 16QAM, SCS 15kHz (3GPP standard ACS test)
Intermediate irregular channel bandwidths are considered -- from 9MHz to 6MHz
-- and the adjacent interferer offset is set accordingly. As the main
performance indicator, the resulting SNR is estimated over the whole 10MHz
region irrespective of the actual irregular channel size. This approach
provides the worst-case estimation of the resulting SNR because in the real
life a UE will most likely estimate SNR over the configured bandwidth part
corresponding to the irregular channel size or its sub-part.
As can be seen from Figure 6.1.3-3 below, when the adjacent interferer level
is low then the estimated SNR is around 39dB for all irregular channels (if
the wanted signal is -82dBm and the adjacent interferer is -120dBm, then the
theoretical SNR would be around 38dB, but in our case the adjacent interferer
is not even fully inside the wanted signal bandwidth). The 9MHz irregular
channel bandwidth has same SNR of 39dB even when the adjacent interferer level
is same as the wanted signal. SNR degradation starts at the adjacent
interferer level of approximately -72dBm, i.e. 10dB higher than the wanted
signal. When the adjacent interferer level is 32dB higher than the wanted
signal, i.e. -50dBm, the estimated SNR is around 27dB for the 9MHz irregular
channel.
As for the opposite extreme case of the 6MHz irregular channel, SNR
degradation can be already observed at the adjacent interferer level of around
-100dBm, i.e. 18dB lower than the wanted signal. When the adjacent interferer
level becomes as high as the wanted signal, the estimated SNR drops down to
27dB. Finally, when the adjacent interferer is 32dB higher than the wanted
signal, the SNR becomes -5dB.
These results show the relative degradation in SNR that can occur due to
adjacent channel interferers leaking through the next larger BW filter, and
the actual performance degradation will depend on a particular scenario,
especially ACI strength and the UE channel filter overlap with the interfering
signal. Typical 3GPP ACS requirements are conducted so that a UE should be
able to meet 95% of the target throughput of the reference QPSK level when the
adjacent interferer is 32dB higher than the wanted signal (and which
corresponds to approximately -1.5dB SNR). Referring to the right-most point on
the X-axis of Figure 6.1.3-3, it can be seen that 9MHz and 8MHz irregular
channel SNR is above -1.5dB, while the 6MHz channel SNR is clearly below
-1.5dB.
NOTE: The corresponding throughput measurements should be also provided to
assess throughput degradation, if any, in the QPSK reference channel.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 6.1.3-3: Estimated SNR depending on the adjacent interferer level.
To further reduce the risk of ACS reduction, as shown in this second example
in Figure 6.1.3-2 and Figure 6.1.3-3, it is possible for new UEs to align
their digital filter to the actual smaller bandwidth part within the wider
analogue CBW filter bandwidth.
NOTE: It is FFS whether it will require new UE capability and/or configuration
signalling for the NW to indicate the adjacent interferer location, left,
right of the BWP.
## 6.2 Study of overlapping UE channel bandwidths
### 6.2.1 Overlapping UE CBWs from Network Perspective
#### 6.2.1.1 General
One way to utilise the whole chunk of irregular spectrum of a particular size
is to combine several overlapping channels of next lower standard channel
bandwidth. As an example, Figure 6.2.1.1-1 shows a case when two overlapping
10MHz carriers cover 13MHz channel bandwidth. From an individual UE
perspective, each UE is configured with existing immediately lower channel
bandwidth following legacy procedures and signalling: one UE can use the first
10MHz carrier, while another UE can use another carrier. In fact, both UEs can
use overlapping part of the spectrum provided that the BS takes care that the
overlapping region is allocated to one particular carrier at a time. It should
be also noted that from the UE perspective, an existing immediately lower
channel bandwidth will be always used, either for initial access (as the
channel bandwidth advertised by the network) or as a dedicated channel
bandwidth configured by RRC. From the network perspective, the BS will/can use
the whole irregular channel bandwidth.
{width="1.5833333333333333in" height="1.1979166666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1-1: Using overlapping carriers (example for 13MHz).
It is worth noting that overall capacity of the cell will be according to the
irregular channel bandwidth because the BS can use the full bandwidth.
However, since a particular UE will use only one carrier of a smaller
bandwidth within the irregular channel bandwidth, the maximum throughput for a
single UE will be less than the theoretically possible within the spectrum in
case there is only a single UE in the cell. Nevertheless, since there will be
multiple UEs in the cell the overall system throughput will not decrease.
#### 6.2.1.2 Detailed description
One of the challenges associated with configuring overlapping carriers for the
same frequency allocation is that both carriers should have aligned grid so
that the BS can perform same FFT and schedule resources in the overlapping
region.
While aligning RB grids is not an issue for bands above 3GHz that have the SCS
based raster, it becomes more challenging for the sub-3GHz band that have
100kHz raster. As a result, carriers can be configured on raster points that
correspond to the least common multiple of the channel raster and the RB size.
As an example, the least common multiple will be 900kHz in case of the 15kHz
SCS, which corresponds to 5RBs. It effectively means that overlapping carriers
will not be able to address efficiently any irregular spectrum size and in
some case maybe will not be applicable at all. Of course one way to improve
spectrum utilisation is to allow shifting carriers in multiples of 1RB, but
that will require introduction of new raster points, which will not be
supported by legacy UEs.
Figure 6.2.1.2-1 presents an example for the 6MHz channel comprising two 5MHz
channels. As can be seen from the figure, centre frequency distance between
carriers is 900kHz, which is a multiple of 100kHz channel raster and 180kHz RB
size. From an individual UE perspective, it is just a normal 5MHz carrier
comprising 25RBs and having the 5MHz channel guard bands. From the BS
perspective, it is a 6MHz channel with 30RBs. Figure 6.2.1.2-2 exemplifies how
this approach can be used to support the 7MHz irregular channel bandwidth, in
which the distance between the carriers is 1800kHz. Finally, Figure 6.2.1.2-3
shows the 11MHz channel that is supported with two 10MHz channels. Referring
to Figure 6.2.1.2-1, 6.2.1.2-2 and 6.2.1.2-3, it should be noted that guard
bands will not necessarily be symmetrical and the exact guard band size will
depend on a particular spectrum allocation, its size, and how the overlapping
channels are placed.
{width="3.6666666666666665in" height="0.59375in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: Detailed overview of overlapping carriers (6MHz channel with
5MHz carriers).
{width="4.1875in" height="0.59375in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2-2: Detailed overview of overlapping carriers (7MHz channel with
5MHz carriers).
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="0.6145833333333334in"}Figure 6.2.1.2-3:
Detailed overview of overlapping carriers (11MHz channel with 10MHz carriers).
Table 6.2.1.2-1 below summarises potential number of schedulable RBs for a
scenario when the next smaller overlapping channels are used. To calculate
them, it is assumed that distance between individual carriers is a multiple of
900kHz and that the resulting guard bands must meet at least next smaller
channel requirements. So, \"Channel Nrb\", and \"Utilisation\" represent the
network view, while from the UE perspective all the parameters are the same as
for the next smaller channel.
Table 6.2.1.2-1: Exemplary number of RBs based on the next smaller overlapping
channel (15kHz SCS).
Channel (MHz) Next smaller channel (MHz) Next smaller channel guard band (kHz)
Next smaller channel Nrb Channel Nrb Utilisation (%)
* * *
6 5 242,5 25 30 90 7 5 242,5 25 35 90 11 10 312,5 52 57 93,3 12 10 312,5 52 62
93 13 10 312,5 52 67 92,8
Table 6.2.1.2-2 presents similar calculations for the number of available RBs
with overlapping carriers, but for the 30kHz SCS. As can be seen from the
table, a solution based on the 30kHz SCS overlapping carriers does not provide
a good spectral utilisation for certain non-standard channel bandwidths due to
the reason that the \"distance\" between carriers raster points must be a
multiple of 1800kHz. Because of that, channel bandwidths such as 7 and 12MHz
have more or less good utilisation, whereas 6 and 11MHz do not provide any
benefit at all.
Table 6.2.1.2-2: Exemplary number of RBs based on the next smaller overlapping
channel (30kHz SCS).
Channel (MHz) Next smaller channel (MHz) Next smaller channel guard band (kHz)
Next smaller channel Nrb Channel Nrb Utilisation (%)
* * *
6 5 505 11 11 66 7 5 505 11 16 82,3 11 10 665 24 24 78,5 12 10 665 24 29 87 13
10 665 24 29 80,3
To suppport two overlapping carriers, the network can consider using one or
two SSBs. To be more precise, since the the SSB bandwidth is 3.6MHz and the
CORESET#0 bandwidth is 4.32MHz, a single SSB/CORESET#0 can be placed into a
common part between two overlapping channels. However, this approach works
only if the overlapping part is at least 4.32MHz, e.g. it is not applicable to
irregular channels smaller than 10MHz. So, some irregular channel bandwidth
will need two SSB/CORESET#0. In this case, at least for irregular channel
bandwidths smaller than 10MHz the network broadcasts two separate SSBs, one
for each overlapping regular carrier. If a particular irregular channel
bandwidth does not allow for placing two SSBs in the same time slots, then the
network will have to ensure that they are \"multiplexed\" accordingly in the
time domain.
NOTE: It may create the challenge of aligning SSBs in the time and frequency
domain so that they do not overlap thus complicating the gNB scheduling, i.e.
for this approach complexity increases to coordinate the overlapping SSBs for
different UEs.
From the RAN2 specifications perspective, a single cell has a single cell-
defining SSB, the channel bandwidth configuration broadcast in SIB1,
CORESET#0, and the initial BWP. Thus, a single \"common\" SSB for two
overlapping channels will effectively define only one of the overlapping
channels as perceived by the UE (refer to sub-clause 6.2.1.3 for more
information on configuration and signalling aspects with one and two SSBs).
NOTE: It is up to the network implementation whether to configure two SSBs for
overlapping channels or one \"common\" SSB if the overlapping part is large
enough (refer to Table 6.2.1.2-3).
Table 6.2.1.2-3: Summary of how many SSB/CORESET#0 needed for different
channel bandwidths.
Channel (MHz) Number of SSB/CORESET#0 Time multiplexing for 2 SSBs is needed
* * *
6 2 yes 7 2 yes 11 1 or 2 no 12 1 or 2 no 13 1 or 2 no
Figure 6.2.1.2-5 shows an example for the 13MHz irregular channel with a
single/common SSB configured in the overlapping part of two 10MHz carriers.
{width="3.3958333333333335in" height="1.28125in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2-4: Using overlapping carriers with single overlapping SSB
(example for 13MHz).
#### 6.2.1.3 Configuration and signalling aspects
Since from an individual UE perspective each overlapping carrier is just a
legacy channel bandwidth, the existing signalling applies. As an example, for
the 7MHz allocation the UE can be configured with the 5MHz channel bandwidth,
and the initial bandwidth part can be also 5MHz.
\- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon-> frequencyInfoDL->
scs-SpecificCarrierList-> carrierBandwidth = 25 PRBs / subcarrierSpacing = 15
kHz
\- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon->
initialDownlinkBWP-> genericParameters-> locationAndBandwidth = 25 PRBs
If the network configures two SSBs for an overlapping channel, then from the
UE perspective each overlapping channel is perceived as an independent cell
and a UE can camp on each cell following the existing cell (re-)selection
procedures. If the network configures one \"common\" SSB, then from the UE
perspective only one of the overlapping channels is perceived as a cell and
some UEs will be re-configured with a dedicated channel bandwidth to another
overlapping channel.
NOTE: From the signalling perspective, it is possible to override the SIB1
channel bandwidth by the dedicated channel bandwidth signalling in the
RRC_CONNECTED state.
#### 6.2.1.4 Channel raster handling
The UE channel BWs have to be backwards compatible such that this scheme works
for existing UEs, hence, they would have to be deployed on the 100kHz raster
used in the low FR1 bands. As such, the UE channels have to be deployed at a
distance which is a multiple of 900kHz (common denominator between the RB size
of 180kHz and 100kHz channel raster granularity).
The base station channel encompasses the overlapping UE channels. In the case
that the distance between the UE channel centers is an even multiple of
900kHz, the center of the base station channel will also fall on a 100kHz
multiple. In the case of an odd 900kHz multiple, the center of the base
station transmission bandwidth configuration would fall in the middle of the
900kHz interval between the overlapping UE channel centers. This might require
some additional specification work for BS.
### 6.2.2 Combined UE CBW (one cell)
#### 6.2.2.1 General Aspects
\- Studied spectrum blocks covered by "main RF carrier" and "additional RF
carrier"
\- The "main RF carrier" is Rel-15 compatible and contains the SSB as well as
all necessary broadcast information, legacy UEs and UEs which do not support
this solution are able to camp on it and be connected without being aware of
the "additional RF carrier"
\- The "additional RF carrier" , which is partially overlapping with the "main
RF carrier", is aligned to the "main RF carrier" PRB grid and utilizes further
PRBs that fit in relevant spectrum block. UEs which support this solution
would be reconfigured (once UE capabilities are known) in RRC_CONNECTED to use
wider CBW and BWP than used for initial access.
\- The "main RF carrier" and the "additional RF carrier" are treated as single
cell (one carrier from baseband perspective) to allow for a single BWP to
cover studied spectrum block in RRC_CONNECTED
\- Both the "main RF carrier" and the "additional RF carrier" would clearly
define the size and position of the guard band which allows for an unambiguous
placement of the overlapping channel filters and thus prevents problems with
OBUE, ACS or in-band blocking
\- From UE perspective, supported in downlink only
#### 6.2.2.2 Signalling and configuration aspects
In this section we provide further signaling details on how to support
irregular channels given the 7MHz allocation as an example.
The gNB broadcasts the DL carrier bandwidth and the bandwidth of the initial
BWP (BWP#0) in SIB1. For the 7MHz allocation, SIB1 would indicate DL standard
channel bandwidth (i.e. 5 MHz), the initial DL BWP would be set to 5 MHz to
accommodate legacy and new UEs:
> \- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon-> frequencyInfoDL->
> scs-SpecificCarrierList-> carrierBandwidth = 25 PRBs / subcarrierSpacing =
> 15 kHz
\- SIB1-> servingCellConfigCommon-> downlinkConfigCommon->
initialDownlinkBWP-> genericParameters-> locationAndBandwidth = 25 PRBs
Once the UE established the RRC connection, the gNB can account for the UE
capabilities and re-configure the UE accordingly. At this point the gNB may
override the carrier bandwidth value that the UE obtained from SIB1 and
configure a dedicated BWP with a bandwidth that differs from the bandwidth of
BWP#0. gNB may configure a larger bandwidth part that will cover the whole
7MHz allocation.
\- ServingCellConfig-> downlinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List-> carrierBandwidth = 36
PRBs, subcarrierSpacing = 15 kHz
\- ServingCellConfig-> downlinkBWP-ToAddModList-> bwp-Common->
genericParameters-> locationAndBandwidth = 36 PRBs
It should be noted that 36 PRBs do not correspond to any channel bandwidth
currently defined in TS 38.101-1.
It is possible from signalling point of view to override the SIB1 channel
bandwidth by the dedicated channel bandwidth signalling in RRC_CONNECTED if
the UE is capable of the dedicated channel bandwidth, and if the network
ensures the SIB1 channel bandwidth and dedicated channel bandwidth use the
same PRB grid. New capability might be needed to support such configuration
[3].
#### 6.2.2.3 UE architecture aspects
With respect to the UE architecture, the following assumptions are made
(according to SID objectives):
\- New (dedicated) channel filters (e.g. non-integer-multiples of 5 MHz) are
not considered
\- UEs not supporting this solution (both legacy and new UEs) should be able
to use the next lower supported channel bandwidth in the UL and DL without
implications
Two different UE architecture scenarios are explained (legacy UEs using next
smaller bandwidth in section 6.6.2 and UEs supporting two receive chains for
reception described below):
This option is for new UEs that contain transceiver architectures and
configurations that have flexibility in local oscillator and receive chain
assignments. The flexibility in the configuration allows the UEs to configure
their receive paths (Antenna to FFT) similarly to non-contiguous carrier
aggregation, allowing the two LO and receive chains to down-convert the
spectrum of the irregular bandwidth as if it consisted of two separate
carriers on the UE side. Based on the channel center of the main RF carrier
and the configured irregular bandwidth, the UE would know where to place the
center frequency of the additional RF carrier that follows the PRB grid (which
overlaps with the main RF carrier and includes the remaining agreed PRBs for
the irregular BW). The UE down-converts two different sets of PRBs, with an
overlapping segment and may use for irregular bandwidth below 15MHz the next
smaller bandwidth channel filtering on both of the receive chains as shown in
Figure 6.2.2.3-1 ("DigRF" serves as an example only and corresponds to the
interface between RF and baseband chipset). This allows the UE to benefit from
channel filtering designed for the specific bandwidth. Using the next smaller
bandwidth channel filtering on both of the two carrier parts, the baseband
signal processing following the FFTs must be modified such that the signals
from these two carrier parts are combined and processed as a single codeword
instead of being process separately. Since the LOs on the UE will operate at
different frequencies, there will be a phase difference of the two signals
contained in the two receive chains for the separate carriers.
In order to prevent problems in the channel estimation if there is an
averaging or interpolation across reference signals at different subcarriers,
the phases of the symbols in the frequency domain from both RF receive chains
caused by the UE's use of separate LOs should be aligned. This can be achieved
by a new function comparing the overlapping symbols from both FFT outputs and
phase shifting one FFT output accordingly before the FFT outputs are merged.
{width="6.5in" height="3.8541666666666665in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3-1: UE architecture for full BW support showing split by the use
of two LOs
Depending on the receiver architecture and the distribution of the channel
filtering between the analogue and the digital domain, it is also possible to
A/D convert a frequency range that accommodates the entire irregular BW and to
split the signal afterwards by means of NCOs (instead of LOs) into the 2 RF
carriers with their individual channel filter positions as shown in Figure
6.2.2.3-2.
{width="6.5in" height="3.6173611111111112in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3-2: UE architecture for full BW support showing split by the use
of NCOs
### 6.2.3 Overlapping CA (two cells)
#### 6.2.3.1 General Aspects
Using the Overlapping CA approach to support irregular spectrum is one of the
methods without the need of introduction of new dedicated channel bandwidths
for both UE and BS. Figure 6.2.3-1 shows overlapping CA from network
perspective, in which BS supports the intra-band overlapping CA, while UEs
only supports the single CC with the existing channel bandwidth. And figure
6.2.3-2 shows overlapping CA from UE perspective, in which both BS and UE
support the intra-band overlapping CA to use all RBs, and the UE supports
intra-band non-contiguous CA for the combination as well.
Even two CCs are overlapped in frequency domain, the network can configure
different CCs with non-overlapping BWP to avoid the conflict of physical
signals or channels.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.4347222222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.3-1: Overlapping CA from network perspective
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.8347222222222221in"}
Figure 6.2.3-2: Overlapping CA from UE perspective
In summary,
\- No new gNB channel bandwidth is required
\- Legacy UE using existing lower regular NR channel bandwidth can operate in
either carrier
\- Overlapping CA approach needs to have PRB grid alignment between
overlapping CCs
\- From UE perspective, overlapping CA is optional supported in DL only
\- Irregular bandwidth utilizing overlapping CA approach cannot be combined
with NR CA combinations
\- From UE perspective, the solution requires UE support of intra-band non-
contiguous CA for the combination
#### 6.2.3.2 Configuration and signalling aspects
In this approach, network configures two cell-defining SSB in the allocated
irregular spectrum block and the two cells are configured with overlapping
regular channel bandwidth. From procedure wise, the network can indicate UE
the location and bandwidth by using the existing procedures on individual CC.
From UE perspective, there are two independent cells with overlapped
bandwidth. For a particular UE, CA with overlapped cells can be configured to
fully utilize the network bandwidth.
## 6.3 Complexity and efficiency study
### 6.3.1 Larger Channel BW than licensed BW
UE needs to support the asymmetric bandwidth combinations where UL CBW is
SmallerCBW and DL CBW is WiderCBW. The asymmetric UL and DL channel bandwidth
combination set should be specified in the specification TS 38.101-1.
### 6.3.2 Overlapping UE CBW from Network Perspective
gNB has to support the irregular channel BW. It is up to the network
implementation how it can be implemented, e.g. through a new channel
bandwidth, or through RF combining of 2 existing regular channel bandwidths.
### 6.3.3 Combined UE CBW (one cell)
\- Does not require new channel filters for UE and gNB to be designed and
tested
\- Requires support of two RF carriers phase aligned on the Tx side to ensure
phase continuity on the Rx side
\- Requires split of the irregular bandwidth into two sets of PRBs that may be
filtered through the next smaller bandwidth after which the signal is combined
at the receiver's baseband as a single carrier. For such processing, UE may
benefit from supporting intra-band non-contiguous CA.
\- Requires UE architecture with capability to split LNA output signal to two
separate LO paths for down-conversion. Also requires UE architecture with the
ability to combine baseband signals.
\- Possible UE architecture alternative to requiring a split LNA, is to use an
ADC with a large dynamic range and a subsequent split of the digital signal in
two paths with separate NCOs and digital channel filters. Also requires UE
architecture with the ability to combine baseband signals.
\- For scenarios with less than 10 MHz, second SSB is not excluded but not
recommended due to significant additional overhead (duplicated SSB
transmission as well as other radio resources such as PDCCH, CSI-RS, PDSCH
(for SIB), CSI for Tracking, etc.). However, second SSB could enable or
improve the legacy UEs\' use of the further PRBs provided by the additional RF
carrier in spectrum scenarios with less than 10 MHz.
\- "Additional RF carrier" not to be on the channel raster to increase
spectrum utilization (up to 2 PRBs), it should be noted that the complete
"additional RF carrier" is used only by UEs which support this solution
"additional RF carrier" can be used partially (with up to 2 PRBs not
available) by legacy UEs which are on the channel raster.
\- Proposed BWPs size of the irregular spectrum chunk may have an impact on
performance requirements and additional testing
\- High spectrum utilization:
\- due to low internal guard band. The spectrum utilization values in the
table below use guard band values according to the minimum guard bands defined
for the smallest possible channel bandwidths that could be theoretically
considered as part of each combined UE CBW. The actual minimum guard band
requirements for combined UE CBW configurations would require further
discussion in any follow-up WI.
\- as well as no additional CA overhead (duplicated common channels and
signals such as SSB, PDCCH and CSI-RS configured both in Pcell and Scell, in
addition of the MAC processes associated with CA) due to single baseband
carrier usage:
Table 6.3.3-1: spectrum utilization
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Spectrum | Number of | Spectrum | Number of | Spectrum | | block | PRBs | utilization | PRBs | utilization | | [MHz] | | for new UE | | for new UE | | | (15kHz SCS | (without | (15kHz SCS | (with | | | without | 100kHz | with 100kHz | 100kHz | | | 100kHz | raster | raster | raster | | | raster | alignment) | alignment) | alignment) | | | alignment) | [%] | | [%] | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 6 | 30 | 90 | 30 | 90 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | 36 | 92.6 | 35 | 90 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | 58 | 94.9 | 57 | 93.3 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | 63 | 94.5 | 62 | 93 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | 69 | 95.5 | 67 | 92.8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.3.4 Overlapping CA (two cells)
From network perspective:
For gNB, no new filter for RF channel is needed. The CA implementation can be
reused. The only update is to allow the configuration that the two carriers
can be partially overlapped by adjusting the channel spacing. The network can
prevent collisions between the two component carriers.
For UE, there is no impact and fully backwards compatible.
From UE perspective:
For gNB, the two RF carriers aggregated by the UE would need to be time-
aligned by the gNB to at least the same level required for existing intra-band
contiguous CA (TS 38.104 Timing Adjustment Error) to allow UE reception. It is
FFS as to whether finer timing alignment would be required.
For UE, it is optional support in DL only. For the UE supports DL intra-band
non-contiguous CA with corresponding channel bandwidth(s), overlapping CA can
be considered by support the configuration with partially overlapping
carriers. And in the case no new channel filter for UE is needed.
For overlapping CA solution, the legacy channel bandwidth should be supported,
hence the minimum guardband should not be less than the minimum guardband of
lower UE channel bandwidth than operator licensed bandwidth. To support legacy
UEs, channel raster should be applied for each UE channels. And in order to
simplify the resource schedule and make the use of single SSB (for irregular
bandwidths larger than 10MHz) for CA operation, RB alignment is required.
Table 6.3.4-1 shows the channel spacing and spectrum utilization for the
example channel bandwidths assuming symmetric CA channel bandwidth.
Table 6.3.4-1: channel spacing and spectrum utilization
Irregular Bandwidth(MHz) SCS(kHz) CA combos Nominal channel spacing (MHz)
Transmission bandwidth configuration NRB Spectrum utilization (%)
* * *
6 15 5+5 0.9 30 90 7 15 5+5 1.8 35 90 11 15 10+10 0.9 57 93.3 12 15 10+10 1.8
62 93 13 15 10+10 2.7 67 92.8
## 6.4 Generic solutions guidance
### 6.4.1 Larger Channel BW than licensed BW
Does not require new channel filters for UE to be designed and tested.
### 6.4.2 Overlapping UE CBW from Network Perspective
This approach can be also be applied to all irregular channel bandwidths with
only consideration of different spectral utilization considerations. However
the single CORESET#0 and SSB is only applicable for bandwidths greater than 10
MHz. For all irregular channel bandwidths two SSBs can be used (in irregular
channel bandwidths \< 10 MHz SSB can be TDM).
Does not require new channel filters for UE to be designed and tested.
### 6.4.3 Combined UE CBW (one cell)
\- Given the availability of a new UE with the required architecture, a future
proof solution, the channel bandwidth can be tailored with the resolution of
1PRB. Able to support any irregular channel bandwidth even to the band edge.
\- Ensured co-existence with very limited specification impact since both the
"main RF carrier" and the "additional RF carrier" and the separate signal
processing paths before the equalization would conform to existing 3GPP
requirements
\- Does not require new channel filters for UE and gNB to be designed and
tested
### 6.4.4 Combined UE CBW (two cell)
This approach can be applied to various size of irregular channel bandwidths,
and it does not require to define new channel filters to be designed and
tested for BS and UE.
Does not require new channel filters for UE to be designed and tested.
## 6.5 RAN1 and RAN2 impact
### 6.5.1 Larger Channel BW than licensed BW
For TDD bands RAN1 requires that the active UL and DL BWP pair must have the
same centre frequency.
### 6.5.2 Void
### 6.5.3 Void
### 6.5.4 Combined UE CBW (two cells)
CSI-RS measurement and reporting for the component carriers are specified in
TS 38.213 and to be performed independently per-carrier, similarly for PDCCH.
It is up to the gNB scheduler to avoid collisions of different transmissions
for the overlapping part with overlapping CA cross-carrier scheduling.
Existing UE capability signalling does not provide any possibility for UE to
indicate support of overlapped CA. New signalling would be required in order
for this approach to become feasible.
## 6.6 Legacy UE impact
### 6.6.1 Void
### 6.6.2 Overlapping UE CBW from Network Perspective
Overlapping channels from the network perspective works with all the legacy
UEs. As presented in previous sub-clauses, from an individual UE perspective,
this is just a standard Rel-15 channel and no special UE side enhancements are
needed. Thus an operator can use this solution with the whole ecosystem of
available devices.
### 6.6.3 Combined UE CBW (one cell)
\- No impact to legacy UEs. UEs which support this solution would be
reconfigured in RRC_CONNECTED, there is no change to UE behaviour in IDLE mode
which could create potential issue with legacy UE compatibility
This option is for UEs that have no support for using an irregular bandwidth.
Such a UE will apply the next smaller bandwidth referring to the channel
filtering. It will never receive more than the PRBs defined for the next
smaller bandwidth and it follows the conventional way of aligning the center
frequency of the channel in both DL and UL. These UEs will camp on the same
frequency part of the channel since the SIB1 only has one allocation. In
CONNECTED mode, the network can configure UE with the UE specific
_ServingCellConfig_ IE which configures the point A reference that may shift
the UE to operate either at the lower side or the upper side of the irregular
bandwidth. In most of the configurations with an irregular BW below 10 MHz,
legacy UEs can only use one side of the irregular BW unless -- as in the case
of overlapping CBWs from network perspective -- a second, time-staggered SSB
is spent.
{width="1.5833333333333333in" height="1.1979166666666667in"}
Figure 6.6.3-1: Legacy UE may be configured for either of the two carriers
6.6.4 Overlapping CA (two cells)
This approach works with legacy UEs in single carrier operation. It is unclear
whether legacy UEs would support a CA configuration or UE behavior is
undefined with overlapping channel bandwidths as this has not been discussed
in RAN2 when designing current UE capabilities and therefore do not consider
any frequency overlap in the CA case. Current channel spacing in RAN4 does not
assume overlapping carriers so RAN4 specs do not support overlapping CA.
## 6.7 RAN4 standard impact identification
### 6.7.1 Larger Channel BW than licensed BW
UE asymmetric bandwidth combinations for the corresponding spectrum scenarios
are needed, handled on band by band basis or by generic requirement.
### 6.7.2 Combined UE CBW (one cell)
Overall impact limited since both the "main RF carrier" and the "additional RF
carrier" would conform to existing 3GPP requirements, to guarantee co-
existence
### 6.7.3 Overlapping CA (two cells)
The CA framework defines the transmitter emission and receiver blocking at the
edge of carriers. Limited impacted is expected to enable coexistence with
neighbouring channels for this scenario. Overlapping CA channel spacing need
to be updated to consider channel raster, minimum guard band and RB alignment.
For 15 KHz SCS and 100 KHz channel raster,
$$\text{Channel}\mspace{6mu}\text{spacing} = \left\lfloor \frac{2*\text{BW} -
(BW_{Ch\text{annel}\left( 1 \right)} + BW_{Ch\text{annel}\left( 2
\right)})}{1.8} \right\rfloor 0.9\mspace{6mu}(\text{MHz)}$$
For NR _operating bands_ with 15 kHz channel raster,
$$\text{Channel}\mspace{6mu}\text{spacing} = \left\lfloor \frac{2 _\text{BW} -
(BW_{Ch\text{annel}\left( 1 \right)} + BW_{Ch\text{annel}\left( 2
\right)})}{0.18_ 2^{n + 1}} \right\rfloor 0.18*2^{n}\mspace{6mu}(\text{MHz)}$$
with
$n = \mu_{0}$
**Where BW is the bandwidth not aligned with the existing NR channel
bandwidths, BW~channel(1)~ and BW~chanel(2)~ are channel bandwidths of the
overlapping carriers respectively.**
For overlapping CA approach, the only difference compared to normal CA is that
overlapping CA can further adjust the channel spacing to fit the irregular
spectrum. Hence gNB supporting the corresponding normal CA could also meet the
existing unwanted emission and ACS requirement when operating in overlapping
CA case and no need to redo Base Station conformance testing.
### 6.7.4 Overlapping UE CBWs from Network Perspective
The required guard band is based on the next smaller channel bandwidth for the
legacy UE. Hence BS can use the same implementation as overlapping CA, i.e. to
use two existing BS filters (other implementations are not excluded). If
manufacturer declares to use two existing filter implementation, and gNB
supports the corresponding normal CA, the gNB could also meet the existing
unwanted emission and ACS requirement and hence no need to redo conformance
testing.
### 6.7.5 Dedicated BS channel bandwidths
If the irregular channel bandwidths are explicitly defined in the
specification, it will create huge technical specification work. For each
channel bandwidth, the guard band size and the transmission bandwidth
configuration need to be specified and used as a basis for defining
transmitter and receiver requirements. The identified impact to BS core
specification for a new channel BW is shown in following Table 6.7.5-1.
Table 6.7.5-1 Analysis on the impact to BS core specification for a new
channel BW
Subject Clause in 38.104 Requirement Assessment for new channel BW
* * *
General 5.3.2 Transmission bandwidth configuration the Transmission bandwidth
configuration N~RB~ for the new CBW need to be defined 5.3.3 Minimum guardband
and transmission bandwidth configuration The minimum guardband for the new CBW
need to be defined 5.3.5 BS channel bandwidth per operating band new CBW need
defined per band Transmitter 6.3.3 Total power dynamic range it is a N~RB~
related requirement 6.6.2 Occupied bandwidth BS channel bandwidth should be
defined 6.6.3 ACLR The filter are set using transmission bandwidth
configuration (BW~Config~). It need to be defined for testing 6.7 Transmitter
intermodulation the interfering is defined according to BS channel bandwidth
Receiver 7.2 Reference sensitivity level for 15 KHz SCS, 25 RB and 106 RB FRC
which can be reused 7.3 Dynamic range interfering signal level is according to
BS channel bandwidth 7.4 In-band selectivity and blocking the position of
interfering signal is defined according to BS channel bandwidth/transmission
bandwidth configuration 7.7 Receiver intermodulation the position of
interfering signal is defined according to BS channel bandwidth/transmission
bandwidth configuration 7.8 In-channel selectivity it is defined according to
BS channel bandwidth
It is concluded that new dedicated BS channel bandwidths for irregular channel
bandwidths are not defined explicitly in the specification.
### 6.7.6 Additional enhancements
#### 6.7.6.1 Channel raster enhancements
All FR1 low-frequency bands have channel raster in steps of 100kHz defined by
RAN WG4 as the global raster (5kHz) x 20. RAN WG2 signalling also uses the
global raster of 5kHz in principle not preventing a channel of being on any
5kHz channel raster point. While configuring the NR channel on the 100kHz
raster is not a big limitation for standard spectrum blocks, such as 5 or
10MHz, it may result in less efficient spectrum utilisation in certain
irregular channels. Furthermore, it might be difficult (and sometimes even
impossible) to configure the dedicated UE channel bandwidth so that it is
aligned on the 100kHz raster and at the same time is the RB aligned with the
SIB1 channel bandwidth if the latter is also on the 100kHz raster.
One exemplary benefit of allowing carriers on the non-100kHz raster is
presented in Figure x-1 below for the 7MHz irregular channel. If, for the sake
of example, we assume overlapping carriers from the network perspective as
potential solution, then the first and the second carrier must have offsets in
multiple of 900kHz, whereupon 900kHz is the common multiplier between the
100kHz raster and 180kHz RB size. So, for the 7MHz channel we can shift the
second carrier by 1800kHz, i.e., 10RBs; but the resulting guard bands will be
noticeably larger than the minimum requirements for the 5MHz carrier. If there
is a way to put the carrier on the non-100kHz raster, then the overall system
capacity can be increased to 36 RBs still ensuring the minimum guard-band
requirements of the 5MHz carrier.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.3715277777777777in"}
Figure 6.7.6.1-1: Exemplary usage of overlapping carriers with 100kHz and
non-100kHz alignment (7MHz irregular channel).
Thus, a potential enhancement is to extend available channel raster points so
that the 100kHz raster alignment is not mandated at least for the dedicated UE
channel bandwidth. It can be implemented as a common feature of the whole
release or as a UE capability. Nevertheless, irrespective how it is
introduced, once the network knows the UE capabilities, it can decide whether
the dedicated UE channel bandwidth should stay on the 100kHz raster (for
legacy devices) or can be re-configured to a non-100kHz raster channel.
In the example of Figure x-1, the network can configure two carriers (each
with its own SSB, shown at the top and in the middle of Figure x-1) in
accordance with the 100kHz requirement and these carriers will serve legacy
devices. And since the network is aware of the UE capabilities, it can always
consider configuring another overlapping carrier on the non-100kHz raster
after the UE completed the attachment procedure through the legacy carrier
shown in the middle row of Figure x-1. This way the network can handle both
legacy and new devices and it will be the network scheduler responsibility to
decide how to schedule resources over three overlapping carriers.
#### 6.7.6.2 UE channel larger than SIB1 channel enhancement
When a UE camps on the cell, it reads the corresponding system information to
understand the position of the channel, its size, the initial bandwidth part
configuration, etc. Once a UE enters the cell, the network has an ability to
re-configure the UE whereupon the network can also provide a new channel
configuration that will be specific to that UE. While the most common re-
configuration case is to configure a UE with the dedicated channel and/or
bandwidth part that is within the SIB1 channel bandwidth, there are also use
cases when a UE might be configured with the channel size or position of which
is outside the SIB1 configuration. Thus, to enable better utilisation of
irregular channels it would be preferrable that UEs can support a re-
configuration scenario when the dedicated UE channel is outside the SIB1
boundaries.
# 7 Conclusion
## 7.1 Comparison Between Different Schemes
This section provides a comparison of the proposed schemes using different
criteria.
The comparison between different schemes is summarized Table 7.2.1.
Table 7.2.1. Comparison of different schemes
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Comparison | Overlapping | Combined UE | Overlapping | Larger CBW | | Criteria | CA (two | CBW (One | UE CBW -- | (one cell) | | | cells) -- | cell) -- | described | -- | | | described | described | in Section | described | | | in Section | in Section | 6.2.1 | in Section | | | 6.2.3 | 6.2.2 | | 6.1 | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Regulatory | No issue | No issue | No issue | Potential | | requirement | | | | issue on | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | side, gNB | | | | | | filters | | | | | | will be | | | | | | needed | | | | | | depending | | | | | | on BS | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UE | Possible | Possible | No issue | UE ACS and | | performance | impact on | impact on | | in-band | | degradation | Rx | Rx | | blocking | | relative to | sensitivity | sensitivity | | d | | minimum | vs regular | vs regular | | egradation. | | r | CBW, if | CBW, if | | | | equirements | single | single | | Possible | | | carrier | carrier | | impact on | | | Tx-Rx | Tx-Rx | | Rx | | | separation | separation | | sensitivity | | | is not | is not | | vs regular | | | maintained. | maintained. | | CBW, if | | | | | | single | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | Tx-Rx | | | | | | separation | | | | | | is not | | | | | | maintained. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | gNB | gNB has to | gNB has to | gNB has to | No changes | | complexity | support CA | support | support the | needed if | | | and | splitting | irregular | the BS can | | | schedule | the signal | channel BW | meet | | | the data | into 2 RF | (can also | regulatory | | | without | carriers | be | r | | | collision | with a | implemented | equirements | | | in the two | predefined | through RF | with the RF | | | CC's | phase | combining | front end | | | overlapping | r | of 2 | of the | | | PRBs | elationship | channels) | wider | | | | | | channel BW. | | | | | | Otherwise, | | | | | | gNB has to | | | | | | support the | | | | | | irregular | | | | | | channel BW | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UE | UE has to | UE has to | No changes | No changes | | complexity | support | support RF | needed, | needed, | | | intra-band | a | supported | supported | | | NC CA. | rchitecture | by legacy | by legacy | | | | as in | UEs | UE | | | 1 less CC | intra-band | | | | | can be | NC CA. | | | | | supported | | | | | | when | Needs new | | | | | irregular | capability | | | | | BW is used | to | | | | | in | aggregate 2 | | | | | combination | RF channels | | | | | from other | in | | | | | bands, or | baseband. | | | | | more total | | | | | | CCs needed. | Complexity | | | | | | higher than | | | | | | CA because | | | | | | the | | | | | | baseband | | | | | | will need a | | | | | | new | | | | | | \ | | | | | | "combiner\" | | | | | | module. | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 less CC | | | | | | can be | | | | | | supported | | | | | | when | | | | | | irregular | | | | | | BW is used | | | | | | in | | | | | | combination | | | | | | from other | | | | | | bands, or | | | | | | more total | | | | | | CCs needed. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UE | UEs | UEs | UE | UE | | throughput | supporting | supporting | throughput | throughput | | | the feature | the feature | based on | based on | | | can use the | can use the | existing | how many | | | entire | entire | channel BWs | RBs can be | | | spectrum | spectrum | (5MHz for | used | | | allocation, | allocation, | holdings | | | | legacy UEs | legacy UEs | \<10MHz, | | | | can use an | can use an | 10MHz for | | | | already | already | holdings | | | | supported | supported | \<15MHz, | | | | channel BW | channel BW | etc) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Spectral | Channel | Channel | Channel | Depends on | | utilization | edge | edge | edge | the usable | | | guardband | guardband | guardband | number of | | | based on | based on | based on | RBs, single | | | the | the | the actual | SSB needed | | | aggregated | aggregated | holding | | | | channel BW | RF carrier | (can be | | | | (5MHz for | BW (5MHz | same as | | | | \<10MHz, | for | Overlapping | | | | 10MHz for | \<10MHz, | CA), 2 SSBs | | | | \<15MHz, | 10MHz for | are needed | | | | etc), 2 | \<15MHz, | | | | | SSBs are | etc), | | | | | needed | single SSB | | | | | | needed | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cell | Entire | Entire | Entire | Entire | | Spectral | spectrum | spectrum | spectrum | spectrum | | utilization | holding can | holding can | holding can | holding, | | | be used | be used | be used | but with | | | even only | even only | even only | wider guard | | | with legacy | with legacy | with legacy | bands than | | | UEs | UEs for | UEs | in the | | | | some | | other | | | | scenarios | | methods, | | | | depending | | can be used | | | | on whether | | even only | | | | a single | | with legacy | | | | SSB can be | | UEs | | | | used to | | | | | | configure | | | | | | legacy | | | | | | channels at | | | | | | both edges | | | | | | of the | | | | | | spectrum | | | | | | holding. | | | | | | Otherwise, | | | | | | entire | | | | | | spectrum | | | | | | can be used | | | | | | only by new | | | | | | UEs, all | | | | | | legacy UEs | | | | | | have to use | | | | | | the same | | | | | | regular | | | | | | channel BW | | | | | | part of the | | | | | | spectrum | | | | | | holding. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Network | Entire | Entire | Entire | Entire | | capacity | spectrum | spectrum | spectrum | spectrum | | | can be used | can only be | can be used | can be used | | | by | used for | by | by any UE | | | m | new UEs, | m | | | | ultiplexing | whether | ultiplexing | | | | different | legacy UEs | different | | | | UEs(even | can be | UEs in the | | | | legacy UEs) | multiplexed | frequency | | | | | to cover | domain | | | | | entire | | | | | | channel | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | and | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Legacy UE | Legacy UEs | Legacy UEs | Legacy UEs | Legacy UEs | | support | supported, | can use | supported | supported | | | can use one | part of the | | | | | of the | spectrum | | | | | aggregated | that | | | | | CCs | contains | | | | | | the SSB | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RAN1/2/4 | RAN1/2 -- | RAN2 -- | RAN4 -- BS | RAN4 -- BS | | Sp | new UE | impact on | r | r | | ecification | c | new | equirements | equirements | | impact | apabilities | capability | for new | for new | | | needed, | | channel BW | channel BW, | | | | RAN4 --core | | possibly | | | RAN4 -- new | r | | r | | | band | equirements | | estrictions | | | co | equivalent | | of the | | | mbinations, | to new | | suitable | | | changes to | channel BW | | scenarios. | | | channel | for BS, new | | | | | spacing | demod | | New | | | definition, | r | | asymmetric | | | Overlapping | equirements | | bandwidth | | | CA reqs | for UEs | | c | | | app | | | ombinations | | | licability, | | | for UE are | | | new demod | | | needed. | | | r | | | However | | | equirements | | | these | | | for UEs | | | c | | | | | | ombinations | | | | | | would be | | | | | | "regular" | | | | | | BW | | | | | | co | | | | | | mbinations, | | | | | | so existing | | | | | | process. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 7.2 Study Item Conclusions
The method of using a larger Channel BW than the licensed BW is based on
blanking (not scheduling) PRBs within the larger BW but outside the irregular
BW. If applied for the DL only, this method can be supported by specifying an
asymmetric UE CHBW bandwidth configuration for band such that its UL CHBW is
contained within the irregular UL block and the DL CHBW is larger than the
irregular DL block. In this way UE unwanted emission requirement in the UL can
be met by means of the regular UE CHBW. The larger DL UE CHBW implies a
degraded UE adjacent channel selectivity and blocking performance when the
interferer is close to the irregular DL block. However, the method can be
supported by using existing UE architectures (since asymmetric bandwidths are
supported by the current standard) in combination with new asymmetric CHBW
combinations. The method works for both FDD and TDD.
Overlapping channels from the network perspective can be used to support
irregular spectrum allocations. This method can provide the full network
capacity improvement in DL and UL to a spectrum utilization ≥90 % of the
irregular BW (at 15 kHz SCS). This method can be used with legacy UE, even
Rel-15, not requiring any changes at the UE side. Since a UE is configured
with standard channel bandwidth, there are no issues with UE performance
degradation relative to minimum requirements and all the regulatory
requirements can be met as per legacy operation. The ACS and the blocking
performance are not affected, hence there will be no impact on the network
planning. The gNB has to support the irregular channel BW because from the
network perspective RBs are scheduled across the whole spectrum block. That
might also require new BS requirements for new irregular channels. This method
provides a fast, generic, safe, and efficient solution for FDD and TDD bands.
###### ## Annex A (informative): The case of n12 and n85
## A.1 Support for n12 and n85 at the lower edge of the bands
In the USA the lower 700 MHz band is licensed in 6 MHz blocks. The lower 700
MHz A block covers 698-704 MHz UL and 728-734 MHz in the downlink. NR band n12
covered all but the lowest 1 MHz of the A block. NR band n85 covers the entire
A Block. Hence, NR band n85 extends 1 MHz lower than NR band n12. Because some
devices will support n12 while others will support n85, it would be beneficial
if n12 capable UEs could use the 5 MHz at the bottom of n12 downlink while n85
capable UEs are able to use the 6 MHz at the bottom of the n85 downlink.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.5152777777777777in"}
Figure 6.1.4-1: Overlap at the bottom of n12 and n85
## A.2 Support for n12 and n85 overlap using the next wider channel bandwidth
approach
One way to allow n12 UEs to use 729-234 MHz DL and n85 UEs to use 728-734 MHz
DL would be to use the next wider channel bandwidth approach. The network
could configure an n85 cell with a downlink of 729-234 MHz and include n12 in
the MultiFrequencyBandListNR in the SIB. Then both n12 capable and n85 capable
UEs could access the cell. After the gNB processes the UE capabilities, the
network could assign n85 capable UEs a UE-Specific downlink channel bandwidth
covering 728-738 MHz. Based on feedback from RAN2 in R4-2200031 signalling
supports the configuration of a channel that is larger than the channel
bandwidth in the SIB and/or extends beyond the edge of the channel in the SIB
as long as it is within the band. However, since this behavior might not be
supported by all UEs, new capability signalling may be required to enable the
n85 capable UE to indicate that it supports such a configuration. Also,
because the uplink configuration would be 5 MHz, the n85 UEs would also need
to indicate support to an asymmetric channel bandwidth.
## A.3 Support for n12 and n85 overlap using the overlapping channel bandwidth
approaches
One way to allow n12 UEs to use 729-234 MHz DL and n85 UEs to use 728-734 MHz
DL would be to use one of the overlapping channel bandwidth approaches. The
network could configure an n85 cell with a downlink of 729-234 MHz and include
n12 in the MultiFrequencyBandListNR in the SIB. Then both n12 capable and n85
capable UEs could access the cell. After the gNB processes the UE
capabilities, the network could configure n85 capable UEs with one of the
overlapping channel bandwidth approaches using the 5 MHz at the bottom of n85
(728-733 MHz) and the next 5 MHz (739-734 MHz). Legacy UEs would only use
729-234 MHz.
#