# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
In recent years, IoT has attracted much attention in the wireless
communication world. More \'things\' are expected to be interconnected for
improving productivity efficiency and increasing comforts of life. Further
reduction of size, complexity, and power consumption of IoT devices can enable
the deployment of tens or even hundreds of billions of IoT devices for various
applications and provide added value across the entire value chain. It is
impossible to power all the IoT devices by battery that needs to be replaced
or recharged manually, which leads to high maintenance cost, serious
environmental issues, and even safety hazards for some use cases, for example,
wireless sensors in electrical power, and petroleum industries.
Most of the existing wireless communication devices are powered by batteries
that need to be replaced or recharged manually. The automation and
digitization of various industries opens numerous new markets requiring new
IoT technologies of supporting batteryless devices with no energy storage
capability or devices with energy storage that do not need to be replaced or
recharged manually.
An example type of application is asset identification, which presently has to
resort mainly to barcodes and RFID in most industries. The main advantage of
these two technologies is the ultra-low complexity and small form factor of
the tags. However, the limited reading range of a few meters usually requires
handheld scanning which leads to labor intensive and time-consuming
operations, or RFID portals/gates which leads to costly deployments. Moreover,
the lack of interference management scheme results in severe interference
between RFID readers and capacity problems, especially in case of dense
deployment. It is hard to support a large-scale network with seamless coverage
for RFID.
In contrast, this study investigates the feasibility of a new IoT technology
to open new markets within 3GPP systems, whose number of connections and/or
device density can be orders of magnitude higher than existing 3GPP IoT
technologies, and which can provide complexity and power consumption orders-
of-magnitude lower than existing 3GPP LPWA technologies such as NB-IoT and
LTE-MTC.
# 1 Scope
The present document reports on the feasibility of meeting the design targets
for relevant use cases of a new 3GPP IoT technology, on the basis of suitable
deployment scenarios in a 3GPP system, which relies on ultra-low complexity
devices with ultra-low power consumption for very-low end IoT applications. It
intends to provide a clear differentiation**, i.e. addressing use cases and
scenarios that _cannot_ otherwise be fulfilled based on existing 3GPP LPWA IoT
technology.**
In terms of energy storage, the study considers the following device
characteristics:
\- Pure batteryless devices with no energy storage capability at all, and
completely dependent on the availability of an external source of energy.
\- Devices with limited energy storage capability that do not need to be
replaced or recharged manually.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.840: \"Study on Ambient power-enabled Internet of Things\".
> [3] \"A Battery-Free Tag for Wireless Monitoring of Heart Sounds\", 2009
> Sixth International Workshop on Wearable and Implantable Body Sensor
> Networks, June 2009
>
> [4] \"A Survey of Low-Power Transceivers and Their Applications\", IEEE
> Circuits and Systems Magazine (Vol. 15), third quarter 2015.
>
> [5]
> [http://www.winlab.rutgers.edu/\~crose/322_html/envelope_detector.html]{.underline}.
>
> [6] Liu, V., Talla, V., & Gollakota, S. (2014). Enabling instantaneous
> feedback with full-duplex backscatter. Proceedings of the 20th Annual
> International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking MobiCom '14.
>
> [7] RP-231627, "Input to Study on Ambient IoT in RAN ", Ericsson, RAN#101,
> September 2023.
>
> [8] D. A. Loku Galappaththige, et. al., \"Link Budget Analysis for
> Backscatter-Based Passive IoT\", IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 128890-128922,
> 2022.
>
> [9] \"A 2.4 GHz Interferer-Resilient Wake-Up Receiver Using A Dual-IF Multi-
> Stage N-Path Architecture\", IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits (Vol. 51),
> Sept. 2016
>
> [10] \"An 802.11ba-based wake-up radio receiver with Wi-Fi transceiver
> integration\", IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits (Vol. 55), May 2020.
>
> [11] J. Bae and H. Yoo, \"A low energy injection-locked FSK transceiver with
> frequency-to-amplitude conversion for body sensor applications,\" 2010
> Symposium on VLSI Circuits, 2010, pp. 133-134, doi:
> 10.1109/VLSIC.2010.5560325.
>
> [12] K. Tang et al., \"A 75.3 pJ/b Ultra-Low Power MEMS-Based FSK
> Transmitter in ISM-915 MHz Band for Pico-IoT Applications,\" 2021 IEEE
> International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), 2021, pp. 1-4, doi:
> 10.1109/ISCAS51556.2021.9401715
>
> [13] M. S. Jahan, J. Langford and J. Holleman, \"A low-power FSK/OOK
> transmitter for 915 MHz ISM band,\" 2015 IEEE Radio Frequency Integrated
> Circuits Symposium (RFIC), 2015, pp. 163-166, doi:
> 10.1109/RFIC.2015.7337730.
>
> [14] RP-222644, \"Revised SID: Study on low-power Wake-up Signal and
> Receiver for NR\", vivo, September 2022.
>
> [15] 3GPP TR 38.869, "Study on low-power Wake-up Signal and Receiver for
> NR".
>
> [16] F. Amato et. al., "Tunneling RFID Tags for Long-Range and Low-Power
> Microwave Applications", IEEE Journal of Radio Frequency Identification,
> vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 93-103, June 2018.
>
> [17] RP-231559 \"Views on Ambient IoT (Rel-18 SI)\", Qualcomm, RAN#101,
> September 2023.
>
> [18] RP-231598 \"Discussion on Ambient IoT\", Semtech (Sierra Wireless) ,
> RAN#101, September 2023.
>
> [19] RP-231617 \"Ambient IoT deployment feasibilities\", Nokia, Nokia
> Shanghai Bell, RAN#101, September 2023.
>
> [20] RP-231627 \"Input to Study on Ambient IoT in RAN\", Ericsson, RAN#101,
> September 2023.
>
> [21] RP-231810 \"Remaining issues on Ambient IoT SI\", vivo, RAN#101,
> September 2023.
>
> [22] RP-231848 \"Further consideration on ambient IoT for RAN\", OPPO,
> RAN#101, September 2023.
>
> [23] RP-231915 \"Further discussion on Ambient IoT in RAN\", Spreadtrum
> Communications, RAN#101, September 2023.
>
> [24] RP-232284 \"Feasibility analysis on coverage of A-IoT ZTE\", Sanechips,
> RAN#101, September 2023.
>
> [25] RP-232408 \"Discussion on Feasibility assessment and required
> functionalities for Ambient IoT\", Huawei, HiSilicon, RAN#101, September
> 2023.
>
> [26] C. Xu et. al, \"Practical Backscatter Communication Systems for
> Battery-Free Internet of Things: A Tutorial and Survey of Recent Research,\"
> IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 35, no. 5, pp. 16-27, Sept. 2018.
>
> [27] Chenyang Li , Lingfei Mo, and Dongkai Zhang, \"Review on UHF RFID
> Localization Methods\", IEEE Journal of Radio Frequency Identification, VOL.
> 3, NO. 4, DECEMBER 2019.
>
> [28] Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Passive RFID Tag Localization Via
> Joint RSSI and PDOA Fingerprint Features, IEEE Access (Vol. 9), Jan. 2021.
>
> [29] A Multi-tag Cooperative Localization Algorithm Based on Weighted
> Multidimensional Scaling for Passive UHF RFID, IEEE Internet of Things
> Journal (Vol. 6), Mar. 2019.
>
> [30] Lam K H, Cheung C C, Lee W C, \"RSSI-based LoRa localization systems
> for large-scale indoor and outdoor environments\", IEEE Transactions on
> Vehicular Technology, VOL. 68, No. 12, December 2019.
>
> [31] Sallouha H, Chiumento A, Pollin S, \"Localization in long-range ultra-
> narrow band IoT networks using RSSI\", 2017 IEEE International Conference on
> Communications (ICC), IEEE, May 2017
>
> [32] Xingqin Lin, Johan Bergman, Fredrik Gunnarsson, etc., \"Positioning for
> the Internet of Things: A 3GPP Perspective\", IEEE Communications Magazine,
> VOL. 55, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2017.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> ASK Amplitude-shift keying
DO Device-originated
DT Device-terminated
DO-A Device-originated -- autonomous
DO-DTT Device-originated -- device-terminated triggered
> EPC Electronic product code
>
> FSK Frequency-shift keying
IoT Internet of Things
LPWA Low-power, wide-area
LTE-MTC Long Term Evolution -- Machine Type Communication
NB-IoT Narrowband IoT
> OOK On-off keying
RFID Radio-frequency identification
rUC representative Use Case
> UHF Ultra-high frequency
# 4 Deployment scenarios, use cases, services
## 4.1 Use cases/services
### 4.1.1 Representative use cases
Two sets or levels of grouping were defined. The first, Grouping A, is on the
basis of the deployment environment(s) described for a use case in TR 22.840
[2], and the second, Grouping B, is on the basis of functionality/application
described in TR 22.840 [2].
Grouping A:
\- Indoor
\- Outdoor
\- Indoor/outdoor
Grouping B:
\- Inventory
\- Sensors
\- Positioning
\- Command
These two groupings are then used to form representative use cases (rUCs) as
follows, which are used in Clause 4.2 -- Deployment scenarios and connectivity
topologies.
\- rUC1: Indoor inventory
\- rUC2: Indoor sensors
\- rUC3: Indoor positioning
\- rUC4: Indoor command
\- rUC5: Outdoor inventory
\- rUC6: Outdoor sensors
\- rUC7: Outdoor positioning
\- rUC8: Outdoor command
This resulted in the following mapping from SA1 use cases and traffic
scenarios onto RAN rUCs:
Table 4.1.1-1: Mapping between RAN representative use cases and SA1 use cases
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC | Applicable SA1 UCs / traffic scenarios | +===========================+=========================================+ | rUC1: Indoor inventory | 5.1 Automated warehousing | | | | | | 5.2 Medical instruments inventory | | | management and positioning | | | | | | 5.4 Non-Public Network for logistics | | | | | | 5.5 Automobile manufacturing | | | | | | 5.7 Airport terminal / shipping port | | | | | | 5.15 Smart laundry | | | | | | 5.16 Automated supply chain | | | distribution | | | | | | 5.18 Fresh food supply chain | | | | | | 5.27 End-to-end logistics | | | | | | 6.1 Flower auction | | | | | | 6.3 Electronic shelf label | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC2: Indoor sensor | 5.6 Smart homes | | | | | | 5.13 Base station machine room | | | environmental supervision | | | | | | 5.15 Smart laundry | | | | | | 5.20 Smart agriculture | | | | | | 5.23 Smart pig farm | | | | | | 6.2 Cow stable | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC3: Indoor positioning | 5.8 Finding Remote Lost Item | | | | | | 5.9 Location service | | | | | | 5.10 Ranging in a home | | | | | | 5.12 Personal belongings finding | | | | | | 5.14 Positioning in shopping centre | | | | | | 5.21 Museum Guide | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC4: Indoor command | 5.11 **Online modification of medical | | | instruments status** | | | | | | 5.17 Device activation and deactivation | | | | | | 5.26 Elderly Health Care | | | | | | 5.29 Device Permanent Deactivation | | | | | | 6.3 Electronic shelf label | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC5: Outdoor inventory | 5.2 Medical instruments inventory | | | management and positioning | | | | | | 5.4 Non-public network for logistics | | | | | | 5.7 Airport terminal / shipping port | | | | | | 5.16 Automated supply chain | | | distribution | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC6: Outdoor sensor | 5.3 Smart grids | | | | | | 5.19 Forest Fire Monitoring | | | | | | 5.22 Dairy farming | | | | | | 5.24 Smart manhole cover safety | | | monitoring | | | | | | 5.25 Smart bridge health monitoring | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC7: Outdoor positioning | 5.8 Finding remote lost item | | | | | | 5.9 Location service | | | | | | 5.12 Personal belongings finding | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | rUC8: Outdoor command | 5.11 Online modification of medical | | | instruments status | | | | | | 5.17 Device activation and deactivation | | | | | | 5.26 Elderly Health Care | | | | | | 5.30 Controller in smart agriculture | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
## 4.2 Deployment scenarios and connectivity topologies
### 4.2.0 Introduction
Deployment scenarios for Ambient IoT have been studied on the basis of a list
of characteristics, and the representative use case(s) applicable to a
scenario. The possible descriptions of the characteristics are as follows:
Table 4.2.0-1: Characteristics of deployment scenarios
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Characteristic | Possible description entries | +==================================+==================================+ | Environment (of the device) | Indoor | | | | | | Outdoor | | | | | | Indoor or outdoor | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Basestation characteristic (if | Macro-cell-based deployment | | any) | | | | Micro-cell-based deployment | | | | | | Pico-cell-based deployment | | | | | | None | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Connectivity topology | See section 4.2.1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Spectrum | Licensed FDD | | | | | | Licensed TDD | | | | | | Unlicensed | | | | | | Note: In each connectivity | | | topology of the study, if a BS | | | is present, it is assumed that | | | the BS uses licensed spectrum | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Coexistence with existing 3GPP | Deployed on the same sites as an | | technologies | existing 3GPP deployment | | | corresponding to the basestation | | | type. | | | | | | Deployed on new sites without an | | | assumption of an existing 3GPP | | | deployment. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic assumption | Device-terminated (DT) | | | | | | Device-originated (DO) | | | | | | DO traffic includes DO | | | autonomous (DO-A), and DO | | | device-terminated triggered | | | (DO-DTT) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Device characteristic | See Section 4.3: | | | | | | Device A | | | | | | Device B | | | | | | Device C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The study has considered Ambient IoT deployments in-band to NR, in guard-band
of NR, and in standalone band from NR.
### 4.2.1 Connectivity topologies
#### 4.2.1.0 Introduction
The following connectivity topologies for Ambient IoT networks and devices are
defined for the purposes of the study. In all these topologies, the Ambient
IoT device may be provided with a carrier wave from other node(s) either
inside or outside the topology. The links in each topology may be
bidirectional or unidirectional.
BS, UE, assisting node, or intermediate node could be multiple BSs or UEs,
respectively. The mixture of indoor and outdoor placement of such nodes is
regarded as a network implementation choice. Account would need to be taken of
potential impact on device or node complexity. In the connectivity topologies,
this does not imply the existence of multi-hop assisting or intermediate
nodes.
#### 4.2.1.1 Topology 1: BS ↔ Ambient IoT device
{width="2.575in" height="1.775in"}
Figure 4.2.1.1-1: Topology 1
In Topology 1, the Ambient IoT device directly and bidirectionally
communicates with a basestation. The communication between the basestation and
the ambient IoT device includes Ambient IoT data and/or signalling. This
topology includes the possibility that the BS transmitting to the Ambient IoT
device is a different from the BS receiving from the Ambient IoT device.
#### 4.2.1.2 Topology 2: BS ↔ intermediate node ↔ Ambient IoT device
{width="3.6in" height="1.775in"}
Figure 4.2.1.2-1: Topology 2
In Topology 2, the Ambient IoT device communicates bidirectionally with an
intermediate node between the device and basestation. In this topology, the
intermediate node can be a relay, IAB node, UE, repeater, etc. which is
capable of Ambient IoT. The intermediate node transfers Ambient IoT data
and/or signalling between BS and the Ambient IoT device.
#### 4.2.1.3 Topology 3: BS ↔ assisting node ↔ Ambient IoT device ↔ BS
{width="2.925196850393701in" height="1.968503937007874in"}
Figure 4.2.1.3-1: Topology 3 with downlink assistance
{width="2.7583333333333333in" height="1.725in"}
Figure 4.2.1.3-2: Topology 3 with uplink assistance
In Topology 3, the Ambient IoT device transmits data/signalling to a
basestation, and receives data/signalling from the assisting node; or the
Ambient IoT device receives data/signalling from a basestation and transmits
data/signalling to the assisting node. In this topology, the assisting node
can be a relay, IAB, UE, repeater, etc. which is capable of ambient IoT.
#### 4.2.1.4 Topology 4: UE ↔ Ambient IoT device
{width="2.814815179352581in" height="1.5760444006999126in"}
Figure 4.2.1.4-1: Topology 4
In Topology 4, the Ambient IoT device communicates bidirectionally with a UE.
The communication between UE and the ambient IoT device includes Ambient IoT
data and/or signalling.
### 4.2.2 Deployment scenarios
#### 4.2.2.1 Deployment scenario 1: Device indoors, basestation indoors
With Ambient IoT device indoors and basestation indoors, this deployment
scenario is characterized according to Table 4.2.2.1-1.
Table 4.2.2.1-1: Characteristics of deployment scenario 1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Applicable | Characteristics | Description (NOTE 1) | | representative use | | | | cases | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Indoor inventory | **Environment (of | Indoor | | | device)** | | | Indoor sensor | | | | | | | | Indoor positioning | | | | | | | | Indoor command | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Basestation | Micro- or pico-cell | | | characteristic (if | | | | any)** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Connectivity | Topology (1), (2), | | | topology** | (3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Spectrum** | Licensed FDD, | | | | licensed TDD, | | | | unlicensed | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Coexistence with | Co-site or new site | | | existing 3GPP | | | | technologies** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Traffic | DT and DO | | | assumption** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Device | Device A or Device B | | | characteristic** | or Device C | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: Descriptions may not be applicable for some Devices (A, B).
#### 4.2.2.2 Deployment scenario 2: Device indoors, basestation outdoors
With Ambient IoT device indoors and basestation outdoors, this deployment
scenario is characterized according to Table 4.2.2.2-1.
Table 4.2.2.2-1: Characteristics of deployment scenario 2
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Applicable | Characteristics | Description (NOTE 1) | | representative use | | | | cases | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Indoor inventory | **Environment (of | Indoor | | | device)** | | | Indoor sensor | | | | | | | | Indoor positioning | | | | | | | | Indoor command | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Basestation | Macro- or Micro- | | | characteristic (if | cell BS | | | any)** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Connectivity | Topology (1), (2), | | | topology** | (3) | | | | | | | | Note: The location | | | | of intermediate or | | | | assisting node (if | | | | any) is indoor or | | | | outdoor | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Spectrum** | Licensed FDD, | | | | licensed TDD, | | | | unlicensed | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Coexistence with | Co-site or new site | | | existing 3GPP | | | | technologies** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Traffic | DT and DO | | | assumption** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Device | Device C may support | | | characteristic** | Topology (1), (2), | | | | (3), | | | | | | | | Device A may support | | | | Topology (2), Device | | | | B may support | | | | Topology (2), (3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: Descriptions may not be applicable for some Devices (A, B).
#### 4.2.2.3 Deployment scenario 3: Device indoors, UE-based reader
With Ambient IoT device indoors and UE-based reader, this deployment scenario
is characterized according to Table 4.2.2.3-1.
Table 4.2.2.3-1: Characteristics of deployment scenario 3
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Applicable | Characteristics | Description (NOTE 1) | | representative use | | | | cases | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Indoor inventory | **Environment (of | Indoor | | | device)** | | | Indoor sensor | | | | | | | | Indoor positioning | | | | | | | | Indoor command | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Basestation | None | | | characteristic (if | | | | any)** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Connectivity | Topology (4) | | | topology** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Spectrum** | Licensed FDD, | | | | licensed TDD, | | | | unlicensed | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Coexistence with | NA | | | existing 3GPP | | | | technologies** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Traffic | DT and DO | | | assumption** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Device | Device A or Device B | | | characteristic** | or Device C | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: Descriptions may not be applicable for some Devices (A, B).
#### 4.2.2.4 Deployment scenario 4: Device outdoors, basestation outdoors
With Ambient IoT device outdoors and basestation outdoors, this deployment
scenario is characterized according to Table 4.2.2.4-1.
Table 4.2.2.4-1: Characteristics of deployment scenario 4
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Applicable | Characteristics | Description (NOTE 1) | | representative use | | | | cases | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Outdoor inventory | **Environment (of | Outdoor | | | device)** | | | Outdoor sensor | | | | | | | | Outdoor positioning | | | | | | | | Outdoor command | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Basestation | Macro- or Micro- | | | characteristic (if | cell BS | | | any)** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Connectivity | Topology (1), (2), | | | topology** | (3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Spectrum** | Licensed FDD, | | | | licensed TDD, or | | | | unlicensed. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Coexistence with | Co-site or new site | | | existing 3GPP | | | | technologies** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Traffic | DT and DO | | | assumption** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Device | Device C may support | | | characteristic** | Topology (1), (2), | | | | (3), | | | | | | | | Device A may support | | | | Topology (2),Device | | | | B may support | | | | Topology (2), (3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: Descriptions may not be applicable for some Devices (A, B).
#### 4.2.2.5 Deployment scenario 5: Device outdoors, UE-based reader
With Ambient IoT device outdoors and UE-based reader, this deployment scenario
is characterized according to Table 4.2.2.5-1.
Table 4.2.2.5-1: Characteristics of deployment scenario 5
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Applicable | Characteristics | Description (NOTE 1) | | representative use | | | | cases | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Outdoor inventory | **Environment (of | Outdoor | | | device)** | | | Outdoor sensor | | | | | | | | Outdoor positioning | | | | | | | | Outdoor command | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Basestation | None | | | characteristic (if | | | | any)** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Connectivity | Topology (4) | | | topology** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Spectrum** | Licensed FDD, | | | | licensed TDD, | | | | unlicensed | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Coexistence with | NA | | | existing 3GPP | | | | technologies** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Traffic | DT and DO | | | assumption** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Device | Device A or Device B | | | characteristic** | or Device C | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: Descriptions may not be applicable for some Devices (A, B).
## 4.3 Device categorization
Ambient IoT devices are characterized in the study according to their energy
storage capacity, and capability of generating RF signals for their
transmissions.
The study considers that a device has either:
\- No energy storage at all; or
\- Limited energy storage
Relying on these storage capacities, the study considers the following set of
Ambient IoT devices:
\- Device A: No energy storage, no independent signal
generation/amplification, i.e. backscattering transmission.
\- Device B: Has energy storage, no independent signal generation, i.e.
backscattering transmission. Use of stored energy can include amplification
for reflected signals.
\- Device C: Has energy storage, has independent signal generation, i.e.,
active RF components for transmission.
A limited energy storage can be different among implementations within Device
B or implementations within Device C, and different between Device B and
Device C. Such storage is expected to be order(s) of magnitude smaller than an
NB-IoT device would typically include.
Device A, B, and C are able to demodulate control, data, etc from the relevant
entity in RAN according to connectivity topology.
*\ *
# 5 RAN design targets
## 5.1 Device power consumption
For Device A, the power consumption target during transmitting/receiving is ≤
1 μW or ≤ 10 μW,
For Device B, the target during transmitting/receiving is such that:
\- Device A power consumption ≪ Device B power consumption \< Device C power
consumption; or
\- Device A power consumption ≤ Device B power consumption \< Device C power
consumption.
The device power consumption during transmitting/receiving for Device C is ≤ 1
mW to ≤ 10 mW.
## 5.2 Device complexity
For Device A, the complexity target is to be comparable to UHF RFID
ISO18000-6C (EPC C1G2).
For Device B, the target is such that:
\- Device A complexity \< Device B complexity \< Device C complexity.
For Device C, the complexity target is to be orders-of-magnitude lower than
NB-IoT.
## 5.3 Coverage
The coverage target for both DL and UL is represented by the maximum distance:
\- Between Ambient IoT device and basestation in Topology (1) and (3)
\- Between Ambient IoT device and intermediate or assisting node in Topology
(2) and (3), respectively
\- Between Ambient IoT device and UE in Topology (4).
Details relevant to the maximum distance such as sensitivity, BLER, transmit
power, etc. are for WG expertise to study further.
The design target of coverage is:
By indoor / outdoor, grouping different Devices into a range that WGs can sub-
select within
\- the maximum distance of 10 -- 50 m for indoor
\- the maximum distance of 50 -- 500 m for outdoor
NOTE: Different target values within these ranges may apply to different
devices A/B/C and deployment scenarios 1-5.
NOTE: If BS is present, then continuous coverage (from the device perspective)
based on a typical ISD between base stations is assumed. This does not imply
an assumption of any particular topology.
NOTE: For Device A & B, the emitter-to-tag distance should be reported as part
of the assessment.
## 5.4 User experienced data rate
The user experienced data rate target is, for the uplink and downlink, maximum
not less than 5 kbps, and minimum not less than 0.1 kbps.
## 5.5 Maximum message size
The design target of maximum message size is approximately 1000 bits to be
received by the Ambient IoT device, and approximately 1000 bits to be
transmitted from the Ambient IoT device, based on the maximum application
layer packet size.
RAN1/RAN2 can refine as needed for TB size design.
## 5.6 Latency
The one-way end-to-end maximum latency targets, as defined in TR 22.840, are:
\- Longer latency target: 10 seconds
\- Shorter latency target: 1 second
A use case is assigned to a latency target according to TR 22.840. RAN WGs can
refine a definition of latency suitable for their work within the above.
NOTE: The time for charging the Ambient IoT device storage (if present) is not
included in the latency defined above. Time for energy harvesting, charging,
etc. is regarded as an implementation issue only.
NOTE: The one-way end-to-end maximum latency is assumed to also include
query/triggering time.
## 5.7 Positioning accuracy
The design target of absolute positioning accuracy when performed by the
cellular network (including assisting nodes when present) is:
\- 1\~3 meters @ 90% indoor location.
\- Several tens of meters @ 90% outdoor location.
The design target of relative ranging accuracy for topology 4 is:
\- 1\~3 meters @ 90% indoor and outdoor location
## 5.8 Connection/device density
According to the consolidated potential KPIs in TR 22.840, the maximum
connection density target is:
\- 150 devices per 100 m^2^ for indoor scenarios.
\- 20 devices per 100 m^2^ for outdoor scenarios.
RAN WGs will define the 2D or 3D distribution(s) of devices.
## 5.9 Moving speed of device
The design target of moving speed of Ambient IoT device is 10 km/h, at least
for indoor scenarios.
NOTE: Absolute speed is used in Topology (1), (2) and (3). Relative speed is
used in Topology (4).
# 6 Comparison and assessment
6.1 Preliminary feasibility assessment
### 6.1.1 Device power consumption
Feasibility of power consumption for Device A at ≤1 μW level has been reported
by reference to [3], [4], [5], [6], and at ≤ 10 μW level by [7] depending on
component choices such as in [8]. Feasibility of power consumption for Device
C at ≤1 mW level has been reported by reference to [9], [10], [11], [12],
[13], and by reference in part to the receiver architectures discussed in the
Rel-18 SI on low-power wake up signal/receiver [14] [15] at ≤10 mW level. For
Device B, which adds energy storage to Device A and has been described as also
potentially including (without limitation), e.g. reflection amplification,
feasibility of power consumption in the order of hundreds of uW has been
reported by [7] depending on component choices such as in [16].
### 6.1.2 Device complexity
Feasibility assessment for this aspect was presented on a qualitative basis by
companies describing exemplary waveform, and/or transmitter, and/or receiver
architectures which, according to their analysis, would satisfy the device
power consumption design target. It was also observed that the amount of
energy storage could affect device complexity. Examples of considered
waveforms include OOK/FSK, and ASK. Examples of considered transmitter
architectures for Device A/B include those based on backscattering technology,
and receiver architectures based on envelope detection, while for Device C,
very low power consumption heterodyne/homodyne architectures were reported as
satisfying the complexity design target.
On the other hand, aspects such as the memory required for security,
authentication, etc., and hardware used for encryption processing would add to
the complexity of the device. There were also discussions of the quality
required in circuitry such as energy harvesting, backscattering, and PAs
which, as their efficiency increases, tend to have higher complexity.
Detailed analysis of designs which meet the device complexity requirement is
considered to require WG-level technical expertise.
### 6.1.3 Coverage
Feasibility of a coverage target was assessed by sources differently for
Devices A, B, C. In addition to typical elements comprising a 3GPP coverage
evaluation, such as BS/intermediate/assistant node transmit power and receive
sensitivity, device receiver sensitivity, propagation losses, etc. (which vary
according to the specific calculation method), aspects particular to Ambient
IoT devices were added. These include:
\- Device A/B backscattering activation power threshold
\- Device B amplification (if any)
\- Device A/B reflection loss
\- Distance from carrier wave source to Ambient IoT device, for Device A/B
\- Power of carrier wave source and/or incident power at Device A/B from
carrier wave source
Although different evaluation methodologies were adopted by sources [17] --
[25], the coverage of Device A is reported as less than Device B (with or
without amplification), which is less than Device C. The coverage of Ambient
IoT devices relying on backscattering technology was reported to increase as
the carrier wave source gets closer to the Ambient IoT device, due to the
higher incident power on the device.
### 6.1.4 User experienced data rate
Full user-experienced data rate assessment was noted as requiring WG-level
technical expertise, and detailed assumptions on air interface design. For
TSG-level purposes, companies used simplified approximants. Peak data rate was
one such approximant, where companies reported values above 5 kbps for uplink
and downlink to be achievable according to various sets of assumptions
including sufficient bandwidth, and in one case noted that the components
assumed by reference to [26] would need further investigation whether the
device power consumption target could be simultaneously met. One source [17]
estimated data rate by accounting for device charging time and operation time,
resulting in data rates 0.14 -- 2.24 kbps for uplink and downlink.
### 6.1.5 Maximum message size
Companies' study of the feasibility of this design requirement was by
reference to e.g. RFID which supports message sizes larger than about 1000
bits. It was also observed that the different Devices could be regarded as
feasible for different maximum message sizes.
### 6.1.6 Latency
Feasibility of latency was reported typically by comparing a message size to a
data rate, for example 5 kbps / 1000 bit = 200 ms latency for the largest
message size at the target peak rate. Feasibility would also depend on a
consideration of signalling procedures and possible random access-like
procedure.
### 6.1.7 Positioning accuracy
Feasibility assessment for this aspect has been reported by reference to
technologies of a similar complexity level, such as UHF RFID achieving 2-3 m
accuracy in [27], [28], [29] indoors, and ultra-narrow IoT achieving from
several tens to 100 or 150 m in [30], [31], [32] outdoors. It is also observed
that Device A and B need to have a carrier wave source in an appropriate
distance to be able to transmit signals for positioning.
### 6.1.8 Connection/device density
Feasibility of the target was discussed from the basis of assuming cell access
procedures, and device addressing. It was discussed as applying a requirement
on the design of such procedures, identities, etc. rather than being a matter
for feasibility assessment before starting such designs.
### 6.1.9 Moving speed of device
The feasibility aspects that were reported related to the impact of Doppler
shift or channel coherence on the possible types of modulation contemplated by
companies for especially Device A and B. It was observed, without limiting RAN
WG design scope, that at least for low-order non-OFDM modulation, Doppler
impacts at the low moving-speed level implied in Clause 5.9 would likely be
acceptable, although the impact on transmission times potentially a multiple
of the coherence time should also be studied in RAN WGs.
## 6.2 Required RAN functionalities
The assumptions on required functionality have been studied on the basis of
supporting certain RAN design targets as well as other requirements. At least
the following potential functionalities are identified in different sets,
respectively, according to the purpose of each functionality assumed to be
mainly used for. An entry in the tables below neither implies nor precludes
RAN specification impact.
Table 6.2-1: Required RAN functionality set #1: for supporting RAN design
target
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Design target | Functionality | +=============================+=======================================+ | Device power and complexity | - Ultra-low power transceiver / | | | Device architecture | | | | | | - Transmitting based on | | | backscattering (including carrier | | | wave provision for backscattering) | | | for Device A and Device B | | | | | | - Low-complexity waveform / | | | modulation / coding / signal / | | | channel / synchronization scheme, if | | | applicable to Device, robust to | | | frequency error and timing error | | | | | | - Compact protocol stack and | | | lightweight signaling procedure | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Coverage | - Techniques for the required | | | coverage with low device complexity | | | (e.g., forward error correction, | | | enough receiver sensitivity and | | | transmitted power, reflection gain | | | enhancement), if applicable and | | | needed to the Device type | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | User experienced data rate | - Compact protocol stack and | | | lightweight signaling procedure | | | | | | - Potential schemes as applicable, | | | such as, e.g. flexible | | | modulation/code rate, resource | | | allocation, multiple access methods | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Maximum message size | - Compact protocol stack and | | | lightweight signaling procedure | | | | | | - Signal/channel design which can | | | deliver the maximum message size | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Latency | - Access mechanisms and signaling | | | procedures which allow meeting the | | | latency target | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Positioning support | - Positioning method(s) applicable | | | to the connectivity topologies for | | | the required positioning accuracy for | | | Ambient IoT device | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Connection density | - Efficient multiple access methods | | | and contention handling | | | | | | - Ability to control the operation | | | for one or more of the Ambient IoT | | | devices, within the applicable area, | | | including e.g. the selection of | | | devices | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Moving speed of device | - Physical layer design (low-order | | | modulation, reference signal etc. and | | | others) robust to the appropriate | | | ranges of moving speeds | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
Table 6.2-2: Required RAN functionality set #2: for supporting other
requirements
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Requirement | Functionality | +==================================+==================================+ | Device management | - RAN aspects of | | | identification, | | | activation/deactivation, and | | | other management functionalities | | | of Ambient IoT devices and other | | | involved devices (e.g. readers) | | | if applicable, and related | | | signalling to/from the CN if | | | any/needed | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Security* | - Authentication (when needed), | | | encryption, data integrity, | | | authorization (when needed) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mobility | - Mobility management (at least | | | cell selection/re-selection | | | -like function) for device C | | | | | | - Handling for Devices A and B | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interference management and | - Interference | | coexistence | management/coordination scheme | | | | | | - Potential full duplex | | | capability of BS/UE, including | | | self-interference suppression, | | | may be required for BS/UE to | | | communicate with Device A and | | | Device B, if carrier wave | | | transmission and backscatter | | | reception is performed | | | simultaneously at least on the | | | same band by the same BS/UE. | | | | | | - Coexistence with existing and | | | adjacent network infrastructure, | | | and possibility to reuse | | | existing network deployments or | | | use new network deployments. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CN connectivity | - RAN functionality for Ambient | | | IoT to support CN (when | | | present), with possibility of | | | potential lightweight protocol | | | stack architecture and | | | simplified signaling procedures. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Compatibility among connectivity | - From the perspective of the | | topologies | Ambient IoT device, strive for | | | operation to be agnostic to RAN | | | connectivity topologies. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
*NOTE: This does not necessarily mean security has RAN impact, further study is needed.
The required functionalities may not all be addressed in the same Release.
In the above, both existing and new techniques may be considered.
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
## 7.1 Summary
The study has described eight rUCs in RAN, being indoor/outdoor for each of
inventory, sensors, positioning, and command. These rUCs encompass the UCs or
traffic scenarios from TR 22.840 as shown in Table 4.1-1.
Four general connectivity topologies were studied in Clause 4.2.1: BS ↔
Ambient IoT device, BS ↔ intermediate node ↔ Ambient IoT device, BS ↔
assisting node ↔ Ambient IoT device ↔ BS, and UE ↔ Ambient IoT device.
Three devices were studied: Device A, B, and C, differentiated according to
inclusion of backscattering transmission or independent signal generation, and
inclusion or not of energy storage.
Together with other characteristics, the topologies and devices were used to
study deployment scenarios for Ambient IoT, shown in Clause 4.2.2,
differentiated according to whether the device and basestation/UE-based reader
are respectively indoors or outdoors.
A set of RAN design targets were developed, complementary to, and/or derived
from, the requirements reported in TR 22.840, in Clause 5. Further details of
these targets are assumed to be provided by WG-level expertise.
A non-exclusive list of functionalities needed in Ambient IoT from the RAN
perspective was formulated on the basis of supporting the RAN design targets,
and for supporting other requirements. The study has not investigated in
detail the implication of CN-related functionalities.
Finally, a preliminary feasibility assessment was conducted on the basis of
the set of design targets in Clause 5. This was by a mixture of reference to
external sources, characteristics of, or hardware used by, other technologies,
and companies' own analyses.
## 7.2 Recommendations
It is concluded in preliminary feasibility analysis at TSG-RAN level that
Ambient IoT is feasible and beneficial, and further WG-level study is
recommended prior to normative work.
For the initial WG-level study of Ambient IoT
\- RAN is recommended to down-select further starting from:
\- Deployment scenario 1 with Topology 1
\- Deployment scenario 2 with Topology 1
\- Deployment scenario 2 with Topology 2
\- Deployment scenario 4 with Topology 1
\- Deployment scenario 4 with Topology 3
\- FR1 licensed spectrum is recommended
\- Note: selection or prioritization between FDD and FDD/TDD is to be decided
\- RAN is recommended to down-select to one or more of:
\- Spectrum in-band to NR, in guard-band to LTE/NR, and in standalone band(s)
It is recommended to direct the RAN WGs to use the design targets reported in
Clause 5. The RAN WGs are expected to refine the design targets according to
their technical expertise, as needed.
###### ### Annex A: Energy sources for energy harvesting
Companies have reported the following energy sources for energy harvesting in
literature: RF, solar/light, piezoelectric (kinetic/vibration),
electromagnetic, electrostatic, heat/thermal, thermoelectric, magnetic,
wind/water, acoustic, etc.
#