# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings from the study item \"Study on NR
Network-controlled Repeaters\" [2].
The SI includes the study and identification of side control information
(i.e., beamforming information, Timing information, information on UL-DL TDD
configuration, ON-OFF information and power control information) for network-
controlled repeaters and corresponding L1/L2 signaling (including its
configuration) to carry the side control information. The scope of the study
also includes the study on the aspects (i.e., identification and
authorization) of network-controlled repeater management
The study on NR network-controlled repeaters is to focus on the following
scenarios and assumptions:
\- Network-controlled repeaters are inband RF repeaters used for extension of
network coverage on FR1 and FR2 bands, while during the study FR2 deployments
may be prioritized for both outdoor and O2I scenarios.
\- For only single hop stationary network-controlled repeaters
\- Network-controlled repeaters are transparent to UEs
\- Network-controlled repeater can maintain the gNB-repeater link and
repeater-UE link simultaneously
NOTE1: Cost efficiency is a key consideration point for network-controlled
repeaters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-213700: \" New SI: Study on NR Network-controlled Repeaters \".
[3] 3GPP TR 38.380: \"Study on NR coverage enhancements\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NCR Network-controlled repeater
NCR-MT NCR-Mobile termination
NCR-Fwd NCR-Forwarding
C-link Control link
# 4 Introduction
Coverage is a fundamental aspect of cellular network deployments. Mobile
operators rely on different types of network nodes to offer blanket coverage
in their deployments. Deployment of regular full-stack cells is one option but
it may not always be possible (e.g., no availability of backhaul) or
economically viable.
As a result, new types of network nodes have been considered to increase
mobile operators\' flexibility for their network deployments. For example,
Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB) was introduced in Rel-16 and enhanced in
Rel-17 as a new type of network node not requiring a wired backhaul. Another
type of network node is the RF repeater which simply amplify-and-forward any
signal that they receive. RF repeaters have seen a wide range of deployments
in 2G, 3G and 4G to supplement the coverage provided by regular full-stack
cells. In Rel-17, RAN4 specified RF and EMC requirements for such RF repeaters
for NR targeting both FR1 and FR2.
While an RF repeater presents a cost effective means of extending network
coverage, it has its limitations. An RF repeater simply performs an amplify-
and-forward operation without being able to take into account various factors
that could improve performance. Such factors may include information on semi-
static and/or dynamic downlink/uplink configuration, adaptive
transmitter/receiver spatial beamforming, ON-OFF status, and so on.
A network-controlled repeater is an enhancement over conventional RF repeaters
with the capability to receive and process side control information from the
network. Side control information could allow a network-controlled repeater to
perform the amplify-and-forward operation in a more efficient manner.
Potential benefits could include mitigation of unnecessary noise
amplification, transmissions and receptions with better spatial directivity,
and simplified network integration.
# 5 Modelling of network-controlled repeater
The Network-controlled repeater is modelled as Figure 5-1, which includes the
NCR-MT and NCR-Fwd.
The NCR-MT is defined as a function entity to communicate with a gNB via a
Control link (C-link) to enable exchange of control information (e.g. side
control information at least for the control of NCR-Fwd). The C-link is based
on NR Uu interface.
The NCR-Fwd is defined as a function entity to perform the amplify-and-
forwarding of UL/DL RF signal between gNB and UE via backhaul link and access
link. The behavior of the NCR-Fwd will be controlled according to the received
side control information from gNB.
{width="4.097222222222222in" height="1.0069444444444444in"}
Figure 5-1: Conceptual model of network-controlled repeater
Additionally, at least one of the NCR-MT\'s carrier(s) should operate in the
frequency band forwarded by the NCR-Fwd. And the NCR-MT and NCR-Fwd operating
in the same frequency band is prioritized for the study.
As baseline, same _large-scale properties of the channel, i.e., channel
properties in Type-A and Type-D (if applicable), are expected to be
experienced by_ C-link and backhaul link (at least when the NCR-MT and NCR-Fwd
are operating in same frequency band).
For the transmission/reception of C-link and backhaul link by NCR,
\- The DL of C-link and DL of backhaul link can be performed simultaneously or
in TDM way
\- The UL of C-link and UL of backhaul link can be performed in TDM way.
The multiplexing is under the control of gNB with consideration for NCR
capability and simultaneous transmission of the UL of C-link and UL of
backhaul link is also subject to NCR capability
# 6 Side control information
## 6.1 Beam information
For the backhaul link and C-link, both fixed beam and adaptive beam can be
considered at NCR, where the fixed beam refers to the case that beam at NCR
for both C-link and backhaul-link cannot be changed. **Beam correspondence is
assumed to apply for DL/UL of the backhaul link at NCR-Fwd, as well as the
DL/UL of the C-link at NCR-MT.**
**As a baseline, the same TCI states as C-link are assumed for beams at NCR-
Fwd for backhaul link if the NCR-MT\'s carrier(s) is operating within the
frequency band forwarded by the NCR-Fwd.** In case that the adaptive beams are
adopted for C-link and backhaul link, the indication and determination of
beams of backhaul link can be achieved by:
\- Option 1: The beam of backhaul link is indicated by a new signaling. The
new signaling is dynamic signaling and/or semi-static signaling (e.g., RRC
signaling/ MAC CE) indicating a beam(s) from the set of beams of the C-link.
This does not imply that the beam of backhaul link is always indicated by the
new signaling
\- Option 2: The beam of backhaul link is determined by a pre-defined rule,
e.g., in slots/symbols with simultaneous DL receptions / UL transmissions in
both C-link and backhaul link, the beam of backhaul link is the same as the
beam of C-link. Otherwise, the beam of backhaul link follows one of the beams
of the C link.
Other predefined rules are not precluded.
At least for the access link, and at least for FR2, beam information is
beneficial and recommended as the side control information for a network-
controlled repeater to control the behaviour of the NCR for the access link.
Regarding the access link beam indication, the beam of access link for NCR-Fwd
is indicated by a beam index where both dynamic indication and semi-static
indication, including semi-persistent indication, are considered
The time domain resource corresponding to an access link beam is explicitly
determined based on the explicitly indicated time domain resources per beam
indication. A single beam indication can indicate one or multiple beams.
Different parameters may be indicated for semi-static or dynamic beam
indication.
Beam correspondence is assumed for the DL/UL of the access link at NCR-Fwd,
i.e., a DL beam and a UL beam on the access side which correspond to each
other have the same beam index. The forwarding direction of an indicated beam
in access link can be determined based on its corresponding time domain
resource and the UL/DL TDD configuration. The forwarding behaviour (or the
forwarding direction) of an indicated beam in access link in flexible symbols
is separately discussed in clause 6.3.
## 6.2 Timing information
For the timing of NCR, the following assumption is considered as baseline:
\- The DL receive timing of the NCR-Fwd is aligned with the DL receive timing
of the NCR-MT.
\- The UL transmit timing of the NCR-Fwd is aligned with the UL transmit
timing of the NCR-MT.
\- The DL transmit timing of the NCR-Fwd is delayed after the DL receive
timing of the NCR-MT (or the NCR-Fwd) by an internal delay;
\- The UL receive timing of the NCR-Fwd is advanced before the UL transmit
timing of the NCR-MT (or the NCR-Fwd) by an internal delay.
It is concluded that legacy UE mechanism is sufficient to achieve DL/UL timing
for NCR-MT.
## 6.3 Information on UL-DL TDD configuration
For the TDD UL/DL configuration of network controller repeater, at least semi-
static TDD UL/DL configuration is needed for network-controlled repeater for
links including C-link, backhaul link and access link. On the flexible symbols
based on the semi-static configuration (e.g., TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon, TDD-UL-
DL-ConfigDedicated), the following behaviours of the NCR-Fwd are considered:
\- Option 1: The NCR-Fwd is expected to be OFF or not forwarding over these
symbols
\- Option 2: The NCR-Fwd will follow the TDD operation determined by NCR-MT,
i.e., determined by NCR-MT based on the received SFI indication or scheduling
from gNB. It means that no new side control signalling is needed.
\- Option 3: The NCR-Fwd will follow a new dynamic side control signalling of
DL/UL forwarding over these symbols to NCR-Fwd
The same TDD UL/DL configuration is always assumed for backhaul link and
access link. Additionally, the same TDD UL/DL configuration is assumed for
C-link, backhaul link and access link if NCR-MT and NCR-Fwd operate in the
same frequency band.
## 6.4 ON-OFF information
ON-OFF information is beneficial and recommended for network-controlled
repeater to control the behaviour of NCR-Fwd.
The NCR-Fwd is always expected to be \"OFF\" unless otherwise explicitly or
implicitly indicated by the gNB. This applies regardless of the RRC state of
NCR-MT. Indication (e.g., received when NCR-MT in RRC-connected) or DRX state
of NCR-MT to control the ON-OFF behaviour of NCR-Fwd when the NCR-MT is in
RRC-idle/inactive is not precluded.
**The following options can be considered to indicate the ON-OFF information
from gNB to NCR for controlling the behaviour of NCR-Fwd:**
\- Option 1: Explicit indication with ON-OFF state (e.g., via dynamic or semi-
static signalling) or ON-OFF pattern (e.g., periodic _/semi-static_ ON-OFF
pattern or new DRX-like pattern for ON-OFF)
\- Option 2: Implicit indication via the signalling for other side-control
information (e.g., beam, DL/UL configuration, or PC information). It should be
noticed that _this example does not imply that PC information is necessary or
not._
Other solutions (e.g., potential combination of explicit and implication
solution) can be further discussed in normative phase.
## 6.5 Power control information
The controlling of the amplifying gain of NCR-Fwd is considered to enable the
power control of NCR-Fwd if PC is recommended as side control information for
NCR in Rel-18.
# 7 L1/L2 signalling for side control information
## 7.1 Signalling for side control information
### 7.1.1 Signalling for beam information
_From the perspective of signaling design, both_ **dynamic beam indication and
semi-static beam indication are recommended for access link.** The semi-static
beam indication includes the semi-persistent indication.
The time at which the NCR applies an access link beam indication should be
considered.
As for the time-domain granularity of the access link beam indication and
determination, both slot-level and symbol-level granularity are recommended.
### 7.1.2 Signalling for timing information
For the signaling of the side control information of timing to align
transmission/reception boundaries at the NCR, new signaling is unnecessary.
### 7.1.3 Signalling for UL-DL TDD configuration
For the signaling of information on UL-DL TDD configuration, if the NCR-MT can
acquire its TDD configuration as legacy UEs or from OAM, new signaling may not
be necessary. The same TDD UL/DL configuration is assumed for C-link and
backhaul link and access link if the NCR-MT and the NCR-Fwd are in the same
frequency band. Other cases, where new signaling may be necessary, can be
discussed in normative phase.
### 7.1.4 Signalling for ON-OFF information
_For an indication of NCR-Fwd ON-OFF for efficient interference management and
improved energy efficiency, both dynamic and semi-static indication can be
considered._ _Whether/how to handle the forwarding of broadcast and cell-
specific signals/channels can be discussed in normative phase._
### 7.1.5 Signalling for power control information
Void
## 7.2 Configuration of signalling
For the configuration of signalling, the NCR-MT can obtain the necessary
configuration for receiving the L1/L2 signaling of the side control
information.
\- Option 1: The necessary configuration is from RRC.
\- Option 2: The necessary configuration is from OAM or hard-coded.
\- Option 3: The necessary configuration is partially configured by RRC and
partially configured by OAM or hard-coded.
The necessary configurations from RRC and/or OAM (or hard-coded) contain:
\- The configurations of PHY channels to carry the L1/L2 signaling including
\- The configurations for receiving PDCCH and PDSCH.
\- The configurations for transmitting PUCCH, if needed.
\- The configurations for transmitting PUSCH, if needed.
\- The configurations of L1/L2 signaling including
\- The configurations for DCI.
\- The configurations for UCI, if needed.
\- The configurations for MAC CE, if needed.
For the parameters in the necessary configurations for L1/L2 signaling, the
existing parameters for PDCCH, PDSCH, PUCCH, PUSCH, DCI, UCI and MAC CE in
Rel-17 are the baseline for further discussion.
# 8 Repeater management
## 8.1 Solution on repeater management
### 8.1.1 Solution 1
In this solution, the identification and authorization/validation of NCR
device are done at RAN side. The general procedure of the solution 1 is
illustrated in below figure:
Figure 8.1.1-1. Call flow for solution 1
Sequence of this solution:
1\. The NCR firstly accesses to RAN and CN as a normal UE, no additional
impact to NG-C interface. For example, the operator can allocate specific
slice for NCR, and further identify the NCR based on the slice information.
After authorized the NCR, the CN provides dedicated Allowed NSSAI to the gNB.
Based on this information, the gNB be aware the NCR is authorized.
2\. NCR identification can be implemented by reporting an NCR indicator in
Msg5 (in addition to sending any NCR-related radio capability) and/or by
reporting an NCR indicator (implicitly or explicitly) in UE\'s radio
capability signaling.
3\. If required, NCR validation is used to further check the validity of NCR,
the details can be further discussed in normative phase. After AS security is
established between the gNB and the NCR device, the NCR sends NCR credential
information for NCR validation to the gNB via RRC message (e.g. UE Assistance
Information). The NCR credential information are pre-allocated by the
operator. After receiving the NCR credential information, the gNB validates
the NCR device by checking its local stored information.
The validation steps (e.g. step 12 and step 13) are optionally performed based
on the operator\'s requirement.
### 8.1.2 Solution 2
In this solution, the NCR is identified at RAN side and the
authorization/validation are performed by local RAN OAM. CN is absent in this
solution. The general procedure of the solution is illustrated in below
figure:
Figure 8.1.2-1. Call flow for solution 2
Sequence of this solution:
1\. NCR establishes RRC connection based on legacy signaling procedure
(Msg1\~Msg5), but the gNB will not establish NGAP signaling association for
the NCR.
2\. NCR identification can be implemented by reporting an NCR indicator in
Msg5.
3\. Different from Msg5 sent by a normal NR UEs, an OAM container is included
in Msg5 and there is no NAS container. Based on the NCR indicator, the gNB
applies NCR-specific handling, e.g. not to establish the NGAP association and
forwards the OAM container to OAM.
4\. The NCR authorization and validation is then performed between OAM and
NCR. The information exchanged between OAM and NCR can be leveraged by an OAM
container. Over Uu interface, the OAM container can be transferred via RRC
message or via a DRB (which without PDU session). The security of OAM traffic
can be provided by application layer security mechanism, such as SSH/TLS
between the NCR and OAM. (Note that, the procedure for
authorization/validation in OAM can be either specified or left to
implementation)
### 8.1.3 Solution 3
In this solution, NCR identification is done at RAN side, and NCR
authorization is done at CN side, similar to the handling of IAB-MT. **The
general procedure of the solution is illustrated in below figure:**
Figure 8.1.3-1. Call flow for solution 3
Sequence of this solution:
1\. During NG-C setup procedure, the AMF should inform the gNB whether it
supports NCR, e.g. by including \"NCR-supported\" indicator in NG SETUP
RESPONSE message.
2\. NCR establishes RRC connection and **NCR identification can be implemented
by reporting an NCR indicator in Msg5 (in addition to sending any NCR-related
radio capability) and/or by reporting an NCR indicator (implicitly or
explicitly) in UE\'s radio capability signaling**. The gNB selects an AMF
which supports NCR function, and forwards the NCR indicator to the AMF.
3\. AMF and other CN entities do further authorization, and provides \"NCR
authorized\" to the gNB.
### 8.1.4 Solution 4
In this solution, NCR authorization is performed at CN side. The NCR
authorization information is sent from the AMF to the gNB. Similarly to the
handling of e.g. D2D, V2X, it seems appropriate for NCR authorization
information to come from the UE subscription information in the 5GC (a trusted
source of information). This information would be stored in the gNB in the UE
context for the NCR-MT.**The general procedure of this solution is illustrated
in below figure:**
Figure 8.1.4-1 Call flow for solution 4
Sequence of this solution:
1\. The NCR first accesses the network as a normal UE.
2\. AMF authorizes the NCR and sends the indication to gNB in the UE CONTEXT
SETUP REQUEST message.
## 8.2 Specification impacts
The specification impacts for each solution are listed in Table 8.2-1.
Table 8.2-1. Comparison of solutions.
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Uu | RAN | NG- | Aut | Su | In | Sec | | | i | OAM | C/NAS | horiz | pport | ter-v | urity | | | mpact | i | i | ation | of | endor | | | | | mpact | mpact | e | full | i | | | | | | (Ye | ntity | pro | ntero | | | | | | s/No) | (RAN/ | tocol | perab | | | | | | | CN | stack | ility | | | | | | | /OAM) | in | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | (RRC, | | | | | | | | | NAS) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Ye | | | | | | | | | s/No) | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | Sol | Yes | No | No | CN | Yes | Yes | Uu | | ution | | | | (Uses | | | uses | | 1 | 1. | NO: | | sl | | | l | | | Add | If | | icing | | | egacy | | | NCR | NCR | | sign | | | sec | | | indi | valid | | aling | | | urity | | | cator | ation | | to | | | | | | in | is | | c | | | O | | | Msg5 | not | | onvey | | | ption | | | a | sec | | aut | | | ally, | | | nd/or | ured. | | horiz | | | NCR | | | UE | | | ation | | | valid | | | radio | YES: | | in | | | ation | | | c | If | | forma | | | needs | | | apabi | s | | tion) | | | to be | | | lity; | ecure | | | | | perf | | | | NCR | | | | | ormed | | | 2. | valid | | | | | in | | | Add | ation | | | | | RAN. | | | NCR | is | | | | | | | | crede | ne | | | | | | | | ntial | eded. | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | (FFS | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sage) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sol | Yes | Yes | No | OAM | No | No | No | | ution | | | | | | | sec | | 2 | 1. | Req | | | NAS | (Wh | urity | | | Add | uires | | | is | ether | on | | | NCR | new | | | not | a | Uu. | | | indi | OAM | | | n | spe | | | | cator | co | | | eeded | cific | NCR | | | and | nnect | | | for | OAM | aut | | | OAM | ivity | | | co | for | horiz | | | cont | mech | | | ntrol | NCR | ation | | | ainer | anism | | | plane | is | and | | | in | over | | | | n | valid | | | Msg5; | RRC | | | | eeded | ation | | | | with | | | | be | needs | | | 2.a | NG-NR | | | | longs | to be | | | If | proxy | | | | to | se | | | RRC | func | | | | deplo | cured | | | signa | tion. | | | | yment | via | | | lling | | | | | impl | OAM. | | | is | | | | | ement | | | | used | | | | | ation | | | | for | | | | | based | | | | OAM | | | | | on | | | | tra | | | | | O | | | | ffic, | | | | | perat | | | | add | | | | | or\'s | | | | OAM | | | | | pol | | | | cont | | | | | icy.) | | | | ainer | | | | | | | | | in UL | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | (FFS | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sage, | | | | | | | | | FFS | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | need | | | | | | | | | of DL | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | mess | | | | | | | | | age). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2.b | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | DRB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | OAM | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | ffic, | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efine | | | | | | | | | a new | | | | | | | | | DRB | | | | | | | | | type | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | assoc | | | | | | | | | iated | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | | | sess | | | | | | | | | ion). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | Fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | tails | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | proce | | | | | | | | | dures | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pacts | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | aving | | | | | | | | | NAS | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | FFS | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | disc | | | | | | | | | ussed | | | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | WI. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sol | Yes | No | Yes | CN | Yes | Yes | Uu | | ution | | | | | | | uses | | 3 | 1. | | NCR- | | | | l | | | Add | | indic | | | | egacy | | | NCR | | ation | | | | sec | | | indi | | and | | | | urity | | | cator | | aut | | | | | | | in | | horiz | | | | CN | | | Msg5 | | ation | | | | pro | | | a | | via | | | | vides | | | nd/or | | NG-C | | | | s | | | UE | | | | | | ecure | | | radio | | No | | | | NCR | | | c | | NAS | | | | v | | | apabi | | i | | | | alida | | | lity; | | mpact | | | | tion. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sol | No | No | Yes | CN | Yes | Yes | Uu | | ution | | | | | | | uses | | 4 | | | No | | | | l | | | | | NAS | | | | egacy | | | | | i | | | | sec | | | | | mpact | | | | urity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NCR | | | | CN | | | | | aut | | | | pro | | | | | horiz | | | | vides | | | | | ation | | | | s | | | | | via | | | | ecure | | | | | NG-C | | | | NCR | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alida | | | | | | | | | tion. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note: The remaining FFS will be addressed in normative phase.
# 9 Performance evaluation
Though there is no commonly agreed set of simulation assumptions in the study,
in order to study side control information for NCR, evaluations have been
performed in the submitted contributions and the following are observed:
\- For access link beam information:
\- For FR2:
\- [R1-2203237] shows that the NCRs with beam information can improve the SINR
performance for UEs especially at 5%-tile, 50%-tile SINR. Meanwhile, compared
to the conventional RF repeater, the additional interference due to the
introduction of repeater can be mitigated for the UEs with above 95%-tile
SINR.
\- [R1-2203578] shows that the SINR performance of the UEs is improved
compared with the case when there is no repeater when the NCR-Fwd beam is
fixed to steer towards the cell edge. For cell edge UEs, the SINR gain is 2.3
dB for the 10%-tile SINR. When the NCR-Fwd beam is steering dynamically
towards the UE, the SINR performance of the UEs is further improved compared
to the case of the fixed NCR-Fwd beam. For cell edge UEs, the SINR gain is
about 6.3 dB for the 10%-tile SINR.
\- [R1-2203921] shows that by introducing repeaters with beamforming, 2.34 dB,
6.15 dB, and 6.53 dB gain can be achieved at 5%-tile, 50%-tile, and 95%-tile
SINR compared to the case of NR system without repeaters, respectively. In
addition, 2.03 dB, 5.18 dB, and 6.53 dB gains at 5%-tile, 50%-tile, and
95%-tile SINR can be achieved compared to the case with conventional
repeaters, respectively.
\- [R1-2204653] shows that performance gain on SINR can be achieved by
introducing semi-static repeater gain/power configuration, and additional
performance gain can be achieved by introducing dynamic repeater gain/power
configuration. More than 5 dB gain can be further achieved by using large SCI
payload for beam control for large NCR-Fwd antenna configuration.
\- [R1-2205047] shows that adaptive access-link beamforming will offer
performance gain by providing a larger beamforming gain and reducing the
interference due to use of narrower beams, e.g., the median SINR can improve
by 11dB.
\- [R1-2206927] shows that the NCR with beamforming has SINR gains over gNB
only and conventional RF repeater. Compared with gNB only, NCR has SINR
improvements of about 1.42 dB, 1.44 dB, and 3.06 dB at 5%-tile, 50%-tile, and
95%-tile SINR. NCR could improve the coverage compared with gNB only and
deployment with conventional RF repeaters.
\- [R1-2206055] shows that the SINR performance of the UEs is further improved
compared with the case of the fixed NCR-Fwd access link beam when the NCR beam
is set adaptively towards the serving UE. Especially for the cell edge UE, the
UL SINR gain is about 6.3 dB at 10%-tile of CDF and DL SINR gain is 8 dB for
10%-tile of CDF.
\- [R1-2205875] shows that based on the evaluation methodology defined for NR
coverage enhancements [3], the performance of NCR is evaluated for FR2
assuming a target data rates of 25 Mbps for DL and 5 Mbps for UL, target ISD
of 200m, gNB EIRP of 65 dBm, UE EIRP of 29 dBm, NCR with DL EIRP of 40 dBm and
gain of 90 dB. The achieved ISD by gNB only can be up to 140×√3=242m for DL,
and 100×√3=173m for UL. With NCR, the DL coverage can be extended to an ISD of
175×√3=300m, and the UL coverage can be extended to an ISD of 135×√3=233m.
\- For FR1:
\- [R1-2206018] shows that with indicated beam information, the SINR
performance on FR1 in the O2I scenario are improved with around 5dB for
5%-tile SINR and 2dB for 50%-tile SINR after the deployment of NCR over gNB
only, and NCR provides SINR gain compared to conventional RF repeater in all
cases. According to the deterministic simulation based on Ray-tracing (RT)
with realistic outdoor maps, NCRs with beam information can also improve the
SINR performance on FR1 with 3dB gain for 5%-tile SINR and around 7 dB gain
for the minimum value of SINR over gNB only.
\- [R1-2206957] shows that NCR can provide SINR gains for more than 80% of
indoor UEs in case that side control information (SCI as defined in clause
6.1) with 4 bits are used for beam information compared to the conventional
repeater while the UE SINR with gNB only case (from 0%-tile SINR to 40%-tile
SINR) is around 1 dB better than the case with either NCR or conventional
repeaters.
\- [R1-2205875] shows that based on the evaluation methodology defined for NR
coverage enhancements [3], the performance of NCR is evaluated for FR1
assuming a target data rates of 10 Mbps for DL and 1 Mbps for UL, target ISD
of 500m, gNB EIRP of 70 dBm, UE EIRP of 26 dBm, NCR with DL EIRP of 32 dBm and
gain of 65 dB. The achieved ISD by gNB only can be up to m for both UL and DL.
The target coverage for FR1 can be achieved with BS only.
\- For the ON-OFF information used to control the ON-OFF behaviour of NCR-Fwd:
\- [R1-2203237] shows that NCRs with ON-OFF information can mitigate the
interference for high SINR UEs while maintain the performance of low SINR UEs,
and also ON-OFF information can provide efficient interference management in
FR1.
\- [R1-2203578] shows that about 9.8dB gain can be achieved for the 10%-tile
UEs on the SINR performance after introducing ON-OFF indication.
\- [R1-2203921] shows that additional gain is observed for the repeater by
both applying beamforming and on/off management compare to the NR system with
the repeater only applying beamforming.
\- [R1-2205047] shows that about 2 dB gains on median SINR can be achieved by
introducing dynamic on-off information.
\- For the power control information used to control the behaviour of NCR-Fwd
for the DL of access link and/or UL of backhaul link:
\- [R1-2203133] shows that for the uplink transmission via NCR, a fixed NCR
amplifying gain may lead to interference to the gNB or NCR UL coverage loss.
For the downlink transmission via NCR, a fixed NCR amplifying gain may lead to
NCR-Fwd saturation or NCR DL coverage loss.
\- [R1-2203578] shows that the optimal system performance can be achieved when
repeater\'s gain is set to a proper value.
\- [R1-2204653] shows that dynamic repeater gain/power control can provide
additional SINR gain over semi-static repeater gain/power configuration.
\- [R1-2204642] shows that the gain control is needed for self-interference
management due to repeater oscillation.
10 Conclusion
RAN1 has studied the side control information for NCR with corresponding
signalling (including its configuration). The SI phase is completed in RAN1
and the following are recommended to be specified as part of Rel-18 NCR WI
from RAN1\'s perspective:
\- Beam information as side control information
\- ON-OFF information as side control information
\- UL-DL TDD configuration and NCR\'s behaviour over flexible symbols.
Based on RAN3 analysis, the 4 candidate solutions may be further discussed
pending confirmation from SA3 and SA5. With the captured content in TR38.867,
RAN3 believe the SI phase is completed.
Based on RAN2 analysis, early identification (via Msg1 or Msg3) for NCR is not
needed. From security point of view, the feasibility of NCR validation
procedure in solution 1 and the feasibility of solution 2 will be decided by
SA3 in potential WI. With the captured content in TR38.867, RAN2 believe the
SI phase is completed. Down selection of all captured solutions may take place
in potential WI phase based on the feedback from other groups.
###### ## Annex A: Cost evaluations
Two companies provided cost analysis results for network controlled repeaters
in [R1-2205875] and [R1-2206018]. Note that there was no RAN1 conclusion or
observation with reference to cost analysis of network controlled repeaters.
#