# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
This document captures the findings from the study item \"Study on further NR
RedCap UE complexity reduction\" [2].
The study concerns potential solutions for reducing UE complexity further
compared to the RedCap UE type introduced in Rel-17 [3], providing NR support
for low-tier devices between existing LPWA UEs and Rel-17 RedCap UEs to
further expand the market for RedCap use cases with relatively low cost, low
energy consumption, and low data rate requirements, targeting 10 Mbps peak
rate.
The study focuses on UE bandwidth reduction to 5 MHz and/or UE peak rate
reduction to 10 Mbps, possibly in combination with relaxed UE processing
timeline. The scope of the study includes support for FR1 bands for FDD and
TDD and coexistence with Rel-15/16/17 UEs. The scope of the study does not
include LPWA use cases.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-213661: \"New SID on Study on further NR RedCap UE complexity
reduction\".
[3] 3GPP RP-221163: \"Summary of WI on support of reduced capability (RedCap)
NR devices\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[5] 3GPP TR 38.875: \"Study on support of reduced capability NR devices\".
[6] 3GPP TR 38.830: \"Study on NR coverage enhancements\".
[7] 3GPP R1-2207981: \"FL summary #2 for collection of evaluation results for
Rel-18 RedCap SI\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**RedCap UE:** A UE with reduced capabilities as specified in clause 4.2.21.1
in TS 38.306 [4].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Introduction
5G aims to accelerate industrial transformation and digitalization, which
improve flexibility, enhance productivity and efficiency, reduce maintenance,
and improve operational safety. Industrial sensors play an important role for
realizing such a vision. Not only widely used in industrial automation and
digitalization use cases, industrial sensors are also widely used in the
general environmental monitoring use cases such as monitoring of critical
infrastructure (e.g., buildings, bridges, water dams, etc.) or monitoring for
natural disasters (e.g., wild fire, flood, tsunami, earthquake, etc.).
Another emerging new class of new 5G use cases is the smart city vertical,
which covers data collection and processing to more efficiently monitor and
control city resources, and to provide services to city residents. Especially,
the deployment of surveillance cameras is an essential part of the smart city
but also of factories and industries.
Furthermore, there have been increasing interests in wearables use cases such
as smart watches, eHealth related devices, and medical monitoring devices.
These use cases call for different design considerations and have different
requirements in terms of form factor, UE complexity and energy efficiency,
compared to eMBB devices.
The support of industrial sensors, video surveillance, and wearables were the
motivations behind Rel-17 RedCap. Through the Rel-17 NR RedCap work item, 3GPP
has established a framework for enabling reduced capability NR devices
suitable for a range of use cases, including the industrial sensors, video
surveillance, and wearables use cases, with requirements on low UE complexity
and sometimes also on low UE power consumption.
Now when the foundation has been laid in Rel-17 [3], enhancements can be
considered to improve the support for the mentioned use cases and also to
expand RedCap into a new range of use cases such as smart grid.
To further expand the market for RedCap use cases with relatively low cost,
low energy consumption, and low data rate requirements, e.g., industrial
wireless sensor network use cases, some further complexity reduction
enhancements should be considered.
Rel-18 RedCap should provide NR support for low-tier devices between existing
LPWA UEs and the capabilities of Rel-17 RedCap UEs. The supported peak data
rate for Rel-18 RedCap targets to 10Mbps. Rel-18 RedCap should not overlap
with existing LPWA solutions.
The enhancements should be introduced while maintaining the integrity of the
RedCap ecosystem and maximizing the benefit of economies of scale. The SI
targets enhancements applicable to the RedCap framework defined in Rel-17,
including principles of network awareness of device capabilities.
# 5 Study objectives
The study includes the following objectives:
\- Study further UE complexity reduction techniques based on Rel-17 evaluation
methodology in TR 38.875.
\- Consider network impact, coexistence of Rel-17 and Rel-18 RedCap and non-
RedCap UEs in a cell, UE impact, specification impact.
\- Potential solutions, which may complement each other, for reducing device
complexity are focusing on:
\- UE bandwidth reduction to 5MHz in FR1,
> \- Possibly in combination with relaxed UE processing timeline for PDSCH
> and/or PUSCH and/or CSI
\- Reduced UE peak data rate in FR1,
> \- Possibly including restricted bandwidth for PDSCH and/or PUSCH
>
> \- Possibly in combination with relaxed UE processing timeline for PDSCH
> and/or PUSCH and/or CSI
\- Notes:
\- Rel-15 SSB should be reused and L1 changes minimized.
\- Operation in BWP with/without SSB and without/with RF retuning should be
considered.
\- It is not precluded that some solutions for FR1 can be applied to FR2 in WI
stage.
\- Aim to define a single Rel-18 RedCap UE type for further UE complexity
reduction.
# 6 Evaluation methodology
## 6.1 Evaluation methodology for UE complexity reduction
For complexity evaluation of UE complexity reduction techniques, the
methodology used in TR 38.875 was used as a starting point.
The reference NR devices were defined for FR1 FDD and FR1 TDD in clause 6.1 in
TR 38.875 and are reused in this study. For complexity reduction estimation,
the detailed complexity breakdown for the Rel-15 reference NR devices
according to Table 6.1-1 is reused, where the RF-to-baseband complexity ratio
is assumed to be 40:60 for an FR1 UE.
For comparison with a Rel-17 baseline when evaluating the potential Rel-18 UE
complexity reduction features, the Rel-17 RedCap UE supports 20 MHz, 1 Rx, 1
layer, DL 64QAM, UL 64QAM, FDD or TDD. In addition, cases with 2 Rx, 2 MIMO
layers, and HD-FDD features are optionally evaluated. In all comparisons, the
Rel-17 RedCap UEs and the potential Rel-18 UEs being compared have the same
number of antenna branches, the same number of layers, the same maximum
supported modulation order, and the same duplex mode (among HD-FDD, FD-FDD,
and TDD).
NOTE: This study assesses, from a 3GPP standpoint, the technical feasibility
of further reducing the complexity of RedCap devices. Given that factors
outside 3GPP responsibility influence the cost of a modem/device, this study
item (and this study report) cannot guarantee, or be used as a guarantee, that
such modem/device will be low-cost in the market.
Table 6.1-1: Detailed complexity breakdown for the FR1 reference NR devices
* * *
Functional block FR1 FDD (2Rx) FR1 TDD (4Rx)
* * *
RF
Power amplifier \~25% \~25%
Filters \~10% \~15%
RF transceiver\ \~45% \~55% (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
Duplexer / Switch \~20% \~5%
Baseband
ADC / DAC \~10% \~9%
FFT/IFFT \~4% \~4%
Post-FFT data buffering \~10% \~10%
Receiver processing block \~24% \~29%
LDPC decoding \~10% \~9%
HARQ buffer \~14% \~12%
DL control processing & decoder \~5% \~4%
Synchronization / cell search block \~9% \~9%
UL processing block \~5% \~5%
MIMO specific processing blocks \~9% \~9%
* * *
## 6.2 Evaluation methodology for coverage impact
Coverage recovery evaluation is based on link budget evaluations.
The evaluation methodology and assumptions in the Rel-17 RedCap SI [5] are
reused by default, with the revision or addition described below.
The channels and messages used in link budget evaluations primarily include
PBCH, PDCCH CSS, and SIB1. Sourcing companies can additionally provide
evaluation results of other channels and messages such as PDCCH USS, PRACH,
Msg2, Msg3, Msg4, PDSCH, PUCCH and PUSCH.
The impact of small form factor can be considered for all the uplink and
downlink channels. To reflect such an impact, a 3dB loss of antenna gain can
be optionally included in link budget calculation for the FR1 bands by
sourcing companies.
The assumptions in the Rel-17 RedCap SI regarding link budget templates and
antenna array gain are reused [5]. Furthermore, the Rel-17 RedCap SI
assumptions on gNB antenna configuration, # gNB Tx and Rx chains, channel
model and delay spread are reused as shown in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: Assumptions used for coverage impact evaluation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | FR1 values | +==================================+==================================+ | Deployment scenario and | Urban: 2.6GHz (TDD), 4GHz (TDD, | | frequency | optional) | | | | | | Rural: (FDD) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Frame structure for TDD | DDDDDDDSUU (S: 6D:4G:4U) for | | | 2.6GHz | | | | | | DDDSUDDSUU (S: 10D:2G:2U) for | | | 4GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel model | TDL-C | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Delay spread | 300ns | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE velocity | 3 km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna correlation | Low | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | # gNB Tx chains | 2 or 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | # gNB Rx chains | 2 or 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
For coverage evaluation, the assumptions for reference NR UE, reference Rel-17
RedCap UE, and the potential Rel-18 UE are shown in Tables 6.2-2, 6.2-3 and
6.2-4, respectively.
Table 6.2-2: Assumptions for reference NR UE
+-----------------+---------------------------------------+ | Parameters | FR1 values | +=================+=======================================+ | # UE Tx chains | 1 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------+ | # UE Rx chains | Urban: 4 and Rural: 2 | +-----------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE bandwidth | Urban: 100 MHz (273 PRBs, 30 kHz SCS) | | | | | | Rural: 20 MHz (106 PRBs, 15 kHz SCS) | +-----------------+---------------------------------------+
Table 6.2-3: Assumptions for reference Rel-17 RedCap UE
+-----------------+--------------------------------------+ | Parameters | FR1 values | +=================+======================================+ | # UE Tx chains | 1 | +-----------------+--------------------------------------+ | # UE Rx chains | 1 | +-----------------+--------------------------------------+ | UE bandwidth | Urban: 20 MHz (51 PRBs, 30 kHz SCS) | | | | | | Rural: 20 MHz (106 PRBs, 15 kHz SCS) | +-----------------+--------------------------------------+
Table 6.2-4: Assumptions for the potential Rel-18 UE
+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameters | FR1 values | +=================+==========================================================+ | # UE Tx chains | 1 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | # UE Rx chains | 1 | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | UE bandwidth | Urban: 5 MHz (11 PRBs or 12 PRBs (optional), 30 kHz SCS) | | | | | | Rural: 5 MHz (25 PRBs, 15 kHz SCS) | +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
The assumptions for channel specific parameters are also based on reusing the
Rel-17 RedCap SI agreements [5], with the revision or addition described
below.
For PBCH, the assumptions listed in Table A.1-8 from TR 38.830 [6] were
adopted for reference NR UE, reference Rel-17 RedCap UE, and the potential
Rel-18 UE.
For SIB1, the assumptions listed in Table 6.2-5 were adopted for reference NR
UE, and reference Rel-17 RedCap UE. For the potential Rel-18 UE, the
assumptions listed in Table 6.2-6 were adopted.
Table 6.2-5: Assumptions for SIB1 for reference NR UE and reference Rel-17
RedCap UE
Parameters Values
* * *
PRBs/TBS/MCS TBS is 1256 bits. SIB1 bandwidth is larger than 5MHz, e.g.
48PRBs. Companies to report the used number of PRBs, corresponding MCS, and
whether interleaving mapping is assumed.
Table 6.2-6: Assumptions for SIB1 for the potential Rel-18 UE
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +==============+======================================================+ | PRBs/TBS/MCS | TBS is 1256 bits. Other TBS are not precluded. | | | | | | For PRB numbers, two options are assumed: | | | | | | - Option 1: SIB1 bandwidth is larger than 5MHz, | | | e.g. 48PRBs. | | | | | | - Option 2: SIB1 bandwidth is within 5MHz. | | | | | | Companies to report the used number of PRBs, | | | corresponding MCS, and whether interleaving mapping | | | is assumed. | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
For PDCCH common search space (PDCCH CSS), the assumptions listed in Table
6.2-7 were adopted for reference NR UE and reference Rel-17 RedCap UE.
Table 6.2-7: Assumptions for PDCCH Common Search Space (PDCCH CSS) for
reference NR UE and reference Rel-17 RedCap UE
Parameters Values
* * *
DCI format and payload size DCI format 1_0 with payload of 40bits CORESET size
and aggregation level (AL) configuration The CORESET size is 2 symbols and 48
PRBs. AL is 16.
For PDCCH common search space (PDCCH CSS), the assumptions listed in Table
6.2-8 were adopted for the potential Rel-18 UE.
Table 6.2-8: Assumptions for PDCCH Common Search Space (PDCCH CSS) for the
potential Rel-18 UE
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | DCI format and payload size | DCI format 1_0 with payload of | | | 40bits | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CORESET size and aggregation | For 15kHz SCS, the following | | level (AL) configuration | options are assumed. | | | | | | - Option 1: The CORESET size is | | | 2 symbols and 48 PRBs. AL is 16. | | | | | | - Option 2: The CORESET size is | | | 3 symbols and 24 PRBs. AL is 8. | | | | | | For 30kHz SCS, the following | | | options are assumed. | | | | | | - Option 1: The CORESET size is | | | 2 symbols and 24 PRBs. AL is 8. | | | | | | - Option 2: The CORESET size is | | | 3 symbols and 6 PRBs. AL is 2. | | | | | | - Option 3: The CORESET size is | | | 3 symbols and 12 PRBs. AL is 4. | | | | | | Other configurations can be | | | optionally evaluated and | | | reported by companies. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
For Msg2, the assumptions for reference NR UE, reference Rel-17 RedCap UE, and
the potential Rel-18 UE listed in Table 6.2-9 were adopted.
Table 6.2-9: Assumptions for Msg2
Parameters Values
* * *
PRBs/TBS/MCS TBS is 72bits. Companies to report the used number of PRBs and
corresponding MCS.
For Msg4, the assumptions for reference NR UE, reference Rel-17 RedCap UE, and
the potential Rel-18 UE listed in Table 6.2-10 were adopted.
Table 6.2-10: Assumptions for Msg4
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +==============+======================================================+ | PRBs/TBS/MCS | TBS is 1040bits. Companies to report the used number | | | of PRBs and corresponding MCS. | | | | | | A smaller TBS can be optionally evaluated and | | | reported by companies. | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
For PRACH, the assumptions for reference NR UE, reference Rel-17 RedCap UE,
and the potential Rel-18 UE listed in Table 6.2-11 were adopted.
Table 6.2-11: Assumptions for PRACH
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values | +==============+======================================================+ | PRACH format | Urban: Format B4 | | | | | | Rural: Format 0 | | | | | | Format C2 can be optionally evaluated and reported | | | by companies. | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
The target data rates for the potential Rel-18 UEs are:
\- FR1 Rural: 250 kbps on DL and 25 kbps in UL
\- FR1 Urban: 500 kbps on DL and 250 kbps in UL
\- Note: The target data rates are the scaled value in the Rel-17 RedCap SI by
a factor of 0.25
The TBS, PRB, and MCS of PDSCH and PUSCH for the potential Rel-18 UE are based
on the agreed target data rates or message sizes and reported by sourcing
companies.
For all channels affected by reduced UE complexity including prioritized
broadcast channels and optionally evaluated channels, the following
methodology is used to evaluate the coverage impact in terms of coverage
margins:
\- Step 1: Obtain the link budget performance of the channel based on link
budget evaluation
\- Step 2: Obtain the target performance requirement for the potential Rel-18
UE within a deployment scenario
\- Step 3: Find the coverage margin for the channel by comparing the link
budget performance with the target performance requirement.
For step 2, the study applied the following option for determining the target
performance for coverage impact evaluation in terms of coverage margins.
\- The target performance requirement for each channel is identified by the
link budget of the bottleneck channel for the reference UE within the same
deployment scenario. The \"bottleneck channel\" is the physical channel that
has the lowest MIL value. The reference UE is an NR UE with mandatory features
only as defined in Clause 6.1 of [5].
In this coverage impact evaluation in terms of coverage margins, a single
coverage target based on the same bottleneck channel is used for all channels
including the prioritized broadcast channels and optionally evaluated channels
of the potential Rel-18 UE. Each sourcing company reports a sourcing-company-
specific coverage margin for each channel by comparing the link budget of the
channel with the link budget of the bottleneck channel for the reference UE.
A representative value of the coverage margin for a channel is derived by
taking the mean value (in dB domain) from the coverage margins from all
sourcing companies, including both negative and non-negative values based on
the following adjustments.
\- Excluding the highest & the lowest values when the number of samples is
more than 3.
\- If the number of samples is less than 4 for a channel in a scenario, no
representative value is provided.
The representative value of a channel is used for identifying whether the
channel has coverage margin compared to the bottleneck channel of the
reference NR UE.
In Step 2 in the above methodology for determining coverage margins, a
sourcing company might not be able to identify a bottleneck channel for the
reference NR UE and the corresponding MIL link budget if it had not evaluated
all channels for the reference NR UE, especially if it had not evaluated
uplink channels since uplink channels were often the bottleneck channels for
the reference NR UE. For such a sourcing company, a bottleneck channel and the
corresponding link budget for the reference NR UE can be determined based on
evaluation results of the identified bottleneck channels and MIL values from
the Rel-17 RedCap SI in [5] for a scenario. Specifically, for an evaluated
scenario, a bottleneck channel is determined by the one identified by most
sourcing companies and its corresponding MIL value is derived by taking the
mean value (in dB domain) from the MIL values from all sourcing companies
after excluding the highest & the lowest values. For the evaluated scenarios,
the following tables from Rel-17 RedCap SI in [5] are used:
\- For Urban scenario at 2.6GHz, Table 9.1.1-1 in [5] is used for determining
a bottleneck channel and MIL value for the reference NR UE by such a sourcing
company.
\- For Rural scenario at 0.7GHz, Table 9.1.2-1 in [5] is used.
\- For Urban scenario at 4 GHz, Table 9.1.3-1 in [5] is used.
For each table of coverage margins of evaluated channels in a deployment
scenario shown in Clause 8.2.1 through Clause 8.2.3, the rows of the table are
composed of sourcing companies\' names, representative value 1, number of
samples 1, representative value 2, and number of samples 2. For an evaluated
channel in the scenario,
\- the representative value 1 is derived from the coverage margins only from
sourcing companies who had provided uplink coverage evaluation results for the
reference NR UE
\- the number of samples 1 is the total number of sourcing companies that had
provided uplink coverage evaluation results for the reference NR UE
\- the representative value 2 is derived from the coverage margins from all
sourcing companies regardless of whether or one had provided uplink coverage
evaluation results for the reference NR UE
\- the number of samples 2 is the total number of all sourcing companies
Besides comparing link budgets of all evaluated channels to that of the
bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE and deriving coverage margins for
all channels, comparisons of the coverage differences between the potential
Rel-18 UE and the reference NR UE in addition to comparisons of the coverage
differences between the potential Rel-18 UE and the reference Rel-17 RedCap UE
were carried out for the broadcast channels including PBCH, PDCCH CSS, and
SIB1 in Urban scenario at 2.6 GHz. For PDCCH CSS and SIB1, the comparisons
were also carried out for Rural scenario at 0.7 GHz. Detailed comparisons and
assumptions are provided in Clause 8.2.1 and Clause 8.2.2 for Urban at 2.6 GHz
and Rural at 0.7 GHz, respectively.
# 7 UE complexity reduction features
## 7.1 Introduction to UE complexity reduction features
The following UE complexity reduction techniques have been studied:
\- Further UE bandwidth reduction (\"BW\" for short)
\- Further UE peak rate reduction (\"PR\" for short)
\- Relaxed UE processing timeline (\"PT\" for short)
The evaluation results for each one of the studied individual UE complexity
reduction techniques are captured in clauses 7.2 through 7.4, respectively.
For relaxed UE processing timeline, analysis is provided in clause 7.4, while
complexity evaluations are provided only in combination with other techniques
in clause 7.5 where the properties of combinations of different individual UE
complexity reduction techniques are described. The evaluation of the potential
coverage impacts is described in clause 8. Recommendations based on the
evaluations are captured in clause 9.
## 7.2 Further UE bandwidth reduction
### 7.2.1 Description of feature
In the study, the main UE bandwidth reduction options considered for FR1 are
as follows:
\- Option BW1: Both RF and BB bandwidths are 5 MHz for UL and DL.
\- Option BW2 (optionally considered for evaluations): 5 MHz BB bandwidth for
all signals and channels with 20 MHz RF bandwidth for UL and DL.
\- Option BW3: 5 MHz BB bandwidth only for PDSCH (for both unicast and
broadcast) and PUSCH with 20 MHz RF bandwidth for UL and DL. The other
physical channels and signals are still allowed to use a BWP up to the 20 MHz
maximum UE RF+BB bandwidth.
For the above bandwidth reduction options, the following aspects are
considered:
\- The resource allocation spans a bandwidth of maximum 5 MHz.
\- The same option is used for UL and DL.
\- The same option is used for idle/inactive and connected mode.
\- Note: As part of study of above options, it is not precluded to indicate
that an observation is relevant for UL only or DL only.
\- For 15 kHz SCS, 25 contiguous RBs are assumed to fit within the 5 MHz.
\- For 30 kHz SCS, 11 contiguous RBs are assumed to fit within the 5 MHz.
\- Note: For 30 kHz SCS, 12 contiguous RBs are also optionally studied.
The evaluation results for each one of the studied individual UE complexity
reduction techniques are captured in clauses 7.2 through 7.4, respectively.
The properties of combinations of different individual UE complexity reduction
techniques are described in clause 7.5. Recommendations based on the
evaluations are captured in clause 9.
### 7.2.2 Analysis of UE complexity reduction
For BW1, the main contributors of the complexity reduction are the following
functional blocks:
\- Baseband: ADC/DAC
\- Baseband: FFT/IFFT
\- Baseband: Post-FFT data buffering
\- Baseband: Receiver processing block
\- Baseband: LDPC decoding
\- Baseband: HARQ buffer
\- Baseband: DL control processing & decoder
\- Baseband: UL processing block
For BW2, the main contributors of the complexity reduction are the following
functional blocks:
\- Baseband: Post-FFT data buffering
\- Baseband: Receiver processing block
\- Baseband: LDPC decoding
\- Baseband: HARQ buffer
\- Baseband: DL control processing & decoder
\- Baseband: UL processing block
For BW3, the main contributors of the complexity reduction are the following
functional blocks:
\- Baseband: Post-FFT data buffering
\- Baseband: Receiver processing block
\- Baseband: LDPC decoding
\- Baseband: HARQ buffer
\- Baseband: UL processing block
Note 1: BW3 may have different degrees of impacts on the post-FFT data
buffering depending on the scheduling aspects (cross-slot scheduling, RF
retuning, etc.).
Note 2: For BW2, some sources have indicated that the complexity of the
ADC/DAC and FFT/IFFT blocks might also be reduced.
Note 3: For BW1, one source shows complexity reduction for RF filters and one
source shows complexity reduction for MIMO specific processing block.
Note 4: BW1 and BW2 may have different degrees of impacts on the downlink
control processing and decoder depending on the CCE and BD complexity
reduction.
For the UE bandwidth reduction options BW1, BW2, and BW3, the complexity
reduction is mainly in the BB part, and although there may be a possibility to
reduce RF complexity, there is no significant complexity reduction in the RF
part.
The tables below show the average value of the initial complexity evaluation
results captured in [7]. Specifically, results are provided for Rel-17 RedCap
and potential Rel-18 RedCap cases with FD-FDD 1Rx, TDD 1Rx, HD-FDD 1Rx, FD-FDD
2Rx, TDD 2Rx, and HD-FDD 2Rx.
Note that the reference Rel-15 NR UE has the following features:
\- FDD: 100 MHz, 2 Rx, 2 layers, DL 256QAM, FD-FDD
\- TDD: 100 MHz, 4 Rx, 4 layers, DL 256QAM
Table 7.2.2-1: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by BW reduction
options for FD-FDD 1Rx
Reduced UE bandwidth Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap BW1 BW2 BW3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.12% 24.02% 24.64% 24.09% RF: Filters 10% 5.06%
4.72% 5.12% 5.06% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 23.76% 23.52% 24.30% 23.76% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 19.52% 19.52% 19.57%
19.52% **RF: Total** **100%** 72.46% 71.78% 73.63% 72.43% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
1.30% 0.50% 0.99% 1.27% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.67% 0.21% 0.45% 0.65% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 1.05% 0.36% 0.46% 0.67% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
4.42% 2.00% 1.86% 2.07% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 1.29% 0.51% 0.50% 0.51% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 1.46% 0.45% 0.45% 0.45% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
4.73% 3.98% 3.95% 4.52% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 4.61% 4.55%
4.59% 4.58% BB: UL processing block 5% 2.69% 1.55% 1.54% 1.69% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 4.04% 3.77% 3.85% 3.91% **BB: Total** **100%**
26.26% 17.88% 18.65% 20.31% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **44.74%** **39.44%**
**40.65%** **41.15%**
Table 7.2.2-2: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by BW reduction
options for TDD 1Rx
Reduced UE bandwidth Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap BW1 BW2 BW3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.08% 23.97% 24.56% 24.05% RF: Filters 15% 3.94%
3.86% 4.08% 3.94% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
55% 19.05% 18.78% 19.98% 19.05% RF: Duplexer / Switch 5% 4.97% 4.97% 4.98%
4.97% **RF: Total** **100%** 52.04% 51.58% 53.59% 52.01% BB: ADC / DAC 9%
0.76% 0.30% 0.57% 0.73% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.40% 0.14% 0.27% 0.38% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 0.59% 0.22% 0.28% 0.36% BB: Receiver processing block 29%
3.21% 1.54% 1.48% 1.56% BB: LDPC decoding 9% 0.79% 0.33% 0.34% 0.33% BB: HARQ
buffer 12% 0.79% 0.40% 0.23% 0.40% BB: DL control processing & decoder 4%
3.68% 3.15% 3.19% 3.55% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 2.49% 2.44%
2.45% 2.45% BB: UL processing block 5% 2.69% 1.54% 1.50% 1.70% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 2.27% 2.04% 2.07% 2.21% **BB: Total** **100%**
17.66% 12.08% 12.40% 13.68% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **31.41%** **27.88%**
**28.88%** **29.01%**
Table 7.2.2-3: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by BW reduction
options for HD-FDD 1Rx
Reduced UE bandwidth Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap BW1 BW2 BW3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.50% 24.50% 24.50% 24.50% RF: Filters 10% 5.17%
4.64% 5.17% 5.17% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 24.46% 24.06% 24.46% 24.46% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 3.68% 3.68% 3.68%
3.68% **RF: Total** **100%** 57.81% 56.87% 57.81% 57.81% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
1.25% 0.54% 1.03% 1.26% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.71% 0.25% 0.44% 0.72% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 1.10% 0.42% 0.50% 0.66% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
4.22% 1.92% 1.92% 2.04% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 1.41% 0.58% 0.58% 0.58% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 1.61% 0.52% 0.52% 0.52% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
4.70% 3.84% 3.84% 4.49% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 4.68% 4.63%
4.63% 4.68% BB: UL processing block 5% 3.10% 1.79% 1.78% 1.91% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 3.81% 3.56% 3.58% 3.81% **BB: Total** **100%**
26.58% 18.05% 18.82% 20.70% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **39.07%** **33.58%**
**34.41%** **35.60%**
Table 7.2.2-4: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by BW reduction
options for FD-FDD 2Rx
Reduced UE bandwidth Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap BW1 BW2 BW3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.87% 24.87% 25.00% 24.87% RF: Filters 10% 10.00%
9.02% 9.49% 9.56% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 42.47% 41.51% 42.63% 42.47% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 20.00% 20.00% 20.00%
20.00% **RF: Total** **100%** 97.33% 95.40% 97.12% 96.90% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
2.12% 1.03% 1.52% 2.13% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 1.25% 0.47% 0.86% 1.28% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 2.17% 0.84% 1.11% 1.52% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
8.97% 4.47% 4.78% 4.60% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 2.71% 1.18% 1.19% 1.18% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 2.53% 0.97% 0.91% 0.97% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
4.93% 4.13% 4.25% 4.93% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 8.61% 8.47%
8.38% 8.61% BB: UL processing block 5% 3.20% 1.99% 2.04% 2.08% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 7.33% 6.01% 6.48% 7.33% **BB: Total** **100%**
43.84% 29.57% 31.52% 34.65% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **65.24%** **55.90%**
**57.76%** **59.55%**
Table 7.2.2-5: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by BW reduction
options for TDD 2Rx
Reduced UE bandwidth Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap BW1 BW2 BW3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.44% 24.44% 25.00% 24.44% RF: Filters 15% 7.69%
7.11% 7.75% 7.69% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
55% 33.61% 31.83% 33.90% 33.14% RF: Duplexer / Switch 5% 4.99% 4.99% 5.00%
4.99% **RF: Total** **100%** 70.72% 68.36% 71.65% 70.25% BB: ADC / DAC 9%
1.13% 0.56% 0.89% 1.13% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.66% 0.25% 0.52% 0.70% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 1.17% 0.47% 0.52% 0.83% BB: Receiver processing block 29%
5.82% 3.08% 3.34% 3.15% BB: LDPC decoding 9% 1.33% 0.64% 0.67% 0.64% BB: HARQ
buffer 12% 1.16% 0.44% 0.43% 0.44% BB: DL control processing & decoder 4%
3.75% 3.10% 3.13% 3.75% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 4.50% 4.56%
4.50% 4.63% BB: UL processing block 5% 2.83% 1.76% 1.82% 1.83% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 3.82% 3.05% 3.26% 3.75% **BB: Total** **100%**
26.17% 17.90% 19.09% 20.85% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **43.99%** **38.08%**
**40.12%** **40.61%**
Table 7.2.2-6: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by BW reduction
options for HD-FDD 2Rx
Reduced UE bandwidth Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap BW1 BW2 BW3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% RF: Filters 10% 10.00%
9.03% 10.00% 10.00% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 43.04% 41.51% 43.04% 43.04% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 4.33% 4.33% 4.33%
4.33% **RF: Total** **100%** 82.38% 79.88% 82.38% 82.38% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
2.06% 1.09% 1.52% 2.07% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 1.15% 0.49% 0.73% 1.18% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 2.14% 0.90% 1.10% 1.40% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
9.01% 4.78% 4.78% 4.78% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 2.69% 1.19% 1.19% 1.19% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 2.41% 0.91% 0.91% 0.91% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
5.00% 4.25% 4.25% 5.00% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 8.55% 8.38%
8.38% 8.55% BB: UL processing block 5% 3.17% 2.04% 2.04% 2.04% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 7.23% 6.48% 6.48% 7.23% **BB: Total** **100%**
43.39% 30.52% 31.39% 34.36% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **58.99%** **50.26%**
**51.79%** **53.57%**
For comparison, the average complexity reduction estimates from [7] for
different BW reduction options compared to the corresponding Rel-17 RedCap
baselines are presented in the table below.
Table 7.2.2-7: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by BW reduction
options compared to corresponding Rel-17 baselines
Option FD-FDD 1Rx TDD 1Rx HD-FDD 1Rx FD-FDD 2Rx TDD 2Rx HD-FDD 2Rx
* * *
BW1 11.85% 11.25% 14.06% 14.31% 13.42% 14.79% BW2 9.15% 8.08% 11.92% 11.46%
8.81% 12.21% BW3 8.02% 7.66% 8.90% 8.72% 7.68% 9.19%
### 7.2.3 Analysis of performance impacts
**Peak data rate:**
Reducing the UE bandwidth leads to peak data rate reduction, but the reduced
peak data rate can still fulfill the targeted data rate in Rel-18. In TDD,
with 5 MHz UE bandwidth (for all BW options), the achievable peak data rate
for UL or DL can be less than 10 Mbps depending on the TDD pattern.
**Coverage:**
For all BW options, there is link performance impact for SIB1 PDSCH if the
bandwidth allocation for SIB1 PDSCH exceeds 5 MHz. However, in all scenarios
except for 4 GHz with 24 dBm PSD, there is no or negligible coverage impact
for SIB1 PDSCH even if the bandwidth allocation for SIB1 PDSCH exceeds 5 MHz.
Furthermore, for BW1/BW2, there is link performance degradation for PDCCH due
to reduced maximum AL in a 5-MHz CORESET, and for PBCH (30 kHz SCS).
For a more detailed description of the coverage impacts, see clause 8.2.4.
**Latency:**
The impact of further UE bandwidth reduction on the latency is insignificant,
and 5 MHz UE bandwidth (for all BW options) can sufficiently fulfil relaxed
latency requirements of RedCap use cases.
### 7.2.4 Analysis of network deployment and coexistence impacts
If the common channels such as SIB1, OSI, RAR, MSG3 etc. are scheduled within
5MHz, then none of the UE bandwidth reduction options (BW1, BW2, BW3) have
coexistence issues with legacy UEs, but otherwise there are some coexistence
issues with legacy UEs.
BW1 and BW2 are expected to have the largest coexistence impacts among the
evaluated options, whereas the expected coexistence impacts for BW3 are
smaller. BW1 and BW2 can have coexistence impacts in terms of support of
SSB/CORESET #0 configurations (especially 30 kHz SCS) and limitations of RACH
configurations and PRACH sharing procedure. Furthermore, BW1 has impact on SSB
transmissions (e.g., NCD-SSB overhead) and BWP operation.
Early indication (through Msg1/MsgA) might be needed for all BW options.
### 7.2.5 Analysis of specification impacts
BW1 and BW2 can have significant specification impacts, considering the
impacts on initial access, random access, and SSB/CORESET #0 configurations
(especially 30 kHz SCS). For BW1, the specification impacts may also include
SSB presence requirements. BW3 has smaller specification impacts compared to
BW1 and BW2.
## 7.3 Further UE peak rate reduction
### 7.3.1 Description of feature
In the study, the main UE peak rate reduction options considered for FR1 are
as follows:
\- Option PR1: Relaxation of the constraint for peak data rate reduction.
\- The relaxed constraint is 1 (instead of 4).
\- The parameters (, , ) can be as in Rel-17 RedCap [4].
\- Option PR2: Restriction of maximum TBS for PDSCH and PUSCH.
\- For 15 kHz SCS, the maximum TBS is 10000 bits per TB and per slot.
\- For 30 kHz SCS, the maximum TBS is 5000 bits per TB and per slot.
\- Option PR3: Restriction of maximum number of PRBs for PDSCH and PUSCH.
\- For 15 kHz SCS, the maximum number of RBs is 25.
\- For 30 kHz SCS, the maximum number of RBs is 11.
\- The restricted number of PRBs in Option PR3 is a hardcoded limit.
For the above peak rate reduction options, the following aspects are
considered:
\- The studied peak rate reduction applies to both UE-specific (unicast) and
common (broadcast) channels.
\- The resource allocation spans a bandwidth of maximum 20 MHz (maximum UE
channel bandwidth).
\- The same option is used for UL and DL.
\- The same option is used for idle/inactive and connected mode.
\- Note: As part of study of above options, it is not precluded to indicate
that an observation is relevant for UL only or DL only.
### 7.3.2 Analysis of UE complexity reduction
For PR1 and PR2, the main contributors of the complexity reduction are the
following functional blocks:
\- Baseband: LDPC decoding
\- Baseband: HARQ buffer
\- Baseband: UL processing block
For PR3, the main contributors of the complexity reduction are the following
functional blocks:
\- Baseband: Receiver processing block
\- Baseband: LDPC decoding
\- Baseband: HARQ buffer
\- Baseband: UL processing block
The tables below show the average value of the initial complexity evaluation
results captured in [7]. Specifically, results are provided for Rel-17 RedCap
and potential Rel-18 RedCap cases with FD-FDD 1Rx, TDD 1Rx, HD-FDD 1Rx, FD-FDD
2Rx, TDD 2Rx, and HD-FDD 2Rx.
Note that the reference Rel-15 NR UE has the following features:
\- FDD: 100 MHz, 2 Rx, 2 layers, DL 256QAM, FD-FDD
\- TDD: 100 MHz, 4 Rx, 4 layers, DL 256QAM
Table 7.3.2-1: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by PR reduction
options for FD-FDD 1Rx
Reduced UE peak rate Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap PR1 PR2 PR3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.12% 24.12% 24.12% 24.12% RF: Filters 10% 5.06%
5.06% 5.06% 5.06% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 23.76% 23.76% 23.76% 23.76% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 19.52% 19.52% 19.52%
19.52% **RF: Total** **100%** 72.46% 72.46% 72.46% 72.46% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
1.30% 1.26% 1.26% 1.26% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.67% 0.65% 0.65% 0.65% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 1.05% 1.07% 1.07% 1.01% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
4.42% 4.21% 4.21% 2.46% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 1.29% 0.45% 0.44% 0.49% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 1.46% 0.43% 0.41% 0.43% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
4.73% 4.67% 4.67% 4.55% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 4.61% 4.58%
4.58% 4.58% BB: UL processing block 5% 2.69% 1.94% 1.89% 1.66% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 4.04% 3.91% 3.91% 3.91% **BB: Total** **100%**
26.26% 23.18% 23.09% 21.00% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **44.74%** **42.89%**
**42.84%** **41.58%**
Table 7.3.2-2: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by PR reduction
options for TDD 1Rx
Reduced UE peak rate Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap PR1 PR2 PR3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.08% 24.08% 24.08% 24.08% RF: Filters 15% 3.94%
3.94% 3.94% 3.94% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
55% 19.05% 19.05% 19.05% 19.05% RF: Duplexer / Switch 5% 4.97% 4.97% 4.97%
4.97% **RF: Total** **100%** 52.04% 52.04% 52.04% 52.04% BB: ADC / DAC 9%
0.76% 0.73% 0.73% 0.73% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.40% 0.39% 0.39% 0.39% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 0.59% 0.57% 0.57% 0.56% BB: Receiver processing block 29%
3.21% 3.03% 3.03% 1.84% BB: LDPC decoding 9% 0.79% 0.30% 0.29% 0.32% BB: HARQ
buffer 12% 0.79% 0.39% 0.38% 0.39% BB: DL control processing & decoder 4%
3.68% 3.58% 3.58% 3.58% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 2.49% 2.45%
2.45% 2.45% BB: UL processing block 5% 2.69% 1.91% 1.85% 1.66% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 2.27% 2.21% 2.21% 2.22% **BB: Total** **100%**
17.66% 15.56% 15.49% 14.14% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **31.41%** **30.15%**
**30.11%** **29.30%**
Table 7.3.2-3: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by PR reduction
options for HD-FDD 1Rx
Reduced UE peak rate Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap PR1 PR2 PR3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.50% 24.50% 24.50% 24.50% RF: Filters 10% 5.17%
5.17% 5.17% 5.17% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 24.46% 24.46% 24.46% 24.46% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 3.68% 3.68% 3.68%
3.68% **RF: Total** **100%** 57.81% 57.81% 57.81% 57.81% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.71% 0.71% 0.71% 0.71% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 1.10% 1.10% 1.10% 1.04% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
4.22% 4.05% 4.04% 2.37% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 1.41% 0.50% 0.49% 0.56% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 1.61% 0.48% 0.46% 0.49% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
4.70% 4.70% 4.70% 4.49% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 4.68% 4.68%
4.68% 4.68% BB: UL processing block 5% 3.10% 2.07% 2.00% 1.77% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 3.81% 3.81% 3.81% 3.81% **BB: Total** **100%**
26.58% 23.33% 23.24% 21.20% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **39.07%** **37.12%**
**37.06%** **35.90%**
Table 7.3.2-4: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by PR reduction
options for FD-FDD 2Rx
Reduced UE peak rate Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap PR1 PR2 PR3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.87% 24.87% 24.87% 24.87% RF: Filters 10% 10.00%
9.56% 9.29% 9.29% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 42.47% 42.47% 40.32% 40.32% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 20.00% 20.00% 20.00%
20.00% **RF: Total** **100%** 97.33% 96.90% 94.48% 94.48% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
2.12% 2.05% 2.05% 2.05% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 1.25% 1.20% 1.20% 1.20% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 2.17% 2.11% 2.11% 2.08% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
8.97% 8.68% 8.68% 5.31% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 2.71% 0.93% 0.90% 1.08% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 2.53% 0.84% 0.80% 0.88% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
4.93% 4.93% 4.93% 4.93% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 8.61% 8.36%
8.36% 8.36% BB: UL processing block 5% 3.20% 2.12% 2.12% 2.11% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 7.33% 7.08% 7.08% 7.08% **BB: Total** **100%**
43.84% 38.30% 38.23% 35.07% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **65.24%** **61.74%**
**60.73%** **58.83%**
Table 7.3.2-5: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by PR reduction
options for TDD 2Rx
Reduced UE peak rate Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap PR1 PR2 PR3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 24.44% 24.44% 24.44% 24.44% RF: Filters 15% 7.69%
7.69% 7.69% 7.69% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
55% 33.61% 33.14% 33.14% 33.14% RF: Duplexer / Switch 5% 4.99% 4.99% 4.99%
4.99% **RF: Total** **100%** 70.72% 70.25% 70.25% 70.25% BB: ADC / DAC 9%
1.13% 1.13% 1.13% 1.13% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 0.66% 0.68% 0.68% 0.68% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 1.17% 1.21% 1.19% 1.20% BB: Receiver processing block 29%
5.82% 5.71% 5.71% 3.55% BB: LDPC decoding 9% 1.33% 0.54% 0.53% 0.61% BB: HARQ
buffer 12% 1.16% 0.41% 0.40% 0.43% BB: DL control processing & decoder 4%
3.75% 3.75% 3.75% 3.75% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 4.50% 4.63%
4.63% 4.63% BB: UL processing block 5% 2.83% 1.93% 1.90% 1.91% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 3.82% 3.76% 3.76% 3.76% **BB: Total** **100%**
26.17% 23.75% 23.68% 21.65% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **43.99%** **42.35%**
**42.31%** **41.09%**
Table 7.3.2-6: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by PR reduction
options for HD-FDD 2Rx
Reduced UE peak rate Rel-15 reference Rel-17 RedCap PR1 PR2 PR3
* * *
RF: Power amplifier 25% 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% RF: Filters 10% 10.00%
10.00% 10.00% 10.00% RF: Transceiver (incl. LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator)
45% 43.04% 43.04% 43.04% 43.04% RF: Duplexer / Switch 20% 4.33% 4.33% 4.33%
4.33% **RF: Total** **100%** 82.38% 82.38% 82.38% 82.38% BB: ADC / DAC 10%
2.06% 2.04% 2.04% 2.04% BB: FFT/IFFT 4% 1.15% 1.15% 1.15% 1.15% BB: Post-FFT
data buffering 10% 2.14% 2.14% 2.14% 2.09% BB: Receiver processing block 24%
9.01% 8.77% 8.77% 5.43% BB: LDPC decoding 10% 2.69% 0.94% 0.90% 1.11% BB: HARQ
buffer 14% 2.41% 0.82% 0.78% 0.87% BB: DL control processing & decoder 5%
5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% BB: Synchronization / cell search block 9% 8.55% 8.55%
8.55% 8.55% BB: UL processing block 5% 3.17% 2.09% 2.09% 2.07% BB: MIMO
specific processing blocks 9% 7.23% 7.23% 7.23% 7.23% **BB: Total** **100%**
43.39% 38.74% 38.65% 35.55% **RF+BB: Total** **100%** **58.99%** **56.19%**
**56.14%** **54.28%**
For comparison, the average complexity reduction estimates from [7] for
different peak rate reduction options compared to the corresponding Rel-17
RedCap baselines are presented in the table below.
Table 7.3.2-7: Average UE complexity reduction achieved by PR reduction
options compared to corresponding Rel-17 baselines
Option FD-FDD 1Rx TDD 1Rx HD-FDD 1Rx FD-FDD 2Rx TDD 2Rx HD-FDD 2Rx
* * *
PR1 4.13% 4.02% 4.99% 5.36% 3.73% 4.74% PR2 4.26% 4.16% 5.14% 6.91% 3.82%
4.82% PR3 7.06% 6.74% 8.12% 9.81% 6.59% 7.98%
### 7.3.3 Analysis of performance impacts
**Peak data rate:**
The UE peak rate reduction options (PR1/PR2/PR3) can all fulfil the data rate
requirements.
**Coverage:**
For the UE peak rate reduction options PR1 and PR2, no coverage loss is
expected.
For PR3, the coverage impacts are similar as for BW3, see clause 7.2.3.
For a more detailed description of the coverage impacts, see clause 8.2.4.
### 7.3.4 Analysis of network deployment and coexistence impacts
For UE peak rate reduction options PR1 and PR2, there is no or small
coexistence issue.
For UE peak rate reduction option PR3 (in the same way as for UE bandwidth
reduction option BW3 described in clause 7.2), SIB1, OSI, RAR and MSG4 need to
be scheduled within 5 MHz, otherwise there may be coexistence impacts on
legacy UEs.
Early indication (through Msg1/MsgA) might be needed for PR3.
### 7.3.5 Analysis of specification impacts
The UE peak rate reduction options (PR1/PR2/PR3) all have minimal
specification impact.
## 7.4 Relaxed UE processing timeline
### 7.4.1 Description of feature
In the study, relaxed UE processing timeline is considered for FR1. The main
options for the study are as follows:
\- Option PT1: Relaxation of UE processing time for PDSCH/PUSCH in terms of
N~1~ and N~2~ (as defined in TS 38.214) compared to those of UE processing
time capability 1
\- The relaxation factor for N~1~ and N~2~ is assumed to be 2 in the study.
\- Option PT2: Relaxation of UE processing time for CSI in terms of Z and Z\'
compared to the values defined in TS 38.214 clause 5.4
\- The relaxation factor for Z and Z\' is assumed to be 2 in the study.
For the above relaxed UE processing timeline options, the following aspects
are considered:
\- The combination of Options PT1 and PT2 is also studied.
\- UE complexity reduction estimates for relaxed UE processing timeline are
only reported for combinations with UE bandwidth reduction or UE peak rate
reduction.
### 7.4.2 Analysis of UE complexity reduction
For PT1, the main contributors of the complexity reduction are the following
functional blocks:
\- Baseband: Receiver processing block
\- Baseband: LDPC decoding
\- Baseband: DL control processing & decoder
\- Baseband: UL processing block
For PT2, the main contributors of the complexity reduction are the following
functional blocks:
\- Baseband: DL control processing & decoder (when both PT1 and PT2 are
supported)
\- Baseband: UL processing block
\- Baseband: MIMO specific processing block
Whether PT1 or PT2 may reduce the complexity in the \'DL control processing &
decoder\' block depends on the UE implementation. Complexity evaluations are
provided only in combination with other techniques in clause 7.5.
### 7.4.3 Analysis of performance impacts
**Coverage:**
No coverage impact is expected from PT1 and PT2.
**Data rate:**
No impact on instantaneous peak data rate is expected from PT1 and PT2.
**Latency:**
Both PT1 and PT2 have impact on latency. For downlink transmission, relaxed
N~1~ value in PT1 impacts how fast HARQ-ACK feedback can be sent after the
reception of PDSCH. For uplink transmission, relaxed N~2~ value in PT1 impacts
how fast PUSCH can be scheduled with respect to the UL grant and relaxed Z/Z\'
in PT2 impacts the scheduling of a PUSCH traffic that arrives after the DCI
triggering A-CSI is sent since such PUSCH TB cannot be scheduled to be
transmitted before the A-CSI is transmitted. How significant the impact on
latency depends on use cases and scheduled number of retransmissions.
Note: For information on other performance impacts (throughput, power
consumption), see TR 38.875 clause 7.5.3 [5].
### 7.4.4 Analysis of network deployment and coexistence impacts
For PT1, i.e., relaxed UE processing time in terms of N~1~ and N~2~:
\- In scenarios where Rel-18 RedCap UEs coexist with legacy UEs, PT1 may
increase the complexity for the scheduling.
\- PT1 may have an impact on scheduling flexibility as several timing
requirements are related to N1/N2 values.
\- If PT1 is applicable during the initial/random access, it may cause
potential coexistence issues with legacy UEs if early identification of Rel-18
RedCap UEs prior to Msg2 scheduling is not supported, or conservative
scheduling is not possible. If gNB schedules all UEs according to relaxed
timing relationships for Rel-18 RedCap UEs, legacy UEs may experience an
increase in control plane latency.
For PT2, i.e., relaxed UE processing time in terms of Z and Z\':
\- PT2 may have impacts on scheduling flexibility and potentially make the
scheduler more complex.
\- PT2 may impact the scheduler\'s ability to track the channel when making
scheduling decisions, especially in a fast-varying channel condition.
\- No coexistence impact is expected from PT2.
### 7.4.5 Analysis of specification impacts
A new UE processing time capability needs to be defined if relaxed UE
processing time in terms of N~1~ and N~2~ is introduced. New values of N~1~
and N~2~, as well as how the PDSCH processing time and PUSCH preparation time
are determined by N~1~ and N~2~, need to be defined. Depending on the degree
of relaxation of the N~1~ and N~2~ values, specification details on scheduling
timing may be updated, such as HARQ-ACK timing range. Moreover, PT1 may
introduce a need for early indication in Msg1. And PT1 does not need to define
new default TDRA table for downlink.
New CSI computation delay requirements need to be defined if relaxed UE
processing time in terms of Z and Z\' is introduced. New values of Z and Z\',
as well as how the CSI computation time is determined by Z and Z\', need to be
defined.
## 7.5 Combinations of UE complexity reduction features
### 7.5.1 Description of feature combinations
The evaluation results for the studied individual UE complexity reduction
techniques are captured in clauses 7.2 through 7.4. In this clause, the
properties of combinations of different individual UE complexity reduction
techniques are described.
### 7.5.2 Analysis of UE complexity reduction
The table below show the average value of the UE complexity reduction
evaluation results for different combinations of UE complexity reduction
features captured in [7].
Furthermore, all BW and PR reduction options that correspond to target max 10
Mbps data rate result in reduction of memory size, although these aspects are
not captured in the complexity reduction evaluation results in the table. The
required L2 buffer size at the UE scales linearly with the UE peak data rate
and with the UE bandwidth.
Table 7.5.2-1: Average complexity reduction achieved by combinations of UE
complexity reduction features compared to corresponding Rel-17 baselines
Option FD-FDD 1Rx TDD 1Rx HD-FDD 1Rx FD-FDD 2Rx TDD 2Rx HD-FDD 2Rx
* * *
BW1 11.85% 11.25% 14.06% 14.31% 13.42% 14.79% BW1 + PT1 12.44% 11.64% 14.30%
17.65% 14.58% 16.38% BW1 + PT1 + PT2 14.75% 14.73% 17.51% 19.10% 15.80% 17.89%
BW2 9.15% 8.08% 11.92% 11.46% 8.81% 12.21% BW2 + PT1 + PT2 11.54% 10.91%
15.27% 16.70% 10.99% 15.18% BW3 8.02% 7.66% 8.90% 8.72% 7.68% 9.19% BW3+PT1
8.70% 7.84% 10.15% 12.48% 8.98% 10.77% BW3 + PT1 + PT2 11.55% 11.50% 12.92%
14.59% 10.82% 12.76% PR1 4.13% 4.02% 4.99% 5.36% 3.73% 4.74% PR1 + PT1 5.40%
4.85% 6.58% 8.80% 5.49% 6.54% PR1 + PT1 + PT2 7.88% 8.67% 9.33% 10.99% 6.76%
8.63% PR2 4.26% 4.16% 5.14% 6.91% 3.82% 4.82% PR2 + PT1 + PT2 7.17% 6.23%
9.48% 10.89% 6.81% 8.70% PR3 7.06% 6.74% 8.12% 9.81% 6.59% 7.98% PR3 + PT1
7.69% 7.23% 9.32% 11.49% 8.11% 9.67% PR3 + PT1 + PT2 10.22% 10.70% 12.07%
13.55% 9.88% 11.60%
### 7.5.3 Analysis of performance impacts
For performance impacts for each UE complexity reduction technique, refer to
clauses 7.2 through 7.4.
### 7.5.4 Analysis of network deployment and coexistence impacts
For network deployment and coexistence impacts for each UE complexity
reduction technique, refer to clauses 7.2 through 7.4.
### 7.5.5 Analysis of specification impacts
For specification impacts for each UE complexity reduction technique, refer to
clauses 7.2 through 7.4.
# 8 Coverage impact
## 8.1 Introduction to coverage impact
Potential coverage reduction due to the device complexity reduction was
studied. The evaluation methodology is described in clause 6.2. Evaluation
results for different scenarios are described in clause 8.2.1 through clause
8.2.3 where it was assumed the potential Rel-18 UE had the maximum bandwidth
reduced to 5MHz in both RF and BB. In other words, the complexity reduction
option BW1 from clause 7.2 was assumed for the coverage impact evaluation in
clause 8.2.1 through clause 8.2.3. Starting from the coverage evaluation
results for BW1, clause 8.2.4 presents a summary of observations on coverage
impact evaluation for different complexity reduction options particularly BW1,
BW2, BW3, and PR3.
## 8.2 Coverage impact evaluation
### 8.2.1 Urban scenario at 2.6 GHz
For Urban scenario at 2.6 GHz, the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE
and the corresponding maximum isotropic loss (MIL) value by the sourcing
companies [7] are shown in Table 8.2.1-1. For this Urban scenario at 2.6 GHz,
the study primarily evaluated the potential Rel-18 UE with 11-PRB UE
bandwidth. Sourcing companies could additionally report evaluation results
with 12-PRB UE bandwidth.
As can be seen from Table 8.2.1-1, for Urban scenario at 2.6GHz, PUSCH is the
bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE.
Table 8.2.1-1: Bottleneck channels and MIL values for the reference R15 NR UE
in Urban scenario at 2.6GHz
Company Bottleneck Channel MIL (dB)
* * *
MediaTek PUSCH (*) 142.55 Spreadtrum PUSCH 145.74 ZTE PUSCH 141.43 Ericsson
PUSCH 137.14 Samsung PUSCH 139.44 vivo PUSCH 139.57 Nokia PUSCH 140.02 CMCC
PUSCH 141.01 NTT DOCOMO PUSCH 145.46 CATT PUSCH 144.34 OPPO PUSCH 145.14
Panasonic PUSCH (*) 142.55 Mavenir PUSCH (*) 142.55 Xiaomi PUSCH 146.85 Huawei
PUSCH 138.95 Lenovo PUSCH 142.96 Intel PUSCH 140.35 Qualcomm PUSCH 139.37
NOTE: For a sourcing company labeled with (*) that did not provide evaluation
results for uplink channels for the reference NR UE, the bottleneck channel
and its MIL value were derived from Table 9.1.1-1 of TR 38.875 [5] based on
the methodology in Clause 6.2.
For the potential Rel-18 UE with maximum 11-PRB bandwidth, the coverage
margins relative to the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE are
summarized in Table 8.2.1-2 (part 1 and part 2) and Table 8.2.1-3 (part 1 and
part 2). In Table 8.2.1-2, no UE antenna efficiency loss is assumed for the
potential Rel-18 UE with maximum 11-PRB bandwidth. In Table 8.2.1-3, UE
antenna efficiency loss of 3dB is assumed in both DL and UL for the potential
Rel-18 UE with maximum 11-PRB bandwidth. For every sourcing-company result,
the coverage margin for each channel that has MIL below the bottleneck channel
for the reference NR UE is highlighted in red.
The representative value 1, number of samples 1, representative value 2, and
number of samples 2 in the last four rows of Table 8.2.1-2 and Table 8.2.1-3
are determined according to the methodology described in clause 6.2. A
negative representative value for a channel of the potential Rel-18 UE
indicates the coverage of the channel is worse than that of the bottleneck
channel of the reference NR UE.
As can be seen from the representative values in Table 8.2.1-2 and Table
8.2.1-3, for Urban scenario at 2.6 GHz with DL PSD of 33 dBm/MHz and maximum
11-PRB UE bandwidth:
\- Without 3-dB UE antenna efficiency loss: the representative values of the
coverage margins for the potential Rel-18 UE with 11-PRB BW for all channels
are positive.
\- With 3-dB UE antenna efficiency loss: the representative values of the
coverage margins for the potential Rel-18 UE with 11-PRB BW for all channels
are positive except for PDCCH CSS with AL2 and certain configuration of SIB1.
The coverage of PDCCH CSS with AL2 has worse coverage by less than 1 dB than
the bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE. A similar observation applies
to SIB1. It should be noted that the reception schemes for SIB1 coverage
simulations have different assumptions among sourcing companies. For example,
some punctured the bits transmitted outside the potential Rel-18 UE\'s
bandwidth while some performed soft combining the bits transmitted outside the
potential Rel-18 UE\'s bandwidth by RF retuning at UE side.
As can be seen from the representative values in Table 8.2.1-2 and Table
8.2.1-3, PUSCH for the potential Rel-18 UE with maximum 11-PRB bandwidth, with
or without 3dB UE antenna efficiency loss, has better coverage than the
bottleneck channel of the reference NR UE and hence coverage recovery is not
needed for PUSCH. This is because the cell-edge target data rates are scaled
by a factor of 0.25 for the potential Rel-18 UE compared to the reference
Rel-17 RedCap UE.
Table 8.2.1-2 (part 1): In Urban scenario at 2.6GHz with DL 33dBm/MHz PSD,
coverage margins for the potential Rel-18 UE with maximum 11-PRB bandwidth
compared to the bottleneck channel for the reference NR UE in Table 8.2.1-1
when no UE antenna efficiency loss is assumed for the potential Rel-18 UE.
* * *
Coverage margin (dB) PBCH\ PBCH\ PDCCH CSS (BW1, 11 PRBs; CORESET: 2 symbols,
48 PRBs; AL16) PDCCH CSS (BW1, 11 PRBs; CORESET: 2 symbols, 24 PRBs; AL8)
PDCCH CSS (BW1, 11 PRBs; CORESET: 3 symbols, 6 PRBs; AL2) SIB1 (BW1, 11 PRBs;
SIB1 BW > 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \ 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \ 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 12 PRBs; SIB1 BW \ 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 12 PRBs; SIB1 BW \ 5MHz                                                PDCCH CSS (48 RBs) with 1% BLER                           SIB1 (\>5 MHz) with 10% BLER                                SIB1 (\ 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) 5MHz-UE (BW1, 11
PRBs; CORESET: 2 symbols, 48 PRBs; AL16) 5MHz-UE (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW > 5
MHz; TBS 1256 bits) 5MHz-UE (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \ 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 25 PRBs; SIB1 BW \ 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 25 PRBs; SIB1 BW \ | CSS | CSS | (>5 | (\ | ESET: | ESET: | BW > | BW \5MHz (BW1,
11 PRBs; SIB1 BW > 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \5MHz (BW1,
11 PRBs; SIB1 BW > 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \5MHz (BW1,
11 PRBs; SIB1 BW > 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \5MHz (BW1,
11 PRBs; SIB1 BW > 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits) SIB1 (BW1, 11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \5 MHz) with 10% BLER                                                                                   PBCH (20 RBs) with 1% BLER   PDCCH CSS (48 RBs) with 1% BLER                               SIB1 (\>5 MHz) with 10% BLER                                                                                        
                             Rel-18 UE with soft/selective combining without RF retuning   Rel-18 UE with soft/selective combining with RF retuning   Rel-18 UE (11 PRBs; CORESE: 2 symbols, 48 PRBs; AL16)   Rel-18 UE (11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \> 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits)                                Rel-18 UE with soft/selective combining without RF retuning   Rel-18 UE with soft/selective combining with RF retuning   Rel-18 UE (11 PRBs; CORESET: 2 symbols, 48 PRBs; AL16)   Rel-18 UE (11 PRBs; SIB1 BW \> 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits)
BW1 -11.87 -9.3 -15.26 -17.50 -5.05 -2.51 -8.91 -11.24 BW2 -11.87 -9.3 -15.26
-17.50 -5.05 -2.51 -8.91 -11.24 BW3 -6.8 -6.28 -17.50 0 0 -11.24  
PR3 -6.8 -6.28 -17.50 0 0 -11.24
Table 8.2.4-3: In Rural scenario at 0.7 GHz with 15kHz SCS, coverage
differences of broadcast channels including PDCCH CSS and SIB1 between the
potential Rel-18 UE and the reference Rel-15 NR/Rel-17 RedCap UEs with
complexity reduction options BW1, BW2, BW3 and PR3
Coverage difference (dB) Compared with reference Rel-15 NR UE (MIL) Compared
with Rel-17 RedCap UE (MIL)
* * *
                             PDCCH CSS (48 RBs) with 1% BLER                         SIB1 (\>5 MHz) with 10% BLER                           PDCCH CSS (48 RBs) with 1% BLER                          SIB1 (\>5 MHz) with 10% BLER
                             Rel-18 UE (25 PRBs; CORESE: 2 symbols, 48 PRBs; AL16)   Rel-18 UE (25 PRBs; SIB1 BW \> 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits)   Rel-18 UE (25 PRBs; CORESET: 2 symbols, 48 PRBs; AL16)   Rel-18 UE (25 PRBs; SIB1 BW \> 5 MHz; TBS 1256 bits)
BW1 -7.30 -7.57 -3.53 -3.93 BW2 -7.30 -7.57 -3.53 -3.93 BW3 -3.71 -7.57 0
-3.93 PR3 -3.71 -7.57 0 -3.93
From the above comparison on broadcast channel coverage differences between
the potential Rel-18 UE and the reference Rel-15 NR/Rel-17 RedCap UEs, the
following observations can be made for complexity reduction options BW1, BW2,
BW3, and PR3:
\- Coverage difference is larger in Urban scenario (30 kHz SCS) than in Rural
scenario (15 kHz SCS) due to a smaller RB number with 30 kHz SCS within 5MHz
bandwidth.
\- In Urban scenario (30 kHz SCS), the coverage difference is the largest for
SIB1 and the smallest for PBCH, with PDCCH CSS (48 RBs) in the middle.
\- For SIB1 (>5MHz), coverage degradation of 11.24 dB is observed with BW1,
BW2, BW3 and PR3 options compared to Rel-17 RedCap UE.
\- For PDCCH (AL16 and 48 RBs), coverage degradation of 8.91 dB is observed
with BW1 and BW2 options compared to Rel-17 RedCap UE
\- For PBCH (20 RBs), coverage degradation of 5.05 dB (2.51 dB) is observed
with BW1 and BW2 options without RF retuning (with RF retuning) compared to
Rel-17 RedCap UE.
\- It is noted that BW3 and PR3 do not cause coverage degradation to PBCH and
PDCCH compared to Rel-17 RedCap UE.
For broadcast channels with large coverage differences such as SIB1, the
potential Rel-18 UE may utilize additional processing/combining to compensate
the coverage difference when considering coexistence and minimizing impact on
legacy UEs.
# 9 Conclusions and recommendations
Further NR RedCap UE complexity reduction techniques have been analyzed
individually in clauses 7.2 through 7.4 as well as in different combinations
in clause 7.5. The coverage impacts of the complexity reduction techniques
have been analyzed in clause 8. The main observations from the coverage impact
evaluations are summarized in clause 8.2.4.
Based on the analysis of the studied UE complexity reduction options, most
companies in RAN1 recommend that a single option is down-selected from a list
of options as the main Rel-18 RedCap UE complexity reduction option at RAN
plenary. The list includes the following options.
\- Option BW3:
\- 5 MHz BB bandwidth only for PDSCH (for both unicast and broadcast) and
PUSCH with 20 MHz RF bandwidth for UL and DL.
\- The other physical channels and signals are still allowed to use a BWP up
to the 20 MHz maximum UE RF+BB bandwidth.
\- Option PR3:
\- Restriction of maximum number of PRBs for PDSCH and PUSCH.
\- For 15 kHz SCS, the maximum number of RBs is 25.
\- For 30 kHz SCS, the maximum number of RBs is 11 or 12.
\- The restricted number of PRBs in Option PR3 is a hardcoded limit.
Some of the companies who participated in the study also wanted to include one
or both of the following options in the above list, for RAN plenary to assess
the trade-off between degree of complexity reduction and specification impact.
\- Option PR1:
\- Relaxation of the constraint for peak data rate reduction.
\- The relaxed constraint is, e.g., 1 (instead of 4).
\- The parameters (, , ) can be as in Rel-17 RedCap [4].
\- Option BW1:
\- Both RF and BB bandwidths are 5 MHz for UL and DL.
Furthermore, RAN1 recommends that Option PR1 is considered as a potential add-
on. Whether to adopt this potential add-on can be decided during WI phase.
Whether or not to also introduce support for option PT1 and/or PT2 for a
Rel-18 RedCap UE can be decided at RAN plenary.
\- Option PT1:
\- Relaxation of UE processing time for PDSCH/PUSCH in terms of N1 and N2 (as
defined in TS 38.214) compared to those of UE processing time capability 1
\- The relaxation factor for N1 and N2 is assumed to be 2 in the study.
\- Option PT2:
\- Relaxation of UE processing time for CSI in terms of Z and Z\' compared to
the values defined in TS 38.214 clause 5.4
\- The relaxation factor for Z and Z\' is assumed to be 2 in the study.
#