# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the Study Item on BS RF
requirement evolution _dealing with FR2 multi-band BS deployments_.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[3] 3GPP TR 37.840: "Study of Radio Frequency (RF) and Electromagnetic
Compatibility (EMC) requirements for Active Antenna Array System (AAS) base
station"
[4] Rusek, Fredrik, et al. \"Scaling up MIMO: Opportunities and challenges
with very large arrays.\" IEEE signal processing magazine 30.1 (2012): 40-60.
[5] Fager, Christian, et al. \"Linearity and efficiency in 5G transmitters:
New techniques for analyzing efficiency, linearity, and linearization in a 5G
active antenna transmitter context.\" IEEE Microwave Magazine 20.5 (2019):
35-49.
[6] Tervo, Nuutti, et al. \"Analyzing the effects of PA variations on the
performance of phased array digital predistortion.\" 2018 IEEE 29th Annual
International Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications
(PIMRC). IEEE, 2018.
[7] Jalili, Feridoon, et al. \"Linearization trade-offs in a 5G mmWave active
phased array OTA setup.\" Ieee Access 8 (2020): 110669-110677.
[8] Khan, Bilal, et al. \"Statistical Digital Predistortion of 5G Millimeter-
Wave RF Beamforming Transmitter Under Random Amplitude Variations.\" IEEE
Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques 70.9 (2022): 4284-4296.
[9] Ng, Eric, et al. \"Digital predistortion of millimeter-wave RF beamforming
arrays using low number of steering angle-dependent coefficient sets.\" IEEE
Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques 67.11 (2019): 4479-4492.
[10] Larsson, Erik G., and Liesbet Van der Perre. \"Out-of-band radiation from
antenna arrays clarified.\" IEEE Wireless Communications Letters 7.4 (2018):
610-613.
[11] Haider, Muhammad Furqan, et al. \"Predistortion-Based Linearization for
5G and Beyond Millimeter-Wave Transceiver Systems: A Comprehensive Survey.\"
IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials (2022).
[12] ADI, Technical article, "Why Millimeter Wave Requires a Different
Approach to DPD and How to Quantify Its Value"
[13] Abdelaziz, Mahmoud, et al. \"Digital predistortion for hybrid MIMO
transmitters.\" IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing 12.3
(2018): 445-454.
[14] Design and linearization of concurrent dual-band Doherty PA with
frequency-dependent power ranges, Chen W H, Bassam S A, Li X, et al. IEEE
Trans Microw Theory Tech, 2011, 59:2537--2546
[15] Wu, Qian, et al. \"Digital Predistortion for Concurrent Dual-Band
Millimeter Wave Analog Multibeam Transmitters.\" IEEE Transactions on Circuits
and Systems II: Express Briefs 69.3 (2021): 1747-1751.
[16] Li, Yue, Xiaoyu Wang, and Anding Zhu. \"Sampling rate reduction for
digital predistortion of broadband RF power amplifiers.\" IEEE Transactions on
Microwave Theory and Techniques 68.3 (2019): 1054-1064.
[17] Yu, Chao, et al. \"Linear-decomposition digital predistortion of power
amplifiers for 5G ultrabroadband applications.\" IEEE Transactions on
Microwave Theory and Techniques 68.7 (2020): 2833-2844.
[18] 3GPP R4-2219154: "Further discussion on phase shifters", Huawei,
HiSilicon.
[19] 28/38 GHz Dual-band Dual-polarized Highly Isolated Antenna for 5G Phased
Array Applications, Chenhao Chu et.al, University College Dublin, IEEE IWS
2019: Sixth IEEE MTT-S International Wireless Symposium, Guangzhou, China,
19-22 May 2019
https://researchrepository.ucd.ie/bitstream/10197/11051/2/Antenna%20for%205G%20Phased%20Array_IWS2019_CChu.pdf
[20] A Compact Dual-Band and Dual-Polarized Millimeter-Wave Beam Scanning
Antenna Array for 5G Mobile Terminals，Yuqi He et.al，Xidian University,
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=9500212
[21] Dual-Band Dual-Polarized Microstrip Antenna Array Using Double-Layer
Gridded Patches for 5G Millimeter-Wave Applications, Wangyu Sun et.al, IEEE
Transactions On Antennas And Propagation, Vol. 69, No. 10, October 2021
[22] A 32-Element 28/39 GHz Dual-Band Dual-Beam 5G Phased-Array with 40 dBm
EIRP and Simultaneous 64 QAM Operation, Shufan Wang et al., University of
California San Diego, USA, 2022 IEEE/MTT-S International Microwave Symposium,
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=9865316
[23] Antenna diversity in mobile communications, R. G. Vaughan et al., IEEE
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, Vol. 36, No. 4, November 1987,
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1623508
[24] R4-2215413: \"General consideration on mmWave multi-band BS\".
[25] An Instantaneously Broadband Ultra-Compact Highly Linear PA with
Compensated Distributed-Balun Output Network Achieving >17.8dBm P1dB and
>36.6% PAEP1dB over 24 to 40GHz and Continuously Supporting 64-/256-QAM 5G NR
Signals over 24 to 42GHz, Fei Wang, Hua Wang, ISSCC 2020 / session 24 / RF &
mm-Wave power amplifiers / 24.6,
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=9063157
[26] A 26-to-39GHz Broadband Ultra-Compact High-Linearity Switchless Hybrid
N/PMOS Bi-Directional PA/LNA Front-End for Multi-Band 5G Large-Scaled MIMO
System，ISSCC 2022 / Session 19 / power amplifiers and building blocks / 19.4,
Jeongsoo Park1,
[27] A Mm-Wave Wideband MIMO RX With Instinctual Array-Based Blocker/Signal
Management for Ultralow-Latency Communication, Min-Yu Huang, et al., IEEE
Journal Of Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 54, No. 12, December 2019
[28] A Power-Efficient 24-to-71GHz CMOS Phased-Array Receiver Utilizing
Harmonic-Selection Technique Supporting 36dB Inter-Band Blocker Rejection for
5G NR, Jian Pang et al., ISSCC 2022 / Session 27 / mm-Wave & Sub-6GHz
receivers and transceivers for 5g radios / 27.2,
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9731619
[29] A 22--44-GHz Phased-Array Receive Beamformer in 45-nm CMOS SOI for 5G
Applications With 3--3.6-dB NF, Li Gao et al., IEEE Transactions on Microwave
Theory and Techniques, Vol. 68, No. 11, November 2020
[30] 3GPP TS 38.141-2: \"NR; Base Station (BS) conformance testing, Part 2:
Radiated conformance testing\".
[31] 3GPP TR 38.901: "Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**array element:** subdivision of a passive _antenna array_ , consisting of a
single radiating element or a group of radiating elements, with a fixed
radiation pattern
**antenna array:** group of radiating elements characterized by the geometry
and the properties of the _array elements_
**Base Station RF Bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which a base station transmits
and/or receives single or multiple carrier(s) within a supported _operating
band_
NOTE: In single carrier operation, the _Base Station RF Bandwidth_ is equal to
the _BS channel bandwidth_.
**beam:** beam (of the antenna) is the main lobe of the radiation pattern of
an _antenna array_
NOTE: For certain AAS BS _antenna array_ , there may be more than one beam.
**BS channel bandwidth** : RF bandwidth supporting a single NR RF carrier with
the _transmission bandwidth_ configured in the uplink or downlink
NOTE 1: The _BS channel bandwidth_ is measured in MHz and is used as a
reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
NOTE 2: It is possible for the BS to transmit to and/or receive from one or
more UE bandwidth parts that are smaller than or equal to the _BS transmission
bandwidth configuration_ , in any part of the _BS transmission bandwidth
configuration_.
**BS transmission bandwidth configuration** : set of resource blocks located
within the _BS channel bandwidth_ which may be used for transmitting or
receiving by the BS
**BS type 1-O:** NR base station operating at FR1 with a requirement set
consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the RIB
**BS type 2-O:** NR base station operating at FR2 with a requirement set
consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the RIB
**directivity: ratio of the radiation intensity in a given direction from the
antenna to the radiation intensity averaged over all directions**
NOTE: If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation
intensity is implied.
**equivalent isotropic radiated power:** in a given direction, the relative
_antenna gain_ of a transmitting antenna with respect to the _antenna gain_ of
an isotropic radiating element multiplied by the net power accepted by the
antenna from the connected transmitter
NOTE: For an AAS BS the EIRP can be seen as the equivalent power radiated from
an isotropic radiating element, producing the same field intensity as the
field intensity radiated in the declared beam pointing direction of the active
antenna system being considered.
**equivalent isotropic sensitivity:** power level relative to an isotropic
antenna that is required to be incident on the AAS BS array from a specified
azimuth/elevation direction in order to meet a specified receiver sensitivity
requirement
NOTE: EIS is directly related to field-strength via free-space impedance and
effective aperture antenna area. EIS is expressed as the receiver power that
would be collected by an isotropic antenna if it were subject to a uniform
field around the whole sphere as the AAS BS array experiences in the specified
azimuth/elevation direction.
**Inter RF Bandwidth gap: frequency gap between two consecutive _Base Station
RF Bandwidths _that are placed within two supported_ operating bands_**
**multi-band RIB:** _operating band_ specific RIB associated with a
transmitter or receiver that is characterized by the ability to process two or
more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously, where at least
one carrier is configured at a different _operating band_ than the other
carrier(s) and where this different _operating band_ is not a _sub-band_ or
_superseding-band_ of another supported _operating band_
**operating band:** frequency range in which NR operates (paired or unpaired),
that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements**.**
**radiated interface boundary** : _operating band_ specific radiated
requirements reference where the radiated requirements apply
NOTE: For requirements based on EIRP/EIS, the _radiated interface boundary_ is
associated to the far-field region
**radiating element:** basic building block of an _array element_
characterized by its radiation properties
**radiation pattern:** angular distribution of the radiated electromagnetic
field or power level in the far field region
**radio distribution network:** passive network which distributes radio
signals generated by the active _transceiver unit array_ to the _antenna
array_ , and/or distributes the radio signals collected by the _antenna array_
to the active _transceiver unit array_.
NOTE: The number of transmission outputs from the RDN should be greater than
or equal to the number of transmission inputs for a single frequency.
NOTE: In the case when the active _transceiver units_ are physically
integrated with the _array elements_ of the _antenna array_ , the radio
distribution network is a one-to-one mapping.
**single-band RIB:** _operating band_ specific RIB supporting operation either
in a single _operating band_ only, or in multiple _operating bands_ but does
not meet the conditions for a _multi-band RIB_.
**sub-band** : A _sub-band_ of an operating band contains a part of the uplink
and downlink frequency range of the operating band.
**superseding-band** : A _superseding-band_ of an operating band includes the
whole of the uplink and downlink frequency range of the operating band.
**total radiated power: is the total power radiated by the antenna**
NOTE: The _total radiated power_ is the power radiating in all direction for
two orthogonal polarizations. _Total radiated power_ is defined in both the
near-field region and the far-field region
**transmission bandwidth:** RF Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from
a UE or BS, measured in resource block units
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
F~FBWhigh~ Highest supported frequency within supported _operating band_ , for
which _fractional bandwidth_ support was declared
F~FBWlow~ Lowest supported frequency within supported _operating band_ , for
which _fractional bandwidth_ support was declared
F~PBWhigh~ Highest supported frequency, for which _percentage bandwidth_
support was declared
F~PBWlow~ Lowest supported frequency, for which _percentage bandwidth_ support
was declared
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AA Antenna Array
AAS Antenna Array System
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
ADC Analog-to-Digital Converter
BB Base Band
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
CFR Crest Factor Reduction
CMOS Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor
DAC Digital-to-Analog Converter
DPD Digital Pre-Distortion
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EIS Equivalent Isotropic Sensitivity
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FBW Fractional Bandwidth
FR Frequency Range
IC Integrated Circuit
IM Inter-Modulation
IMD Inter-Modulation Distortion
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
LTCC Low Temperature Co-fired Ceramic
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple-Input Multiple-Output
NF Noise Figure
N/PMOS N/P-channel Metal-Oxide Semiconductor
NR New Radio
OBUE Operating Band Unwanted Emissions
OOB Out-of-band
OTA Over-The-Air
PA Power Amplifier
PAE Power Added Efficiency
PBW Percentage Bandwidth
PSD Power Spectral Density
RB Resource Block
RDN Radio Distribution Network
RF Radio Frequency
RIB Radiated Interface Boundary
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RX Receiver
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
SOI Silicon On Insulator
TX Transmitter
TRP Total Radiated Power
TRX Transceiver
UE User Equipment
VGA Variable Gain Amplifier
VSWR Voltage Standing Wave Ratio
ZF Zero Forcing
# 4 General
## 4.1 Study item objective
> Study the following aspects for FR2 multi-band BS:
Example bands:
\- 26+28 GHz: n258 + n261
\- 28+39 GHz: n257/n261 + n260
\- 26+40 GHz: n258 + n259/n262
\- 28+40 GHz: n257/n261 + n259/n262
\- Investigate the feasibility and performance of wideband RF and antenna
architectures covering multiple FR2 bands
\- Investigate if FR1 multi-band methods are re-usable for FR2, and (if so)
agree on the appropriate inter-RF BW gaps
\- Investigate if FR1 exceptions are acceptable for FR2
\- Investigate whether a generic solution for all combinations within FR2-1 is
possible and/or a solution for all or a part of the frequency range should be
targeted
\- Frequency range 24-29 GHz which includes n257/n258/n261
\- Frequency range 37-48 GHz which includes n260/n259/n262
\- Study the definition of FR2 multi-band BS
## 4.2 Deployment scenarios
The scope of this study encompasses FR2 multi-band BS can support multiple
FR2-1 mmWave bands transmission and/or reception through common active RF
components. BS that supports multiple bands by means of separate antenna
arrays and active components within the same enclosure are not in the scope of
this study as they can already be supported by Rel-15 single band requirements
and do not need further study.
FR2 BS capable of multi-band operation (whether those in the scope of this
study, or BS supporting multiple bands by means of separate antenna arrays and
active components within the same enclosure) should support evolution from
single FR2-1 band to two FR2-1 bands application. Operators can configure for
single band operation at one band initially and upgrade it to two bands
sharing a common radio without further hardware investment.
Since common active RF components are used for FR2 multi-band BS, the receiver
and transmitter operate simultaneously would require very large isolation,
which make it less possible for unsynchronized operation between bands. Hence
inter-band synchronized operation is required for multi-band operation.
Possible FR2 multi-band BS structures and configurations based on combining
different receiver/transmitter implementations (multi-band or single band), as
well as mapping receive and transmit signals on a shared antenna or separate
antennas should be considered in the study.
Scenarios 1), 4), 5) and 6) below should be considered as the target scenarios
to be studied in this study while no study needed on the scenario 2) and 3)
below:
1) Multi-band transmitter and/or receiver with common active RF components
2) Single-band transmitter and receiver
3) Configurable BS for different bands with the same hardware, i.e. only one
band can be configured to operate at any time.
4) BS covers full-band or sub-band of band A and band B
5) BS covers consecutive spectrums with different band number, for example,
n258+n261
6) BS covers two bands which have overlapping spectrums, for example,
n258+n257, and BS support no overlapping frequency range in the two bands.
The upcoming section illustrates high-level architecture options for multi-
band support and further identifies which of those options are within the
scope of this study.
### 4.2.1 Architecture options
Figure 4.2.1-1 depicts potential architectures based on the implementation
options available for multi-band support in FR2-1 BS. The main components
included are the PA, antenna array, and diplexers (wherever needed). Note that
there are no active RF components before the RF input in any of the options in
the figure.
{width="6.53in" height="5.16in"}
Figure 4.2.1-1: High-level architecture options to support multi-band
operation in FR2-1
From the options captured in the figure, Option #2 and Option #4 are the
target scenarios of this study item, while no study is needed for Option #5.
For Option #1 and Option #3, if the PA is capable of being operated in
multiple bands at the same time, then it supports multi-band operation.
However, if the PA can only be configured and operated in a single-band, then
it is considered a single-band RIB.
Option #1 and Option #3 are feasible with current technology if the ranges
covered by each path have a percentage bandwidth up to 19.5%. Per agreements
in sub-Clause 5.2.1.4, Option #2 and Option #4 should also be feasible for a
percentage bandwidth up to 19.5%. Note that even within the same frequency
group, the performance attained would yield a lower Tx power compared to a
single-band design. However, given that this requirement is a manufacturer
declaration, it would not impact the requirement applicability.
# 5 Feasibility study
## 5.1 General
According to the definition in section 6.1, a multi-band FR2-1 RIB is a RIB
that transmits in two or more FR2-1 bands using common active components. In
this section, the feasibility of an FR2-1 multi-band solution is considered.
The feasibility is examined taking into account technology challenges and
emerging solutions. It is possible that not all parts of the BS are multi-band
but that some advantage can be gained by implementing some parts as multi-
band. For example one potential advantage of a multiband PA might be that
power can be distributed between the supported bands offering more flexibility
to optimize the power available for each, this requires only a multi-band PA.
The evaluation considers whether the proposed set of FR2-1 requirements is
likely to be achievable with present or future implementation possibilities.
The study does not aim to conclude on whether a multi-band FR2 solution is
more optimal or effective (considering complexity, power, weight etc.) than
other possibilities, for example mounting individual radio panels for each
band within a BS enclosure.
When discussing the feasibility of wideband components/systems the multi-band
bandwidth as a percentage of the carrier frequency should be considered.
Note that this is generally called fractional BW but in [2] the term
fractional BW is already defined to mean something specific so is best avoided
to prevent confusion.
Fractional bandwidth (FBW) is defined for a single operating band as shown
below:
\- Fractional bandwidth (FBW) is defined in [2] as $FBW = 200 \bullet
\frac{F_{\text{FBWhigh}} - F_{\text{FBWlow}}}{F_{\text{FBWhigh}} +
F_{\text{FBWlow}}}\%$,
\- where F~FBWhigh~ is highest supported frequency within supported operating
band, for which fractional bandwidth support was declared, and F~FBWlow~ is
lowest supported frequency within supported operating band, for which
fractional bandwidth support was declared.
**Multiple operating bands are discussed in this study so the existing
definition of fractional bandwidth is not suitable, the term percentage
bandwidth is therefore used and defined as follows:**
> **\- Percentage bandwidth (PBW) is defined in this study as** $PBW = 200
> \bullet \frac{F_{\text{PBWhigh}} - F_{\text{PBWlow}}}{F_{\text{PBWhigh}} +
> F_{\text{PBWlow}}}\%$,
\- where F~PBWhigh~ is highest supported frequency, for which percentage
bandwidth support was declared, and F~PBWlow~ is lowest supported frequency,
for which percentage bandwidth support was declared.
Table 5.1-1 shows the percentage bandwidth for the FR2-1 bands and various
potential multi-band groups.
Table 5.1-1:Percentage band width of FR2-1 operating band (s)
Frequency group, NR _operating band pairing (lowest, highest)_ Frequency range
Percentage bandwidth
* * *
26 GHz (n258) 24250 MHz -- 27500 MHz 12.6% 28 GHz (n257) 26500 MHz -- 29500
MHz 10.7% 28 GHz (n261) 27500 MHz -- 28350 MHz 3% 39 GHz (n260) 37000 MHz --
40000 MHz 7.8% 40 GHz (n259) 39500 MHz -- 43500 MHz 9.6% 48 GHz (n262) 47200
MHz -- 48200 MHz 2.1% 24-29 GHz (n257/n258/n261) 24250 MHz -- 29500 MHz 19.5%
37-48 GHz (n260/n259/n262) 37000 MHz -- 48200 MHz 26.3% 26+28 GHz (n258, n261)
24250 MHz -- 28350 MHz 15.6% 28+39 GHz (n257/n261, n260) 26500 MHz -- 40000
MHz 40.6% 26+40 GHz (n258, n259/n262) 24250 MHz -- 48200 MHz 66.1% 28+40 GHz
(n257/n261, n259/n262) 26500 MHz -- 48200 MHz 58.1%
## 5.2 Wideband RF architectures
### 5.2.1 RF Front end
#### 5.2.1.1 General
Feasibility for RF front ends can be considered by looking at existing
component capabilities which could be used for multi-band FR2 products now but
also by studying literature for the direction of future capabilities.
#### 5.2.1.2 Beam former and PA
There are a number of components available today which offer sufficient band
widths to cover at least some of the FR2 multi-band options. In [24] a wide
band beamformer and PA was presented which covered 24 to 29.5 GHz (bands
n257/n258/n261). The performance of which can be seen in table 5.2.1.2-1 and
figure 5.2.1.2-1.
Table 5.2.1.2-1: beamformer IC in 24-29.5GHz
Parameter Beamformer
* * *
Frequency Range 24-29.5 GHz Tx OP1dB/OIP3 21 / 25 dBm Tx Pdiss/Ch @ 12dBm Pout
300 mW Pout \@3% EVM w/ 64QAM 12 dBm Rx Single Channel NF 4 dB Rx Pdiss 130 mW
Instantaneous Bandwidth 1600 MHz
{width="2.4444444444444446in" height="1.4861111111111112in"}
{width="2.423611111111111in" height="1.5763888888888888in"}
Figure 5.2.1.2-1: PA bias optimized for P1dB for 24GHz (left), and 28GHz
(right)
It is considered feasible that multi-band beamformer IC covering 24-29.5GHz
and associated bands can be achieved.
Looking further ahead the results of academic studies in [25] a 24-42 GHZ
wideband PA was presented which exhibited flat P1dB of 17.8 to 19.6dBm, within
1.6dB from P~sat~, and flat PAE~P1dB~ of 36.6 to 44.3% over 24 to 40GHz,
verifying the truly wideband large-signal matching.
In [26] the hybrid N/PMOS allowed the 26-39GHz PA deep Class-AB biasing and
device cascade, substantially increasing PA Pout and efficiency.
These PAs across different frequency groups are summarized in the following
Table 5.2.1.2-2. It can be seen that some recent study shows PA covering
26-39GHz, 24-42GHz with average output power around 10dBm,PAE~P1dB~ larger
than 30%.
Table 5.2.1.2-2: PAs performance from literatures
Frequency [25] 24 -42GHz PA [26] 26 -39GHz PA
* * *
Authors and year of publication Fei Wang,2020 J Park,2022 Technology 45nm SOI
CMOS 45nm SOI CMOS Gain (dB) 20.5 18.9 S~21~BW~-3dB~（GHz） 25.8-43.4 25.3-42.0
P~1dB~BW~-1dB~（GHz） 22.0-37.0 25.0-37.0 PAE~p1dB~ BW~-1dB~（GHz） 24.0-41.2
29.9-33.6 P1dB（dBm） 17.8-19.6 16.3-18.4 Pavg（dBm） 8.4-11.3 10.8-12.3
PAE~P1dB~（%） 36.6-44.3 29.9-34.9
These papers indicate that PAs covering frequency ranges from 26 to 40GHz or
more are at least technically feasible in the research environment and may
become available in the longer term.
It should be noted PAs with wide percentage bandwidths may not be capable of
operating with signals that broad. For instance, while the PA may cover 50%
bandwidth, its instantaneous bandwidth, i.e. maximum signal bandwidth, is
usually restricted to a few hundred MHz due to limitations with bias networks
and memory effects.
#### 5.2.1.3 Receiver front end
In [27] a 27-41GHz RX was designed and a proof-of-concept mm-Wave four-input--
four-output MIMO RX array was implemented in a 45-nm CMOS SOI process with a
total chip size of 3.6 mm×6.5 mm.
In [28] a 24.25-to-71GHz phased-array receiver ~~is~~ was introduced, which
covering the whole FR2 frequency band 3GPP have defined by now. A harmonic-
selection technique ~~is~~ was proposed to extend the operating bandwidth with
low power consumption. The LNA can be configured into either operating Mode 1
covering 24 to 44GHz or operating Mode 2 covering 44 to 71GHz.
Paper [29] presented a 22--44 GHz 2×2 phased-array receive beamformer. The RX
channel includes a LNA, a 5-bit vector modulator (VM) phase shifter, an
attenuator, and a variable gain amplifier (VGA). The phased-array channel
results in a peak gain of 26.3 dB and a 3-dB bandwidth of 20.5--44 GHz. The
measured NF is 3--3.6 dB at 22--44 GHz with an IP1dB of −27.5 to −24.5 dBm.
For phase-array receive beamformer, these good performance receivers across
different frequency groups are summarized in the following Table 5.2.1.3-3.
They achieved low NF in a wide bandwidth.
Table 5.2.1.3-3: Phased-array receiver chips performance
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | [29]22--44 | [27]27-41GHz | [28]24-71GHz | | | GHz | | | +================+================+================+================+ | Authors and | Li Gao,2020 | Min-Yu | Jian Pang,2022 | | year of | | Huang,2019 | | | publication | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Tech. | 45nm CMOS SOI | 45nm CMOS SOI | 65nm CMOS Bulk | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | BW(GHz) | 22-44 | 27-41 | 24.25-71 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gain(dB) | 26.2 | 36/element | / | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NF(dB) | 3-3.6 | 4.3-6.3 | 3.6-8.0 (at | | | | | 24.25-35GHz) | | | | | | | | | | 4.0-7.6(at | | | | | 35-44GHz) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gain | 16 | 15 | / | | Tuning(dB) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Phase Shift | 11.25 | / | / | | Res(º) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Phase/Gain RMS | 6/1.9 | / | / | | Error(º /dB) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IP1dB(dBm) | -25.4 | -34/-27.3 | -17.6 (at | | | | | 28GHz) | | | | | | | | | | -20.9(at | | | | | 39GHz) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IIP3(dBm) | -18 | / | / | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | P~dc~(mW) | 112 | / | / | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.2.1.4 Summary
It has been shown that:
\- Multi-band beamformer IC with common active RF components with 19.5%
percentage bandwidth in frequency range 24-29 GHz which includes
n257/n258/n261 is technically feasible.
\- For RF front-end, TRX chips covering 24-29.5GHz. 27-41GHz RX are shown. A
harmonic-selection technique is proposed to extend the receiver's operating
bandwidth up to 24.25-71GHz.
Key components of a multi-band FR2 RF front end are hence available today for
certain frequency ranges and band numbers (n257/n258/n261) and it can be
envisioned that wider frequency range products could be feasible in the
future.
### 5.2.2 Digital Pre-distortion
#### 5.2.2.1 DPD for FR2 single-band BS
For single-band FR2 radios, the application of DPD may not be critical
compared to that of the FR1 counterpart. On one hand, the contribution of PAs
to the total DC power consumption in a FR2 BS is much reduced. This is due to
the fact that more antenna elements are added to increase the directivity of
the antenna array to combat against the high path loss occurred at FR2, which
in turn requires smaller power to feed each antenna element, and thus small-
power PA per Tx is sufficient. On the other hand, the requirement on ACLR for
FR2 BSs is not as large, i.e. 24 \- 28dBc (by means of OTA measurement),
compared to that applied to FR1 BSs, i.e. 45dBc [2] due to the beamforming and
propagation environment. This somewhat alleviates the essential need of high-
linearity PAs on meeting required ACLR. Therefore, the DPD in single-band FR2
BSs is expected to provide a little gain in terms of improving power
efficiency and meeting the ACLR requirement. Furthermore, the analog and
hybrid beamforming, which are predominantly used in FR2 radios, also pose
challenges for DPD implementation. With hundreds to thousands of PAs and
higher operating bandwidths for FR2 radio, simply utilizing a similar DPD
architecture as in FR1 would cost extra for RF hardware design and power
consumption, while it may be infeasible to deploy single DPD for every PA in
the analog/hybrid beamforming phased array since several or all analog chains
essentially share one digital path. The DPD algorithms would also have more
demands on the bandwidth of feedback receiver/ADC and BB signal processing
resources, which are scaled with the size of bandwidth to be linearized. These
limited-gain and implementation-challenge factors make the similar DPD
implementations as in FR1 less attractive to the FR2 single-band BS.
Nevertheless, DPD may still bring benefit for FR2 BSs in terms boosting the
overall system performance (e.g. throughput due to improved EVM, or very
possibly energy efficiency). It is worth highlighting that common FR2
transmitter architecture requires to have tight integration between RF
components to reduce hardware costs, sizes, and power loss in which isolator
between an antenna element and a PA is preferably avoided [5], e.g. as
illustrated in Figure 5.2.2.1-1. In such architecture, PAs directly interact
with the antenna array due to low path isolation between them. As a result,
mutual coupling and antenna mismatch between antenna paths have strong impact
to the PAs' output matching impedance which changes the PA's efficiency and
nonlinearity behaviours [5]. The array steering angle, which also alters the
antenna matching impedance, shows strong dependence on the nonlinearity to the
PAs too. In addition, input of PAs in different branches may be driven with
different power as a result of the beamforming techniques applied (i.e.
tapering, ZF, etc.), or gain error of the phase shifters and gain imbalance of
power division network [6]. These mentioned factors have the detrimental
effect to efficiency and linearity behaviours of PAs which may degrade the
ACLR while increasing the OOB emission and beam distortions [5]. For example,
several studies have demonstrated the impact of steering angle to ACLR and OOB
emission and how DPD can help to improve the beamforming performance [5, 6, 7,
8, 9].
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: A typical single-band FR2 antenna array architecture
Obviously, any individual variation in PA would affect the performance of the
linearization so the peak linearization performance is likely to be lower than
that of a one-DPD-per-PA system. Whilst the design of PA's is likely to be
identical there are a number of factors which could change their performance:
\- Temperature -- the location of each PA in the array (and the silicon) may
mean different transistors are at different temperature (depending on the
number of neighbouring devices for example) so the temperature of each
junction may be different.
\- Unit to unit variation -- whilst some transistors may all be on a single
piece of silicon and variation on a single bit of silicon may be small if
multiple devices are used (8 or 16 per device may be more usual) so there will
be unit to unit variation across the potential 128 paths
\- Output match variation -- PA performance is very dependent on the load it
is working into, again all output match circuits are likely to be designed
identically but will vary based on a number of factors:
\- Unit to unit of components
\- Antenna unit to unit
\- Antenna isolation and load pulling from nearby antenna (and signals)
Despite these issues useful linearization of an FR2 systems can be achieved
and may become more common as technology improves.
#### 5.2.2.2 DPD for FR2 multiband BS
Antenna array and TRXs in FR2 radios are desired to be tightly integrated in
which RF filter is preferably omitted after the PA. Since a _multi-band RIB_
essentially needs to transmit multiple-band signals concurrently, the
nonlinearity of PAs will likely cause intermodulation (IM) distortion. It
would be highly challenging to manage the PAs in multiband RIB not to operate
in the nonlinearity power region. Particularly, the varying nonlinearity
behaviours of the PAs, which causes by the nonlinear interaction between
antenna array and the PAs as discussed above, also inherit to the FR2 _multi-
band RIB_. Such issues would be expected to be more complicated in the
multiband use cases than in single-band ones due to higher requirements on
matching load impedance of PAs covering multiband/wideband. Therefore,
unwanted emissions due to IM distortions likely exist and may possibly fall
into the operating bands or inter-RF bandwidth. Note that the latter case
occurs if there is multicarrier transmission in one band. Figures 5.2.2.2-1
and 5.2.2.2-2 illustrate some examples. Assume that frequency ranges that the
BS can operate in Band A and B are 24.25-26.5GHz (n258) and 27-29.5 GHz
(n257), and there is transmission taking place at 26GHz in Band A and 27.5GHz
in band B. Then IM3 components occur at 24.5GHz and 29GHz, which obviously
fall into operating bandwidth of both bands as seen in Figure 5.2.2.2-1. Now
assume that band A transmits two carrier frequencies at 24.75 and 25.75GHz.
Then one IM3 component occurs at 26.75GHz which falls into the inter-RF
bandwidth of the multiband BS as seen in Figure 5.5.2-3.
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: Example for possible unwanted emission due to concurrent
multiband transmission
Figure 5.2.2.2-2: Example for possible unwanted emission due to multi-carrier
transmission in one band
Note that Figure 5.2.2.2-1 and Figure 5.2.2.2-2 demonstrate the location of
IMD products with CW signals, in reality the transmitted signals are wide band
and the IMD products even more so, as such they may not be separable from the
noise floor. As such IMD products are a potential issue but possibly not a
serious one in some case, for example:
\- 128 PA's at 20mW each is only 2.56W (34dBm)
\- With 28dBc ACLR this gives an adjacent channel power of 6dBm
For a 100MHz channel this gives a PSD of -14dBm/MHz which is below the
spurious emissions requirements for FR2. It is unlikely that any in-band non-
linearities will be greater than the ACLR level (as these are 3^rd^ order
products) so the out of band emissions requirements are unlikely to be a
problem.
The IM distortion is also beamformed [10], however if the beams in the
different bands are steered in different directions the IM product is in a
different direction again [3]. If the beams are close to each other however,
e.g. when UEs are nearby each other, the IM distortion beam may still be close
enough to point at the intended UE. Thus, it needs to be managed to ensure
that RF requirements are still be met for the FR2 multiband RIB.
Apart from other UEs within the network, IM products in the _inter RF
bandwidth gap_ need to be suppressed sufficiently to ensure that spurious
emissions requirements towards other systems are met. This would in particular
need attention if band combinations between frequency groups would be
considered.
RF filter/diplexer after every PAs could be used to handle IM distortions.
However, such solution would be very expensive since beamforming phased array
in FR2 could have thousands of antenna paths. Filter per path may also
generate significantly phase error between antenna paths and increase power
loss. Thus, this may not be feasible in terms of cost, size, and performance
of FR2 radios. Alternatively, DPD may be a cheaper solution for RF hardware
architectures to this issue. For FR2 multi-band DPD, it essentially inherits
the abovementioned advantages as well as challenges for single-band FR2 BS
with a few additional issues. For instance, the very large percentage BW may
cause potential issues when applying DPD for multi-band FR2, these are:
\- The large percentage BW of the PA and the wider the BW the more difficult
it will be to maintain a consistent impedance match of PAs over the entire
band and hence memory effects may be greater making the DPD algorithm tougher
to achieve good linearization.
\- Larger BW means variation of the potential sources (as listed for single
band) are greater, once gain reducing the potential linearity saving.
Potentially split or stacked element arrays mean each band signal may be fed
to a different antenna, meaning the output load for the PA is more complex and
more open to variation.
Investigating practically feasible DPD solutions for beamforming phased array
in FR2 has been an active research topic [11]. To address the concerns on the
DPD implementation in FR2, DPD architectures and efficient DPD training
model/algorithms have been intensively studies. Note that since one digital
path will be shared between some or all analog chains in the analog/hybrid
beamforming phased array, an architecture in which DPD linearization is
applied for a set of PAs has been proposed and then demonstrated to be able to
improve ACLR and EVM, e.g. [12, 13].
For multi-band DPD, as the beam steering for a multi-band FR2 system is likely
to be applied to each band separately before the signals are combined and fed
to a single PA, one example architecture could be that the signals will be
generated separately in different converters. Such architectures have been
investigated in FR1 bands [14] where separate signals were used to linearize a
dual-band signals in a dual-band PA.
In general, one can either deploy a common DPD for all bands or a dedicated
DPD for each band [15]. The former may have less demand on DPD architecture
but requires much higher bandwidth for DPD hardware as the captured, training
and correcting samples are wideband; since the correction is wide-band, band-
specific linearization may not be achievable as such. The latter has lower
demand on DPD hardware bandwidth and can achieve per-band linearization but
may require more complex DPD architectures and algorithms, i.e. to decompose
the captured multiband signals to single-band one and vice versa for the
corrections, as well as jointly optimize linearized coefficients for all
bands. In both architectures, a wider bandwidth feedback path is required to
deal with large signal bandwidth of FR2 band; traditionally the feedback
channel needs 3 to 5 times the signal bandwidth to collect nonlinear
information of PA. This can be a big burden for high-speed and high-precision
ADCs. Nevertheless, DPD training algorithms which minimize the demand on DPD
hardware bandwidth and BB resources have also been proposed, e.g. in [16, 17].
It should be highlighted that the implementation of phase shifters will not
significantly impact the DPD solutions as linearization are applied to signals
seen at the output of the PA, as mentioned in [18].
### 5.2.3 Phase shifter
Analog phase shifters in mmWave BS are used to control the phase of signals in
order to steer the beam. In some architectures, attenuators or variable-gain
amplifiers are also placed along with the phase shifter to control the gain of
beamformed signals to achieve desirable beamforming performance.
Considering phase shifter designs which are wideband it would prove difficult
to apply different phase shifts to different bands. Hence it is not possible
to independently steer beams to different directions in the different bands,
and it may even not be feasible to steer the beams in the same directions for
to 2 separate bands if the bands are sufficiently far apart in frequency that
the beamforming weights would need to be different for each band.
If variable true time delay based phase shifters, which add delay to time-
domain signals to create phase shift such as tapped delay line phase shifter,
are used, then it may be possible to steer the beams toward the same direction
for two different bands. This is because the frequency-dependent linear phase
response of the true time delay phase shifter can create different phase
shifts at different frequencies. However, true time delay phase shifts are
challenging to implement due to the required size to delivered acceptable
phase shift performance (e.g, phase shift resolution), while incurring high
insertion loss.
Phase shifters with a frequency-flat phase response, such as vector modulated
phase shifters may have cheaper implementational cost and be more feasible to
integrated into commercial BFICs. However, since only one phase shift value
can be controlled at a time instant, it may not be feasible to steer the beams
in the same direction for two different bands if the bands are sufficiently
far apart in frequency that the beamforming weights need to be different for
each band.
Examples of beam steering results when wide-band frequency-flat phase response
phase shifters and wideband phased array are used in a multiband transmitter
are shown below. The phase shifters only control the beam weights of the lower
frequency band. Two steering angles are considered, i.e. 0 and 20 degrees.
Figure 5.2.3-1 illustrates the beam patterns when the element separation for
lower band and upper band is 0.5λ and 0.6λ, respectively, which corresponds to
the case of, for example, the combination n258+n261. Figure 5.2.3-2 presents
the case when the operating bands are further apart, i.e. the element
separation for lower band and upper band is 0.35λ and 0.65λ, respectively,
which can be the case of combinations across different frequency groups. As
can be seen, except when UEs of different bands are at the boresight of the
array, otherwise the transmitter cannot steer the beam to multiple UEs
independently. Even if different-band UEs are located at same direction (but
not boresight), the beam for upper-band UEs is not pointed to its desired
direction and a larger frequency separation of the bands results in bigger
error of the steering angle.
{width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.470138888888889in"}{width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.470138888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1. Beam pattern of different band signals when using wideband
phase shifter and antenna array. Phase shifters apply beam weights for the
lower band. Array separation for lower band 0.5λ, and upper band 0.6 λ: (Left)
0-degree steering angle; (Right) 20-degree steering angle
{width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.470138888888889in"}{width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.470138888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.3-2. Beam pattern of different band signals when using wideband
phase shifter and antenna array. Phase shifters apply beam weights for the
lower band. Array separation for lower band 0.35λ, and upper band 0.65λ:
(Left) 0-degree steering angle; (Right) 20-degree steering angle.
Thus, it is not clear such a wide band phase shifter as shown in Figure
5.2.3-3 would be of use. Within the time frame of this SI it seems
commercially available multi-band frequency selective phase shifters that can
apply a different phase shift per band are unlikely to be available. However,
any specification should not preclude a potential future architecture based on
frequency dependent phase shifters. If and when frequency dependent phase
shifters become viable, it is possible that RAN4 requirements created in
Rel-18 would need re-visiting.
{width="5.645833333333333in" height="2.40625in"}
Figure 5.2.3-3. Example of multi-band phase shifter prior to a multi-band PA
In order to apply independent phase shift and hence independent steering to
each band, phase shifters need to be applied differently to each band. Using
technology available today it may be possible to use multiple single band
phase shifters to provide the beam steering to each band independently whilst
feeding into a multi-band PA shown in Figure 5.2.3-4, although this may have
some performance penalty.
Note that Figures 5.2.3-3 and 5.2.3-4 show example architectures for a multi-
band BS. Depending on the implementation, filter may or may not be placed
after the multi-band PAs.
{width="5.552083333333333in" height="2.40625in"}
Figure 5.2.3-4. Example of single band phase shifter prior to a multi-band PA
to steer each band separately
## 5.3 Wideband antenna architectures
### 5.3.1 General
Antenna arrays are resonant structures. The optimum radiating element size (a
dipole is nominally λ/2) and the array element separation are both dependent
on frequency. If an antenna is required to operate over a broad range of
frequencies it is difficult to maintain optimum element size and element
spacing over the whole range. The required percentage bandwidth of the multi-
band signal in Table 5.1-1 is therefore important when looking at the
feasibility of a broadband antenna.
From antenna design perspective, solutions covering multiple bands can be
achieved in three main ways: a single broadband design covering the entire
range of the bands (trades certain performance parameters), designing an
antenna with multiple resonances in the desired bands, or having separate
antenna designs each covering a band (lower percentage bandwidth
### 5.3.2 Single array bandwidth
It can be noted for comparison that there are FR1 multi-band fixed antenna
arrays covering 1710MHz to 2690MHz, with a percentage bandwidth of 44.5% (VSWR
of \50dB attenuation are achieved.
{width="3.305511811023622in" height="2.205511811023622in"}
Figure 5.3.5-2. Diplexer performance for 28+39GHz combination
The dimension of this diplexer is 4.0 mm x 1.8 mm or less in LTCC substrate,
and dielectric constant of this substrate is 6.4, Q value is 200\. Most of the
current base station supports dual polarization, so the required area to
implement a diplexer should be doubled and it becomes 4.0mm x 3.6mm. In case
of 28+39GHz combination, 0.5λ at the centre frequency is 4.51mm. So if antenna
element interval is 0.5λ or larger, it is possible to implement diplexer below
each antenna elements.
For other multi-band combinations such as 26+40GHz (n258, n259/n260) and
28+40GHz (n257/n261, n259/n262), the following examples are provided. Over
50dB attenuation is achieved for the all band combinations and their
performance impact is around 1dB.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.310416666666667in"}
Figure 5.3.5-3. Diplexer performance for 26+40GHz, 28+40GHz combinations
## 5.4 Other
In this section, a number of other considerations for FR2-1 wideband BS from
the feasibility point of view that are not considered in the preceding
sections are mentioned.
[Digital considerations]{.underline}
To support a large bandwidth, it is necessary to provide a high sampling rate
for ADC and DAC. For individual Frequency Band Groups (e.g. 24.5-29.5GHz,
n257+n258), the bandwidth to be supported may be more than 5GHz, and to cover
the full FR2-1 the bandwidth might be up to 24GHz. If linearization would be
seen later to be feasible for multiband BS, then DAC/ADC would need to support
for the feedback and correction, which poses another challenge to DAC/ADC.
Potentially only the in band spectrum could be generated by separate
converters which would reduce the requirements on individual converters.
In an implementation, the architecture, RF performance and power consumption
of the analogue/digital interface would be key considerations. The ADC and DAC
complexity and power consumption could be reduced by reducing the sampling
resolution, but this would impact TX factors such as EVM and emissions and RX
factors such as dynamic range and RX EVM. For this reason, care would need to
be taken that requirements on e.g. EVM, receiver dynamic range and
demodulation performance would be achievable.
In addition to the DAC and ADC, the large bandwidth and sampling rates would
lead to very high volumes of data to be moved within the radio architecture.
Data transport and interface architectures would need to support the very high
data volume. Reducing the data volume (e.g. by reducing the sampling
resolution) would lead to similar considerations as for ADC and DAC on meeting
requirements such as EVM, emissions, RX dynamic range and demodulation.
In addition to the interface bandwidth, the digital transport latency may also
impact radio near algorithms (such as DPD, CFR) and could impact the
performance of the transmitter and receiver. It is not clear whether the need
to support a much larger interface bandwidth could impact the interface
latency.
Digital filtering may be needed for meeting selectivity and blocking
requirements depending on the sensitivity and architecture. The large sampling
rates and bandwidth would increase the amount of computational power needed
for digital filtering, and potentially the achievable steepness of the
filters. This could impact the feasibility of meeting TX EVM and RX
selectivity, blocking and demodulation requirements.
[Analogue considerations]{.underline}
The possibilities for analogue filtering within an FR2-1 AAS array are
extremely limited. The filter in a typical single-band FR2 BS may not be
placed before the antenna. However, it could be the case of multi-band, due to
the multi-frequency signal going through the PA if the PA is highly
nonlinearity, or due to the architecture splitting multi-band signals. And
thus filter before the antenna may be needed.
Choosing where to place filter components is an important part of a multi-band
solution as it impacts the overall performance. For instance, if a filter
would need to be placed before the antenna, then there are other issues in
practice with insertion loss and power unbalancing due to non-identical filter
for each branch.
The regulatory requirements in the _inter RF gap_ and the linearity of the
transmitter will set the boundary for the analogue filtering. The feasibility
of analogue filtering may impact the ability to meet some regulatory emissions
requirements and out of band blocking, and if the filter has ripple also the
EVM may be impacted.
Depending on the array architecture, it may be necessary to split different
frequency components of the multi-band signal and route them to different
antenna elements, e.g. in architectures using diplexer. The splitting and
additional routing can have implications for TX power loss and RX sensitivity,
and the placement of components needs to be carefully considered. For
instance, placing the diplexer before the PA is preferred from a design loss
and power dissipation perspective. This is because the insertion loss of the
diplexer occurs at a lower power level and can be accommodated by a simple
increase in driver gain. Conversely, if the diplexer is placed after the PA,
the insertion loss of the diplexer directly reduces the power available to the
antenna array and leads to more thermal dissipation.
On the other hand, it is worth noting that if the power loss is significantly
different/uneven between antenna branches, then beamforming may be degraded,
and calibration may be required which may bring complexity to the
architecture. This may impact the feasibility of the multi-band solution,
although since TX power and RX sensitivity are subject to declarations it may
not impact the requirements definition. As shown in Clause 4.2.1 Option #4,
splitting and additional routing can be avoided by using a multi-band antenna,
such as a single input stacked patch design.
Dedicated PAs for the desired frequency ranges may be adopted from a design
loss and power dissipation perspective, as the narrower band designs will have
better efficiency and the thermal dissipation will be spread out over a larger
area.
# 6 Study on RF requirements
## 6.1 Definition of FR2 multi-band BS
The existing definitions of single-band RIB and _multi-band RIB_ for FR1
defined in TS 38.104 are shown as below:
**multi-band RIB:** _operating band_ specific RIB associated with a
transmitter or receiver that is characterized by the ability to process two or
more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously, where at least
one carrier is configured at a different _operating band_ than the other
carrier(s) and where this different _operating band_ is not a _sub-band_ or
_superseding-band_ of another supported _operating band._
**single-band RIB:** _operating band_ specific RIB supporting operation either
in a single _operating band_ only, or in multiple _operating bands_ but does
not meet the conditions for a _multi-band RIB_.
From definition of _multi-band RIB_ for FR1, the transmitter or receiver of
_multi-band RIB_ dependent BS have the capability to process two or more
carriers from the different bands in common active RF components
simultaneously. For FR2-1, the existing _multi-band RIB_ definition for FR1
can be reused.
As the same with FR1, the existing explanations on BS capable of supporting
operation in multiple operating bands in 38.104 [2] for FR1 are sufficient.
The same descriptions can be applied to FR2-1, i.e.
_\- BS type 2-O_ may be capable of supporting operation in multiple _operating
bands_ with one of the following implementations at the _radiated interface
boundary_ :
\- All RIBs are single-band RIBs.
\- All RIBs are multi-band RIBs.
\- A combination of single-band RIBs and multi-band RIBs provides support of
the BS type 2-O capability of operation in multiple operating bands.
## 6.2 Re-using FR1 multi-band methods
On requirements of FR2-1 multi-band BS, the followings are agreed:
\- Existing definitions of _Inter RF Bandwidth gap_ and Base Station RF
Bandwidth for FR1 multi-band operation can be reused for FR2-1 multi-band
operation.
\- The existing method for requirement for FR1 multi-band operation can be
reused for that for FR2-1 multi-band operation.
The impacts on requirements of FR2-1 multi-band BS in TS 38.104 [2] are
summarized in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: Impacts on requirements of FR2-1 multi-band BS in TS 38.104
OTA Clause Requirement Impacts
* * *
9.5.2 Transmitter OFF power Existing _BS type 2-O_ requirements can be
applied. 9.7.3.3 ACLR Specify ACLR and CACLR requirements inside the _Inter RF
Bandwidth gap f_ or a _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_. 9.7.4.3 OBUE Specify
cumulative OBUE limits the _Inter RF Bandwidth gap_ for a _BS type 2-O_
_multi-band RIB_. 9.7.5.3 Transmitter spurious emissions Apply _BS type 2-O_
requirements with the same _BS type 1-O_ _multi-band RIB_ exceptions to _BS
type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_. 9.8.2 Transmitter intermodulation No transmitter
intermodulation requirement for _BS type 2-O_. 10.5.1.3 ACS Specify ACS
requirements the _Inter RF Bandwidth gap_ for a _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band
RIB_. 10.5.2.3 In-band blocking Specify in-band blocking requirements the
_Inter RF Bandwidth gap_ for a _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_. 10.6.3 Out-of-
band blocking Apply _BS type 2-O_ requirements with the same _BS type 1-O_
_multi-band RIB_ exceptions to _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_. 10.7.3 Receiver
spurious emissions Apply _BS type 2-O_ requirements with the same _BS type
1-O_ _multi-band RIB_ exceptions to _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_. 10.8.3
Receiver Intermodulation Specify receiver intermodulation requirements the
_Inter RF Bandwidth gap_ for a _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_.
## 6.3 Re-using FR1 exceptions
On requirement exceptions of FR2-1 multi-band BS, the followings are agreed:
\- The FR1 exceptions for spurious emissions, RX spurious emissions and out of
band blocking could be applied in FR2-1, as well as all other multi-band
considerations made for FR1 for transmit ON/OFF power, operating band unwanted
emissions, transmitter/receiver intermodulation, in-band selectivity and
blocking.
Table 6.3-1: Impacts on requirement exceptions of FR2-1 multi-band BS in TS
38.104
OTA Clause Requirement Impacts
* * *
9.7.5.3 Transmitter spurious emissions Apply the same _BS type 1-O_ _multi-
band RIB_ exceptions to _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_. 10.6.3 Out-of-band
blocking Apply the same _BS type 1-O_ _multi-band RIB_ exceptions to _BS type
2-O_ _multi-band RIB_. 10.7.3 Receiver spurious emissions Apply the same _BS
type 1-O_ _multi-band RIB_ exceptions to _BS type 2-O_ _multi-band RIB_.
## 6.4 FR2-1 specific multi-band requirements
FR2-1 specific multi-band requirements refer to requirements specific to FR2-1
compared to those currently applied to FR1. It was agreed that this study
focuses on the _multi-band RIB_ within the same frequency group meanwhile the
study on _multi-band RIB_ across different frequency groups not precluded.
With this agreement, together with the agreements on re-using FR1 multi-band
methods and exceptions, there is currently no need for new FR2-1 specific
multi-band requirements as the current FR1 multi-band methods and exceptions
can be applied to FR2-1 and are sufficient for FR2-1 _multi-band RIB_ for all
band combinations within the same frequency group. For _multi-band RIB_ for
band combinations across different frequency groups, the current FR1 multi-
band methods and exceptions can also be applied, while FR2-1 specific multi-
band requirements may be considered in the future taking into account the
implementation challenges.
# 7 Summary and further work
The feasibility study for the essential RF components and sub-systems for an
FR2-1 multi-band system were carried out and found that:
\- Multi-band implementations with percentage BW of up to 19.5% are feasible.
\- Multi-band implementations with greater percentage BW's may be feasible in
the future.
Within these percentage BWs some design blocks such as the PA, and RF front
end components are capable of true multi-band performance, other blocks and
specifically the phase shifters used for beam forming the different bands need
to be applied to separate band specific solutions. There are currently no
proposed solutions to enable a wide band beam former to steer beams for
different bands in different directions.
Antennas and antenna arrays are limited to certain maximum percentage BW's
however MB solutions using multiple antenna arrays have been investigated and
solutions within the agreed percentage BW's above have been identified.
Other considerations, i.e. on a need of DPD and complications of digital and
analogue designs for a wideband / multiband BS are also analysed.
Considering the wide range of FR2-1 operating bands and potential combinations
FR2-1 operating bands have been considered within frequency groups with
limited percentage BW's as shown in table 5.1-1 and feasibility analysed
within these groups. However, whilst practical limits exist which may limit
multi-band solutions to be within these groups no restrictions need to be used
in the technical specification and as such frequency groups do not need to be
defined with the updates of the technical specifications. On the other hand,
as highlighted in clause 6.2 study of solutions across frequency groups may be
further studied and the use of additional multi-band requirements may be
considered in the future for percentage BW's greater than 19.5%.
For updating the technical specifications, FR2-1 multi-band requirements are
to be added to the existing NR 3GPP TS 38.104 [2]and 3GPP TS 38.141-2 [30]
technical specifications, using the same approach as FR1 multi-band as
described in clause 6. The existing MB RIB definition as well as the
explanations on BS capable of supporting operation in multiple operating bands
with different implementations at the RIB in 38.104 [2] for FR1 can also apply
to FR2-1.
#