# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyses the **regulatory requirements (e.g. accuracy,
privacy, reliability, latency) in terms of UE location service for a set of
use cases/services (i.e. emergency call, lawful intercept, public warning,
charging/billing). It identifies the possible need for network-verified UE
location specification support in Rel-18.**
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.737: \"Study on architecture aspects for using satellite access
in 5G (Release 17)\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.926: \"Guidelines for Extraterritorial 5G Systems; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP S3i200056: \"Response LS on the \"LS OUT on Location of UEs and
associated key issues\"\"(Contact: Rogers).
[5] 3GPP TR 22.872: Study on positioning use cases; Stage 1 (Release 16).
[6] Standardisation Request for E112 (as regards hand-held mobile phones in
support of Directive 2014/53/EU).
[7] \"Indoor Location Accuracy Benchmarks\", retrieved from
https://www.fcc.gov/public-safety-and-homeland-security/policy-and-licensing-
division/911-services/general/location-accuracy-indoor-benchmarks on
20.10.2020.
[8] 3GPP S3i210282 \"Reply LS on UE location aspects in NTN\" (contact =
Tencastle)
[9] R2-2101150 Summary of [Post112-e][115][NTN] the Email Discussion on LCS
for NTN, Fraunhofer IIS, Fraunhofer HHI.
[10] ETSI TS 103 625: \"Transporting Handset Location to PSAPs for Emergency
Calls - Advanced Mobile Location\".
[11] Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
11 December 2018 establishing the European Electronic Communications Code
(Recast) (See Official Journal of the European Union, Volume 61, 17th December
2018), https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?qid=1568104145936&uri=CELEX:32018L1972.
[12] Official Journal C 329, 04/11/1996 p. 0001 - 0006 Council Resolution of
17 January 1995 on the lawful interception of telecommunications.
[13] REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of
27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) .
[14] 3GPP \"SID on Study on expanded and improved NR positioning\", RP-213588
[15] 3GPP TS 38.300 \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall description; Stage-2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.261 \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
EMS Emergency Services
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite Systems
GSO Geo Synchronous Orbit
HAPS High Altitude Platform System
LI Lawful Intercept
NAS Non Access Stratum
NGSO Non Geo Synchronous Orbit
NNSF NAS Node Selection Function
NTN Non-Terrestrial Network
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PWS Public Warning System
RAT Radio Access Technology
SMS Short Message Service
TN Terrestrial network
UE User Equipment
# 4 Use cases
## 4.1 Background from Rel-17 Discussions
When a UE attaches to the mobile network, the RAN selects the appropriate core
network for the UE taking into account, among other things (TS 38.300 [15]):
\- UE identifiers;
\- UE\'s selected PLMN;
\- UE location information (including the serving cell as known to the serving
RAN node).
With NTN it is possible to deploy very large cells over large portions of a
continent (possibly covering different countries), with the different core
networks for the various countries connected to the same NTN RAN (MOCN network
sharing scenario). In such a scenario, it may not always be possible to
correctly determine the appropriate core network for a connecting UE,
especially close to country borders, because the serving cell information may
not be granular enough.
Furthermore, a malicious UE might \"fake\" its selected PLMN in order to
attempt connecting to a different core network. Upon such an attempt the AMF
will disconnect the UE and inform the RAN node via an appropriate NGAP cause
value, so the RAN can take appropriate action on subsequent attempts by the
same UE.
The UE may send GNSS measurements to the RAN over RRC, but this has at least
the following drawbacks:
\- In principle, just as a malicious UE could fake its selected PLMN, it could
also fake its GNSS measurements;
\- Sending GNSS measurements over RRC before AS security is set up raises
security and privacy issues.
Because of the above, relying only on signalling GNSS measurements over RRC is
not considered a viable solution to this issue.
As recommended in SA3 LS to RAN2 (R2-2204458) the location information is sent
after NAS security is established. Even after NAS security establishment, user
consent for obtaining UE location information may also be required depending
on regional regulation and policy.
The RAN can also request radio measurements (intra-RAT neighbours, inter-RAT
neighbours, WLAN, etc.) from the UE; these may be used to drive NNSF and to
learn from the environment.
Some further observations:
a) At least some of the information the UE supplies to the network will have
to be considered as trusted, to avoid extreme conclusions (at least RRC
measurements cannot be faked);
b) Core networks connecting to the same shared RAN will always require some
degree of common coordination / configuration: this is typically the case for
network sharing (especially MOCN). For NTN, this may include e.g. specific
timer settings/behaviour for UE connection attempts;
c) Due to mere traffic load considerations, it may not be desirable to cover
whole portions of a continent, including multiple countries, with a single
cell. Therefore, in real deployments the served cell information may typically
be more granular than in the extreme case envisaged so far.
The above has been deemed sufficient to mitigate the issue in Rel-17.
## 4.2 NTN vs. Terrestrial Regulatory Requirements
A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to determine a UE\'s location
in order to provide service (e.g. route traffic, support emergency calls) in
accordance with the governing national or regional regulatory requirements
applicable to that UE. (Sec. 6.3.2.3 of TS 22.261 [16]).
Because of this, even when providing services over entire continents with NTN,
there is no \"globally harmonized\" set of requirements that overrules local
ones. This is also valid for UE location information. In this respect, there
is no difference between NTN and terrestrial networks.
Because of the above, for NTN the same required granularity for UE location
information estimated via GNSS should be considered as for terrestrial
networks.
## 4.3 Regulatory support of services in NTN
Network operators of 3GPP defined non-terrestrial network, have to know
reliably the location information of a UE attached to the network in order to
select the appropriate core network. Once the appropriate core network has
been selected for a UE, it is possible to support some services subject to
national regulations or other operational constraints.
In TR 23.737 [2], the list of such services has been identified in key issue
#10:
\- Public Warning System (PWS)
\- Lawful interception (LI)
\- Emergency services (EMS)
\- Charging and Tariff notifications
In TR 22. 926 [3], it has been identified that \"_To support regulated
services and features (e.g. Public Warning System, Charging and Billing,
Emergency calls, Lawful Intercept, Data Retention Policy in cross-border
scenarios and international regions, Network access), 3GPP networks should
have the capability to locate each UE in a reliable manner and determine the
policy that applies to their operation depending on their location and/or
context._ \"
Furthermore, in [4], it is pointed out that \"_any solution addressing
extraterritorial (e.g. international maritime zone and aeronautical) use cases
should provide means to notify the HPLMN on roaming in and out of those areas,
including the cases when the serving PLMN has not changed._ \"
Relying only on the GNSS based location information reported by the UE is not
considered reliable by SA3-LI [4].
The UE reported location information (for example determined with its GNSS
receiver), could be erroneous due to intentional (e.g. maliciously tampering
by user or by 3rd party) or unintentional (e.g. interference) causes, hence it
cannot be considered trusted by network operators.
Already 3GPP has defined a network based functionality to verify the reported
UE location with the identifier of the serving cell. However, radio cells in
non-terrestrial networks, may be larger than the ones of terrestrial networks
and may cover borders between two or more countries. Therefore, such Cell Id
information may not be sufficient to discriminate the country in which the UE
is located.
It is expected that solutions combining both UE reported GNSS information and
network based information for verification of UE location can improve the
reliability of core network selection in non-terrestrial networks. This is
important for
\- Services subject to national regulations or other operational constraints.
(e.g. Public Warning System (PWS), Lawful interception (LI), Emergency
services (EMS), Charging and Tariff notifications).
\- Cases where the UE reported location information (for example determined
with its GNSS receiver), could be erroneous due to intentional (e.g.
maliciously tampering by user or by 3rd party) or unintentional (e.g.
interference) causes.
\- NTN radio cells larger than terrestrial network radio cells and possibly
covering borders between two or more countries.
In order to define an appropriate network based solution to verify UE
location, it is necessary to determine requirements for the verification
accuracy. Note that these requirements should not be assumed to be the same as
the regulatory requirements applicable to the UE location in terms of
Accuracy, Reliability (related to law enforcement and liability), Latency and
Privacy as identified in Annex A.
As identified in annex A.2, SA3-LI recommends in S3i200056 [4] that \"_The
logical location shall unambiguously map to the geographical area of the UE
physical location. Granularity of such geographical areas needs to be able to
provide network location accuracy comparable with terrestrial networks._ \"
In terrestrial networks, verification is based on Cell Id and hence, the
targeted granularity is related to cell size. Similar granularity should be
considered for NTN. Terrestrial macro cell size is assumed to be up to 5-10 km
diameter.
## 4.4 LCS and NTN
Most UE positioning functionality is typically UE-associated, i.e., it assumes
that a UE context is present for the UE being positioned. This means that the
UE itself has already completed the initial access procedures. Because of
this, all observations and mitigations already discussed in Rel-17 are still
relevant and applicable.
# 5 Recommendations
In this study, we have identified the need to define a network based solution
which aims at verifying the reported UE location information.
The verification should be performed independently from the location
information reported by UE.
The UE location information for the study is considered verified if the
reported UE location is consistent with the network based assessment to within
5-10 km (similar to terrestrial network macro cell size), enabling country
discrimination and selection of an appropriate core network in order to
support all the regulatory services (i.e. emergency call, lawful intercept,
public warning, charging/billing).
The solution should not impact significantly the latency of the targeted
services nor infringe privacy requirements that apply to the UE location.
The study in [RAN2,RAN1,RAN3], which will study and evaluate solutions for the
network to verify UE reported location information, shall consider the
following aspects:
\- The scenario of single satellite (or HAPS) in view by the UE at a time is
considered with higher priority.
\- Multiple satellite (or HAPS) in view by the UE may be considered if time
allows
\- Assume that the UE is attached to a network (so that its context has been
set up in the network) for the purpose of positioning
\- Different solutions or positioning methods for NGSO, GSO or HAPS are not
precluded
\- When considering solutions based on positioning methods, existing 3GPP
defined RAT dependent positioning methods shall be considered as baseline.
Other methods are not precluded.
\- Solutions using existing NG-RAN architecture and procedures shall be
considered
###### ## Annex A (informative): Requirements for UE location verification
## A.1 Emergency calls
It refers to a telephone request or text message request for emergency
services (e.g. police, fire departments, or other first responders) which
requires immediate action to prevent loss of life, reduce bodily injury,
prevent or reduce loss of property and respond to other emergency situations
determined by local policy.
_[Accuracy]{.underline}_
Accuracy requirements for emergency calls have been identified in TR 22.872
[5], where the position accuracy is required to be [50m Horizontal, 3m
Vertical] which are the most demanding of the regulated services in terms of
accuracy requirements. This is in line with the requirements of two major
regulatory bodies and summarized as follows:
Table A.1-1: Accuracy requirements for emergency calls
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Regulatory body | Accuracy requirements | +=================+===================================================+ | EC [6] | \"capability to achieve a horizontal position | | | error of maximum 5 metres in open sky conditions | | | [ ]{.underline} and maximum 25 metres in urban | | | canyon conditions with a confidence level of 95 % | | | (2s coverage factor), where open sky conditions | | | and urban canyon conditions are as defined, | | | respectively, in points 2.1.8 (Figure 1) and | | | 2.2.4.2 (Figure 3) of Annex VI to Delegated | | | Regulation (EU) 2017/793\" | | | | | | The European directive is based on an assumption | | | of use of GNSS as positioning technology as | | | specified in ETSI TS 103 625 [10]. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | FCC [7] | In 2020, the FCC specifies a 50-meter horizontal | | | accuracy or provide a dispatchable location for | | | 70 percent of all wireless 911 calls, which | | | increases to 80 percent of all calls in 2021. | | | | | | From 2021 onwards, an additional requirement to | | | achieve an accuracy with ±3m is applies in | | | addition. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
_[Reliability]{.underline}_
In this case, the mobile network operator may be liable for the provision of a
\"reliable\" UE location (either network verified or network provided) that
will be the basis to the organisation of personal assistance or rescue.
_[Latency]{.underline}_
The delay to determine the UE location should be minimised to ensure timely
assistance or rescue,
While a typical call set-up is less than a second, the delay for UE location
determination should not impact significantly this communication set-up time.
## A.2 Lawful intercept (LI)
As a legally sanctioned official access to private communications, Lawful
Interception (LI) is a security process in which a service provider or network
operator collects and provides law enforcement officials with intercepted
communications of private individuals or organizations.
LI implementation is required for example by the European Council Resolution
from 1995 [12] which allows for LI to prevent crime, including fraud and
terrorism.
_[Accuracy]{.underline}_
For lawful intercept, SA3-LI recommends in [4] that \"_The logical location
shall unambiguously map to the geographical area of the UE physical location.
Granularity of such geographical areas needs to be able to provide network
location accuracy comparable with terrestrial networks._ \"
Given that for such use cases, the location accuracy in terrestrial networks
is mostly based on cell ID, it directly relates to the typical cell size.
Hence a macro cell size granularity (accepted granularity by SA3-LI) should be
sufficient to detect country border crossings.
_[Reliability]{.underline}_
In this case, Law enforcement applies, and therefore the mobile network
operator shall be able to provide a \"reliable\" UE location (either network
verified or network provided).
In S3i210282 [8], it is noted that \"_any method which relies solely on UE-
generated location information is unlikely to be considered reliable for
network selection purposes. Therefore, a method such as GNSS/A-GNSS cannot be
considered as reliable or trusted unless the information provided by the UE
can be verified by the network._ \"
_[Latency]{.underline}_
No regulatory requirement have been identified for this. Despite this, NTN
location determination should not significantly impact the LI service as
provided by an TN network.
## A.3 Public warning Service (PWS)
PWS is usually realised (based on country regulator rules) by CellBroadcast,
which provides a direct selectivity by cellID (sends the message to all
devices registered in a base station) but can reach sector accuracy (each of
the antenna emitters in the same cellID) to provide geographical accuracy.
E.g. to alert half of the city that is getting an imminent flood bout not the
other half which is on a higher positions.
Alternatively Location-Based SMS may be used, and same selectivity shall be
employed. That will rely on reliable location, and at least cellID is expected
to be necessary.
In its Directive (EU) 2018/1972 [11], the European Union states in (293) that
\"_Diverging national law has developed in relation to the transmission by
electronic communications services of public warnings regarding imminent or
developing major emergencies and disasters. In order to approximate law in
that area, this Directive should therefore provide that, when public warning
systems are in place, public warnings should be transmitted by providers of
mobile number-based interpersonal communication services to all end-users
concerned. The end-users concerned should be considered to be those who are
located in the geographic areas potentially being affected by imminent or
developing major emergencies and disasters during the warning period, as
determined by the competent authorities._ \"
_[Accuracy]{.underline}_
One can assume that the service should be provided over the targeted area with
an equivalent granularity as obtained in terrestrial networks that is cell
size related. Hence a macro cell size granularity should be sufficient.
_[Reliability]{.underline}_
There are no explicit regulatory requirement for this. Despite this, NTN
location determination should follow same reliability requirements as the PWS
systems.
_[Latency]{.underline}_
No regulatory requirement have been identified for this. Despite this, NTN
location determination should not impact significantly the PWS service as
provided by an TN network.
## A.4 Charging and Tariff notifications
Tariff refer to the set of parameters defining the applied charge for the use
of a particular bearer /session / service.
_[Accuracy]{.underline}_
As per Public warning service, knowing the context of the UE (country or
aeronautical/maritime) is sufficient for charging and tariff notifications.
One can assume that the accuracy of the UE location service should be similar
to the one in typical terrestrial mobile networks that is cell size related.
Hence a macro cell size granularity should be sufficient.
_[Reliability]{.underline}_
It is the responsibility of the Mobile network operator to ensure via reliable
methods that the UE is effectively in a given context for appropriate
charging/billing.
_[Latency]{.underline}_
No regulatory requirement have been identified for this. Despite this, NTN
location determination should not significantly impact the charging/tariff
service as provided by an TN network.
## A.5 All regulated services
_[Privacy]{.underline}_
In [13], it is stated in article (71) that \"_The data subject should have the
right not to be subject to a decision, which may include a measure, evaluating
personal aspects relating to him or her which is based solely on automated
processing and which produces legal effects concerning him or her or similarly
significantly affects him or her, such as automatic refusal of an online
credit application or e-recruiting practices without any human intervention.
Such processing includes \'profiling\' that consists of any form of automated
processing of personal data evaluating the personal aspects relating to a
natural person, in particular to analyse or predict aspects concerning the
data subject\'s performance at work, economic situation, health, personal
preferences or interests, reliability or behaviour, location or movements,
where it produces legal effects concerning him or her or similarly
significantly affects him or her._ \"
Therefore the UE location shall be protected to preserve the privacy of the
users.
In [13], it is further stated in article (71) that \"_However, decision-making
based on such processing, including profiling, should be allowed where
expressly authorised by Union or Member State law to which the controller is
subject, including for fraud and tax-evasion monitoring and prevention
purposes conducted in accordance with the regulations, standards and
recommendations of Union institutions or national oversight bodies and to
ensure the security and reliability of a service provided by the controller,
or necessary for the entering or performance of a contract between the data
subject and a controller, or when the data subject has given his or her
explicit consent._ \"
Therefore, the user location can be processed if it is to comply with
regulations for example in order to provide safety to the citizen (emergency
calls, public warning services), to prevent crimes (Lawful intercept) or
frauds (Charging and Tariff notifications).
#