# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of APT 600 MHz NR
band.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
> \- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
> edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
>
> \- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
>
> \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of
> a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
> reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
> same Release as the present document_.
>
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] ETSI EN 300 422-1 (V1.4.2) (2011-08): \"Electromagnetic compatibility
> and Radio spectrum Matters (ERM); Wireless microphones in the 25 MHz to 3
> GHz frequency range; Part 1: Technical characteristics and methods of
> measurement\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TR 36 820, \"LTE for 700 MHz digital dividend\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TR 36 755, \"US 600 Mhz band for LTE\".
>
> [7] RP 221778, WID on APT 600 MHz band.
>
> [8] 3GPP TR 38 860, \"Study on Extended 600 MHz NR band\".
>
> [9] R4-2215942, \"Asymmetric bandwidths for APT 600 MHz\", Ericsson.
>
> [10] R4-2220016, \"TP for TR 38.892: n105 compatibility with legacy n71
> UEs\", T-Mobile USA.
>
> [11] R4-2300031, \"Text Proposals for section 6 of TR 38 892\", Spark NZ,
> Nokia.
>
> [12] R4-2302457, \"TP to TR 38.892: n71 and n105 compatibility (section
> 6)\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
>
> [13] R4-2302708, \"TP for TR 38.892: Compatibility with Band 71/n71\",
> Qualcomm Incorporated.
>
> [14] RP-223265, \"Revised WID on APT 600 MHz NR band\", ZTE.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
> _BW_ Bandwidth
>
> _∆f_ Separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal -3dB
> point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
>
> _∆f~max~_ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
>
> _F~DL_low~_ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
>
> _F~DL_high~_ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
>
> _F~UL_low~_ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
>
> _F~UL_high~_ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
>
> _f_offset_ Separation between the channel edge frequency and the centre of
> the measuring filter
>
> _f_offset~max~_ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the
> requirement
>
> _N~DL~_ Downlink EARFCN
>
> _N~Offs-DL~_ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
>
> _N~Offs-UL~_ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
>
> _N~UL~_ Uplink EARFCN
>
> _P~REFSENS~_ Reference Sensitivity power level
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
>
> BS Base Station
>
> CBRS Citizens Broadband Radio Service
>
> CIM Counter-InterModulation
>
> CW Continuous Wave
>
> DL Downlink
>
> DTV Digital Television
>
> EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
>
> eCFR electronic Code of Federal Regulation
>
> EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
>
> ERP Effective Radiated Power
>
> ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
>
> E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
>
> FCC Federal Communications Commission
>
> FDD Frequency Division Duplex
>
> HAAT Height Above Average Terrain
>
> LA Local Area
>
> LO Local Oscillator
>
> MOP Maximum Output Power
>
> MR Medium Range
>
> MSR Multi-Standard Radio
>
> NF Noise Figure
>
> NRAO National Radio Astronomy Observatory
>
> NSF National Science Foundation
>
> PA Power Amplifier
>
> PRB Physical Resource Block
>
> RAS Radio Astronomy Service
>
> REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
>
> RF Radio Frequency
>
> RX Receiver
>
> SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
>
> TX Transmitter
>
> UE User Equipment
>
> UHF Ultra High Frequency
>
> UL Uplink
>
> UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
>
> UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
>
> VLBA Very Long Baseline Array
>
> WA Wide Area
>
> WMTS Wireless Medical Telemetry Service
# 4 Background
The text in this section is largely from the WID [7], [14]
**The 470-694 MHz frequency range is allocated to the broadcasting service and
mobile service on a co-primary basis in ITU Region 3.** The frequency band
470-698 MHz, or parts thereof, was identified by WRC-15 in 7 countries in
Region 3 through new footnote No. **5.296A** for use by those administrations
as listed wishing to implement terrestrial IMT systems. In addition, there is
interest from other significant markets to do the same. Elsewhere, USA, Mexico
and several other countries in ITU Region 2 also identified this band for IMT
through footnotes **5.295** and **5.308A**. It is noted that _resolves 2_ of
revised Resolution **224 (Rev.WRC-19)** to encourage administrations to take
into account results of the existing relevant ITU Radio communication Sector
studies, when implementing IMT applications/systems in the frequency bands
694-862 MHz in Region 1, in the frequency band 470-806 MHz in Region 2, in the
frequency band 790-862 MHz in Region 3, in the frequency band 470-698 MHz, or
portions thereof, for those administrations mentioned in No. **5.296A** , and
in the frequency band 698‑790 MHz, or portions thereof, for those
administrations mentioned in No. **5.313A**.
**Spectrum below 1 GHz is expectedly well suited for mobile broadband
applications. In particular, the unique propagation characteristics of the
bands below 1 GHz allow for wider area coverage, which in turn requires fewer
infrastructures and facilitates service delivery to rural or sparsely
populated areas. In this regard, the 700MHz ecosystem is growing swiftly:
there are over 34 commercial networks deployments. (see
https://gsacom.com/paper/gsa-apt700-global-status-regulatory-deployments-
devices/).The APT700 band plan coming out from Region 3 played a huge role in
its success globally. Outside of APAC, countries in Region 2 have adopted or
plan to adopt the APT700 band plan (3GPP band 28) for LTE system deployments.
The lower duplexer of APT700 plan has also been adopted for Region 1 since the
conclusion of WRC-15.**
**As the utilisation of the 700MHz spectrum increases over time, it is
desirable to look at additional spectrum that could be considered as a
companion besides 3GPP Band 28. Therefore, the use of parts of the 600MHz band
for the mobile broadband service would provide a vital means of delivering
high quality, wide area broadband services including in rural areas and deep
inside buildings.** The timely availability of frequency arrangements is
essential for the development of IMT specifications and standards and the
early consideration by Administrations in the footnotes referred to above of
suitable frequency arrangements.
**The APT region is very diverse and consists of highly developed and
developing countries and some with extremely large and rural population base.
The sub 1 GHz bands is well suited for the later.**
During the last year or so, 3GPP RAN 4 has completed a study item on the
feasibility of various duplex filter options for use in this band. The results
of this study are documented in TR 38.860 [8] This study was sent to the AWG
in an LS RP-212629 in Sep 2021 with a request to provide guidance on a
preferred band plan and information on regulatory aspects for the normative
work to begin.
The AWG 28 meeting has considered the request of the 3GPP and has provided a
response to this LS. In this response the LS has indicated a preference for
option B1 (full band)- seer Fig 4-1 below, and has also requested for the work
to begin immediately with a view to completion by Dec 2022. Additionally, the
answers to the regulatory questions sought by the 3GPP have now been provided
via a reply LS RP 221045.
To facilitate the development of additional spectrum in the APT region it is
proposed to develop the following band option:
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="1.8604166666666666in"}
Figure 4-1: Proposed band option.
# 5 Frequency band arrangement
## 5.1 Operating band, channel bandwidth and channel arrangement
NR band APT600 is designed to operate in the operating band defined in Table
5.1-1.
**Table 5.1-1: NR operating band for APT600 band**
* * *
**Operating Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band\** Downlink (DL) operating
band\ **Duplex Mode**  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit**UE receive**
* * *
                       **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**   **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
n105 663 MHz -- 703 MHz 612 MHz -- 652 MHz FDD
* * *
The requirements in the TR apply to the combination of channel bandwidths, SCS
and operating bands shown in Table 5.1-2.
**Table 5.1-2: Channel bandwidth and SCS parameters for APT600 band**
**SCS (kHz)** **_channel bandwidth_ (MHz)**
* * *
15 5 10 15 20 25^3^ 30^3^ 35^3^ 30 10 15 20 25^3^ 30^3^ 35^3^ NOTE 3: This UE
channel bandwidth is applicable only to downlink.
The channel raster of APT600 band is 100 kHz based (the same as band 71/n71).
The applicable NR-ARFCN entries for band n105 are defined in Table 5.1-3.
**Table 5.1-3: Applicable NR-ARFCN for APT600 band**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **NR |** ΔF~Raster~**|** Uplink**|** Downlink**| |_operating | | | | | band_** | **(kHz)** | **range of |** range of | | | | N~REF~**| N~REF~** | | | | | | | | | **(First -- |**(First -- | | | | \ | \ | | | | -- Last)**| -- Last)** | +================+================+================+================+ | n105 | 100 | 132600 -- | 122400 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 140600 | 130400 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The synchronization raster for APT600 band is give in Table 5.1-4.
**Table 5.1-4: Applicable SS raster entries for APT600 band**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **NR |** SS Block | **SS Block |** Range of | | _operating | SCS_ _| pattern\ | GSCN_ _| | band_**| | (NOTE 1)** | | | | | | **(First -- | | | | | \  | | | | | -- Last)** | +================+================+================+================+ | n105 | 15 kHz | Case A | 1535 -- \ | | | | | -- 1624 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.2 Duplex spacing
The default TX channel (carrier centre frequency) to RX channel (carrier
centre frequency) separation (default duplex spacing) for NR band n105 as
given by **Table 5.1-1: NR operating band for APT600 band is 51 MHz as defined
in Table 5.2-1.**
**Table 5.2-1: UE TX-RX frequency separation for APT600 band**
* * *
**NR Operating Band** **TX -- RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation**
n105 -51 MHz
* * *
# 6 Compatibility with B71/n71
Band n71 was introduced for Region 2 during Rel-15 back in 2017, under the
LTE600_US work item [6]. UEs supporting operating band n71 are already on the
market.
Even if it was not the objective of the APT600 band introduction,
consideration of band n71 eco-system reuse was recognized during the
discussion to be beneficial from both market, and international UE roaming
point of view.
The main difference among band n105 and band n71 is in their frequency
arrangement, where duplex spacing of the n105 is 5 MHz larger as compared to
band n71, with its DL starting as 612 MHz (compared to 617 MHz for band n71),
as detailed in Table 6-1.
The band plan for Band n105 shares a similar frequency range with that of the
existing Band 71/n71, but differs in two important aspects. The first
difference is Band n105 enables an additional 2x5 MHz of spectrum for a total
of 2x40 MHz whereas Band 71/n71 is only specified for 2x35 MHz. The second
difference is that the default Tx-Rx separation between uplink and downlink
frequency blocks within Band n105 is 51 MHz while it is 46 MHz for Band
71/n71.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="1.8125in"}
Figure 6-1: Band n71 and Band n105 differ in passband bandwidth and Tx-Rx
separation.
Table 6-1: Comparison of n71 and n105 frequency arrangement
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **NR |** Uplink (UL) | **Downlink |** Duplex | | _operating |_ operating | (DL) | mode**| | band** _| band_ \ | _operating | | | | BS receive / | band_ \ | | | | UE transmit**| BS transmit / | | | | | UE receive** | | | | **F~UL,low~ -- | | | | | F~UL,high~** | **F~DL,low~ -- | | | | | F~DL,high~** | | +================+================+================+================+ | n71 | 663 MHz -- 698 | 617 MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | n105 | 663 MHz -- 703 | 612 MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Studies have been conducted to explore the possibility of enabling
compatibility between Band n105 and Band 71/n71. Specifically, the feasibility
and modifications needed to enable existing Band 71/n71 UE's to operate in a
network intended for Band n105 was studied. This would be advantageous before
Band n105 devices are widely available. In the longer term, it is expected
that devices would support both Band n71 and Band n105 [13].
One scheme described in [9] proposed to mandate the support of asymmetric
UL/DL bandwidths for the Band n105 UE using the same asymmetric bandwidth
combination set mandated for band n71 (BCS set 0). A variable duplex was
claimed to be a byproduct of the support for asymmetric UL/DL bandwidths since
the narrower UL channel could be placed arbitrarily within a frequency range
where the fullband UL channel would have resided for a symmetric UL/DL
configuration. Not all companies agreed with this interpretation and also
observed UE requirements are not tested for variable duplex by virtue of
asymmetric channel bandwidth. One example of a configuration is shown below
with four 10 MHz symmetric operator blocks. The DL channel bandwidth
configured by the BS is wider than the DL operator block. In order to fully
allocate all channels within the band for different operators , PRB blanking
would need to be used at the network side with active PRBs strictly within the
DL operator block aligning to the Band n105 spectrum allocation. This may
imply degraded selectivity for UEs and may be also imply coordination between
neighboring networks and potential interference across networks if not
properly coordinated. The edge spectrum blocks are unusable by Band n71 UE's
since they are outside of the range of Band n71 and therefore outside of the
Tx and Rx filter passband for the UE. These blocks would only be accessible to
Band n105 UE's.
{width="3.1180555555555554in" height="2.4527449693788275in"}
Figure 6-2: An example of one variable duplex scheme with PRB blanking
Another scheme described in [1] proposes to use different configurations
depending on whether the channel is located at the bottom, middle, or upper
part of Band n105. For channels in the lower part of the band, n71 devices
would be configured for symmetric UL and DL using 46 MHz duplex. There is 2x5
MHz blocks which are not accessible to these n71 devices, but might be
available to n105 devices using a larger UE specific channel bandwidth
configuration with 51 MHz duplex or by intra-band contiguous carrier
aggregation using mixed duplex between PCC and SCC.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="1.93125in"}
Figure 6-3: An example of another variable duplex scheme for partial coverage
with n71 and using channel specific bandwidth configuration or CA for n105.
For channels in the middle and upper part of the band the n71 devices use
asymmetric channel bandwidth with DL 5 MHz larger than uplink. The remaining 5
MHz uplink is lost to n71 devices but could be used by n105 devices with UE
specific channel configuration or intra-band contiguous UL CA. For this
scheme, Band n71 devices are limited in the spectrum available to them. For
example, assuming the 2x40 MHz of Band n105 is allocated equally to 4
operators in 2x10 MHz blocks, n71 is only able to access 50% of the spectrum.
Band n105 devices can access all of the spectrum, but would need to support UE
specific channel bandwidth configurations larger than SIB bandwidth and
channel location off of the 100 kHz raster. Or the network would need to be
divided into two networks and then recombined using carrier aggregation losing
efficiency.
None of these schemes to enable compatibility of Band 71/n71 devices to a
network intended for Band n105 could be agreed. They all have shortcomings,
introducing additional requirements in Band n105 UE design and network
deployment complexity. At the same time, it is unclear whether the benefit of
a Band 71/n71 UE ecosystem -- even in a short-term transitionary phase --
would actually be realizable. The Band 71/n71 UE ecosystem is predominantly
composed of devices designed and intended for networks in the US. These
devices do not support the bands and CA combinations needed for countries in
Asia Pacific or future use of this band in ITU Region 1 where Band n105 is
expected to be deployed. Thus, the benefit might only be for US operators and
devices roaming into Band n105 for temporary connectivity. The benefit for APT
operators and users is limited since these devices would not be useful as home
devices native to the n105 countries in the absence of support for the other
APT bands. Instead, it is recommended to maximize the use of spectrum in the
most efficient manner by developing a Band n105 ecosystem directly. It is
anticipated that devices will support both Band n71 and Band n105 using common
modem and RF hardware to fulfil market demands.
Referring to the LS in [12], AWG has indicated that f _rom the UE perspective,
the device should ideally support both band n105, as well as n71 for_
international UE _roaming purposes._ From roaming point of view, we can
distinguish the following cases:
1\. Legacy n71 UE trying to access network operating n105 band: despite lack
of -51 MHz duplex support, in this case a legacy n71 UEs would not be able to
access downlink on 612-617 MHz, or uplink on 698-703 MHz.
2\. n105 UE trying to access n71 network: such n105 UE would need to support
-46 MHz duplex spacing; such duplex spacing flexibility was discussed in this
work item under term "variable duplex", but not concluded. As the n71
frequency range is embedded within n105 band, one may expect that some of the
future n105 UE implementations may support both bands to enable roaming.
_Considering high level of commonalities among those bands the underlying
duplexer designs,_ it is expected that future UE devices supporting band n71
will also support band n105. Whether this would be achieved with the same RF
frontend or not, is an implementation issue. However, possibility of using
existing n71 devices with their ‑46 MHz duplex in n105 markets is not
technically feasible with the existing Rel-17 specification.
Finally, it shall be stressed that APAC region mobile network operators
willing to deploy band n105 with -51 MHz Tx-Rx spacing, will not be mandated
by their regional regulations to support band n71, which was defined in 3GPP
for Region 2 based on FCC guidance.
The NR bands n71 and n105 have transmit/receive (duplex) spacings of -46 and
-51 MHz respectively. Concurrent operation of UEs with both duplex spacings
are not considered as this is a short-term measure only according to
R4-2302708. Due to the essentially large commonality of the
transmitter/receiver requirement for the modem, specifications of n71 and n105
it is expected that new generation n71 UEs and n105 UEs will support both
bands. The immediate issue using existing n71 UEs in an n105 market will not
be there in the long term. Therefore, it is anticipated that devices will
support both Band n71 and Band n105 using common modem and RF hardware to
fulfill market demands [11].
# 7 UE and BS requirements for APT 600 MHz
## 7.1 UE requirements
### 7.1.1 UE transmitter characteristics
#### 7.1.1.1 UE TX maximum output power
Power class 3 is specified for Band n105 with a maximum output power of 23
dBm. The tolerance is +2/-2.5 dB similar to Band n71.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: UE TX maximum output power
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | | 1 | rance | 1.5 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | | band | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | n105 | | | | | | | 23 | +2 | | | | | | | | | | /-2.5 | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 7.1.1.2 NS value and Spectrum Emission Mask
No additional spurious emission requirements have at this time been identified
for Band n105. Therefore, no NS other than the default NS_01 has been
specified. In the future if regulators deem it necessary to impose additional
spurious emission requirements to protect adjacent or nearby services for
deployment in certain countries, the NS specifications for Band n105 can be
revised accordingly.
The spectrum emission mask follows the general mask as specified in clause
6.5.2.2 of TS 38.101-1. No additional spectrum mask is applicable to Band
n105.
### 7.1.2 UE receiver characteristics
#### 7.1.2.1 UE REFSENS
Reference sensitivity for Band n105 has been agreed as follows
Table 7.1.2.1-1: UE REFSENS
Operating band / SCS / Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Operating Band | SCS kHz | 5 MHz  
(dBm) | 10 MHz  
(dBm) | 15 MHz  
(dBm) | 20 MHz  
(dBm) | 25 MHz  
(dBm) | 30 MHz (dBm) | 35 MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz  
(dBm) | 45 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz  
(dBm)  
n105 | 15 | -97.28 | -94.0 | -91.6 | -86.9 | -85.1 | -83.8 | -82.5 |  |  |   
| 30 |  | -94.3 | -91.9 | -87.9 | -85.5 | -84.3 | -82.6 |  |  |   
NOTE 8: DL channels overlapping the 612-617MHz range have 0.5dB added to the REFSENS |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 7.1.2.2 In-band blocking
In-band blocking for Band n105 has been specified as Case 1, Case2, and Case
5. Case 5 is specified with an interferer power of -22 dBm except for Band
n105 channels overlapping the lowermost 5 MHz of the band where it is relaxed
to -34 dBm.
Table 7.1.2.2.-1: In-band blocking for NR bands with F~DL_high~ \< 2700 MHz
and F~UL_high~ \< 2700 MHz
+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Para | Unit | Case | Case | Case | Case | Case | | band | meter | | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | +=======+=======+======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | P~i | dBm | -56 | -44 | -15 | -38 | - | | | nterf | | | | | | 22^4^ | | | erer~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | F~i | MHz | -BW~ | ≤ | | -B | | | | nterf | | Chann | -BW~ | | W~Cha | | | | erer~ | | el~/2 | Chann | | nnel~ | | | | (of | | -- | el~/2 | | /2-11 | | | | fset) | | | -- | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | F~Iof | | | | | | | | \ cas | fset, | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 2~ | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | BW~ | | | | | | | | | Chann | ≥ | | | | | | | | el~/2 | BW~ | | | | | | | | + | Chann | | | | | | | | | el~/2 | | | | | | | | F~Iof | + | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | F~Iof | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 2~ | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n105 | F~i | MHz | NOTE | F~DL\ | | | F~DL\ | | | nterf | | 2 | _low~ | | | _low~ | | | erer~ | | | -- 12 | | | -- 7 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | abs | | | | | | | | | olute | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | (of | | | | | | | | | fset) | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | usted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ub-ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | acing | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is an | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 15 | | | | | | | | | kHz | | | | | | | | | SCS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | frequ | | | | | | | | | ency, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | | equen | | | | | | | | | cies: | | | | | | | | | a: | | | | | | | | | -BW~ | | | | | | | | | Chann | | | | | | | | | el~/2 | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~Ioff | | | | | | | | | set,\ | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | \ 1~; | | | | | | | | | b: | | | | | | | | | BW~ | | | | | | | | | Chann | | | | | | | | | el~/2 | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | n48 | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | llows | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | | | neral | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 7.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n105 | | | | | | | | | cha | | | | | | | | | nnels | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verla | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 612 - | | | | | | | | | 617 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | ange, | | | | | | | | | P~i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | -34 | | | | | | | | | dBm. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 7.1.2.3 Out-of-band blocking
Out-of-band blocking for Band n105 is specified generally as it is for other
bands below 2700 MHz.
Table 7. 1.2.3-1: Out of-band blocking for NR bands with F~DL_high~ \< 2700
MHz and F~UL_high~ \< 2700 MHz
+---------+-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NR band | Parameter | Unit | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +=========+===========+======+===========+===========+===========+ | | P~in | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | terferer~ | | | | | +---------+-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | n105 | F~in | MHz | -60 \< f | -85 \< f | 1 ≤ f ≤ | | | terferer~ | | -- | -- | F | | | (CW) | | F | F | ~DL_low~ | | | | | ~DL_low~ | ~DL_low~ | -- 85 | | | | | \< -15 | ≤ -60 | | | | | | | | or | | | | | or | or | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | 15 \< f | 60 ≤ f -- | DL_high~ | | | | | -- | F~ | + 85 ≤ f | | | | | F~ | DL_high~ | | | | | | DL_high~ | \< 85 | ≤ 12750 | | | | | \< 60 | | | +---------+-----------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
## 7.2 Network nodes requirements
With the introduction on band n105, the following network node specifications
were updated to reflect required modifications:
\- NR BS core and conformance testing specifications,
\- IAB core and conformance testing specifications,
\- NR Repeater core and conformance testing specifications.
The following technical modifications were implemented, where applicable:
\- Adding n105 to the list of operating bands for Operating Band Unwanted
Emission (Category A, and Category B Option 1) limits,
\- Transmitter spurious emission requirements:
\- co-existence requirements updated for n105 introduction,
\- co-location requirements updated for n105 introduction,
\- Receiver blocking: co-location requirements updated for n105 introduction.
# 8 Expected Output and Time Scale
Table 8-1: New specifications to be introduced
* * *
**New specifications** _{One line per specification. Create/delete lines as
needed}_
* * *
Type TS/TR number Title For info\ For approval at TSG# Remarks at TSG#
_Internal TR_ 38.892 APT 600 MHz NR band _RAN#99_
* * *
Table 8-2: Impacted specifications
+----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | **Impacted | | | | | existing | | | | | TS/TR** _{One | | | | | line per | | | | | specification. | | | | | Create/delete | | | | | lines as | | | | | needed}_ | | | | +================+================+================+==============+ | TS/TR No. | Description of | Target | Remarks | | | change | completion | | | | | plenary# | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.101-1_ | _NR; UE Radio |_ RAN#99 _|_ Core part _| | | transmission | | | | | and reception_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.133_ | _NR; |_ RAN#99 _|_ Core part _| | | Requirements | | | | | for support of | | | | | radio resource | | | | | management_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.104_ | _NR; BS Radio |_ RAN#99 _|_ Core part _| | | transmission | | | | | and reception_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.141-1_ | _NR; Base |_ RAN#99 _|_ Perf. Part _| | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing Part | | | | | 1: Conducted | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.141-2_ | _NR; Base |_ RAN#99 _|_ Perf. Part _| | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing Part | | | | | 2:_ | | | | | | | | | | _Radiated | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _36.104_ | E-UTRA; BS | _RAN#99_ | _Core part_ | | | Radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _36.141_ | E-UTRA; BS | _RAN#99_ | _Perf. Part_ | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _37.104_ | E-UTRA, UTRA | _RAN#99_ | _Core part_ | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _37.141_ | E-UTRA, UTRA | _RAN#99_ | _Perf. Part_ | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _37.105_ | Active Antenna | _RAN#99_ | _Core part_ | | | System (AAS) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _37.145-1_ | Active Antenna | _RAN#99_ | _Perf. Part_ | | | System (AAS) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing; Part | | | | | 1: conducted | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _37.145-2_ | Active Antenna | _RAN#99_ | _Perf. Part_ | | | System (AAS) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing; Part | | | | | 2: radiated | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.174_ | NR; Integrated | _RAN#99_ | _Core part_ | | | access and | | | | | backhaul radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.176-1_ | NR; Integrated | _RAN#99_ | _Perf. Part_ | | | Access and | | | | | Backhaul (IAB) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing; Part | | | | | 1: Conducted | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.176-2_ | NR; Integrated | _RAN#99_ | _Perf. Part_ | | | Access and | | | | | Backhaul (IAB) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing; Part | | | | | 2: Radiated | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | _38.106_ | NR repeater | _RAN#99_ | _Core part_ | | | radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | 38.115-1 | NR; Repeater | _RAN#99_ | _Perf. Part_ | | | conformance | | | | | testing - Part | | | | | 1: Conducted | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+
# Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-22 | | | | TR | 0.1.0 | | 22-08 | RAN4\ | 11530 | | | | ske | | | | #104e | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-22 | | | | Text | 0.1.0 | | 22-08 | RAN4\ | 11532 | | | | Prop | | | | #104e | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | TR, | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | sec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 4. | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-22 | | | | Text | 0.2.0 | | 22-10 | RAN | 17125 | | | | Prop | | | | 4#10 | | | | | osals | | | | 4ebis | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | TF, | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 5.1 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-2 | | | | Text | 0.3.0 | | 22-11 | RAN4 | 20486 | | | | Prop | | | | #105 | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 5.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-22 | | | | Text | 0.3.0 | | 22-11 | | 19860 | | | | Prop | | | | RAN4 | | | | | osals | | | | #105 | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-23 | | | | TR | 0.4.0 | | 23-03 | | 00029 | | | | 3 | | | | RAN4 | | | | | 8.982 | | | | #106 | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | clude | | | | | | | | | exp | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | scale | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-23 | | | | Re | 0.5.0 | | 23-03 | | 03726 | | | | vised | | | | RAN4 | | | | | TP | | | | #106 | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .892: | | | | | | | | | Com | | | | | | | | | patib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 1/n71 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 4-230 | | | | | | | | | 3697) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6, | | | | | | | | | B7 | | | | | | | | | 1/n71 | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | patib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | ( R4 | | | | | | | | | 230 | | | | | | | | | 2457) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | B7 | | | | | | | | | 1/n71 | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | patib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-230 | | | | | | | | | 0031) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | BS RF | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-230 | | | | | | | | | 2458) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 7.1 | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-230 | | | | | | | | | 2707) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | B7 | | | | | | | | | 1/n71 | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | patib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | ( R4 | | | | | | | | | 2302 | | | | | | | | | 7080) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RP-99 | RP-2 | | | | TR | 1.0.0 | | 23-03 | | 30059 | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.892 | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | subm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | #99 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | -step | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
* * *