# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
_3GPP defines specifications that are applicable worldwide including the
definition of NR frequency bands across both FR-1 and FR-2 frequency ranges.
In general, 3GPP seeks to enable economies of scale and commonality of bands
across multiple countries and regions around the globe. This can lead to bands
with very wide bandwidth to be able to capture the frequency ranges within
this band that might be available within different countries. Hence, the band
definitions are not necessarily tailored to the frequency ranges available in
any one country but may be broad enough to enable applicability across many
countries. In addition, mechanisms such as NS signaling have been introduced
in RAN4 specifications to enable the network to indicate additional or unique
country or deployment-specific requirements on top of the general requirements
associated with the band._
_In order for a UE to declare support of a band, it must support the entire
band including all of the general requirements as well as all NS requirements
specified for this band. Consequently, the UE is able to operate on the band
in any country where this band or portion thereof is deployed while also
meeting any country specific requirements or regulations that may be
applicable. However, it has been observed recently that there are situations
where the UE can only operate on one or more subsets of the band within a
particular country. This was reported for Band n77 first in the US and then
again in Canada. In both of these cases, Band n77 was defined as a very wide
band with global applicability, but the regulators in the US and in Canada
only made available portions of the band for mobile usage. Moreover, different
portions of the band were made available at different times, so there was the
possibility that UE's might support one or more-than-one subset of the band
depending on when the UE was designed, manufactured, and/or certified with
respect to the timing of spectrum release and regulations in the country. To
be clear, to meet 3GPP requirements, the UE must support the entire band.
However, the situation describe above pertains to regulatory compliance rather
than compliance to 3GPP requirements. If the UE is not certified by a
country's regulator to operate on a certain part of the band, irrespective of
what is specified in 3GPP, the UE is not allowed to operate on that part of
the band in the country._
_Specific solutions were identified and specified for Band n77 to resolve the
issues related to spectrum subsets in the US and Canada. However, it is
anticipated that issues such as this may become more commonplace and therefore
a RAN level study item to consider a more generalized solution was agreed.
This technical report captures the contents of the study item._
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the study on UE support of regionally-defined
subsets of an NR band. In accordance with 3GPP specifications, a UE is
required to support the entire frequency range of a band as defined by [2],
[3], or [4]. However, it was found that for some bands, there may be regional
regulatory restrictions to this frequency range in some countries. The scope
of this study is to investigate the root causes that may require 3GPP
specification changes to accommodate as well as to consider possible general
solutions if needed.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-5: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 5: Satellite access Radio Frequency (RF) and performance requirements\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DOD Department Of Defense
MPR Maximum Power Reduction
NS Network Signalling
# 4 Root cause
The first step of this study item is to identify root causes using Band n77 in
the US and Canada as an example.
The regulatory bodies of some countries limit device certification to the
designated spectrum and limit operation of certified devices to that
designated spectrum. This has not created issues for 3GPP because usually
there were regulations for an entire band when spectrum was licensed and
because regional spectrum allocations seldom change. The introduction of very
wide bands, e.g., 900 MHz wide NR band n77, created a situation where
regulations existed for only part of the band in some countries. For example,
in the United States, initially 3700-3980 MHz was available for mobile
services, auctioned in December 2020, but other parts of n77 were not
available at that time. In order to be able to certify devices, Note 12 was
added to 38.101-1 Table 5.2-1, which read:
> \"NOTE 12: In the USA this band is restricted to 3700 -- 3980 MHz\".
The problem with this solution was that there was no plan to handle the
situation where additional spectrum in n77 would become available for
licensing. Later, when 3450-3550 MHz became available to be auctioned in
October 2021, assignment of a new 3GPP band for the 3450-3550 MHz frequency
range was considered, but it was decided in 3GPP that re-use of n77 was a more
expedient course for incorporating the additional US allocation. The note was
therefore modified as follows:
> \"NOTE 12: In the USA this band is restricted to 3450 -- 3550 MHz and 3700
> -- 3980 MHz.\"
But this led to a situation where early US FCC certified devices would only
operate on 3700-3980 MHz and not on 3450-3550 MHz. Roaming UEs not certified
for 3450-3550 MHz in the US might attempt to access that part of the band, but
such UE behaviour was not specified so concerns were raised that the gNBs
needed to know if the UE was allowed to operate in that part of the band for
handovers and CA configuration. To inform the gNB if the UE supported
3450-3550 MHz in the US, a new UE capability was introduced:
extendedBand-n77-r16. However, concerns were also raised that a roaming UE
that did not indicate extendedBand-n77-r16 might attempt to access 3450-3550
MHz, causing confusion and potentially negative consequences. To prevent a UE
that does not indicate extendedBand-n77-r16 from accessing 3450-3550 MHz in
the US, a new NS value (NS_55) was created. Where normally NS values indicate
additional emissions requirements for a band, in this case NS_55 is used to
bar UEs that do not support extendedBand-n77-r16 from accessing 3450-3550 MHz
in the US.
There is a similar situation in Canada, where the initial licensed spectrum
was 3450-3650 MHz was auctioned in June 2021 and then 3650-3980 MHz is
expected to be auctioned in Early 2023.
It should be noted that while the UE only supports a part of the band in
certain countries, e.g., the US and Canada in the above examples, the UE still
shall support the entire band when roaming to other countries to be compliant
with 3GPP requirements.
The root cause of the issue requiring UE band subset support is summarized by
the combination of the factors listed below
1\. A regional regulator makes an initial frequency allocation of
portions/subsets of the 3GPP band, i.e., not including the entire band
2\. The region requires UE certification for all UEs operating within the
borders of the region.
3\. The regional certification only applies to the frequency allocation at the
time of certification.
4\. The UE must confine its operation to the frequency band for which it was
certified.
5\. The regional regulator subsequently allocates other portions/subsets of
the band [and/or regulations change within the existing sub-bands].
6\. Newer UEs are certified for both the original allocation and subsequent
allocations.
This combination of factors leads to different UEs supporting different
subsets of the band. The network needs to be able to distinguish between these
different UEs to enable efficient handover and SCell/PsCell activation.
# 5 Other Issues
## 5.1 Roaming UEs
In some countries it is neither the operator nor the base station that takes
responsibility for the UE meeting regulations. In the USA UE vendors can only
allow their devices to operate in parts of the band where there are FCC
regulations at the time of device certification.
UE vendors may choose to pursue certification for some countries but not
others. In view of the regional regulatory differences described above, we
recognize that there may be ambiguity with regards to exactly which regulatory
requirements are supported in any given UE implementation. It is important to
understand how this ambiguity could affect regulatory compliance when UEs roam
in countries in which they are not certified. Two scenarios are identified for
clarification for feasibility of roaming:
\- The first scenario is if a UE is certified to operate only in part of a
band (e.g. band n77 cases UE in Canada/US). In this scenario, the UE is only
allowed to operate within the subset of the band for which it is certified in
the country where this certification is necessary. Because the UE in addition
to the above regulatory certification is also compliant to 3GPP requirements
(e.g., for Band n77), it is required that the UE can support the entire band.
Therefore, this UE when roaming to a country which does not have any regional
regulatory requirements shall be able to operate on the entirety of the band.
If this country does have regional requirements, the UE shall abide by them to
operate in this country.
\- The second scenario is if a UE can support the frequency range of a band
based on the 3GPP requirements but not certified for additional regional
requirements in a subset of the band in a certain foreign country. This aspect
has to be evaluated for each country based on prevailing regulation. Whether
the roaming UE is allowed to operate without certification from the country's
regulator is subject to each country's laws.
# 6 Possible solutions
## 6.1 General
The solutions in clause 6 should be at least capable of solving the issues
indicated in clauses 4 and 5. Moreover, solutions should be applicable for
handling existing UEs which were already deployed in the market before the
introduction of new regionally-defined subsets of an NR band or new released
regulation.
Regarding all solutions, considering accommodations for cases where the UE
subset support precludes the possibility to test some MSD exceptions: If the
UE supported subset precludes the possibility to test some MSD exceptions,
just like with Note 12 for n77 either the MSD configuration can be changed so
the MSD is testable in the country that uses the sub-band or a note can be
added to waive the MSD.
## 6.2 Solution A: New Band introduction for sub-band
Introducing a new band is a well-known technique for RAN4, which has been used
to differentiate between different (sub-)bands or portions thereof in 3GPP
specifications. For instance, Band 26/n26 are supersets of Band 5/n5, and Band
25/n25 are supersets of Band 2/n2. Also, Band 19/n19 are regional subsets of
Band 5/n5. These new bands have separate band combinations and separate RF
requirements, including different refsens and MSD. However, in the case of
Band 26 and 25, the superset bands were introduced in 3GPP after the smaller
B5 and B2 were in the specification, so it is not quite the same situation as
with Band n77, where there is an existing wider band, but a need for a
regional sub-band.
One downside of introducing a new band for a regional sub-band is that new
band combinations are required for the new bands. This can create significant
workload for RAN4 because of the redundant effort. Also, RAN4 would need to
specify all of the requirements for the sub-band including RF and performance
requirements.
The use of new bands for regional sub-bands would provide a means to limit
access to spectrum in a region that only has regulations for the sub-band, but
it could lead market fragmentation if vendors introduce UEs that only support
the new regional band, and not the wider full band.
## 6.3 Solution B: New Band Number
Another potential solution is to introduce a new band number, which is not a
new band. The difference between solution A (a new band) and solution B (a new
band number) is that all the same RF and performance requirements of the
original band (i.e. parent band) should apply to the new band-number without
generating new requirements with respect to existing system, RF, RRM and
demodulation requirements (i.e., \"parent\" bands requirements), but the new
band number would allow for differentiation of which part of the spectrum a UE
is certified to operate in the region. All the band combinations that apply to
the parent band would also apply to the new band number. One example of a new
band number is n90, which is identical to n41 and applies the same
requirements except that n90 also supports the 100 kHz raster and the 7.5 kHz
uplink shift. There are no band combinations defined for n90 because all the
n41 combinations apply to n90 also. In the case of n90, the new band number
was more of a capability signalling mechanism to allow the network to identify
UEs that support the 100 kHz raster and 7.5 kHz shift, and bar n41 only Ues
that don't support those features.
For regional sub-bands, the new band number can be thought of more as a
signalling mechanism used to allow or bar devices based on support for a
particular part of the band. It is similar to the extendedBand-n77-r16 / NS_55
solution, except that it uses existing UE capability signalling and barring
and does not require any new network signalling.
An example of how this would work is that at some point in time 3300-3450 MHz
might become available in the USA for Mobile use. If this spectrum does become
available, then a new band number could be allocated to indicate that a UE
supports 3300-3450 MHz, as well as 3450-3550 and 3700-3980 MHz, in the US.
Only the new band number would be signalled from cells in the new frequency
range in the US so that only Ues that support the new band number would
attempt to access 3300-3450 MHz in the US. Also, when the gNB examines the UE
capabilities, it would know if the UE supports 3300-3450 MHz in the US based
on if it reports support for the new band number or not in its UE
capabilities.
The benefits of the new band number approach are:
\- No new RAN2 signalling needed as new parts of the band become available.
\- No new NS values required for barring UEs
\- Only to change the semantics of 3GPP frequency bands and need 3GPP
clarification
There are many available band numbers (i.e. 107 out of 1024 have been used so
far for NR), so there is no concern on the band numbers shortage.
3GPP would pro-forma select a new band number based on regional frequency
allocations within an existing 3GPP band, the existing band being referred to
as the parent band.
If the network wants to avoid that a legacy device supporting only the parent
band (but not indicating support for the new band number) will camp on a cell
in the new sub-band, the network can indicate only the new band number on
cells in the new sub-band. In this manner the technique of a new band number
should prevent UEs which are not compliant to the requirements of the new sub-
band from camping on or accessing the cell in such a sub-band. And the gNB
sees from UE capabilities the bands and band numbers that the UE supports and
hence the gNB knows if the UE can be handed over to a cell in the new sub-
band.
The new band number would apply the RF requirements from the parent band. It
assumes that there is no dedicated sub-band hardware for the UE such as RF
filters to be utilized for the new band number. Whether the sub-band
corresponding to a new band number may include previously (chronologically)
introduced sub-bands of the same parent band. This is to be considered case by
case and depending on different factors (e.g., whether sub-bands are defined
within the same geographical region. To avoid market fragmentation and to
support UE roaming, it should be mandated that the new band number can only be
supported by a UE which also supports the associated parent band. If a UE
including, roaming UEs, is not certified to operate in new band number based
on regional regulatory certification, the UE shall not advertise the new band
number in its capabilities nor shall it attempt to connect to a cell
broadcasting this new band number.
In current practice, adding a new band triggers introduction of new band
combinations, which would add many new band combinations to the specification
and UE capability signalling. By contrast, adding a new band number, such as
when n90 was added, does not require new band combinations, but rather text
stating that combinations for the parent band apply to the new band number.
Furthermore, inter-band or intra-band CA is determined with consideration of
the parent band and not the sub-band(s).To ensure that UE capability
signalling is not adversely impacted by the number of supported band
combinations, this technique requires that the new band number corresponding
to the new sub-band has a reference to the parent band for signalling carrier
aggregation (CA) and dual-connectivity (DC) band combinations.
NOTE 1: It should be studied further whether a UE shall report band
combinations for the parent and sub-bands, and if not, which specification
impact it will have.
NOTE 2: The introduction of a new band number should not have impact on the
parent band.
NOTE 3: Any other optimizations based on new band number approach are not
precluded.
This technique should require no new signalling and can work for any release
UEs, but it does change the semantics of 3GPP frequency bands and 3GPP should
clarify the association between a new band number and their parent band in
signalling requirements. If the new band number approach is applied, 3GPP RAN4
should:
\- Ensure that the number of new band number definitions does not exhaust the
range of possible band numbers: Rel-17 signaling supports 1024 NR band
numbers, or which 104 are assigned in Rel-17. Exhaustion of the range of band
numbers is not anticipated to be an issue.
## 6.4 Solution C: Reuse existing NR band number, new signalling
With this solution, the existing NR band is re-used, but there is also
explicit signalling for different regions-- either from the UE to the network,
from the network to the UE, or both -- providing further information to the
communicating entities regarding which sub-bands are supported. Hence for the
sake of clarity we will focus separately on potential options for signalling
for both communication sides.
The premise for introduction of signalling from the network to the UE can
prevent legacy UEs from camping on particular sub-bands which they do not
support. The easiest way to accomplish this is to define new NS value
associated with the corresponding band. With this approach the network
broadcasting new NS value can be always sure that a legacy UE will not camp on
a particular sub-band. It does not matter how many sub-bands are added and in
which release -- as long as every sub-band is associated with a particular NS
value, the network remains in controls of permissible cells for camping
destinations.
As for the UE to the network signalling, one of the main reasons to have it is
to provide the network with additional information regarding which sub-bands a
UE supports to facilitate network sub-band selection for re-direction and
handover procedures. This information on supported sub-bands can be
implemented in at least the following ways (not precluding other options):
\- **Option A:** The UE capability is implemented as an explicit capability in
the UE capability container, whereupon it can be as simple as one bit or
something more versatile. Since such a generic UE capability does not exist,
RAN WG4 will need to contact RAN WG2 every time such a capability is needed
(as it already happened with the DOD-band). To reduce such issues, a generic
approach (as illustrated by the next alternative) could be preferable
\- **Option B (via e.g.,_modifiedMPR-Behaviour_ field bitmap or a new
bitmap)**: This approach is logically identical to the previous alternative,
with the difference being that instead of the asking RAN WG2 to define a new
capability for each new sub-band, a more generic signalling is used, which can
be defined as per-band signalling and whose content can be defined by RAN WG4.
Two options below are examples of how it can be accomplished.
a) One option is that the existing capability _modifiedMPR-Behaviour_ can be
leveraged for this purpose. The _modifiedMPR-Behaviour_ can already be
signalled for every band not requiring any RAN WG2 changes. Since it is up to
RAN WG4 to define the purpose and meaning of every value of that field, UE can
use this capability to indicate supported sub-bands based on meaning defined
in RAN4. However, this would be changing the original intent of this
capability since it relates to MPR, not to sub-bands, and Repurposing the
existing capability may create unforeseen issues.
b) Another option is to include a new band subset indication to UE
capabilities. In this proposal, the parent 3GPP band designation may be
followed by an indicator which identifies which sub-allocation of the band
applies to the region in question. From the signalling perspective this
approach is similar to _modifiedMPR-Behaviour_ described above, but a new
dedicated capability would be defined by RAN2 WG2, content of which will be
further specified by RAN WG4. This proposal avoids the issue of parent-band
association, but at the cost of defining new signalling.
As an example, the solution adopted for band n77 was a combination of the
following elements:
\- UE-to-NW signalling: defining the explicit UE capability indications
(extendedBand-n77-r16 and extendedBand-n77-2-r17); and
\- NW-to-UE signalling: defining new value NS_55 and NS_57 for barring UE
access to the sub-bands.
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
The study item has reviewed possible responses to situations in which regional
regulatory bodies may allocate subbands of the existing 3GPP bands in a phased
fashion. In these cases, UEs may be certified for different subsets of the
3GPP band(s) and must therefore operate only within the subbands for which
certification has been received. Further, networks should not attempt to
redirect these UEs to frequencies not in the subbands for which certification
has been received. Different proposals for ensuring these behaviours are
documented herein.
For band standardization issues which arise from cases where regionally-
defined subbands do not occupy an entire 3GPP band, we offer the following
conclusions.
Solutions A, B or C are valid approaches which could be used to solve the
problem with the regional sub-bands. Solution B is expected to have a lower
standardization workload and hence, should be adopted over Solution A if no
issues are identified. However due to related workload, it is recommended that
solution B with applying the same requirements (i.e., \"parent\" band
requirements), is preferred over solution C if this approach is confirmed by
the working groups. Which method (e.g., new band number, new NS flag, new
band, etc.) is chosen for a particular band can be decided on a case by case
basis under a dedicated work item.
RAN2 and RAN4 should fully evaluate the specification, implementation, and
test impacts of the new band number approach during the first work item
associated with a regionally-defined subband and adopt an appropriate solution
based on their evaluation.
Finally, it is recommended that care should be taken to ensure that the UE
behaviour is predictable when operating within the regionally-defined subband
and when the UE is operating in the parent band when it in a location where
the regionally-defined subband is not applicable.
#