# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
User Data Convergence (UDC) presents a layered architecture where user data is
accessible at a logically unique repository called User Data Repository (UDR).
One or more dataless applications access the user data that is stored in the
UDR. In this context, applications can be front ends, for example an HSS-FE or
an HLR-FE, or application servers. In order to support UDC, a Common Baseline
Information Model is defined in this specification.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies a Common Baseline Information Model for UDC
[2]. This information model denotes an abstract, formal representation of
entity types that are common to many applications using the UDR. CBIM
describes the basic IOCs of UDC, their properties and their relationships.
Detailed requirements for the specification of this Common Baseline
Information Model are given in 3GPP TR 22.985 [2] and 3GPP TS 22.101 [3].
From the Common Baseline Information Model specialized information models and
data models can be derived. All these derived models are out of the scope of
this specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.985: \"Service requirement for the User Data Convergence
(UDC)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.151: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service
(IS) template (Release 8)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.152: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service
(IS) Unified Modelling Language (UML) repertoire (Release 8)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification; (Release 8)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2; (Release 8)\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The International Public Telecommunication
Numbering Plan\".
[9] IETF RFC 4282: \"The Network Access Identifier\".
[10] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\".
[11] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.181: \"User Data Convergence; Framework for Model Handling and
Management\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Common Baseline Information Model:** an abstract, formal representation of
entity types common to many applications using the UDR. CBIM describes the
basic IOCs of UDC, their properties and their relationships, so that these
IOCs constitute the baseline for any given application. Therefore, CBIM
provides flexibility (in its data structure and content), extensibility and
multi-application approach. In particular, CBIM provides support for the
concepts of Subscription, Service Profile, End User, Identifiers, End User
Group, and End Device, among others. CBIM does not define the models that are
associated with each application and that are under their responsibility.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CBIM Common Baseline Information Model
UE User Equipment
FE Front End
IRP Integration Reference Point
IMPI IP Multimedia Private User Identity
IMPU IP Multimedia Public User Identity
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
IS Information Service
ISIM IM Services Identity Module
MSISDN Mobile Subscriber ISDN Number
NAI Network Access Identifier
UDC User Data Convergence
UDR User Data Repository
UML Unified Modelling Language
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Modelling Approach
The CBIM is not an Integration Reference Point (IRP) as it is not used for a
management interface; however this specification follows the IRP IS template
specified in 3GPP TS 32.151 [4] and reuses the UML repertoire described in
3GPP TS 32.152 [5].
NOTE: The intention of CBIM is to provide the basic common IOCs of UDC,
including their definitions and relationships. Attributes of the IOCs are not
intended to be part of this specification.
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported Information Entities and Local Labels
## 5.2 Class Diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="6.69375in" height="4.040277777777778in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: UDC CBIM Core View
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="2.803472222222222in"}
Figure 5.2.1-2: Identifiers
## 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.8319444444444444in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: UdcServiceProfile inheritance
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="1.9201388888888888in"}
Figure 5.2.2-2: Identifier inheritance
## 5.3 Information Object Class Definitions
### 5.3.1 EndUser
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
In this context this object class represents an End User (as per 3GPP TS
21.905 [1]). This class represents the view that the telecommunication network
has about the end user and contains the valid parameters that define the End
User from UDC point of view. An EndUser object class has an End-User Identity
attribute (EUI), which is described in 3GPP TS 21.905 [1].
### 5.3.2 Identifier
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This abstract object class represents an end user identifier that is used
within the network so that the different network functionalities can be used
(mobility management, authentication, and service usage). This is an abstract
IOC that can be inherited by the real identifier used in the network, like
IMSI, MSISDN, IMPI, IMPU, etc.
NOTE: This object does not include identities that are not associated to a
user, such as an IMEI, hostID, etc.
### 5.3.3 UdcServiceProfile
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
This object class represents the data characterizing a service assigned to an
EndUser. It includes service preferences and settings chosen for an EndUser.
The service profile contains the permanent and temporary data pertaining to an
end user that is subscribed to a service. This IOC can be inherited by
different service profiles, such as CS, GPRS, EPS, IMS service profiles and so
on.
### 5.3.4 EndDevice
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
This object class represents a composite of hardware and software that
implements service terminal functions and that the EndUser operates in order
to get access to telecommunication services.
### 5.3.5 UdcCsServiceProfile
#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
This object class represents the part of the UdcServiceProfile that contains
data related to Circuit-Switched services. An example of further
specialization of this object class, including attributes, is provided in 3GPP
TS 32.181 [12].
### 5.3.6 UdcGprsServiceProfile
#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
This object class represents the part of the UdcServiceProfile that contains
data related to Packet-Switched services. An example of further specialization
of this object class, including attributes, is provided in 3GPP TS 32.181
[12].
### 5.3.7 UdcEpsServiceProfile
#### 5.3.7.1 Definition
This object class represents the part of the UdcServiceProfile that contains
data related to the Evolved Packet System services. An example of further
specialization of this object class, including attributes, is provided in 3GPP
TS 32.181 [12].
### 5.3.8 UdcImsServiceProfile
#### 5.3.8.1 Definition
This object class represents the part of the UdcServiceProfile that contains
data related to IMS services. An example of further specialization of this
object class, including attributes, is provided in 3GPP TS 32.181 [12].
### 5.3.9 MSISDN
#### 5.3.9.1 Definition
In this context this object class represents a Mobile Subscriber Integrated
Services Digital Network Number (as per 3GPP TS 23.003 [6]). An MSISDN is
allocated from an E.164 numbering plan.
### 5.3.10 IMSI
#### 5.3.10.1 Definition
In this context this object class represents an International Mobile
Subscriber Identity (as per 3GPP TS 23.003 [6]).
### 5.3.11 IMPI
#### 5.3.11.1 Definition
In this context this object class represents an IMS Private User Identity (as
per 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]). The Private User Identity takes the form of a Network
Access Identifier (NAI), which is defined in IETF RFC 4282 [9]. It is possible
for a representation of the IMSI to be contained within the NAI for the
private user identity.
### 5.3.12 IMPU
#### 5.3.12.1 Definition
In this context this object class represents an IMS Public User Identity (as
per 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]). An IMPU takes the form of either a SIP URI (see IETF
RFC 3261 [11]) or a Tel URI (see IETF RFC 3966 [10]). For UEs that are not
equipped with an ISIM application, it is possible to derive a temporary IMPU
from the IMSI (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [6] for details).
### 5.3.13 E164
#### 5.3.13.1 Definition
This object class represents a telephone number crafted according to ITU-T
Recommendation E.164 [8].
### 5.3.14 NAI
#### 5.3.14.1 Definition
This object class represents a Network Access Identifier (as per IETF RFC 4282
[9]).
### 5.3.15 TelURI
#### 5.3.15.1 Definition
This object class represents a telephone URI (as per IETF RFC 3966 [10]).
### 5.3.16 SIPURI
#### 5.3.16.1 Definition
This object class represents a SIP URI (as per IETF RFC 3261 [11]).
### 5.3.17 UdcEndUserGroup
#### 5.3.17.1 Definition
This IOC represents a grouping of several End Users by the operator. The IOC
includes information that describes the grouping and criteria for membership.
Examples of UdcEndUserGroup may include the following: Closed User Group, VPN,
and market segments.
### 5.3.18 UdcSubscription
#### 5.3.18.1 Definition
This IOC represents common data shared by a group of UdcServiceProfile
instances. This IOC exists due to the relationship of a subscriber to the
service provider. The end user can be attached to different UDC subscriptions
through UDC Service Profiles for different service usage (e.g. for a private
and a professional service usage).
Editor's Note: The relationship between Identifier and UdcSubscription is left
for further study.
## 5.4 Information Relationship Definitions
### 5.4.1. SubscriptionDeterminesSP
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the association established between UdcSubscription and
UdcServiceProfile due to common data shared by a group of UdcServiceProfile
instances.
### 5.4.2 SPMayIncludeID
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the association established between Identifier and
UdcServiceProfile.
### 5.4.3 EUHasSP
#### 5.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the association established between UdcServiceProfile and
EndUser due to the fact that any end user who is receiving a service has a
service profile associated to it.
### 5.4.4 IdentifierPairsIdentifier
#### 5.4.4.1 Definition
This represents the relation established by instances of Identifier with other
instances of Identifier. For example, one instance of Identifier can be an
IMPU IOC, and the other and IMPI IOC. The relation of both is generically
described by this relationship.
### 5.4.5 EUIdentifiedByID
#### 5.4.5.1 Definition
This represents an instance of EndUser that aggregates instances of
Identifier.
### 5.4.6 GroupMembership
#### 5.4.6.1 Definition
This represents the association established between EndUser and
UdcEndUserGroup determined due to the operator selecting instances of EndUser
belonging to UdcEndUserGroup.
### 5.4.7 TemporarilyPaired
#### 5.4.7.1 Definition
This represents the temporarily association established between EndDevice and
Identifiers, and vice versa. The relation is determined by an identifier (such
as an MSISDN or an IMPU) being used from end devices, and from an end device
being used by identifiers.
### 5.4.8 CSSPcontainsMSISDN
#### 5.4.8.1 Definition
This represents an aggregation from UdcCsServiceProfile to MSISDN.
### 5.4.9 GPRSSPcontainsMSISDN
#### 5.4.9.1 Definition
This represents an aggregation from UdcGprsServiceProfile to one or more
instances of MSISDN.
### 5.4.10 EPSSPcontainsMSISDN
#### 5.4.10.1 Definition
This represents an aggregation from UdcEpsServiceProfile to MSISDN.
### 5.4.11 IMSSPcontainsIMPU
#### 5.4.11.1 Definition
This represents an aggregation from UdcImsServiceProfile to IMPU.
### 5.4.12 MSISDNPairsIMSI
#### 5.4.12.1 Definition
This represents the association established between MSISDN and IMSI. This
might be the case when an MSISDN uses IMSIs included in a SIM application for
authentication purposes.
### 5.4.13 IMPIDerivesFromIMSI
#### 5.4.13.1 Definition
This represents the association established when an IMPI is built from the
contents of an IMSI. This might be the case when a UE that is accessing IMS
services is not equipped with a ISIM application, but just a USIM application
in the UICC. See details of the derivation process in 3GPP TS 23.003 [6].
### 5.4.14 IMPUPairsOrDerivesFromIMPI
#### 5.4.14.1 Definition
This represents the association established when an IMPU is paired with an
IMPI, where the IMPI is used for authentication purposes of that IMPU.
### 5.4.15 IMPUDerivesFromIMSI
#### 5.4.15.1 Definition
This represents the association established when an IMPU is derived from an
IMSI. This might be the case when a UE that is accessing IMS services is not
equipped with an ISIM application, but a USIM application in the UICC. See
details of the derivation process in 3GPP TS 23.003 [6].
### 5.4.16 MSISDNTakesFormatOfE164
#### 5.4.16.1 Definition
This represents the association established when an MSISDN is created from an
E.164 number.
### 5.4.17 IMPITakesFormatOfNAI
#### 5.4.17.1 Definition
This represents the association established when the IMPI takes the format of
a NAI. See details in 3GPP TS 23.003 [6].
### 5.4.18 IMPUTakesFormatOfTelURI
#### 5.4.18.1 Definition
This represents the association established when an IMPU takes the format of a
Tel URI. See details in 3GPP TS 23.003 [6].
### 5.4.19 IMPUTakesFormatOfSIPURI
#### 5.4.19.1 Definition
This represents the association established when an IMPU takes the format of a
SIP URI. See details in 3GPP TS 23.003 [6].
### 5.4.20 TelURIDerivesFromE164
#### 5.4.20.1 Definition
This represents the association established when a Tel URI is derived from an
E.164 number.
#