# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.301: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements
32.302: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)
**32.306: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as a single action on a NE of the 3G network or
as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many NEs.
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realise the functional
capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs is defined
in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
Network Elements (NEs) under management and element managers generate
notifications of events about occurrences within the network. Different kinds
of events carry different kinds of information, e.g. alarms or CM
notification.
Information of an event is carried in notification. An IRPAgent (typically an
EM or a NE) emits notifications. IRPManager (typically a network management
system) receives notifications. The purpose of Notification IRP is to define
an interface through which an IRPManager can subscribe to IRPAgent for
receiving notifications.
This IRP bases its design on work captured in ITU-T Recommendation X.734 [20],
and OMG Notification Service [14]. The central design ideas are:
  * Separation of notification Consumers (IRPManagers) from Producers > (IRPAgents);
  * Notifications are sent to IRPManagers without the need for > IRPManagers to periodically check for new notifications.
Common characteristics related to notifications in all other IRPs are gathered
in one IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the Solution Sets for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Notification IRP: Information Service (TS 32.302 [7]).
These Solution Set specifications are related to 3GPP TS 32.302 V13.0.X [7].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Alarm
Integration Reference Point: Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.111-6: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Alarm
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication Management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.316: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.336: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[13] OMG TC Document telecom (98-11-01): \"Summary of responses to real time
survey\".
[14] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[15] OMG CORBA Services: \"Common Object Services Specification, Update:
November 22, 1996\" (Clause 4 contains the Event Service specification).
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[16] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/)
[17] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[18] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[19] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116)
[20] ITU-T Recommendation X.734 (1992): \"Information technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Systems management: Event report management
function\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.301 [6], 3GPP TS 32.302
[7], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [11] apply.
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[8]
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EC Event channel (OMG)
EM Element Manager
IDL Interface Definition Language (OMG)
IOR Interoperable Object Reference
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NC Notification Channel (OMG)
NE Network Element
NL Notification Log
NRM Network Resource Model
NV Name and Value pair
OMG Object Management Group
QoS Quality of Service
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
WSDL Web Service Description Language
WS-I Web Services Interoperability Organization
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Notification IRP Solution Set
Definitions:
Annex A provides the CORBA Solution Set.\ Annex B provides the XML
Definitions.\ Annex C provides the SOAP Solution Set.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Notification IRP: Information Service (TS 32.302 [7]).
# A.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of the Notification IRP is specified in 3G
TS 32.302 [7]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA
SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
## A.1.2 Notification Services
In the CORBA Solution Set, notifications are emitted by IRPAgent using CORBA
Notification service (OMG TC Document telecom [13]) and Structured Events.
CORBA Event service (OMG CORBA services [15]) provides event routing and
distribution capabilities. CORBA Notification service provides, in addition to
Event service, event filtering and support for Quality of Service (QoS) as
well.
A subset of CORBA Notification services shall be used to support the
implementation of notification. This CORBA Notification service subset, in
terms of OMG Notification service (OMG TC Document telecom [13]) defined
methods, is identified in the present.
## A.1.3 Support of Push and Pull Style
OMG Notification Service defines two styles of interaction. One is called push
style. In this style, IRPAgent pushes notifications to IRPManager as soon as
they are available. The other is called pull style. In this style, IRPAgent
keeps the notifications till IRPManager requests for them.
This CORBA SS specifies that support of Push style is Mandatory (M) and that
support of Pull style is Optional (O).
### A.1.4 Support of multiple notifications in one push operation
For efficiency, IRPAgent uses the following OMG Notification Service (OMG TC
Document telecom [13]) defined interface to pack multiple notifications and
push them to IRPManager using one method push_structured_events. The method
takes as input a parameter of type EventBatch as defined in the OMG
CosNotification module (OMG TC Document telecom [13]). This data type is a
sequence of Structured Events (see clause 4). Upon invocation, this parameter
will contain a sequence of Structured Events being delivered to IRPManager by
IRPAgent to which it is connected.
The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter. The amount of time IRPAgent will accumulate individual events into
the sequence before invoking this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide
configuration parameter as well.
IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
The OMG Notification service (OMG TC Document telecom [13]) defined IDL module
is shown below.
module CosNotifyComm {
> ...
>
> Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
>
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
>
> }; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
### A.1.5 Support of filterable and non-filterable notification parameters
The OMG Notification service defined IDL CosNotification::StructuredEvent and
CosNotification::EventBatch data types are shown below.
struct StructuredEvent {\ EventHeader header;\ FilterableEventBody
filterable_data;\ any remainder_of_body;\ }; // StructuredEvent
typedef sequence\ EventBatch;
Notification IS parameters are mapped:
\- either to the Structured Event header, i.e. above IDL StructuredEvent data
structure field header;
\- or to the Structured Event body, and in this case:
\- when defined in the IS as filterable, to the Structured Event filterable
body fields, i.e. above IDL StructuredEvent data structure field
filterable_data;
\- when defined in the IS as non-filterable, to the Structured Event remaining
body, i.e. above IDL StructuredEvent data structure field remainder_of_body.
The OMG Notification service defined IDL CosNotification::FilterableEventBody
data type and its supporting types are shown below.
struct Property {\ PropertyName name;\ PropertyValue value;\ };
typedef sequence\ PropertySeq;
typedef PropertySeq FilterableEventBody;
In order to ensure uniform implementation for notification IS parameters
mapped to Structured Event Name-Value pairs whether defined in the IS as
filterable or as non-filterable, IDL StructuredEvent data structure field
remainder_of_body of type any shall be mapped to the IDL data structure
NotificationIRPNotifications::NonFilterableEventBody defined in annex clause
A.4.6:
struct NonFilterableEventBody {\ CosNotification::PropertySeq
name_value_pairs;\ any remainder_of_non_filterable_body;\ };
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 Operation mapping
Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302 [7]) defines semantics of operations
visible across this IRP. These operations are the operations of the IOCs
defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [7].
Table 1 maps the operations defined in Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302
[7]) to their equivalents (methods) in this Solution Set (SS). Specifically,
the table 1 maps the operations of the IOCs defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [7] to
their equivalents in this SS. Since one of the IOCs, the NotificationIRP IOC,
inherits from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC [9], the table 1 also maps the
operations of ManagedGenericIRP IOC to their equivalents (methods) in this SS.
Table 1 also qualifies if a method is Mandatory (M) or Optional (O).
Table 1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IS Operations in | SS Methods | Qualifier | | 3GPP TS 32.302 [7] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | subscribe | attach_push, | M, O, O | | | attach_push_b, | | | | attach_pull | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | unsubscribe | detach | M | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getIRPVersion (see | get_notific | M | | note.) | ation_irp_versions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | g | get_ | O | | etSubscriptionStatus | subscription_status | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getSubscriptionIds | ge | O | | | t_subscription_ids | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | chan | If subscription is | See box on the left. | | geSubscriptionFilter | established using | | | | attach_push method, | | | | the SS equivalent | | | | shall be | | | | change_s | | | | ubscription_filter. | | | | The IDL | | | | specification of | | | | this method is | | | | included in annex | | | | A.4. This method is | | | | Optional (O). | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, the SS | | | | equivalent shall be | | | | modify_constraints. | | | | The method is | | | | defined in OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | Filter Interface | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [2]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex | | | | A.4. If IRPAgent | | | | supports the | | | | optional | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, it shall | | | | support this method | | | | as mandatory. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull method, | | | | the SS equivalent | | | | shall be | | | | modify_constraints. | | | | The method is | | | | defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | Filter Interface | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [13]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex | | | | A.4. If IRPAgent | | | | supports the | | | | optional | | | | attach_pull method, | | | | it shall support | | | | this method as | | | | mandatory. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suspendSubscription | If subscription is | See box on the left. | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | | | In other words, | | | | IRPManager cannot | | | | suspend | | | | subscription. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the | | | | SS equivalent shall | | | | be | | | | suspend_connection. | | | | This method is | | | | defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [13]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex | | | | A.4. If IRPAgent | | | | supports the | | | | optional | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, it shall | | | | support this method | | | | as mandatory. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | resumeSubscription | If subscription is | See box on the left. | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | | | In other words, | | | | IRPManager cannot | | | | resume subscription. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the | | | | SS equivalent shall | | | | be | | | | resume_connection. | | | | This method is | | | | defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document | | | | telecom [13]). The | | | | IDL specification of | | | | this method is not | | | | included in annex | | | | A.4. If IRPAgent | | | | supports the | | | | optional | | | | attach_push_b | | | | method, it shall | | | | support this method | | | | as mandatory. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there | | | | is no SS equivalent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getNo | get_noti | O | | tificationCategories | fication_categories | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | getOperationProfile | get | O | | (see note.) | _notification_irp\ | | | | _operations_profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ge | get_ | O | | tNotificationProfile | notification_irp_n | | | (see note.) | otification_profile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: These 3 | | | | operations are | | | | operations of | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | IOC specified in | | | | 3GPP TS 32.312 | | | | [9]. The | | | | NotificationIRP IOC | | | | of 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | [7] inherits from | | | | it. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## A.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
3GPP TS 32.302 [7] defines semantics of parameters carried in operations
across the Notification IRP. Table 2 through table 14 indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 2: Mapping from IS subscribe parameters to SS attach_push equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | string manager_reference | M | | | (see note 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | timeTick | ManagedGenericIRPC | O | | | onstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt | | | | time_tick | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | No | O | | | tificationIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notification_categories | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | ManagedGener | O | | | icIRPConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | Return value of type | M | | | NotificationIRP | | | | ConstDefs::SubscriptionId | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Attach, | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | AlreadySubscribed, | | | | AtLeastOneNotific | | | | ationCategoryNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: IRPManager | | | | creates a | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePushConsumer | | | | object and invokes | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::object_to_string | | | | to obtain the stringified | | | | IOR, say s1. IRPManager | | | | stores the s1. IRPManager | | | | sends s1 as input | | | | parameter of attach_push | | | | to IRPAgent. IRPAgent | | | | receives s1, performs | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::string_to_object | | | | to obtain the | | | | IRPManager\'s IOR and | | | | uses it for its future | | | | methods. IRPAgent also | | | | stores the s1 for future | | | | comparisons. IRPManager | | | | later calls detach with | | | | s1. IRPAgent receives the | | | | stringified IOR s1, | | | | compares it with those | | | | stored stringified IORs | | | | (e.g. s1), finds a match, | | | | and performs the detach | | | | process. IRPAgent pushes | | | | sequence of Structured | | | | Events towards IRPManager | | | | via the | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePushConsumer | | | | object | | | | push_structured_events | | | | method, depending on the | | | | supplied notification | | | | categories and filter. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The grammar of | | | | the filter string is | | | | extended_TCL defined by | | | | OMG Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document telecom | | | | [2]). This SS and the | | | | Alarm IRP: CORBA SS [4] | | | | shall use this grammar | | | | only. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 3: Mapping from IS subscribe parameters to SS attach_push_b equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | string manager_reference | M | | | (see note 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | timeTick | ManagedGenericIRPC | O | | | onstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt | | | | time_tick | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | No | O | | | tificationIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notification_categories | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | ManagedGener | O | | | icIRPConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | Return value of type | M | | | NotificationIRP | | | | ConstDefs::SubscriptionId | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | Not specified in IS. | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | M | | | SequenceProxyPushSupplier | | | | system_reference (see | | | | note 3) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Attach, | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | AlreadySubscribed, | | | | AtLeastOneNotific | | | | ationCategoryNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: IRPManager | | | | creates a | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePushConsumer | | | | object and invokes | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::object_to_string | | | | to obtain the stringified | | | | IOR, say s1. IRPManager | | | | stores the s1. IRPManager | | | | sends s1 as input | | | | parameter of | | | | attach_push_b to | | | | IRPAgent. IRPAgent | | | | receives s1 and stores | | | | the s1 for future | | | | comparisons. IRPManager | | | | later calls detach with | | | | s1. IRPAgent receives the | | | | stringified IOR s1, | | | | compares it with those | | | | stored stringified IORs | | | | (e.g. s1), finds a match, | | | | and performs the detach | | | | process. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The grammar of | | | | the filter string is | | | | extended_TCL defined by | | | | OMG Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document telecom | | | | [13]). This SS and the | | | | Alarm IRP: CORBA SS [4] | | | | shall use this grammar | | | | only. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: IRPAgent provides | | | | this reference to which | | | | IRPManager can invoke | | | | methods to manage the | | | | subscription. Valid | | | | methods are not defined | | | | in this IRP. OMG CORBA | | | | Notification Service | | | | defines these methods. | | | | Read interface | | | | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | | | | SequenceProxyPushSupplier | | | | and | | | | CosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePushConsumer. | | | | IRPManager is expected to | | | | invoke | | | | connect\ | | | | _sequence_push_consumer | | | | method of this interface | | | | to connect its own | | | | cosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePushConsummer | | | | with this reference. | | | | After successful | | | | connection, IRPAgent | | | | pushes sequence of | | | | Structured Events towards | | | | IRPManager. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 4: Mapping from IS subscribe parameters to SS attach_pull equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | string manager_reference | M | | | (see note 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | timeTick | ManagedGenericIRPC | O | | | onstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt | | | | time_tick | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | No | O | | | tificationIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notification_categories | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | ManagedGener | O | | | icIRPConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | Return value of type | M | | | NotificationIRP | | | | ConstDefs::SubscriptionId | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | Not specified in IS. | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | M | | | SequenceProxyPullSupplier | | | | system_reference (see | | | | note 3) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Attach, | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | AlreadySubscribed, | | | | AtLeastOneNotific | | | | ationCategoryNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: IRPManager | | | | creates a | | | | CosNotifyC | | | | omm::SequencePullConsumer | | | | object and invokes | | | | CORBA | | | | ::ORB::object_to_string | | | | to obtain the stringified | | | | IOR, say s1. IRPManager | | | | stores the s1. IRPManager | | | | sends s1 as input | | | | parameter of attach_pull | | | | to IRPAgent. IRPAgent | | | | receives s1 and stores | | | | the s1 for future | | | | comparisons. IRPManager | | | | later calls detach with | | | | s1. IRPAgent receives the | | | | stringified IOR s1, | | | | compares it with those | | | | stored stringified IORs | | | | (e.g. s1), finds a match, | | | | and performs the detach | | | | process. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The grammar of | | | | the filter string is | | | | extended_TCL defined by | | | | OMG Notification Service | | | | (OMG TC Document telecom | | | | [13]). This SS and the | | | | Alarm IRP: CORBA SS [4] | | | | shall use this grammar | | | | only. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: IRPAgent provides | | | | this reference to which | | | | IRPManager can invoke | | | | methods to manage the | | | | subscription. Valid | | | | methods are not defined | | | | in this IRP. OMG CORBA | | | | Notification Service | | | | defines these methods. | | | | Read interface | | | | CosNotifyChannelAdmin:: | | | | SequenceProxyPullSupplier | | | | and | | | | CosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePullConsumer. | | | | IRPManager is expected to | | | | invoke | | | | connect\ | | | | _sequence_pull_consumer | | | | method of this interface | | | | to connect its own | | | | CosNotifyCo | | | | mm::SequencePullConsummer | | | | with this reference. | | | | After successful | | | | connection, IRPManager | | | | pulls sequence of | | | | Structured Events from | | | | IRPAgent. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5: Mapping from IS unsubscribe parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier managerReference string
manager_reference M subscriptionId NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdOpt
subscription_id O status DetachException,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 6: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier versionNumberSet Return
value of type ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet M status
GetNotificationIRPVersions M
* * *
Table 7: Mapping from IS getSubscriptionStatus parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id M
notificationCategorySet Return value of type
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet M filterInEffect
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter_in_effect O subscriptionState
NotificationIRPConstDef::SubscriptionStateOpt subscription_state O timeTick
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick O status
GetSubscriptionStatus, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 8: Mapping from IS getSubscriptionIds parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier managerReference string
manager_reference M subscriptionIdSet Return value of type
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdSet M status GetSubscriptionIds,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 9: Mapping from IS changeSubscriptionFilter parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id M filter string
filter M status ChangeSubscriptionFilter,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 10: Mapping from IS suspendSubscription parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | suspend_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [13]) and requires no | | | | parameter. Therefore, | | | | there is no SS equivalent | | | | for this IS parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | suspend_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [13]) and it returns a | | | | void. Therefore, there is | | | | no SS equivalent for this | | | | IS parameter. This | | | | suspend_connection | | | | method can raise OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [13]) defined exception | | | | called | | | | C | | | | onnectionAlreadyInactive. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 11: Mapping from IS resumeSubscription parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | subscriptionId | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | resume_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [13]) and requires no | | | | parameter. Therefore, | | | | there is no SS equivalent | | | | for this IS parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | If subscription is | M | | | established using | | | | attach_push, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_push_b, the SS | | | | equivalent method is | | | | resume_connection. This | | | | method is defined by OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [13]) and returns a | | | | void. Therefore, there is | | | | no SS equivalent for this | | | | IS parameter. This | | | | resume_connection method | | | | can raise OMG | | | | Notification Service (OMG | | | | TC Document telecom | | | | [13]) defined exception | | | | called | | | | ConnectionAlreadyActive. | | | | | | | | If subscription is | | | | established using | | | | attach_pull, there is no | | | | SS equivalent method. | | | | Therefore, there is no SS | | | | equivalent for this IS | | | | parameter. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 12: Mapping from IS getNotificationCategories parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier notificationCategoryList
Return value of type NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet M Not
specified in IS. NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationTypesSetOpt
notification_type_list O status GetNotificationCategories,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported M
* * *
Table 13: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier iRPVersion
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber notification_irp_version M
operationNameProfile, operationParameterProfile Return of type
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList M status
GetNotificationIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
Table 14: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier iRPVersion
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber notification_irp_version M
notificationNameProfile, notificationParameterProfile Return value of type
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList M status
GetNotificationIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter M
* * *
## A.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302 [7]) defines the semantics of common
attributes carried in notifications. This SS does not provide the mapping of
these attributes to their CORBA SS equivalents. Other IRPs such as Alarm IRP:
IS (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3]) identify and qualify these common attributes for use
in their environment. Their corresponding SS documents define the mapping of
these attributes to their SS equivalents.
# A.3 IRPAgent\'s Behaviour
This clause describes some IRPAgent\'s behaviour not captured by IDL.
## A.3.1 Subscription
IRPManager can invoke multiple attach_push, multiple attach_push_b or multiple
attach_pull using different manager_reference(s). As far as IRPAgent is
concerned, the IRPAgent will emit notifications to multiple \"places\" with
their independent filter requirements. IRPAgent will not know if the
notifications are going to the same IRPManager.
If IRPManager invokes multiple attach_push, attach_push_b or attach_pull using
the same manager_reference and with an already subscribed
notification_category, IRPAgent shall raise AlreadySubscribed exception to all
invocations except one.
IRPManager can invoke multiple attach_push using the same manager_reference
and with one or more not-yet-subscribed notification_categories. In this case,
if IRPAgent supports all the notification categories requested, IRPAgent shall
accept the invocation; otherwise, it raises
AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported exception. IRPAgent shall have
similar behaviour for attach_push_b and attach_pull.
When IRPManager is in subscription by invoking attach_push, IRPManager can
change the filter constraint, using change_subscription_filter, applicable to
the notification categories specified in the attach_push.
When IRPManager is in subscription by invoking attach_push_b, IRPManager can
change the filter constraint during subscription using the OMG defined
Notification Service Filter Interface. IRPManager shall not use
change_subscription_filter; otherwise it shall get an exception.
## A.3.2 IRPAgent supports multiple categories of Notifications
IRPAgent may emit multiple categories of Notifications. IRPAgent may have
mechanism for IRPManager to pull for notifications of multiple categories.
IRPManager can query IRPAgent about the categories of notifications supported
by using get_notification_categories.
IRPManager uses a parameter, notification_categories, in attach_push,
attach_push_b and attach_pull to specify one or more categories of
notifications wanted.
IRPManager uses a zero-length sequence in notification_categories of
attach_push, attach_push_b and attach_pull to specify that all IRPAgent
supported categories of notifications are wanted. If IRPManager uses
attach_push with zero-length sequence in notification_categories and if the
operation is successful, IRPAgent shall reject subsequent attach_push
operation, regardless if the notification_categories contains a zero-length
sequence or one or more specific notification categories. IRPAgent shall have
similar behaviour for attach_push_b and attach_pull.
## A.3.3 IRPAgent\'s integrity risk of attach_push_b Method
In the case that IRPAgent implements this method by extending or using OMG
compliant Notification Service, the following IRPManager behaviour illustrates
a risk to IRPAgent\'s integrity.
Given the object reference (IOR) of the SequenceProxyPushSupplier (as the
mandatory output parameter of the subject method), IRPManager can invoke
SequenceProxyPushSupplier.MyAdmin method.
IRPManager can then obtain the consumer admin object of the proxy. Then
IRPManager can invoke ConsumerAdmin.MyChannel to get the IOR of the
Notification Channel. IRPManager then can call EventChannel.MyFactory which
will provide IRPManager the IOR of the EventChannelFactory itself. IRPManager
can then able to invoke methods directly on the EventChannelFactory, like
get_all_channels which lists all channel numbers and create_channel which
allows IRPManager to create any number of additional channels.
A malicious IRPManager can, given access to the EventChannelFactory, get a
list of existing channels and start connecting them together at random thus
compromising the IRPAgent\'s integrity. Deployment of this attach_push_b needs
strong authentication and authorisation mechanism in place.
The attach_push is mandatory. IRPAgent compliant to this IRP shall support it.
The attach_push_b is optional. It is recommended that IRPAgent concerned with
integrity risk should not support the attach_push_b option.
## A.3.4 Quality of Service Parameters
The OMG Notification Service [13] supports a variety of Quality of Service
(QoS) properties, such as reliability and priority, that may be expressed to
indicate the delivery characteristics of notifications. The following OMG
Notification Service QoS parameter settings shall be required when the
IRPAgent uses the OMG Notification Service to support this SS:
1\. The order policy shall be set to FifoOrder (First-in, First-out) [13].
2\. The message priority shall be set to 0, i.e. no priority [13].
3\. The Start Time Supported shall be set to false, i.e. do not use Start Time
[13].
4\. The Stop Time Supported shall be set to false, i.e. do not use Stop Time
[13].
When the OMG Notification Service is not used, the IRPAgent shall provide
First-in, First-out notification ordering, not provide message priority and
not provide the support of Start Time and Stop Time.
# A.4 Solution Set definitions
## A.4.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.4.2 defines the constants and types Generic IRP Operations [9] used
by the Notification IRP.
Clause A.4.3 defines the Generic IRP Operations as defined by Generic NRM IRP
[9] and performed by the Notification IRP Agent.
Clause A.4.4 defines the constants and types used by the Notification IRP.
Clause A.4.5 defines the operations that are performed by the Notification IRP
agent.
Clause A.4.6 defines the notifications header to be used by IRP agent when
emitting notifications.
## A.4.2 IDL specification \"ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs.idl\"
//File: ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs
This module contains definitions commonly used among all IRPs such as Alarm
IRP.
================================================================
*/
module ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs
{
/*
Definition imported from CosTime.
The time refers to time in Greenwich Time Zone.
It also consists of a time displacement factor in the form of minutes of
displacement from the Greenwich Meridian.
*/
typedef TimeBase::UtcT IRPTime;
enum Signal {OK, FAILURE, PARTIAL_FAILURE};
/*
The VersionNumber is a string that identifies the IRP specification name
and its version number. See definition \"IRP document version number
string\" or \"IRPVersion\".
The VersionNumberSet is a sequence of such VersionNumber. It is returned
by get_XXX_IRP_versions(). The sequence order has no significance.
*/
typedef string VersionNumber;
typedef sequence \ VersionNumberSet;
typedef string MethodName;
typedef string ParameterName;
typedef sequence \ ParameterList;
/*
The Method defines the structure to be returned as part of
get_supported_operations_profile(). The name shall be the actual method
name (ex. \"attach_push\", \"change_subscription_filter\", etc.)
The parameter_list contains a list of strings. Each string shall be
the actual parameter name (ex. \"manager_reference\", \"filter\", etc.)
*/
struct Method
{
MethodName name;
ParameterList parameter_list;
};
/*
List of all methods and their associated parameters.
*/
typedef sequence \ MethodList;
/*
StringOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union StringOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: string value;
};
/*
ShortOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union ShortOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: short value;
};
/*
UnsignedShortOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union UnsignedShortOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: unsigned short value;
};
/*
LongOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union LongOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: long value;
};
/*
UnsignedLongOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union UnsignedLongOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: unsigned long value;
};
};
#endif // _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
## A.4.3 IDL specification "ManagedGenericIRPSystem.idl"
//File: ManagedGenericIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: ManagedGenericIRPSystem
This module contains definitions commonly used among all IRPs such as Alarm
IRP.
================================================================
*/
module ManagedGenericIRPSystem
{
/*
Exception thrown when an unsupported optional parameter
is passed with information.
The parameter shall be the actual unsupported parameter name.
*/
exception ParameterNotSupported { string parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when an invalid parameter value is passed.
The parameter shall be the actual parameter name.
*/
exception InvalidParameter { string parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when a valid but unsupported parameter value is passed.
The parameter shall be the actual parameter name.
*/
exception ValueNotSupported { string parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when an unsupported optional method is called.
*/
exception OperationNotSupported {};
};
#endif // _MANAGED_GENERIC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
## A.4.4 IDL specification "NotificationIRPConstDefs.idl"
//File: NotificationIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATION_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATION_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: NotificationIRPConstDefs
This module contains definitions specific for Notification IRP.
================================================================
*/
module NotificationIRPConstDefs
{
/*
Define the parameters (in the notification header) specified in
the Notification IRP: IS.
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string NOTIFICATION_ID = \"a\";
const string EVENT_TIME = \"b\";
const string SYSTEM_DN = \"c\";
const string MANAGED_OBJECT_CLASS = \"d\";
const string MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE = \"e\";
};
/*
It defines the notification categories.
A notification category is identified by the IRP name and its version number.
*/
typedef ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet NotificationCategorySet;
/*
NotificationCategorySetOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union NotificationCategorySetOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: NotificationCategorySet value;
};
/*
It defines the notification types of a particular notification category.
*/
typedef sequence \ NotificationTypePerNotificationCategory;
/*
This sequence identifies all notification types of all notification
categories identified by NotificationCategorySet. The number of elements
in this sequence shall be identical to that of NotificationCategorySet.
*/
typedef sequence \
NotificationTypesSet;
/*
NotificationTypesSetOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union NotificationTypesSetOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: NotificationTypesSet value;
};
/*
It defines a sequence of SubscriptionIds.
*/
typedef string SubscriptionId;
typedef sequence \ SubscriptionIdSet;
/*
SubscriptionIdOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union SubscriptionIdOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SubscriptionId value;
};
/*
This indicates if the subscription is Active (not suspended), Suspended,
or Invalid.
*/
enum SubscriptionState {ACTIVE, SUSPENDED, INVALID};
/*
SubscriptionStateOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union SubscriptionStateOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SubscriptionState value;
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATION_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
## A.4.5 IDL specification "NotificationIRPSystem.idl"
//File: NotificationIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATION_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATION_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: NotificationIRPSystem
This module implements capabilities of Notification IRP.
================================================================
*/
module NotificationIRPSystem
{
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception GetNotificationIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetNotificationIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetNotificationIRPNotificationProfile { string reason; };
exception Attach { string reason; };
exception DetachException { string reason; };
exception GetSubscriptionStatus { string reason; };
exception ChangeSubscriptionFilter { string reason; };
exception GetNotificationCategories { string reason; };
exception GetSubscriptionIds { string reason; };
exception AlreadySubscribed {};
exception AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported {};
interface NotificationIRP
{
/*
Return the list of all supported Notification IRP versions
Each IRPVersion is defined by the rule in TS 32.311 clause titled
\"IRP document version number string\"
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_notification_irp_versions
(
)
raises (GetNotificationIRPVersions);
/*
Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
parameters for a specific Notification IRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_notification_irp_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber
notification_irp_version
)
raises (GetNotificationIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Return the list of all supported notifications.
Agent should always throw a ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported
exception.
Similar method, such as get_alarm_IRP_notification_profile,
is supported in other IRP versions such as Alarm IRP.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_notification_irp_notification_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber
notification_irp_version
)
raises (GetNotificationIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Obtain the list of all supported notification categories.
*/
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet
get_notification_categories (
out NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationTypesSetOpt
notification_type_list
)
raises (GetNotificationCategories,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId attach_push (
in string manager_reference,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notification_categories,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter
)
raises (Attach, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter, AlreadySubscribed,
AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId attach_push_b (
in string manager_reference,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notification_categories,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out CosNotifyChannelAdmin::SequenceProxyPushSupplier system_reference
)
raises (Attach, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter,
AlreadySubscribed, AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId attach_pull (
in string manager_reference,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notification_categories,
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out CosNotifyChannelAdmin::SequenceProxyPullSupplier system_reference
)
raises (Attach, ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter,
AlreadySubscribed, AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupported);
/*
Replace the present filter constraint with the one provided.
*/
void change_subscription_filter (
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id,
in string filter
)
raises (ChangeSubscriptionFilter,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Check the current state of the subscription.
*/
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet get_subscription_status
(
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionId subscription_id,
out ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::StringOpt filter_in_effect,
out NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionStateOpt subscription_state,
out ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::UnsignedLongOpt time_tick
)
raises (GetSubscriptionStatus,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdSet get_subscription_ids (
in string manager_reference
)
raises (GetSubscriptionIds,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Terminates the subscription with the agent.
*/
void detach (
in string manager_reference,
in NotificationIRPConstDefs::SubscriptionIdOpt subscription_id
)
raises (DetachException,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATION_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
## A.4.6 IDL specification \"NotificationIRPNotifications.idl\"
//File: NotificationIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATION_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATION_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationIRPNotifications
{
interface Notify
{
/**
Notification IRP IS defines 6 attributes for the notification header.
They are: objectClass, objectInstance, notificationId, eventTime,
systemDN and notificationType.
The first 2 attributes are mapped into 1 name-value pair. The name of
the mapped IDL construct is MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE. The const
string of this mapped IDL construct is defined here.
The notificationId, eventTime and systemDN are respectively mapped
into 3 name-value pairs. The const string(s) of these 3 mapped IDL
constructs are defined here.
The notificationType is not mapped into any name-value pair
but is mapped into the type_name position-dependent
field of the CORBA structured-event. There is no need for a const string
definition for it.
*/
const string MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::MANAGED_OBJECT_INSTANCE;
const string NOTIFICATION_ID =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::NOTIFICATION_ID;
const string EVENT_TIME =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::EVENT_TIME;
const string SYSTEM_DN =
NotificationIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::SYSTEM_DN;
};
/**
Type to which OMG CosNotification::StructuredEvent remainder_of_body any is to
be mapped
*/
struct NonFilterableEventBody {
CosNotification::PropertySeq name_value_pairs;
any remainder_of_non_filterable_body;
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATION_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the Notification Integration
Reference Point (Notification IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with
Notification IRP IS definitions [7].
This XML Definitions specification defines the Notification IRP XML
Notification header format.
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.302 V10.0.X [7].
# B.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of Notification IRP is specified in 3G TS
32.302 [7]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML
definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 Notification IRP XML notification header Definitions
This clause provides XML definitions of Notification IRP notification header
as defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [3].\ These definitions are to be used in
conjunction with Notification Log IRP XML Definitions for Notification Log IRP
XML Data File and the NL IRP XML Notification Format (3GPP TS 32.335 [4]).
The structure of the Notification IRP XML Notification header Format is shown
in clause B.3.2.
The Notification IRP XML Notification header Format uses the definition of
notifications in clause B.3.3.
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
{width="4.490972222222222in" height="1.9291666666666667in"}
Figure B-1: Notification IRP XML Notification header WSDL structure
## B.3.3 XML Schema "notification.xsd"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex C (normative): SOAP Solution Set
This annex specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics are
specified in Notification IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.302 [7]).
# C.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Notification IRP is specified in 3GPP TS
32.302 [7]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the SOAP
solution set.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [16] and WSDL 1.1 specification [18] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [17] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model that means IRPAgent sends
notifications to IRPManager as soon as new events occur. IRPManager does not
need to check (\"pull\") for events.
The "Notification" definition is imported from Notification IRP XML
Definition, documented in Annex B of this specification.
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in the Table below.
Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** http http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/http/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ SOAP-ENV
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/ SOAP-ENC or soapenc
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/encoding/ xs or xsd
http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema xsi http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance
ntfIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPSystem
ntfIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPData
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPNtfSystem
ntfIRPNtfData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPNtfData
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPSystem
* * *
The WSDL structure is as outlined in the figures below:
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="1.8416666666666666in"}
Figure C-1: Notification IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="1.007638888888889in"}
Figure C-2: Notification IRP SOAP Solution Set Notification WSDL structure
## C.1.2 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
# C.2 Mapping
## C.2.1 Operation mapping
Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302 [7]) defines semantics of operations
visible across this IRP. These operations are the operations of the IOCs
defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [7].
The table maps the operations defined in Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302
[7]) to their equivalents (methods) in this Solution Set (SS). Specifically,
it maps the operations of the IOCs defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [7] to their
equivalents in this SS. Since one of the IOCs, the NotificationIRP IOC,
inherits from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC [9], the table below also maps the
operations of ManagedGenericIRP IOC to their equivalents (methods) in this SS.
The table below also qualifies if a method is Mandatory (M) or Optional (O).
Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.302 [7] SS Operations Qualifier
subscribe subscribe M
unsubscribe unsubscribe M
getSubscriptionIds getSubscriptionIds O
getSubscriptionStatus getSubscriptionStatus O
changeSubscriptionFilter changeSubscriptionFilter O
suspendSubscription suspendSubscription O
resumeSubscription resumeSubscription O
getNotificationCategories getNotificationCategories O
getIRPVersion (see note.) getIRPVersion M
getOperationProfile (see note.) getOperationProfile O
getNotificationProfile (see note.) getNotificationProfile O
NOTE: These 3 operations are operations of ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in
3GPP TS 32.312 [9].\  
The NotificationIRP IOC of 3GPP TS 32.302 [7] inherits from it.
* * *
## C.2.2 Filter language
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [19]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
## C.2.3 Common datatype definition
### C.2.3.1 NotificationCategorySetType
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### C.2.3.2 SubscriptionStateType
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
## C.2.4 Operation parameter mapping
3GPP TS 32.302 [7] defines semantics of parameters carried in operations
across the Notification IRP. The tables below show the mapping of these
parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
### C.2.4.1 Operation subscribe
#### C.2.4.1.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS subscribe input parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | anyURI managerReference | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | timeTick | long timeTick | O | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | ntfIRPData:No | O | | | tificationCategorySetType | | | | notificationCategories | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | string filter (see note | O | | | 1) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | | anyURI ntfTransServiceNS | M | | | (see note 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE1: The grammar of the | | | | filter string is XPath | | | | defined by W3C XPath 1.0 | | | | specification [19]. | | | | | | | | NOTE2: This parameter is | | | | used to specify the name | | | | space of the Web | | | | Notification Transmission | | | | Service that will be used | | | | for sending | | | | notification.\ | | | | The | | | | "http://www.3gpp.org/ | | | | ftp/specs/archive/32_ser | | | | ies/32.306#notification" | | | | URI\ | | | | should be supported. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Here is the XML schema fragment of the subscribe request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"ntfIRPData:NotificationCategorySetType\" minOccurs=\"0\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.1.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS subscribe output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId string
subscriptionId M status ntfIRPData:subscribeFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the subscribe response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.1.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"string\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### C.2.4.2 Operation unsubscribe
#### C.2.4.2.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS unsubscribe input parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier managerReference anyURI
managerReference M subscriptionId string subscriptionId O
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the unsubscribe request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.2.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS unsubscribe output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier Status
ntfIRPData:unsubscribeFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the unsubscribe response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.2.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### C.2.4.3 Operation getSubscriptionIds
#### C.2.4.3.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS getSubscriptionIds input parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier managerReference anyURI
managerReference M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getSubscriptionIds request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.3.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS getSubscriptionIds output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionIdSet
sequence of string subscriptionIdSet M status
ntfIRPData:getSubscriptionIdsFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getSubscriptionIds response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.3.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### C.2.4.4 Operation getSubscriptionStatus
#### C.2.4.4.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS getSubscriptionStatus input parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId string
subscriptionId M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getSubscriptionStatus request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.4.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS getSubscriptionStatus output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier notificationCategories
ntfIRPData:NotificationCategorySetType notificationCategories C filterInEffect
string filterInEffect (see note) O SubscriptionState
ntfIRPData:SubscriptionStateType SubscriptionState O timeTick long timeTick O
status ntfIRPData:getSubscriptionStatusFault M NOTE: The grammar of the filter
string is XPath defined by W3C XPath 1.0 specification [19].
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getSubscriptionStatus response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"ntfIRPData:NotificationCategorySetType\" minOccurs=\"0\"/>
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"ntfIRPData:SubscriptionStateType\" minOccurs=\"0\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.4.3 Fault definition
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### C.2.4.5 Operation changeSubscriptionFilter
#### C.2.4.5.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS changeSubscriptionFilter input parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId string
subscriptionId M filter string filter (see note) M NOTE: The grammar of the
filter string is XPath defined by W3C XPath 1.0 specification [19].
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the changeSubscriptionFilter request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.5.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS changeSubscriptionFilter output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier status ntfIRPData:
changeSubscriptionFilterFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the changeSubscriptionFilter response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.5.3 Fault definition
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### C.2.4.6 Operation suspendSubscription
#### C.2.4.6.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS suspendSubscription input parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId string
subscriptionId M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the suspendSubscription request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.6.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS suspendSubscription output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier status
ntfIRPData:suspendSubscriptionFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the suspendSubscription response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.6.3 Fault definition
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### C.2.4.7 Operation resumeSubscription
#### C.2.4.7.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS resumeSubscription input parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier subscriptionId string
subscriptionId M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the resumeSubscription request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.7.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS resumeSubscription output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier status
ntfIRPData:resumeSubscriptionFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the resumeSubscription response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.7.3 Fault definition
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### C.2.4.8 Operation getNotificationCategories
#### C.2.4.8.1 Input parameters
None.
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getNotificationCategories request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.8.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS getNotificationCategories output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier NotificationCategoryList
ntfIRPData:NotificationCategorySetType NotificationCategoryList M status
ntfIRPData:getNotificationCategoriesFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getNotificationCategories response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"ntfIRPData:NotificationCategorySetType\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### C.2.4.8.3 Fault definition
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### C.2.5 Parameter mapping
Notification IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.302 [7]) defines the semantics of common
attributes carried in notifications. This SS does not provide the mapping of
these attributes to their SOAP SS equivalents. Other IRPs such as Alarm IRP:
IS (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3]) identify and qualify these common attributes for use
in their environment. Their corresponding SS documents define the mapping of
these attributes to their SS equivalents.
## C.2.6 NotificationIRPNotification Interface definition
The operation name is defined as "notify".
### C.2.6.1 Input parameters
notify input parameters
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier \- xe:Notification
notification M
* * *
The notifications of the various IRPs extend the input parameter above.
Here is the XML schema fragment of the notify request:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### C.2.6.2 Output parameters
None.
# C.3 IRPAgent\'s Behaviour
This clause describes some IRPAgent\'s behaviour not captured by WSDL.
## C.3.1 Subscription
IRPManager can invoke multiple subscribe operation using different
managerReference(s). As far as IRPAgent is concerned, the IRPAgent will emit
notifications to multiple \"places\" with their independent filter
requirements. IRPAgent will not know if the notifications are going to the
same IRPManager.
If IRPManager invokes multiple subscribe using the same managerReference and
with an already subscribed notificationCategory, IRPAgent shall raise
AlreadySubscribedFault fault to all invocations except one.
IRPManager can invoke multiple subscribe using the same managerReference and
with one or more not-yet-subscribed notificationCategories. In this case, if
IRPAgent supports all the notification categories requested, IRPAgent shall
accept the invocation; otherwise, it raises
AtLeastOneNotificationCategoryNotSupportedFault fault.
# C.4 Solution Set definitions
## C.4.1 WSDL definition structure
Clause C.4.2 provides a graphical representation of the Notification IRP
service.
Clause C.4.3 defines the services that are supported by the Notification IRP
agent.
Clause C.4.4 defines the Notification Header definitions.
## C.4.2 Graphical Representation
Not present in the current version of this specification.
## C.4.3 WSDL specification "NotificationIRPSystem"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## C.4.4 WSDL specification "NotificationIRPNtfSystem"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#