# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.311: Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements
32.312: Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Information
Service (IS)
**32.316: Generic Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Solution Set
(SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Solution Set definitions for Generic
Integration Reference Point (IRP) management, whose capabilities are specified
in 3GPP TS 32.312 [1], the Generic IRP management: Information Service.
This Solution Set Definition specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.312
V13.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Alarm Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[5] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[6] Thompson, H.S., Beech, D., Maloney, M., Mendleshon, N., eds. (May 2002).
\"XML Schema Part 1: Structures,\" Recommendation, World Wide Web Consortium
http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-1/
[7] Biron, P.V., Malhotra, A., eds. (May 2002). \"XML Schema Part 2:
Datatypes,\" Recommendation, World Wide Web Consortium
http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/
[8] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/)
[9] RFC 2616 (June 1999): \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\"
[10] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[11] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[12] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.312 [1] apply.
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[2] subclause 3.1.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
WSDL Web Services Description Language
WS-I Web Services Interoperability Organization
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Generic IRP management Solution
Set definitions:
  * 3GPP Generic IRP management CORBA SS (Annex A)
  * 3GPP Generic IRP management SOAP Solution Set (Annex B)
Solution Set to XML definitions is not present in the current version of this
specification.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Generic IRP: Information Service (TS 32.312 [1]).
# A.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of this IRP is specified in 3G TS 32.312
[1]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [12].
## A.1.2 Abstract IOC
The capabilities of the Generic IRP management: IS [1] are captured by the
definition of an IOC called ManagedGenericIRP. This IOC is an abstract class
and is mapped to a MOC of the same name. The MOC is intended for inheritance
by other MOCs specified in Interface IRPs such as AlarmIRP [3],
NotificationIRP [4], etc.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 Operation mapping
Generic IRP management: IS [1] defines semantics of operation visible across
the Itf-N. Table A.1 indicates mapping of these operations to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.1: Mapping from IS Notification/Operation to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation TS 32.312 [1] SS Method Qualifier getIRPVersion get_irp_versions
M getOperationProfile get_interface_irp_operation_profile O
getNotificationProfile get_interface_irp_notification_profile O
* * *
## A.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
Generic IRP management: IS [1] defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the Itf-N. The following set of tables indicates the mapping
of these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this
SS.
Table A.2 Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | versionNumberSet | Return value of type | M | | | GenericIRPManagementCo | | | | nstDefs::VersionNumberSet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagem | | | | entSystem::GetIRPVersions | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.3 Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | GenericIRPManagemen | M | | | tConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | this_irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | operationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | operationParameterProfile | GenericIRPManage | | | | mentConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | GenericIRPM | | | | anagementSystem::GetInter | | | | faceIRPOperationsProfile, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::ValueNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.4 Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | GenericIRPManagemen | M | | | tConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | this_irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | not | GenericIRPManagementCo | | | ificationParameterProfile | nstDefs::NotificationList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | GenericIRPMan | | | | agementSystem::GetInterfa | | | | ceIRPNotificationProfile, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::ValueNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the constants and types used by the Generic IRP.
Clause A.3.3 defines the operations and notifications which are performed by
the Generic IRP agent.
## A.3.2 IDL specification "GenericIRPManagementConstDefs.idl"
//File: GenericIRPManagementConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _GENERIC_IRP_MANAGEMENT_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _GENERIC_IRP_MANAGEMENT_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: GenericIRPManagementConstDefs
This module contains definitions commonly used among all IRPs.
==============================================================
*/
module GenericIRPManagementConstDefs
{
/*
* Definition imported from CosTime.
* The time refers to time in Greenwich Time Zone.
* It also consists of a time displacement factor in the form of minutes of
* displacement from the Greenwich Meridian.
*/
typedef TimeBase::UtcT IRPTime;
typedef string DN;
typedef sequence \ DNList;
enum Signal {OK, FULL_FAILURE, PARTIAL_FAILURE};
enum Result {SUCCESS, FAILURE};
/*
* This holds a list of notification Ids
*/
typedef sequence \ NotifIdSet;
/*
* This holds identifiers of notifications that are correlated.
*/
struct CorrelatedNotification
{
DN source;// Contains DN of MO that emitted the set of notifications
// DN string format in compliance with Name Convention for
// Managed Object.
// This may be a zero-length string. In this case, the MO
// is identified by the value of the MOI attribute
// of the Structured Event, i.e., the notification.
NotifIdSet notif_id_set; // Set of related notification ids
};
/*
* The VersionNumber is a string that identifies the IRP specification name
* and its version number. See definition \"IRP document version number
* string\" or \"IRPVersion\".
* The VersionNumberSet is a sequence of such VersionNumber. It is returned
* by get_XXX_IRP_versions(). The sequence order has no significance.
*/
typedef string VersionNumber;
typedef sequence \ VersionNumberSet;
typedef string MethodName;
typedef string ParameterName;
typedef sequence \ ParameterList;
/*
* The Method defines the structure to be returned as part of
* get_supported_operations_profile(). The name shall be the actual method
* name (ex. \"attach_push\", \"change_subscription_filter\", etc.)
* The parameter_list contains a list of strings. Each string shall be
* the actual parameter name (ex. \"manager_reference\", \"filter\", etc.)
*/
struct Method
{
MethodName name;
ParameterList parameter_list;
};
/*
* List of all methods and their associated parameters.
*/
typedef sequence \ MethodList;
typedef string NotificationName;
struct Notification
{
NotificationName name;
ParameterList parameter_list;
};
typedef sequence \ NotificationList;
/*
* Defines the name of an attribute of a Managed Object
*/
typedef string MOAttributeName;
/*
* Defines the value of an attribute of a Managed Object in form of a CORBA
* Any. Apart from basic datatypes already defined in CORBA, the allowed
* attribute value types are defined in the AttributeTypes module.
*/
typedef any MOAttributeValue;
/*
* Represents an attribute: \"name\" is the attribute name
* and \"value\" is the attribute value.
*/
struct MOAttribute
{
MOAttributeName name;
MOAttributeValue value;
};
typedef sequence \ MOAttributeSet;
typedef string ManagerIdentifier;
/*
* The following are types carrying an optional parameter.
* If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present.
* Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union StringOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: string value;
};
union ShortOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: short value;
};
union UnsignedShortOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: unsigned short value;
};
union LongOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: long value;
};
union UnsignedLongOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: unsigned long value;
};
union IRPTimeOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::IRPTime value;
};};
#endif // _GENERIC_IRP_MANAGEMENT_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
## A.3.3 IDL specification "GenericIRPManagementSystem.idl"
//File: GenericIRPManagementSystem.idl
#ifndef _GENERIC_IRP_MANAGEMENT_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _GENERIC_IRP_MANAGEMENT_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module GenericIRPManagementSystem
{
exception GetInterfaceIRPNotificationProfile { string reason; };
exception GetInterfaceIRPOperationProfile { string reason; };
exception GetIRPVersions { string reason; };
/*
Exception thrown when an unsupported optional parameter
is passed with information.
The parameter shall be the actual unsupported parameter name.
*/
exception ParameterNotSupported {
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::ParameterName parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when an invalid parameter value is passed.
The parameter shall be the actual parameter name.
*/
exception InvalidParameter {
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::ParameterName parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when a valid but unsupported parameter value is passed.
The parameter shall be the actual parameter name.
*/
exception ValueNotSupported {
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::ParameterName parameter; };
/*
Exception thrown when an unsupported optional method is called.
*/
exception OperationNotSupported {};
interface GenericIRPManagement
{
/*
Return the list of all supported Interface IRP versions
Each IRPVersion is defined by the rule in the definition
\"IRP document version number string\" or \"IRPVersion\"
(see subclause 3.1).
*/
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_irp_versions
(
)
raises (GetIRPVersions);
/*
Return the list of all supported methods and their supported
parameters for this Interface IRPVersion.
*/
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::MethodList
get_interface_irp_operation_profile
(
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::VersionNumber this_irp_version
)
raises (GetInterfaceIRPOperationProfile,
OperationNotSupported,
InvalidParameter,
ValueNotSupported);
/*
Return the list of all supported notifications and their supported
parameters for this Interface IRPVersion.
*/
typedef GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::NotificationList NotificationList;
NotificationList get_interface_irp_notification_profile
(
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::VersionNumber this_irp_version
)
raises (GetInterfaceIRPNotificationProfile,
OperationNotSupported,
InvalidParameter,
ValueNotSupported);
};
};
#endif // _GENERIC_IRP_MANAGEMENT_SYSTEM_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): SOAP Solution Set
This annex specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics are
specified in Generic IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.312[1]).
# B.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of this IRP is specified in 3G TS 32.312
[1]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the SOAP SS.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [8] and WSDL 1.1 specification [5] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [11] is optionally supported.
This specification uses \"document\" style in the WSDL description.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in the WSDL description.
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table B.1.
Table B.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**Prefix** **Namespace** http http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/http/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ SOAP-ENV
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/ SOAP-ENC or soapenc
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/encoding/ xs or xsd
http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema xsi http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance
genericIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPData
* * *
###
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [12].
# B.2 Mapping
## B.2.1 Operation mapping
Generic IRP management: IS [1] defines semantics of operation visible across
the Itf-N. Table B.2.1 indicates mapping of these operations to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
Table B.2.1: Mapping from IS Notification/Operation to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation TS 32.312 [1] SS Operation Qualifier getIRPVersion getIRPVersion
M getOperationProfile getOperationProfile O getNotificationProfile
getNotificationProfile O
* * *
## B.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
### B.2.2.1 Operation getIRPVersion
#### B.2.2.1.1 Input parameters
None.
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getIRPVersion request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### B.2.2.1.2 Output parameters
None.
Table B.2.2.1.2: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion output parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier versionNumberSet
genericIRPData:VersionNumberSetType versionNumberSet M status
genericIRPData:getIRPVersionFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getIRPVersion response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"genericIRPData:VersionNumberSetType\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### B.2.2.1.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ default=\"getIRPVersionFault\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### B.2.2.2 Operation getOperationProfile
#### B.2.2.2.1 Input parameters
Table B.2.2.2.1: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier iRPVersion
genericIRPData:VersionNumberType iRPVersion M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getOperationProfile request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### B.2.2.2.2 Output parameters
Table B.2.2.2.2: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile output parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier
operationNameProfile,operationParameterProfile genericIRPData:OperationSetType
operationSet M status genericIRPData:getOperationProfileFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getOperationProfile response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### B.2.2.2.3 Fault definition
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### B.2.2.3 Operation getNotificationProfile
#### B.2.2.3.1 Input parameters
Table B.2.2.3.1: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier iRPVersion
genericIRPData:VersionNumberType iRPVersion M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getNotificationProfile request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### B.2.2.3.2 Output parameters
Table B.2.2.3.2: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile output parameters to
SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier
notificationNameProfile,notificationParameterProfile
genericIRPData:NotificationSetType notificationSet M Status
genericIRPData:getNotificationProfileFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getNotificationProfile response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ name=\"notificationSet\"type=\"genericIRPData:NotificationSetType\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### B.2.2.3.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ default=\"getNotificationProfileFault\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 WSDL definition structure
Clause B.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the Generic IRP service.
Clause B.3.3 defines the services which are supported the Generic IRP agent.
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
Not present in the current version of this specification.
## B.3.3 WSDL specification "GenericIRPSystem.wsdl"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#