# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.381: Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements.**
**32.382: Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS).**
32.386: Partial Suspension of Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions.
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS
32.102 [2].
Information of an event is carried in a notification. An IRPAgent (typically
an EM or a NE) emits notifications (see 3GPP TS 32.302 [3]. The IRPManager
(typically a Network Management System) receives notifications. In certain
scenarios floods of unwanted notifications including alarms would be sent to
the IRP manager by network object instances. Thereby the interface and the
management systems bear unnecessary load. Even worse: the Operator\'s
awareness is drawn away from really urgent events.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of Partial Suspension of Itf-N IRP is to define an interface
through which an IRPManager can suspend the forwarding of notifications via
Itf-N which were generated in parts of the managed systems.
The present document is the Information Service of Partial Suspension of Itf-N
IRP. It defines, for the purpose of suspending generally the forwarding of
notifications, the information observable and controlled by management
system\'s client and it also specifies the semantics of the interactions used
to carry this information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.381: \"Telecommunication management; Partial Suspension of
Itf-N Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (SS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**Suspended notification:** See 3GPP TS 32.381 [4].
**Itf-N suspended managed instance:** See 3GPP TS 32.381 [4].
**Partial suspension of Itf-N:** See 3GPP TS 32.381 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
Itf-N Interface N
MIB Management Information Base
NE Network Element
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [5], clause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
figures 4.1-1 and 4.1-2.
Figure 4.1-1: System Context A
Figure 4.1-2: System Context B
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.312 [7], information object class, managedGenericIRP
managedGenericIRP 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, IRPAgent
IRPAgent
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information within the
partial suspension of Itf-N IRP. The intent is to identify the information
required for the partial suspension of Itf-N IRP implementation of its
operations and notification emission. This clause provides the overview of all
Information Object Classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed
specification of various aspects of these information object classes.
Figure 5.2.1-1: Class Diagram
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between
Information Object Classes.
Figure 5.2.2-1: Inheritance Diagram
## 5.3 Information Object Classes definition
### 5.3.1 partialSuspendedOfItfN
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This information object represents a partial suspension object instance.
A partialSuspensionOfItfN is fully identified by its distinguished name.
A partialSuspensionOfItfN can represent a group of suspended instances
depending on its scope.
It inherits from IOC Top.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
partialSuspensionId + M M - baseMOInstance + O M - scope + O M -
activationTime + O M -
* * *
### 5.3.2 partialSuspensionOfItfNIRP
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This information object represents a partial suspension of Itf-N IRP. It
inherits from IOC managedGenericIRP.
## 5.4 Information relationships definition
### 5.4.1 relation-partialSuspensionOfItfNIRP-partialSuspensionOfItfN (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This relationship defines the relationship between a
partialSuspensionOfItfNIRP and the current partially suspended instances.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition thePartiallySuspended This role represents the one who is
partially suspended. It can be played by instances of IOC
partialSuspensionOfItfN thePartialSuspensionOfItfNIRP This role represents the
partial suspension of Itf-N IRP which an IRPManager uses. It is played by
instances of IOC partialSuspensionOfItfNIRP
* * *
#### 5.4.1.3 Constraints
None
## 5.5 Information attributes definition
This clause defines the semantics of the Attributes used in Information Object
Classes.
### 5.5.1 Definitions and legal values
* * *
Attribute Name Definition Legal Values baseMOInstance This attribute
identifies uniquely a partially suspended base object instance N/A scope This
attribute indicates the managed object scope of the partial suspension. N/A
partialSuspensionId This attribute identifies uniquely a partial suspension
requested by an IRPManager N/A activationTime This attribute identifies the
time from which onwards the partial suspension shall be active. N/A
* * *
# 6 Interface definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
Figure 6.1-1: Class Diagram for AlarmIRPOperation_6 Interface
## 6.2 Generic rules
**Rule 1:** Each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 2:** Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports
a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\"
is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition indicates
that the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally,
each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 3:** Each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 partialSuspension Interface (M)
This interface defines methods for the IRPManager to request from the IRPAgent
to generally suspend the forwarding of notifications via the Itf-N for a scope
of managed object instances and all other notifications not related to managed
NRM IOC instances. For the definition of partial suspension see the
requirements document 3GPP TS 32.381 [4].
### 6.3.1 Operation setPartialSuspensionOfItfN (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to suspend the forwarding via Itf-N of
notifications generated by scoped managed object instances and all other
notifications not related to managed NRM IOC instances.
It is the IRPAgent\'s decision whether or not the suspended notifications are
logged, whether or not they go into the AlarmList.
The IRPAgent may apply a time delay before activation of the partial
suspension and inform about it in the optional output parameter activationTime
of this operation and notification notifyChangeOfPartialSuspensionOfItfN (this
allows intervention of other IRPManagers in multi-manager scenarios).
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment managerReference M See 3GPP
TS 32.302 [3]  
baseMOInstance O See 3GPP TS 32.602 [8] If this parameter is not present, then
all instances under the control of the IRPAgent are suspended. scope CM See
3GPP TS 32.662 [9] Condition: baseMOInstance is present
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | part | CM | INTEGER | Condition: | | ialSuspensionId | | | | | | | | s | | | | | tatus==Success. | | | | | | | | | | It uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | new suspension | | | | | in the | | | | | IRPAgent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | con | CM | LIST OF | Condition: | | flictingPartial | | Pa | | | Suspension­List | | rtialSuspension | failure reason | | | | | is | | | | STRUCT ( | AtLeas | | | | | tOneInstanceAlr | | | | parti | eady­Suspended. | | | | alSuspensionId, | | | | | | It contains the | | | | [pa | corresponding | | | | rtialSuspension | part | | | | ParameterList] | ialSuspensionId | | | | | of instances | | | | LIST OF | which are | | | | partialSusp | already | | | | ensionParameter | suspended. | | | | | | | | | STRUCT | [ ] signifies | | | | | optional parts | | | | ([base | of the output | | | | ObjectInstance, | parameter. | | | | | | | | | scope,] | activationTime | | | | | can be omitted | | | | [a | if it is has | | | | ctivationTime] | already expired | | | | | or if it was | | | | ) | not used. | | | | | | | | | ) | partialSuspensi | | | | | onParameterList | | | | | is absent if no | | | | | scoping was | | | | | applied at | | | | | activation of | | | | | the | | | | | pa | | | | | rtialSuspension | | | | | and | | | | | activationTime | | | | | is not present, | | | | | i.e. the list | | | | | would be empty. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | activationTime | O | GeneralizedTime | This is the | | | | | IRPAgent\'s | | | | | time, when this | | | | | partial | | | | | suspension will | | | | | become active. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM ( | Failure reasons | | | | | are: | | | | Success, | | | | | | AtLea | | | | Failure | stOneInstanceAl | | | | | readySuspended, | | | | ) | | | | | | TooBusy and | | | | | other | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reasons. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
baseMOInstanceExists AND instancesNotYetSuspended
* * *
Assertion Name Definition baseMOInstanceExists The specified baseMOInstance
does exist. instancesNotYet­Suspended None of the scoped instances is already
suspended.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
partialSuspensionIsApplied
* * *
Assertion Name Definition partialSuspensionIsApplied The requested partial
suspension of Itf-N is applied by the IRPAgent.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.2 Operation removePartialSuspensionOfItfN (M)
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This operation allows any IRPManager to remove a previously defined partial
suspension of Itf-N.
#### 6.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment managerReference M See 3GPP
TS 32.302 [3] See 3GPP TS 32.302 [3] partialSuspensionId M See clause 6.3.1.3
= output of an earlier setPartialSuspensionOfItfN operation
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure)
* * *
#### 6.3.2.4 Pre-condition
partialSuspensionIdExists
* * *
Assertion Name Definition partialSuspensionIdExists The specified suspension
does exist in the IRPAgent.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.5 Post-condition
partialSuspensionIsRemoved
* * *
Assertion Name Definition partialSuspensionIsRemoved The specified partial
suspension is not applied anymore.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.3 Operation readActivePartialSuspensionsOfItfN (O)
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to determine which partial suspensions are
active in the IRPAgent, independently of the IRPManagers which requested the
suspensions.
#### 6.3.3.2 Input parameters
None.
#### 6.3.3.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | activePartial | CM | LIST OF | If the IRPAgent | | Suspension­List | | Pa | does not detect | | | | rtialSuspension | an active | | | | | suspension, | | | | STRUCT ( | then | | | | | status==Success | | | | parti | and | | | | alSuspensionId, | activePartia | | | | | lSuspensionList | | | | [pa | is empty. | | | | rtialSuspension | | | | | ParameterList] | A partial | | | | | suspension | | | | LIST OF | whose | | | | partialSusp | activationTime | | | | ensionParameter | is not yet | | | | | reached shall | | | | STRUCT | also be in this | | | | | activePartial | | | | (base | SuspensionList. | | | | ObjectInstance, | | | | | | Condition: | | | | scope, | | | | | | Present if and | | | | [a | only if | | | | ctivationTime] | status==Success | | | | | | | | | ) | activationTime | | | | | can be omitted | | | | ) | if it is has | | | | | already expired | | | | | or if it was | | | | | not used. | | | | | | | | | | partialSuspensi | | | | | onParameterList | | | | | is absent if no | | | | | scoping was | | | | | applied at | | | | | activation of | | | | | the | | | | | pa | | | | | rtialSuspension | | | | | and | | | | | activationTime | | | | | is not present, | | | | | i.e. the list | | | | | would be empty. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | | | | | Failure) | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.3.4 Pre-condition
atLeastOnePartialSuspensionIsActive
* * *
Assertion Name Definition atLeastOnePartialSuspensionIsActive There is at
least one suspension in the IRPAgent.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.5 Post-condition
allActivePartialSuspensionsAreDelivered
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allActivePartialSuspensionsAreDelivered All partial
suspensions which are active are listed in the output.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.4 Notification notifyChangeOfPartialSuspensionOfItfN (M)
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This notification is sent:
\- after the IRPAgent has successfully performed a setPartialSuspensionOfItfN
request and possibly (if this is supported) before the activationTime of this
partial suspension;
\- after the IRPAgent has successfully performed a
removePartialSuspensionOfItfN request.
IRPManagers should be aware that the IRPAgent can not deliver reliable results
for some operations while partial suspension is active. Therefore the
IRPManager should not use such operations, e.g. CM and FM or TM etc.
operations in the scoped branch of the MIB, which is suspended.
This notification can also be sent to an IRPManager who nevertheless requested
an operation for an instance whose notification forwarding is suspended.
#### 6.3.4.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | | [3]: it shall | | | | | carry the | | | | | PartialSusp | | | | | ensionOfItfNIRP | | | | | class name | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | | [3]: it shall | | | | | carry the DN of | | | | | the | | | | | PartialSusp | | | | | ensionOfItfNIRP | | | | | instance. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M, N | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | | [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | | [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M, Y | \"n | Notification | | otificationType | | otifyPartialSus | header - see | | | | pensionOfItfN\" | 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | | [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | IRP | Notification | | | | Agent.systemDN. | header - see | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.302 | | | | | [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | typeOfChange | M, Y | ENUM( | | | | | | | | | | SetPar | | | | | tialSuspension, | | | | | | | | | | RemovePa | | | | | rtialSuspension | | | | | | | | | | ) | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | part | M, Y | partialSus | See clause | | ialSuspensionId | | pensionIRP.part | 6.3.1.3 | | | | ialSuspensionId | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | M, Y | partial | See clause | | anagerReference | | SuspensionIRP.m | 6.3.1.2 | | | | anagerReference | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | baseMOInstance | CO, Y | partia | Condition: | | | | lSuspensionIRP. | | | | | baseMOInstance, | scoping was | | | | see clause | used at | | | | 6.3.1.2 | activation of | | | | | this partial | | | | | suspension | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | scope | CM, Y | partialSuspe | Condition: | | | | nsionIRP.scope, | | | | | see clause | scoping was | | | | 6.3.1.2 | used at | | | | | activation of | | | | | this partial | | | | | suspension | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | activationTime | CO, N | Same type as | Condition: | | | | eventTime | | | | | | typeOfChange== | | | | | SetPa | | | | | rtialSuspension | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.4.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.3.4.3.1 From-state
aPartialSuspensionWasSetOrRemoved
* * *
Assertion Name Definition aPartialSuspensionWasSetOrRemoved The IRPAgent has
successfully set or removed a partial suspension.
* * *
##### 6.3.4.3.2 To-state
subcribedManagersInformedAboutChangeInSuspension
* * *
Assertion Name Definition subcribedManagersInformedAboutSuspension All
subscribed IRPManagers are informed about the change in the suspension.
* * *
#