# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and
template
32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain
**32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice**
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor 3G-system.
During the lifetime of a 3G network, its logical and physical configuration
will undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise
the utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed
through network configuration management activities and/or network
engineering, see TS 32.600 [3].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of a 3G network require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms
involved in the collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
Annex B of 32.404 helps in the definition of new performance measurements that
can be submitted to 3GPP for potential adoption and inclusion in the present
document. Annex B of 32.404 discusses a top-down performance measurement
definition methodology that focuses on how the end-user of performance
measurements can use the measurements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements for UMTS and combined
UMTS/GSM.
TS 32.401 [1] describes Performance Management concepts and requirements.
The present document is valid for all measurement types provided by an
implementation of a UMTS network and combined UMTS/GSM network.
Only measurement types that are specific to UMTS or combined UMTS/GSM networks
are defined within the present documents. Vendor specific measurement types
used in UMTS and combined UMTS/GSM networks are not covered. Instead, these
could be applied according to manufacturer\'s documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as ATM or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. RNC related measurements);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. soft handover measurements);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication > and/or edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Functional
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.172: \"Technical realization of Circuit Switched (CS)
multimedia service UDI/RDI fallback and service modification; Stage 2\".
[5] ITU-T Q.763: \"Signalling System No. 7 -- ISDN user part formats and
codes\".
[6] ITU-T Q.723: \"Specifications of Signalling System No. 7 -- Telephone user
part; Formats and codes\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[11] ITU-T Q.1902: \"Specifications of signalling related to Bearer
Independent Call Control (BICC)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) Phase 4; Stage 2\".
# 3 Measurement family and abbreviations
## 3.1 Measurement family
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name (e.g. RAB.AttEstabCS.Conv,
MM.AttGprsAttach). This family name identifies all measurements which relate
to a given functionality and it may be used for measurement administration
(see TS 32.401 [1]).
The list of families currently used in the present document is as follows:
\- MMS (measurements related to Multimedia Messaging Services);
\- SMS (measurements related to Short Message Service);
\- MMC (measurements related to MultiMedia calls);
\- VSC (measurements related to voice call);
\- IN (measurements related to Intelligent Service).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CAMEL Customized Application for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
BICC Bearer Independent Call Control
CN Core Network
EM (Network) Element Manager
IN Intelligent Service
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunications
Standardisation Sector
MM MultiMedia
MSC Mobile services Switching Centre
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
OS Operations System (EM, NM)
QoS Quality of ServiceUMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
You can find below a list of abbreviations used within the measurement types
for field E of the measurement template.
Ans Answer(ed)
Att Attempt(s,ed)
Conv Conversational
CS Circuit switched
Fail Fail(ed, ure)
FB Fallback
IN Intelligent Service
Inc Incoming
Init Init
Inter Inter
Max Maximum
MM Mobility Management
MM MultiMedia
MMC Multimedia Call
Origi Originating
PS Packet switched
Req Request(s,ed)
Res Resource
SC Service Change
Setup Setup
SGSN SGSN
Sub Subscriber
Succ Success(es,ful)
Termi Terminating
UE User Equipment
User User
Vce Voice
# 4 Measurements related to the MMS Relay/Server
Figure 4.1
MM1: Reference point MM1 is used to submit Multimedia Messages from MMS User
Agent to MMS Relay/Server, to let the MMS User Agent pull MMs from the MMS
Relay/Server, let the MMS Relay/Server push information about MMs to the MMS
User Agent as part of an MM notification, and to exchange delivery reports
between MMS Relay/Server and MMS User Agents.
MM2: Not specified yet
MM3: Reference point MM3 is used by the MMS Relay/Server to send Multimedia
Messages to and retrieve MMs from servers of external (legacy) messaging
systems that are connected to the service provider\'s MMS Relay/Server.
MM4: Reference point MM4 between MMS Relay/Servers belonging to different
MMSEs is used to transfer messages between them.
MM5: Reference point MM5 may be used to provide information to the MMS
Relay/Server about the subscriber.
MM6: Not specified
MM7: Reference point MM7 is used to transfer MMs from MMS Relay/Server to MMS
VAS applications and to transfer MMs from MMS VAS applications to MMS
Relay/Server.
MMS uses a number of technologies to realise the requirements of the stage 1
description (TS 22.140) [2]. As far as possible existing protocols (e.g. WAP,
SMTP, ESMTP as transfer protocols; lower layers to provide push, pull,
notification) and existing message formats (e.g. SMIL, MIME) shall be used for
the realisation of the Multimedia Messaging Service.
In order to define generic measurements, 3GPP should specify Performance
measurements based on the Reference Points (MM1 to MM7) and not specific to
the protocol implemented. So whatever the implementation IP or WAP for
example, the Reference Point messages are generic and so the measurements will
be the same.
The main interfaces involve in the MMS delivery are the interface MM1 and MM4,
we can see in this diagram the exact messages involve in the delivery. Those
messages can be used to define Performance Measurement on a MMS Relay/Server
basis.
Figure 4.2: Example Abstract Message Flow
The most important quality metrics for MMS are availability, accuracy and
speed. This contribution addresses the first two, the speed will require
additional measurements based on time to deliver the multimedia messages.
Availability and accuracy are a measure of the percentage of request that are
successfully served and how complete the response is. The mentioned triggering
points enable to define raw number of messages sent and received by the MMS
Relay/Server, but is not good enough to gather service quality measurement,
because those are only volume measurements. Also Response messages provide an
acknowledgement mechanism for the request messages and those response messages
can be positive or negative acknowledgement. This information is in the
\"Request Status code\" which is contained by the \"Request Status\" field in
the response messages. So in order to gather service quality measurements, a
higher granularity is required for the response messages measurements:
subcounters per request status code are introduced for that purpose. This is
for MM1 submission and retrieval as well as every MM4 response messages
measurements.
Background Information on the Request Status from TS 23.140 [2]
**Request Status:** The originator MMS Relay/Server shall indicate the status
of the MM1_submit.REQ in the associated MM1_submit.RES. The reason code given
in the status information element of the MM1_submit.RES may be supported with
an explanatory text further qualifying the status. If this text is available
in the Request status text information element the MMS User Agent should bring
it to the user\'s attention. The choice of the language used in the Request
status text information element is at the discretion of the MMS service
provider.
Table 4.1: Information elements in the MM1_submit.RES
* * *
Information element Presence Description Message Type Mandatory Identifies
this message as MM1_submit.RES. Transaction ID Mandatory The identification of
the MM1_submit.REQ/MM1_submit.RES pair. MMS Version Mandatory Identifies the
version of the interface supported by the MMS Relay/Server. Request Status
Mandatory The status of the MM submit request. Request Status Text Optional
Description which qualifies the status of the MM submit request. Message ID
Conditional The identification of the MM if it is accepted by the originator
MMS Relay/Server. Store Status Conditional If the Store request was present in
MM1_submit.REQ, the status of the store request. Store Status Text Optional
The explanatory text corresponding to the Store Status, if present. Stored
Message Reference Conditional If the Store request was present in
MM1_submit.REQ, the message reference to the newly stored MM.
* * *
Table 4.2: Example of Request Status Code from TS 23.140 [2]
* * *
Request-Status-Code Meaning Ok The corresponding request and some or all of
its contents were accepted without errors. Error-unspecified An unspecified
error occurred during the processing or reception of the corresponding
request. Error-service-denied The corresponding request was rejected due to
failure of authentication or authorisation of the originating MMS
Relay/Server. Error-message-format-corrupt An inconsistency with the message
format was detected when the corresponding request was parsed. Error-sending-
address-unresolved There were no MMS address (From:, To:, Cc:, Bcc:) in its
proper format or none of the addresses belong to the recipient MMS
Relay/Server. Error-message-not-found This status code is obsolete Error-
network-problem The recipient MMS Relay/Server was not able to accept the
corresponding request due to capacity overload. Error-content-not-accepted The
MM content was not accepted due to size, media type, copyrights or some other
reason. Error-unsupported-message The recipient MMS Relay/Server does not
support the corresponding request abstract message.
* * *
## 4.1 MM1
MM1 is the interface between the MMS Relay/Server and the MMS User Agent,
following are the proposed measurements.
### 4.1.1 Number of Multimedia Messages submit requests received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > submit
requests received by MMS Relay/Server from MMS User Agent > on the Reference
point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM1_submit.REQ\" message from MMS User Agent (TS >
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1SubReq.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.2 Number of Multimedia Messages submit responses sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > submit
responses sent by MMS Relay/Server to MMS User Agent on the > Reference point
MM1. The measurement is split into subcounters per > request status code.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM1_submit.RES\" message to MMS User Agent. > Each
submit responses is added to the relevant measurement > according to the
request status code. See TS 23.140 [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1SubRes.Status
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.3 Number of Multimedia Messages notification requests sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) >
notification requests sent by MMS Relay/Server to MMS User Agent > on the
Reference point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM1_notification.REQ\" message to MMS User > Agent
(TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1NotReq.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.4 Number of Multimedia Messages notification responses received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) >
notification responses received by MMS Relay/Server from MMS User > Agent on
the Reference point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM1_notification.RES\" message from MMS User > Agent (TS
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1NotRes.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.5 Number of Multimedia Messages retrieve requests received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > retrieve
requests received by MMS Relay/Server from MMS User Agent > on the Reference
point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM1_retrieve.REQ\" message from MMS User Agent > (TS
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1RetReq.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.6 Number of Multimedia Messages retrieve responses sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > retrieve
responses sent by MMS Relay/Server to MMS User Agent on > the Reference point
MM1. The measurement is split into subcounters > per request status code.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM1_retrieve.RES\" message to MMS User > Agent.
Each retrieve responses is added to the relevant > measurement according to
the request status code. See TS 23.140 > [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1RetRes.Status.
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.7 Number of Multimedia Messages acknowledgement requests received by
MMS Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) >
acknowledgement requests received by MMS Relay/Server from MMS > User Agent on
the Reference point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM1_acknowledgement.REQ\" message from MMS User > Agent
(TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1AckReq.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.8 Number of Multimedia Messages forward requests received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > forward
requests received by MMS Relay/Server from MMS User Agent > on the Reference
point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \" MM1_forward.REQ\" message from MMS User Agent > (TS
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1fwdREQ.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.9 Number of Multimedia Messages forward responses sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > forward
responses sent by MMS Relay/Server to MMS User Agent on > the Reference point
MM1.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM1_forward.RES\" message to MMS User Agent > (TS
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1FwdRes.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.10 Number of Multimedia Messages delivery report requests sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > delivery
report requests sent by MMS Relay/Server to MMS User > Agent on the Reference
point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM1_delivery_report.REQ\" message to MMS > User
Agent (TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1RepReq.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.11 Number of Multimedia Messages read reply recipient requests
received by MMS Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > read
reply recipient requests received by MMS Relay/Server to MMS > User Agent on
the Reference point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM1_read_reply_recipient.REQ\" message from > MMS User
Agent (TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1ReadRecReq.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.1.12 Number of Multimedia Messages read reply originator requests sent
by MMS Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > read
reply originator requests sent by MMS Relay/Server to MMS > User Agent on the
Reference point MM1.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM1_read_reply_originator.REQ\" message > to MMS
User Agent (TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM1ReadOrigReq.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 4.2 MM4
MM4 is the interface between MMS Relay/Servers, following are the proposed
measurements.
### 4.2.1 Number of Multimedia Messages forward requests received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > forward
requests received by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server on the
Reference point MM4.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM4_forward.REQ\" message from MMS Relay/Server > (TS
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4FwdReqRec.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.2 Number of Multimedia Messages forward requests sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > forward
requests sent by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server on the
Reference point MM4.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM4_forward.REQ\" message to MMS > Relay/Server (TS
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4FwdReqSnt.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.3 Number of Multimedia Messages forward responses received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > forward
responses received by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server on the
Reference point MM4. The measurement is split > into subcounters per request
status code.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM4_forward.RES\" message from MMS Relay/Server. > Each
forward response is added to the relevant measurement > according to the
request status code. See TS 23.140 [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4FwdResRec Status.
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.4 Number of Multimedia Messages forward responses sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > forward
responses sent by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server on the
Reference point MM4. The measurement is split > into subcounters per request
status code.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM4_forward.RES\" message to MMS > Relay/Server.
Each forward response is added to the relevant > measurement according to the
request status code. See TS 23.140 > [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4FwdResSnt Status.
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.5 Number of Multimedia Messages delivery report requests received by
MMS Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > delivery
report requests received by MMS Relay/Server from another > MMS Relay/Server
on the Reference point MM4.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of a \"MM4_ delivery_report.REQ\" message from MMS >
Relay/Server (TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4RepReqRec.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.6 Number of Multimedia Messages delivery report requests sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > delivery
report requests sent by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server on
the Reference point MM4.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of a \"MM4_ delivery_report.REQ\" message to MMS >
Relay/Server (TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4RepReqSnt.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.7 Number of Multimedia Messages delivery report responses received by
MMS Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > delivery
report responses received by MMS Relay/Server from > another MMS Relay/Server
on the Reference point MM4. The > measurement is split into subcounters per
request status code.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of a \" MM4_ delivery_report.RES\" message from MMS >
Relay/Server. Each delivery report responses is added to the > relevant
measurement according to the request status code. See TS > 23.140 [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4RepResRec Status.
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.8 Number of Multimedia Messages delivery report responses sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) delivery
report responses sent by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS Relay/Server on the
Reference point MM4. The measurement is split into subcounters per request
status code.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM4_delivery_report.RES\" message to MMS
Relay/Server. Each delivery report response is added to the relevant
measurement according to the request status code. See TS 23.140 [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4RepResSnt Status.
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.9 Number of Multimedia Messages read reply requests received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) read reply
requests received by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS Relay/Server on the
Reference point MM4.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM4_read_reply.REQ\" message from MMS Relay/Server (TS
23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4ReadReqRec.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.10 Number of Multimedia Messages read reply requests sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > read
reply requests sent by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server on the
Reference point MM4.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM4_read_reply.REQ\" message to MMS > Relay/Server
(TS 23.140 [2]).
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4ReadReqSnt.
f) MMS Relay/Server Function.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.11 Number of Multimedia Messages read reply responses received by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > read
reply responses received by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server
on the Reference point MM4. The measurement is split > into subcounters per
request status code.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of an \"MM4_read_reply.RES\" message from MMS > Relay/Server.
Each read reply response is added to the relevant > measurement according to
the request status code. See TS 23.140 > [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4ReadResRec Status.
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
### 4.2.12 Number of Multimedia Messages read reply responses sent by MMS
Relay/Server
a) This measurement provides the number of Multimedia Messages (MM) > read
reply responses sent by MMS Relay/Server from another MMS > Relay/Server on
the Reference point MM4. The measurement is split > into subcounters per
request status code.
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"MM4_read_reply.RES\" message to MMS > Relay/Server.
Each read reply response is added to the relevant > measurement according to
the request status code. See TS 23.140 > [2].
d) A single integer value.
e) The measurement name has the form MMS.MM4ReadResSnt Status.
f) where Status identifies the request status code.
g) MMS Relay/Server Function.
h) Valid for packet switching.
i) GSM/UMTS.
# 5\. SMS related measurements
The three measurement groups defined in subclause 5.n are subject to the \"2
out of 3 approach\".
## 5.1 SMS in the CS domain (MSC)
### 5.1.1 CS SMS mobile originating
#### 5.1.1.1 Attempted CS SMS mobile originating
a) This measurement provides the number of CS SMS mobile originating >
attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2
> out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the MSC of \"RP-DATA\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]) from > the MS.
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMoCS:
\- SMS.AttMoCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMoCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMoCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.1.1.2 Successful CS SMS mobile originating
a) This measurement provides the number of successful CS SMS mobile >
originating attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject
to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission by the MSC of \"RP-ACK\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]) to > the MS.
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMoCS:
\- SMS.SuccMoCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMoCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMoCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.1.2 CS SMS mobile terminating
#### 5.1.2.1 Attempted CS SMS mobile terminating
a) This measurement provides the number of CS SMS mobile terminating >
attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2
> out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission by the MSC of \"RP-DATA\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMtCS:
\- SMS.AttMtCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMtCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMtCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.1.2.2 Successful CS SMS mobile terminating
a) This measurement provides the number of successful CS SMS mobile >
terminating attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject
to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the MSC of \"RP-ACK\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMtCS:
\- SMS.SuccMtCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMtCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMtCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.1.3 CS ms-Present
#### 5.1.3.1 Attempted CS ms-Present
a) This attribute counts the number of times that a MS (attached to a > MSC)
send that it is ready to receive SM.\ > The three measurement types defined in
e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission of MAP-READY-FOR-SM with alertReason = ms-Present to > the HLR
from the MSC (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMsPresentCS:
\- SMS.AttMsPresentCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMsPresentCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMsPresentCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.1.3.2 Successful CS ms-Present
a) This attribute counts the number of successful times that a MS > (attached
to a MSC) send that it is ready to receive SM.\ > The three measurement types
defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) This counter will be increased when a return result is received by > the
MSC from the HLR in response to the MAP_READY_FOR_SM with > reason = \"MS
present\" (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMsPresentCS:
\- SMS.SuccMsPresentCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMsPresentCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMsPresentCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.1.4 CS \"memory available\"
#### 5.1.4.1 Attempted CS \"memory available\"
a) This attribute counts the number of times that an MS (attached to a > MSC)
sent an indication of \"memory available\" to MSC.\ > The three measurement
types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission of MAP-READY-FOR-SM with alertReason = memoryAvailable > to
the HLR from the MSC (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMemoryAvailableCS:
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailableCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailableCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailableCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.1.4.2 Successful CS \"memory available\"
a) This attribute counts the number of successful times that an MS > (attached
to a MSC) sent an indication of \"memory available\" to > MSC.\ > The three
measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) This counter will be increased when a return result is received by > the
MSC from the HLR in response to the MAP_READY_FOR_SM with > reason = \"memory
available\" (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMemoryAvailableCS:
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailableCS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailableCS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailableCS.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 5.2 SMS in the PS domain (SGSN)
Up to now, no counters are defined for the failure cases FFS.
### 5.2.1 PS SMS mobile originating
#### 5.2.1.1 Attempted PS SMS mobile originating
a) This measurement provides the number of PS SMS mobile originating >
attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2
> out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the SGSN of \"RP-DATA\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]) from > the MS.
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMoPS:
\- SMS.AttMoPS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMoPS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMoPS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.2.1.2 Successful PS SMS mobile originating
a) This measurement provides the number of successful PS SMS mobile >
originating attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject
to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission by the SGSN of \"RP-ACK\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]) to > the
MS.
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMoPS:
\- SMS.SuccMoPS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMoPS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMoPS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.2.2 PS SMS mobile terminating
#### 5.2.2.1 Attempted PS SMS mobile terminating
a) This measurement provides the number of PS SMS mobile terminating >
attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2
> out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission by the SGSN of \"RP-DATA\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMtPS:
\- SMS.AttMtPS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMtPS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMtPS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.2.2.2 Successful PS SMS mobile terminating
a) This measurement provides the number of successful PS SMS mobile >
terminating attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject
to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the SGSN of \"RP-ACK\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMtPS:
\- SMS.SuccMtPS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMtPS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMtPS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.2.3 PS ms-Present
#### 5.2.3.1 Attempted PS ms-Present
a) This attribute counts the number of times that a MS (attached to a > SGSN)
send that it is ready to receive SM.\ > The three measurement types defined in
e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission of MAP-READY-FOR-SM with alertReason = ms-Present to > the HLR
from the SGSN (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMsPresentPS:
\- SMS.AttMsPresentPS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMsPresentPS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMsPresentPS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.2.3.2 Successful PS ms-Present
a) This attribute counts the number of successful times that a MS > (attached
to a SGSN) send that it is ready to receive SM.\ > The three measurement types
defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) This counter will be increased when a return result is received by > the
SGSN from the HLR in response to the MAP_READY_FOR_SM with > reason = \"MS
present\" (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMsPresentPS:
\- SMS.SuccMsPresentPS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMsPresentPS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMsPresentPS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.2.4 PS \"memory available\"
#### 5.2.4.1 Attempted PS \"memory available\"
a) This attribute counts the number of times that an MS (attached to a > SGSN)
sent an indication of \"memory available\" to SGSN.\ > The three measurement
types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission of MAP-READY-FOR-SM with alertReason = memoryAvailable > to
the HLR from the SGSN (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMemoryAvailablePS:
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailablePS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailablePS.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailablePS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.2.4.2 Successful PS \"memory available\"
a) This attribute counts the number of successful times that an MS > (attached
to a SGSN) sent an indication of \"memory available\" to > SGSN.\ > The three
measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) This counter will be increased when a return result is received by > the
SGSN from the HLR in response to the MAP_READY_FOR_SM with > reason = \"memory
available\" (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMemoryAvailablePS:
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailablePS Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailablePS.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailablePS.U UMTS.
f) SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 5.3 SMS in the CS/PS domain (MSC/SGSN)
Unlike the measurements in previous clauses, the measurements in this
subclause do not differentiate between the PS and the CS domain, and deliver
one total count.
Up to now, no counters are defined for the failure cases FFS.
### 5.3.1 SMS mobile originating
#### 5.3.1.1 Attempted SMS mobile originating
a) This measurement provides the number of SMS mobile originating > attempts.\
> The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3
approach\".
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the MSC/SGSN of \"RP-DATA\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]) > from the
MS.
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMo:
\- SMS.AttMo Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMo.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMo.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.3.1.2 Successful SMS mobile originating
a) This measurement provides the number of successful SMS mobile > originating
attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2
> out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission by the MSC/SGSN of \"RP-ACK\" Message (TS 24.011 > [10]) to
the MS.
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMo:
\- SMS.SuccMo Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMo.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMo.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.3.2 SMS mobile terminating
#### 5.3.2.1 Attempted SMS mobile terminating
a) This measurement provides the number of SMS mobile terminating > attempts.\
> The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3
approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission by the MSC/SGSN of \"RP-DATA\" Message (TS 24.011 > [10]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMt:
\- SMS.AttMt Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMt.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMt.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.3.2.2 Successful SMS mobile terminating
a) This measurement provides the number of successful SMS mobile > terminating
attempts.\ > The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2
> out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Receipt by the MSC/SGSN of \"RP-ACK\" Message (TS 24.011 [10]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMt:
\- SMS.SuccMt Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMt.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMt.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.3.3 Ms-Present
#### 5.3.3.1 Attempted ms-Present
a) This attribute counts the number of times that a MS (attached to a >
MSC/SGSN) send that it is ready to receive SM.\ > The three measurement types
defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission of MAP-READY-FOR-SM with alertReason = ms-Present to > the HLR
from the MSC/SGSN (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMsPresent:
\- SMS.AttMsPresent Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMsPresent.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMsPresent.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.3.3.2 Successful ms-Present
a) This attribute counts the number of successful times that a MS > (attached
to a MSC/SGSN) send that it is ready to receive SM.\ > The three measurement
types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) This counter will be increased when a return result is received by > the
MSC/SGSN from the HLR in response to the MAP_READY_FOR_SM > with reason = \"MS
present\" (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMsPresent:
\- SMS.SuccMsPresent Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMsPresent.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMsPresent.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
### 5.3.4 \"Memory available\"
#### 5.3.4.1 Attempted \"memory available\"
a) This attribute counts the number of times that an MS (attached to a >
MSC/SGSN) sent an indication of \"memory available\" to MSC/SGSN.\ > The three
measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) Transmission of MAP-READY-FOR-SM with alertReason = memoryAvailable > to
the HLR from the MSC/SGSN (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.AttMemoryAvailable:
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailable Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailable.G GSM;
\- SMS.AttMemoryAvailable.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#### 5.3.4.2 Successful \"memory available\"
a) This attribute counts the number of successful times that an MS > (attached
to a MSC/SGSN) sent an indication of \"memory > available\" to MSC/SGSN.\ >
The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 > out of 3
approach\".
b) CC.
c) This counter will be increased when a return result is received by > the
MSC/SGSN from the HLR in response to the MAP_READY_FOR_SM > with reason =
\"memory available\" (TS 29.002 [9]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) SMS.SuccMemoryAvailable:
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailable Combined (don\'t care);
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailable.G GSM;
\- SMS.SuccMemoryAvailable.U UMTS.
f) MscFunction or SgsnFunction.
g) Valid for packet switching and circuit switching.
h) GSM/UMTS.
# 6 Measurements related to CS data calls
## 6.1 Attempted UE originating CS data calls
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted UE originating CS data
calls. The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 out of
3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MSC-S of a \"Setup\" message from the UE and the
Information Transfer Capability in the Bearer Capability IE is set to either
unrestricted digital information or 3.1 kHz audio, ex PLMN or facsimile group
3 or Other ITC. (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type in e)
e) CSD.attUEOrigi Combined(don't care)
CSD.attUEOrigi.G GSM
CSD.attUEOrigi.U UMTS
f) MSCserverFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 6.2 Successful UE originating CS data calls
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE originating CS data
calls. The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 out of
3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"Alerting\" message for the CS data service from the
MSC-S to the Calling Party (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) CSD.succUEOrigi Combined(don't care)
CSD.succUEOrigi.G GSM
CSD.succUEOrigi.U UMTS
f) MSCserverFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 6.3 Answered UE originating CS data calls
a) This measurement provides the number of answered UE originating CS data
calls. The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 out of
3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) On reception of an \"ACK\" message for the CS data service from the MSC-S
from the Calling Party (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) CSD.ansUEOrigi Combined(don't care)
CSD.ansUEOrigi.G GSM
CSD.ansUEOrigi.U UMTS
f) MSCserverFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 6.4 Attempted incoming CS data calls
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted incoming CS data calls.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MSC-S of an \"IAM\" message and the transmission medium
requirement is set to other value than speech.(ITU-T Q.1902, ITU-T Q.764)
d) A single integer value.
e) CSD.attIncCall
f) MSCserverFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 6.5 Successful incoming CS data calls
a) This measurement provides the number of successful incoming CS data calls.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MSC-S of an \"ACM\" or \"CON\" message for the CS
data service.(ITU-T Q.1902)
d) A single integer value.
e) CSD.succIncCall
f) MSCserverFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 6.6 Answered incoming CS data calls
a) This measurement provides the number of answered incoming CS data calls.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MSC-S of a \"CON\" message for the CS data service
(ITU-T Q.1902)
d) A single integer value.
e) CSD.ansIncCall
f) MSCserverFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
# 7 Measurements related to CS multimedia calls
For the traffic model and call flow diagrams see TS 32.407.
## 7.1 Attempted UE originating CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of attempted UE originated CS
> multimedia calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On receipt by the MSC-S of a \"Setup\" message with the \'other rate
> adaptation\" field of Bearer Capability IE is set to H.223 & H.245 (3GPP TS
> 24.008 [7], 22.002 [8]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.attOrig
>
> f) MSCserverFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.2 Successful UE originating CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE originated CS
> multimedia calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On transmission of an \"Alerting\" message for the multimedia service
> from the MSC-S to the Calling Party (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.succOrigi
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.3 Answered UE originating CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of answered UE originated CS
> multimedia calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On reception of a \"CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE\" message for the multimedia
> service from the MSC-S to the Calling Party (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.ansOrigi
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.4 Attempted UE terminating CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of UE terminating CS multimedia call
> attempts.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On transmission of a \"SETUP\" message or on the reception of \"CALL
> CONFIRMED\" message and the \"other rate adaption\" field of Bearer
> Capability IE is set to H.223 & H.245 (3GPP TS 24.008 [7], 22.002 [8]). Note
> the trigger is the call confirmed if the nature of the call cannot be
> decided in the SETUP message (i.e. Bearer capability IE is not included in
> the Setup message).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.attTerm
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.5 Successful UE terminating CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of answered UE terminating CS
> multimedia calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On reception of an \"ALERTING\" message for the multimedia service. (3GPP
> TS 24.008[7]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.succTermi
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.6 Answered UE terminating CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of answered UE terminating CS
> multimedia calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On reception of a \"CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE\" message for the multimedia
> service (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.ansTerm
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.7 Attempted incoming CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of attempted incoming CS multimedia
> calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On receipt by the MSC-S of an \"IAM\" or \"IAI\" message and the ISDN BC
> IE indicates multimedia calls (ITU-T Rec. Q.723 [6], ITU-T Q.763 [5], 3GPP
> 24.008 [7], 22.002 [8]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.attInc
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.8 Successful incoming CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of successful incoming CS multimedia
> calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On transmission by the MSC-S of an \"ACM\" or \"CON\" message for the
> multimedia service (ITU-T Rec. Q.723 [6], ITU-T Q.763 [5]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.succInc
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.9 Answered incoming CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of answered incoming CS multimedia
> calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On transmission by the MSC-S of an \"ANM\", \"ANC\", \"CON\" or \"ANN\"
> message for the multimedia service (ITU-T Rec. Q.723 [6], ITU-T Q.763) [5].
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.AnsInc
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.10 Attempted outgoing CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of outgoing CS multimedia call
> attempts.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On transmission of an \"IAM\" or \"IAI\" message for the multimedia
> service and the ISDN BC IE indicates multimedia call service (ITU-T Rec.
> Q.723 [6], ITU-T Q.763 [5], 3GPP 24.008 [7]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.attOut
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.11 Successful outgoing CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing CS multimedia
> calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On reception of an \"ACM\" or \"CON\" message for the multimedia service
> (ITU-T Rec. Q.723 [6], ITU-T Q.763 [5], 3GPP 24.008 [7]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.succOut
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.12 Answered outgoing CS multimedia calls
> a) This measurement provides the number of answered outgoing CS multimedia
> calls.
>
> b) CC.
>
> c) On transmission of a \"ANM\", \"ANN\" or \"CON\" message for the
> multimedia service (ITU-T Rec. Q.723 [6], ITU-T Q.763 [5], 3GPP 24.008 [7]).
>
> d) A single integer value.
>
> e) MMC.ansOut
>
> f) MSCserverFunction.
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
>
> h) UMTS.
## 7.13 Attempted user initiated service change requests from CS multimedia to
speech
> a) This measurement provides the number of attempted user initiated service
> change requests for a CS multimedia call to speech.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On reception of a \"MODIFY\" message from the UE and it contains a speech
> BCIE, which means that the \'Information transfer capability' set to speech
> or alternate speech/facsimile group 3 - starting with speech in the Bearer
> Capability IE (TS 23.172) [4].
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.attUserInitSCMMtoVce
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.14 Successful user initiated service change requests from CS multimedia
to speech
> a) This measurement provides the number of successful user initiated service
> change requests for a CS multimedia call to speech.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On sending of a \"MODIFY COMPLETE\" message to the UE and it contains a
> speech BCIE, which means that the \'Information transfer capability' set to
> speech or alternate speech/facsimile group 3 - starting with speech in the
> Bearer Capability IE (TS 23.172) [4].
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.succUserInitSCMMtoVce
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.15 Attempted user initiated service change requests from speech to CS
multimedia
> a) This measurement provides the number of attempted user initiated service
> change requests for a speech call to CS multimedia
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On reception of a \"MODIFY\" message from the UE and it contains a MM
> BCIE, which means that the \'other rate adaptation\" field of Bearer
> Capability IE is set to H.223 & H.245 (TS 23.172 [4]).
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.attUserInitSCVcetoMM
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.16 Successful user initiated service change requests from speech to CS
multimedia
> a) This measurement provides the number of successful user initiated service
> change requests for a speech call to CS multimedia.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On sending of a \"MODIFY COMPLETE\" message to the UE and it contains a
> MM BCIE, which means that the \'other rate adaptation\" field of Bearer
> Capability IE is set to H.223 & H.245. (TS 23.172 [4])
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.succUserInitSCVcetoMM
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.17 Attempted network initiated service change requests from CS multimedia
to speech
> a) This measurement provides the number of attempted network initiated
> service change requests for a CS multimedia call to speech.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On sending a \"MODIFY\" message to the UE and it contains a speech BCIE,
> which means that the \'Information transfer capability' set to speech or
> alternate speech/facsimile group 3 - starting with speech in the Bearer
> Capability IE and the Network-initiated Service Upgrade indicator IE is
> included in the message. (TS 23.172 [4] TS 24.008 [7])
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.attNetwInitSCMMtoVce
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.18 Successful network initiated service change requests from CS
multimedia to speech
> a) This measurement provides the number of successful network initiated
> service change requests for a CS multimedia call to speech.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On reception a \"MODIFY COMPLETE\" message from the UE and it contains a
> speech BCIE, which means that the \'Information transfer capability' set to
> speech or alternate speech/facsimile group 3 - starting with speech in the
> Bearer Capability IE (TS 23.172 [4], TS 24.008 [7]) and the MODIFY COMPLETE
> is an answer to the MODIFY message, which indicates network initiated
> service change.
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.SuccNetwInitSCMMtoVce
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.19 Attempted network initiated service change requests from speech to CS
multimedia
> a) This measurement provides the number of attempted network initiated
> service change requests for a speech call to CS multimedia.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On sending a \"MODIFY\" message to the UE and it contains a MM BCIE,
> which means that the \'other rate adaptation\" field of Bearer Capability IE
> is set to H.223 & H.245 and the Network-initiated Service Upgrade indicator
> IE is included in the message. (TS 23.172 [4], TS 24.008 [7])
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.attNetwInitSCVcetoMM
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.20 Successful network initiated service change requests from speech to CS
multimedia
> a) This measurement provides the number of successful network initiated
> service change requests for a speech call to CS multimedia.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On reception a \"MODIFY COMPLETE\" message from the UE and it contains a
> MM BCIE, which means that the \'other rate adaptation\" field of Bearer
> Capability IE is set to H.223 & H.245. (TS 23.172 [4], TS 24.008 [7]) and
> the MODIFY COMPLETE is an answer to the MODIFY message, which indicates
> network initiated service change.
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.succNetwInitSCVcetoMM
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.21 UE originating CS multimedia call fallback to speech
> a) This measurement provides the number of UE originating fallback where the
> preferred service is CS multimedia, but the call is established as a speech,
> which is the less preferred service.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On sending the Call Proceeding message to the UE with the less preferred
> service's BCIE, which is speech, which means that the \'Information transfer
> capability' set to speech or alternate speech/facsimile group 3 - starting
> with speech in the Bearer Capability IE.
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.origiFBtoVce
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
## 7.22 UE terminating CS multimedia call fallback to speech
> a) This measurement provides the number of UE terminating fallback where the
> preferred service is CS multimedia, but the call is established as a speech,
> which is the less preferred service.
>
> b) CC
>
> c) On reception of Call Confirmed message from the UE with the less
> preferred service's BCIE, which is speech, which means that the
> \'Information transfer capability' set to speech or alternate
> speech/facsimile group 3 - starting with speech in the Bearer Capability IE.
>
> d) A single integer value
>
> e) MMC.termFBtoVce
>
> f) MSCServerFunction
>
> g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
>
> h) UMTS
# 8 Measurements related to the voice calls
## 8.1 Attempted UE originating voice calls
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted UE originated voice
calls. The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 out of
3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MSC-S of a \"Setup\" message with the \'Information
transfer capability' set to speech or alternate speech/facsimile group 3 -
starting with speech in the Bearer Capability IE from Calling Party (see [7]
3GPP TS 24.008).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) VSC.attOrigiCallVce Combined(don't care)
VSC.attOrigiCallVce.G GSM
VSC.attOrigiCallVce.U UMTS
f) MscServerFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 8.2 Successful UE originating voice calls
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE originated voice
calls. The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 out of
3 approach\".
b) CC.
c) On transmission of an \"Alerting\" message for the voice service from the
MSC-S to the Calling Party (see [7] 3GPP TS 24.008).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) VSC.succOrigiCallVce Combined(don't care)
VSC.succOrigiCallVce.G GSM
VSC.succOrigiCallVce.U UMTS
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 8.3 Answered UE originating voice calls
a) This measurement provides the number of answered UE originated voice calls.
The three measurement types defined in e) are subject to the \"2 out of 3
approach\".
b) CC.
c) On reception of a \"Connect ACK\" message for the voice service from the
Calling Party to the MSC-S (see [7] 3GPP TS 24.008).
d) A single integer value per measurement type defined in e).
e) VSC.ansOrigiCallVce Combined(don't care)
VSC.ansOrigiCallVce.G GSM
VSC.ansOrigiCallVce.U UMTS
f) MscServerFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 8.4 Attempted incoming voice calls
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted incoming voice calls. In
case of TUP signalling this measurement is not needed.
b) CC.
c) On receipt by the MSC-S of an \"IAM\" message with \'Transmission medium
requirement' parameter set to speech (see [11] ITU-T Q.1902).
d) A single integer value.
e) VSC.attIncCallVce
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 8.5 Successful incoming voice calls
a) This measurement provides the number of successful incoming voice calls. In
case of TUP signalling this measurement is not needed.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MSC-S of an \"ACM\" with \"Called party's status
indicator = subscriber free\" or a \"CPG\" with \"Event Information =
ALERTING\" (ITU-T Rec. Q.762, Q.763). For the voice service see [11] ITU‑T
Q.1902).
d) A single integer value.
e) VSC.succIncCallVce
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 8.6 Answered incoming voice calls
a) This measurement provides the number of answered incoming voice calls. In
case of TUP signalling this measurement is not needed.
b) CC.
c) On transmission by the MSC-S of an \"ANM\" or \"CON\" message for the voice
service (see [11] ITU-T Q.1902).
d) A single integer value.
e) VSC.ansIncCallVce
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
# 9 Measurements related to the IN service calls
## 9.1 Attempted UE terminated intelligent service calls
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted UE terminated intelligent
service calls.
b) CC.
c) After sending the \"SETUP\" message (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]) to the terminating
UE and the SSF sent the \"IDP\" message to the SCP from either of the
following CSI: T-CSI or VT-CSI (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.attUETermi
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 9.2 Successful UE terminated intelligent service calls
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE terminated
intelligent service calls.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of \"ALERTING\" message (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]) in the MSC Server
and the CAMEL dialogue has been finished successfully for either of T-CSI or
VT-CSI, which means that the call segment in the SSF has reached the IDLE
state without any error (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.succUETermi
f) MscServerFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 9.3 Answered UE terminated intelligent service calls
a) This measurement provides the number of answered UE terminated intelligent
service calls.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of \"CONNECT ACK\" message (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]) and there was a
successfully finished CAMEL dialogue for either of T-CSI or VT-CSI, which
means that the call segment in the SSF has reached the IDLE state without any
error (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.ansUETermi
f) MscServerFunction.
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 9.4 Attempted UE originated intelligent service calls
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted UE originated intelligent
service calls.
b) CC.
c) After the reception of the \"CM_SERVICE_REQUEST\" message (3GPP TS 24.008
[7]) the SSF has sent the \"IDP\" message to the SCP for O-CSI, D-CSI or N-CSI
(see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.attUEOrigi
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 9.5 Successful UE originated intelligent service calls
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE originated
intelligent service calls.
b) CC.
c) On sending of \"Alerting\" message (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]) and there was a
successfully finished CAMEL dialogue for O-CSI or for D-CSI or for N-CSI,
which means that the call segment in the SSF has reached the IDLE state
without any error (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.succUEOrigi
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSMUMTS.
## 9.6 Answered UE originated intelligent service calls
a) This measurement provides the number of answered UE originated intelligent
service calls.
b) CC.
c) On receipt of \"CONNECT ACK\" message (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]) and there was a
successfully finished CAMEL dialogue for O-CSI or for D-CSI or for N-CSI,
which means that the call segment in the SSF has reached the IDLE state
without any error (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.ansUEOrigi
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 9.7 Attempted intelligent service calls for both the Calling Party and the
Called Party are intelligent service user
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted intelligent service calls
for both the Calling Party and the Called Party are intelligent service user.
b) CC.
c) The MSC Server has received the \"CM SERVICE REQUEST\" message (3GPP TS
24.008 [7]) and the SSF sends the \"IDP\" message to the SCP from either of
O_CSI, D-CSI or N-CSI and the SSF sends another IDP message to SCP from T-CSI
or from VT-CSI (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.attINtoIN
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 9.8 Successful intelligent service calls for both the Calling Party and the
Called Party are intelligent service user
a) This measurement provides the number of successful intelligent service
calls for both the Calling Party and the Called Party are intelligent service
user.
b) CC.
c) The MSC Server sends the \"ALERTING\" message (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]) to the
originating UE and there was a successful CAMEL dialogue from the O-CSI, D-CSI
or N-CSI and there was another successful CAMEL Dialogue from the VT-CSI or
T-CSI. Successful CAMEL dialogue means that the call segment in the SSF has
reached the IDLE state without any error (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.succINtoIN
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
## 9.9 Answered intelligent service calls for both the Calling Party and the
Called Party are intelligent service user
a) This measurement provides the number of answered intelligent service calls.
b) CC.
c) The MSC Server has received the \"CONNECT ACK\" message (3GPP TS 24.008
[7]) from Originating UE and there was a successful CAMEL dialogue from the
O-CSI, D-CSI or N-CSI and there was another successful CAMEL Dialogue from the
VT-CSI or T-CSI. Successful CAMEL dialogue means that the call segment in the
SSF has reached the IDLE state without any error (see 3GPP TS 23.078 [12]).
d) A single integer value.
e) IN.ansINtoIN
f) MscServerFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic.
h) GSM/UMTS.
#