# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Key Performance Indicators (KPI) emanate from strategic goals of enterprise,
and cascade through the entire organization.\ KPIs are specified through
definition and measurement of key parameters of input/output of internal
network system and/or maintenance & operation progress of an enterprise.\ KPIs
are primary metrics to evaluate process performance as indicators of
quantitative management, and to measure progress towards the enterprise\'s
goals.
Competition in the liberalized telecommunications markets and customer
requirements for more complex services are leading to a greater emphasis on
the provision of efficient customer service.\ To achieve this goal,
telecommunication operators have found the Service Level Agreement (SLA)
solution.\ In the Performance Management hierarchy, SLA is supported by KQI;
KQI is supported by KPI; and KPI is supported by network performance data from
Network Elements.\ Performance measurements are specified in 3GPP TS 32.404
[1], TS 32.405 [2], TS 32.406 [3], TS 32.407 [4],\ TS 32.408 [5], TS 32.409
[6] and TS 52.402 [7].
KPI definitions include high level KPIs that are common across GSM and UMTS
etc and KPIs that are related to specific network techniques.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for GSM,
UMTS, etc.\ KPI definitions include high level KPIs that are:
> a) **common** across GSM and UMTS networks; and
>
> b) **specific** to network techniques such as GSM and UMTS networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and template\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.405: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(UTRAN) \".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.406: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN) Packet Switched (PS)
domain\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.407: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN) Circuit Switched (CS)
domain\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.408: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Teleservice\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) \".
[7] 3GPP TS 52.402: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - GSM\".
[8] 3GPP TR 32.814: \"Telecommunication management; UTRAN and GERAN Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation E.800: \"Terms and definitions related to quality of
service and network performance including dependability\".
[10] TMF GB917: \"SLA management handbook, release 2.5\", July 2005.
[11] TMF GB923: \"Wireless service measurements handbook\", version 3.0, March
2004.
[12] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BLER Block Error Rate
CN Core Network
CS Circuit Switched
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
KPI Key Performance Indicator
KQI Key Quality Indicator
PS Packet Switched
RAB Radio Access Bearer
SLA Service Level Agreement
TMF TeleManagement Forum
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN UMTS Radio Access Network
# 4 KPI Overview
Key performance indicators (KPI) must emanate from the strategy goals of
enterprise and cascade through the organization. KPIs are defined through the
definition and measurement of key parameters of input and output of internal
network system and/or maintenance & operation progress of enterprise. KPIs are
considered to be primary metrics to evaluate process performance as indicators
of quantitative management, and to measure progress toward enterprise goals.
For operators, competition in the liberalized telecommunications markets and
the requirements of customers for more complex services are leading to a
greater emphasis on the provision of efficient customer service. The
efficiency of customer service is embodied by customer perception and good
customer relations.
According to TMF (TeleManagement Forum) contributions, SLAs (Service Level
Agreement, See in TMF GB917 [10]) can contribute to determining how customer
care is perceived and aiding service providers in attracting customers and
maintaining customer loyalty. A SLA is an element of a formal, negotiated
contract between two parties, viz., a service provider and a customer. It
documents the common understanding of all aspects of the service and the roles
and responsibilities of both parties from service ordering to service
termination. SLAs can include many aspects of a service, such as performance
objectives, customer care procedures, billing arrangements, service
provisioning requirements, etc.
SLAs are supported by service or product KQIs. Service KQIs are the key
indicators of the service element performance, and used as the primary input
for management of internal or supplier/partner SLAs that calculate actual
service delivery quality against design targets or in the case of
supplier/partner contractual agreements. Service KQIs provide the main source
of data for the product KQIs that are required to manage product quality and
support the contractual SLAs with the customer. (See in TMF GB923 [11])
KQIs are supported by KPIs that are an indication of service resource
performance.
KPI is proved by aggregation of network performance data from network
elements.
Performance hierarchy is shown as figure 1.
Figure 1: Key Indicator Hierarchy (see in TMF GB917 [10])
In detail to support customer SLAs, KPI should be used to evaluate user\'s
degree of satisfaction with the service provided. The user\'s degree of
satisfaction depends on quality of service that is on the user\'s perception
of the service performance: the support, the operability, the serveability and
the security (See in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9]). In the present document,
KPI is only used to evaluate the service serveability performance. The service
serveability performance is further subdivided into three terms: service
accessibility, retainability and integrity performance.
From network performance point of view, serveability performance depends on
trafficability performance that is the combined aspects of availability,
reliability, maintainability and maintenance support performance. So that KPIs
defined in the present document are widely used for network performance
monitoring and quality benchmarking, such as hand-off success rate, call drop-
rate, hold time, and congestion are continuously monitored to provide
indicators of areas that might require tuning.
KPI is only valid when performance related data is non-zero or non-null.
# 5 KPI definitions and template
When defining KPIs the following information needs to be considered:
**Type of the KPI** : The different KPI types are already define in 3GPP TR
32.814 [8] (RATIO, MEAN, CUM). When a KPI is defined the KPI should be
classified as one of the KPI types defined in TR 32.814 [8].
**KPI Category** : The following KPI categories should be defined:
  * serveability: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
    * Accessibility: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
    * Retainability: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
    * Integrity: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
  * Availability: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
    * Reliability: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
    * Maintainability: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
    * Utilization: it indicates the utilization of network resource, such as throughput on specific interface.
    * Mobility: it contains the Handover related KPIs.
When a KPI is defined, the KPI should be classified into one of the above
defined KPI category.
**Object of the KPI:** The KPI can be calculated on network level (GSM network
or UMTS network,). This field of the template should indicate whether the KPI
is applicable for which types of network. The field can have one or more of
the following network types:
  * UTRAN.
  * GERAN.
  * CS core.
  * PS core.
  * IMS.
It is important that the KPI defined should be calculated always on network
level and not on Network Element level.
If a KPI uses a term that is not clearly defined, that term shall be added to
the terms section of present document.
# 6 Header: KPI name
a) Long name (Mandatory): This field shall contain the long and descriptive
name of the KPI.
b) Description (Mandatory): This field shall contain the description of the
KPI.\ Within this field it should be given if the KPI is focusing on network
or user view.
c) Logical formula definition (Mandatory):\ The logical formula should
describe what the KPI formula is in logical way. The description of the
formula is given in a written textual format without any measurement or
counter names. E.g. a success rate KPI\'s logical formula is the successful
event divided by all event.
d) Physical formula definition (Optional):\ This field should contain the KPI
formula description using the 3GPP defined counter names.\ This field can be
used only if the counters needed for the KPI formula is defined in any of the
3GPP TS for performance measurements (TS 32.404 [1], TS 32.405 [2], TS 32.406
[3], TS 32.407 [4], TS 32.408 [5], TS 32.409 [6], TS 52.402 [7])
e) Measurement names used for the KPI (Optional):\ This section should list
the measurement names used for the KPI.\ This section can be filled out only
when the underlying measurements for the KPI formula can be defined, i.e.
physical formula definition is available.
f) KPI Object (mandatory)\ This section shall describe the object of the KPI.
The object of the KPI is one or some of the following:
  * UTRAN,
  * GERAN,
  * CS core,
  * PS core,
  * IMS.
> The field can have multiple selection, e.g. for a network level end to end
> KPI the selection can be UTRAN+PS core network.
g) KPI category (mandatory)\ This section contains the classification of the
KPI into one of the following defined KPI categories:
  * Accessibility: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
  * Retainability: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].
  * Integrity: See the definition in ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [9].\ Basically Integrity KPI category is the connection quality related KPIs, like BLER.
  * Mobility: This KPI category contains the Handover and Location Update related KPIs.
  * Resource: This KPI category should contain the traffic utilisation of the interfaces and throughput measurements on network level.
h) Unit of the KPI (mandatory)\ This section describes the unit of the KPI.
The unit can be one of the following:
  * percentage,
  * time interval (second or millisecond),
  * Erlang,
  * kbit/s.
i) Type of the KPI (Mandatory)\ This section describes the type of the KPI.
The KPI type can be one of the following:
  * MEAN: This KPI is produced to reflect a mean measurement value based on a number of sample results.
  * RATIO: KPI is produced to reflect the percentage of a specific case occurrence to all the cases.
  * CUM: This KPI is produced to reflect a cumulative measurement which is always increasing.
j) Remark: (Optional)\ This field is for any further information that is
needed for the KPI definition.\ Here it is proposed to define any additional
information that would be needed for the KPI definition; e.g. the definition
of a call in UTRAN.
# 7 Accessibility KPI
## 7.1 RAB Establishment Success Rate
a) **RAB establishment success rate.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of all successful RAB establishments to RAB
establishment attempts for UTRAN network and is used to** evaluate service
accessibility across UTRAN**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of all successful RAB establishments
divided by the total number of attempted RAB establishments.**
d) $\text{RabEstabSR} = \frac{\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right}\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack +
\middle| \right}\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabPSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{
\right}}}{\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{AttEstabCS}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \text{RAB}\text{.}\text{AttEstabPS}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack}}$\
type∈{Conv, Strm, Intact, Bgrd}
e) **CS:\ RAB.AttEstabCS.Conv, RAB.AttEstabCS.Strm, RAB.AttEstabCS.Intact,
RAB.AttEstabCS.Bgrd, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Conv,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Conv,\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Strm,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Strm,\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Intact,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Intact,\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Bgrd,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Bgrd (See in** TS 32.405 [2])**\ \ PS:\
RAB.AttEstabPS.Conv, RAB.AttEstabPS.Strm, RAB.AttEstabPS.Intact,
RAB.AttEstabPS.Bgrd, RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Conv,
RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Conv,\ RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Strm,
RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Strm,\ RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Intact,
RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Intact,\ RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Bgrd,
RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Bgrd. (See in** TS 32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 7.1.1 RAB Establishment Success Rate for Speech
a) **RAB establishment success rate for speech.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of all successful conversational speech
related RAB establishments to conversational speech related RAB establishment
attempts for UTRAN network and is used to** evaluate speech service
accessibility across UTRAN**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of all successful conversational
speech related RAB establishments divided by the total number of attempted
conversational speech related RAB establishments.**
d) $\text{RabEstabSR} = \frac{\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{
\right}}}{\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{AttEstabCS}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack}}$\
type∈{Conv. \\ }
e) **CS:\ RAB.AttEstabCS.Conv** Conv. \\**, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.**
Conv. \\**, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.** Conv. \\**\ (See in** TS
32.405 [2])**\ \ ** For conversational service Conv. \\, the relevant
measurement according to the data rates requested, see TS 25.993 [3] as
follows:\ uplink\:\ 1: AMR rate (12.2 10.2 7.95 7.4 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75)
kbps,\ 6: WB-AMR rate (12.65, 8.8, 6.65) kbps \ downlink\:\ 1: AMR rate
(12.2 10.2 7.95 7.4 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75) kbps,\ 6: WB-AMR rate (12.65, 8.8,
6.65) kbps
f) UTRAN.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
j) **Note:Emergency calls will also be covered by this KPI.**
## 7.1.2 RAB Establishment Success Rate for Videotelephony
a) **RAB establishment success rate for Videotelephony**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of all successful conversational
Videotelephony related RAB establishments to conversational Videotelephony
related RAB establishment attempts for UTRAN network and is used to** evaluate
Videotelephony service accessibility across UTRAN**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of all successful conversational
Videotelephony related RAB establishments divided by the total number of
attempted conversational Videotelephony related RAB establishments.**
d) $\text{RabEstabSR} = \frac{\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{
\right}}}{\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{AttEstabCS}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack}}$\
type∈{Conv. \\ }
**CS:\ RAB.AttEstabCS.Conv** Conv. \\**, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.**
Conv. \\**, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.** Conv. \\**\ (See in** TS
32.405 [2])**\ \ ** For conversational service Conv. \\, the relevant
measurement according to the data rates requested, see TS 25.993 [3] as
follows:\ uplink\:\ 5: 64 kbps\ downlink\:\ 5: 64 kbps
e) UTRAN.
f) **Accessibility.**
g) **Percentage.**
h) **RATIO.**
## 7.2 RRC Connection Establishment Success Rate
a) **RRC connection establishment success rate.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of all successful RRC establishments to RRC
establishment attempts for UTRAN network, and is used to evaluate** UTRAN and
RNC or cell admission capacity for UE and/or system load**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of all successful RRC establishments
divided by the total number of attempted RRC establishments.**
d) $\text{RrcEstabSR} =
\frac{\sum_{\text{cause}}^{}{\text{RRC}\text{.}\text{SuccConnEstab}\text{.}\lbrack\text{cause}\rbrack}}{\sum_{\text{cause}}^{}{\text{RRC}\text{.}\text{AttConnEstab}\text{.}\lbrack\text{cause}\rbrack}}$\
The respective causes are detailed in 3GPP TS 25.331 [12].
e) RRC.AttConnEstab._Cause_ \ RRC.SuccConnEstab._Cause_ **(See in** TS 32.405
[2])
f) UTRAN.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 7.3 UTRAN Service Access Success Rate
a) UTRAN service access **success rate for idle mode UEs.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of all successful** UTRAN access **to**
UTRAN access **attempts for UTRAN network and is used to evaluate** service
accessibility provided by UTRAN**. Successful RRC set up repetition and/or
cell\ re-selections during RRC setup should be excluded, namely only service
related RRC setup should be considered.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the Successful RRC Connection Establishment Rate
for** UTRAN access **purposes multiplied by the RAB Establishment Success Rate
for all RAB types.**
d) Cause∈{Originating Conversational Call,\ Originating Streaming Call,\
Originating Interactive Call,\ Originating Background Call,\ Terminating
Conversational Call,\ Terminating Streaming Call,\ Terminating Interactive
Call,\ Terminating Background Call}\ only causes for call related are defined
in 3GPP TS 25.331 [12].
e) **Refer to** e) part of **KPI:** RAB Establishment Success Rate and KPI:
RRC Connection Establishment Success Rate.
f) UTRAN.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 7.4 GERAN Service Access Success Rate for CS Domain
a) **GERAN service access success rate for CS domain.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of all successful** GERAN access **to**
GERAN access **attempts for** GERAN **network and is used to evaluate**
service accessibility provided by GERAN**. Successful SDCCH set up repetition
during SDCCH setup should be excluded, namely only service related SDCCH setup
for CS domain should be considered.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the TCH seizures success rate multiplied by the
SDCCH setup success rate.**
d)
e) succTCHSeizures, attTCHSeizures, attImmediateAssingProcs,
succImmediateAssingProcs, (See in TS 52.402).
f) GERAN.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 7.5 GSM PDP Context Activation Success Rate
a) **GERAN** PDP context activation success rate**.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of all successful** PDP context activation
**to** PDP context activation **attempts for** GSM PS core **network and is
used to evaluate** service accessibility provided by GSM and network
performance to provide GPRS**.** This KPI is only valid for Release 6 MS with
capability of PDP context.
c) **This KPI is obtained by the** successful PDP context activation
procedures initiated by MS divided **by the** attempted PDP context activation
procedures initiated by MS**.**
d)
e) attActPdpContextMSPerSgsn, succActPdpContextMSPerSgsn, (See in TS 52.402).
f) PS core.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 7.6 UMTS PDP Context Activation Success Rate
a) **UMTS** PDP context activation success rate**.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of** the number of **successfully
performed** PDP context activation **procedures to** the number of attempted
PDP context activation procedures **for** UMTS PS core **network and is used
to evaluate** service accessibility provided by UMTS and network performance
to provide GPRS**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by** successful PDP context activation procedures
initiated by MS divided by attempted PDP context activation procedures
initiated by MS**.**
d)
e) SM.AttActPdpContext, SM.SuccActPdpContext (See in TS 32.406).
f) PS core.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 7.7 UMTS Switched Call Success Rate
a) **MSC-S** switched call success rate**.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of** the number of successful calls for
MSC-S originating traffic and successful incoming calls from a given MSC-S
**to** the number of attempted calls for MSC-S acknowledged for originating
traffic and incoming calls from MSC-S. **It is used to evaluate** switched
call performance**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by** successful calls for MSC-S originating and
incoming traffic from a given MSC-S divided by attempted calls for MSC-S
originating calls and incoming calls**.**
d) Note: it is combined for UMTS and GSM.
e) CC.AttmobileOrigiCalls, CC.SuccmobileOrigiCalls ,CC.AttIncCalls,
CC.SuccIncCalls (See in TS 32.407).
f) CS core.
g) **Accessibility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
# 8 Retainability KPI
## 8.1 RAB Abnormal Release Rate
a) RAB abnormal release **rate**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of number of RAB release requests to number
of the successful RAB establishments.** This KPI reflects service
retainability across UTRAN.
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of RAB release requests divided by the
number of successful RAB establishments.**
d) type∈{Conv, Strm, Intact, Bgrd}
e) **CS:\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Bgrd\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Bgrd\ RAB.RelReqCS._sum
_, RAB.NbrIuRelReqCS._ sum _\ \ PS:\ RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Conv,
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Strm\ RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Intact,
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Bgrd\ RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Conv,
RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Strm\ RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Intact,
RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Bgrd\ RAB.RelReqPS._ sum _, RAB.NbrIuRelReqPS._ sum ***
(See in TS 32.405)_**\ _Note: "._ sum _" means that sum of possible normal
causes for measurements RAB.RelReqCS._ sum _, RAB.NbrIuRelReqCS._ sum _,
RAB.RelReqPS._ sum _and RAB.NbrIuRelReqPS._ sum _._ *
f) UTRAN.
g) **Retainability.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 8.2 GERAN Service Abnormal Release Rate
a) GERAN service abnormal release rate**.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of** mobiles which having successfully
accessed the TCH, subsequently suffer an abnormal release, caused by loss of
the radio link. This figure is comprised of RF losses on the TCH plus losses
during handover.
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of lost radio links** while using a
TCH, unsuccessful internal handovers intra-cell, unsuccessful internal
handovers with reconnection to old channels and with loss of connection
**divided by the total number of** successful TCH/PDTCH seizures, successful
internal handovers intra-cell and successful incoming Internal inter cell
handovers**.**
d)
e) nbrOfLostRadioLinksTCH\ unsuccInternalHDOsIntraCell\
unsuccHDOsWithReconnection\ unsuccHDOsWithLossOfConnection\ succTCHseizures\
succInternalHDOsIntraCell\ succIncomingInternalInterCellHDOs (See in TS
52.402).
f) GERAN.
g) **Retainability.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 8.3 Combined 2G 3G Call Drop Ratio
a) **Combined 2G 3G Call Drop Ratio**
b) **This KPI can give a global indication of drop calls when an important
part of 2G traffic comes from 3G network via handover.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of** calls in 2G and 3G related to the
total number of establishment calls.
$$\ type∈{Conv, Strm, Intact, Bgrd}
d) nbrOfLostRadioLinksTCH\ unsuccInternalHDOsIntraCell\
unsuccHDOsWithReconnection\ unsuccHDOsWithLossOfConnection\ succTCHseizures\
succInternalHDOsIntraCell\ succIncomingInternalInterCellHDOs (See in TS
52.402). **CS:\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Bgrd\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Bgrd\ RAB.RelReqCS._sum
_, RAB.NbrIuRelReqCS._ sum _\_ \ _Note: "._ sum _" means that sum of possible
normal causes for measurements RAB.RelReqCS._ sum _, RAB.NbrIuRelReqCS._
sum_**
e) GERAN, UTRAN
f) **Retainability.**
g) **Percentage.**
h) **RATIO.**
# 9 Mobility KPI
## 9.1 Soft Handover Success Rate
a) **Radio link addition success rate.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of number of** successful radio link
additions **to the** total number of radio link addition attempts**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of** successful radio link additions
**divided by the** total number of radio link addition attempts**.**
d)
e) **SHO.SuccRLAddUESide\ SHO.AttRLAddUESide. (See in** TS 32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN.
g) Mobility**.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
j) This KPI could be sum of radio link addition success rate based on UTRAN
cell. the measured object cell should have been added to the active link
(set).
## 9.2 Outgoing Intra-system Hard Handover Success Rate
a) **Outgoing Hard Handover success rate.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of number of** successful outgoing hard
handover **to the** total number of the attempted outgoing hard handover**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of** successful outgoing hard handover
**divided by the** total number of the attempted outgoing hard handover**.**
d)
e) **HHO.AttOutIntraNodeB, HHO.SuccOutIntraNodeB\
HHO.AttOutInterNodeBIntraRNC, HHO.SuccOutInterNodeBIntraRNC\
HHO.AttOutInterRNCIur, HHO.SuccOutInterRNCIur\ HHO.AttOutInterRNCCN,
HHO.SuccOutInterRNCCN. (See in** TS 32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN.
g) Mobility**.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
j) HHOSR.InterRNCIur and HHOSR.InterRNCCN is collected in the SRNC.
## 9.3 Outgoing Inter RAT Handover Success Rate for CS Domain
a) Outgoing Inter RAT Handover success rate (CS).
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of number of** successful **inter RAT**
handover **to the** total number of the attempted **inter RAT** handover from
UMTS to GSM for CS domain**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of** successful **inter RAT** handover
**divided by the** total number of the attempted **inter RAT** handover from
UMTS to GSM for CS domain**.**
d)
e) **IRATHO.AttRelocPrepOutCS, IRATHO.SuccOutCS. (See in** TS 32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN.
g) Mobility**.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
j) Measurements are collected in the SRNC.\ Inter RAT handover for CS calls
(UMTS -> GSM) starts from the relocation attempt.
## 9.4 Outgoing Inter RAT Handover Success Rate for PS Domain
a) Outgoing Inter RAT Handover success rate (PS).
b) **This KPI describes the ratio of number of** successful **inter RAT**
handover **to the** total number of the attempted **inter RAT** handover from
UMTS to GSM for PS domain**.**
c) **This KPI is obtained by the number of** successful **inter RAT** handover
**divided by the** total number of the attempted **inter RAT** handover from
UMTS to GSM for PS domain respectively**.**
d)
e) **IRATHO.AttOutPSUTRAN, IRATHO.SuccOutPSUTRAN. (See in** TS 32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN.
g) Mobility**.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
j) Measurements are collected in the SRNC.\ Inter RAT handover for PS call
(UMTS -> GPRS Cell Reselection, Network Initiated) considers only the UTRAN
controlled handover.
## 9.5 Handover Success Rate (BSC and Cell)
a) Handover **success rate.**
b) **This KPI describes the ratio** of successful handover to the attempted
handover from the sourece cell (measurement object) to the destination cell.
c) **KPI handover success rate per BSC is obtained by the successful internal
handovers per BSC divided** by **the successful internal handovers per BSC,**
unsuccessful internal handovers with reconnection to old channels and with
loss of connection per BSC.\ **KPI handover success rate per cell is obtained
by the** successful outgoing Internal inter cell handovers **divided** by
attempted outgoing Internal inter cell handovers per cell.
d) **\** $\text{HandoverSuccessRateCell} = \left(
\frac{\text{succOutgoingInternalInterCellHDOs}}{\text{attOutgoingInternalInterCellHDOs}}
\right)$.
e) BSC Handover Success Rate\ succInternalHDOsPerBSC\
unsuccInternalHDOsWithReconnectionPerBSC\
unsuccInternalHDOsWithLossOfConnectionPerBSC\ \ Cell Handover Success Rate\
succOutgoingInternalInterCellHDOs\ attOutgoingInternalInterCellHDOs.\ (See in
TS 52.402).
f) GERAN.
g) **Mobility.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
# 10 Utilization KPI
## 10.1 Percentage of Established RABs, CS Speech.
a) **Percentage of Established RABs, CS Speech.**
b) **This KPI describes the** percentage contribution of successfully
established CS Speech RABs to the total of RABs of all types successfully
established.
c) **This KPI is obtained by dividing the number of successfully established
CS Speech RABs by the total number of RABs established, over a given time
period (i.e one working day) and multiplying by 100.**
d) $\text{\%}\text{RabEstabCSConv} = \frac{\sum_{\text{RNC}}^{}{\begin{matrix}
\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\text{conv}\text{.} +} \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{
\right}}}{\sum_{\text{RNC}}^{}\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right}\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
\middle| \right}\left{ +
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabPSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{ \right}}}\text{.}\text{100}$
> type∈ {Conv, Strm, Intact, Bgrd}
>
> For conversational service Conv. \\, the relevant measurement
> according to the data rates requested, see TS 25.993 [3] as follows:\
> uplink\:\ 1: AMR rate (12.2 10.2 7.95 7.4 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75) kbps
>
> 6: AMR -WB-rate (12.65, 8.8, 6.65) kbps
downlink\:\ 1: AMR rate (12.2 10.2 7.95 7.4 6.7 5.9 5.15 4.75) kbps
6: AMR -WB-rate (12.65, 8.8, 6.65) kbps
e) **CS:\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.** Conv. \\**,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.** Conv. \\\ **RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.** Conv.
\\**, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.** Conv. \\**\ (See in** TS 32.405
[2])**\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Bgrd\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Bgrd (See in** TS 32.405
[2])**\ \ PS:\ RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Conv,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Strm, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Strm,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Intact,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Bgrd, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Bgrd. (See in** TS
32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN
g) **Utilization.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 10.2 Percentage of Established RABs, CS 64kbps (Videotelephony)
a) **Percentage of Established RABs, CS 64kbps (Videotelephony).**
b) **This KPI describes the** percentage contribution of successfully
established CS 64kbps RABs to the total of RABs of all types successfully
established. This RAB type is often used to identify the CS Video Telephony
service.
c) **This KPI is obtained by dividing the number of successfully established
CS 64kbps RABs by the total number of CS RABs established, over a given time
period (i.e one working day) and multiplying by 100.**
d) $\text{\%}\text{RabEstabCS}\text{64} =
\frac{\sum_{\text{RNC}}^{}{\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\text{Conv} +} \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{
\right}}}{\sum_{\text{RNC}}^{}\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right}\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack +
\middle| \right}\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabPSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{ \right}}}\text{.}\text{100}$
> For streaming service Conv. \\, the relevant measurement according to
> the data rates requested, see TS 25.993 [3] as follows:\ uplink\:\ 5:
> 64kbps\ downlink\:\ 5: 64kbps **(** See in TS 32.405 [2])
>
> type∈ {Conv, Strm, Intact, Bgrd}
e) **CS:\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing. Conv\ \,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Conv\\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Conv,
RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Strm\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Intact,
RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Bgrd\ RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Conv,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Strm\ RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Intact,
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Bgrd (See in** TS 32.405 [2])**\ \ PS:\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Conv,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Strm, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Strm,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Intact,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Bgrd, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Bgrd. (See in** TS
32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN
g) **Utilization.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 10.3 Percentage of Established RABs, TotalPS
a) **Percentage of Established RABs, TotalPS.**
b) **This KPI describes the** percentage contribution of all successfully
established PS RABs to the total of RABs of all types successfully
established.
c) **This KPI is obtained by dividing the total number of successfully
established PS RABs by the total number of all RABs established, over a given
time period (i.e one working day) and multiplying by 100.**
d) $\text{\%}\text{RabEstabTotalPS} =
\frac{\sum_{\text{RNC}}^{}\sum_{\text{type}}^{}\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabPSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{
\right}}{\sum_{\text{RNC}}^{}\sum_{\text{type}}^{}{\begin{matrix} \left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right}\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabCSQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack +
\middle| \right}\left{
\text{RAB}\text{.}\text{SuccEstabPSNoQueuing}\text{.}\lbrack\text{type}\rbrack
+ \middle| \right} \ \end{matrix}\left{ \right}}}\text{.}\text{100}$
> type∈ {Conv, Strm, Intact, Bgrd}
e) **CS:\ RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSNoQueuing.Bgrd\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Strm\
RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabCSQueuing.Bgrd (See in** TS 32.405
[2])**\ \ PS:\ RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Conv, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Conv,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Strm, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Strm,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Intact, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Intact,\
RAB.SuccEstabPSNoQueuing.Bgrd, RAB.SuccEstabPSQueuing.Bgrd. (See in** TS
32.405 [2])
f) UTRAN
g) **Utilization.**
h) **Percentage.**
i) **RATIO.**
## 11 Availability KPI
### 11.1 UTRAN Cell Availability
a) **UTRAN Cell Availability.**
b) **A KPI that shows Availability of UTRAN Cell.**
c) **Percentage of time that the cell is considered available.**
d) $\text{CellAvailability} =
\frac{\text{measurement_period-}\sum_{\text{cause}}^{}{\text{RRU}\text{.}\text{UTRANCellUnavailableTime}\text{.}\lbrack\text{cause}\rbrack}}{\text{measurement}_{\text{period}}}
\times \text{100}$
e) **RRU.UTRANCellUnavailableTime.cause**
f) **UTRAN**
g) **Availability**
h) **Percentage**
i) **RATIO**
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use case for KPI
## A.1 Use Case for RAB Establishment Success Rate
Because RAB provides service such as CS voice call and PS web service. When CS
and/or PS RAB establishment is successful, it means that UTRAN is ready for a
CS and/or PS service access. It is important to evaluate CS and/or PS service
accessibility across UTRAN. This KPI is focusing on network view.
## A.1.1 Use Case for RAB Establishment Success Rate for SPEECH
RAB Speech provides service such as CS voice call. When CS is successful, it
means that UTRAN is ready for a CS speech service access. It is important to
evaluate CS speech accessibility across UTRAN. This KPI is focusing on network
view.
## A.1.2 Use Case for RAB Establishment Success Rate for Videotelephony
RAB Videotelephony provides service such as CS voice call. When CS is
successful, it means that UTRAN is ready for a CS Videotelephony service
access. It is important to evaluate CS Videotelephony accessibility across
UTRAN. This KPI is focusing on network view.
## A.2 Use Case for RRC Connection Establishment Success Rate
There are two kinds of RRC connection. One kind is related to service access,
the other kind is not related to service, such as related to location update,
cell update, network registration etc. first kind of RRC connection can be
used to evaluate service accessibility across UTRAN, second one can be used to
evaluate RNC or cell admission capacity for UE and/or system load. **This KPI
is focusing on network view.**
## A.3 Use Case for UTRAN Service Access Success Rate
It is necessary to evaluate CS and PS service accessibility provided by UTRAN
from control plane and user plane aspects. This KPI is focusing on user view.
## A.4 Use Case for Soft Handover Success Rate
Soft handover is helpful to guarantee service QoS when UE is at the edge of
cell coverage. It can be used to evaluate network performance, such as
measurement control, handover decision and handover execution performance
etc.This KPI indicates soft handover performance. This KPI is focusing on
network view.
## A.5 Use Case for Outgoing Intra-system Hard Handover Success Rate
If outgoing intra-system hard handover is failed, a call maybe drops that user
can be perceived. So that it is helpful for network plan and optimization. It
can be used to evaluate network performance, such as measurement control,
handover decision and handover execution performance, etc. This KPI is
focusing on network view.
## A.6 Use Case for Outgoing Inter RAT Handover Success Rate for CS Domain
Inter RAT handover is an important function for operators with both GSM and
UMTS networks. This KPI can be used to evaluate GSM and UMTS network coverage
and stability and reliability performance of inter RAT handover for CS domain.
User can perceive service QoS change if this KPI is too low. This KPI is
focusing on network and user view.
## A.7 Use Case for Outgoing Inter RAT Handover Success Rate for PS Domain
Inter RAT handover is an important function for operators with both GSM and
UMTS networks. This KPI can be used to evaluate GSM and UMTS network coverage
and stability and reliability performance of inter RAT handover for PS domain.
User can perceive service QoS change if this KPI is too low. This KPI is
focusing on network and user view.
## A.8 Use Case GERAN Service Access Success Rate for CS Domain
It is necessary to evaluate service accessibility provided by GERAN. This KPI
is focusing on user view.
## A.9 Use Case for GSM PDP Context Activation Success Rate
It is necessary to evaluate PS service accessibility provided by GSM and
network performance to support GPRS service. This KPI is focusing on network
and user view.
## A.10 Use Case for RAB Abnormal Release Rate
Since the user may complain about a connection released unexpectedly for CS
service or unstable for PS service, it is necessary to evaluate CS and/or PS
service **retainability** provided by UTRAN from user plane aspects, as well
as UTRAN reliability and stability should be reflected. This KPI is focusing
on network view.
## A.11 GERAN Service Abnormal Release Rate
Since the user may complain about a connection released unexpectedly for CS
service service, it is necessary to evaluate CS service retainability provided
by GERAN from user plane aspects, as well as GERAN reliability and stability
should be reflected. This KPI is focusing on user and network view.
## A.12 Handover Success Rate (BSC and Cell)
Mobility management plays an important role in the GERAN in effectively
delivering services to the mobile users on the move. Handover success rate
calculated by measurements is an important performance indicator for network
to indicate seamless coverage. This KPI is focusing on network view.
## A.13 UMTS PDP Context Activation Success Rate
It is necessary to evaluate PS service accessibility provided by UMTS and
network performance to support GPRS service. This KPI is focusing on network
and user view.
## A.14 UMTS Switched Call Success Rate
It is necessary to evaluate performance of switched call success rate. If
switched call success rate is low, call drop rate will be increased. This KPI
is focusing on network and user view.
## A.15 UTRAN Cell Availability
It is necessary to evaluate the UTRAN Cell Availability. This KPI is focusing
on user view.
## A.16 Percentage of Established RABs
Availability of requested RABs is important for the operator to be able to
effectively deliver requested services to the mobile user. Understanding the
pattern of RAB usage for CS Speech, CS 64kbps Streaming and Total PS allows
the operator to determine how the demand for services associated with them
varies over time. It is a key input for planning and investment decisions that
operators must take in order to match RAB availability to current and future
demand for the associated services. These KPIs focus on the network view.
## A.17 Combined 2G 3G Call Drop Ratio Ratio
This indicator can give a global indication of all drop calls including the
important part of 2G traffic comes from 3G network via handover. If the call
is successfully established in one network, e.g. 3G and it is handover to the
other network, e.g. 2G and then the call drops the separated KPIs GERAN
Service Abnormal Release Rate and RAB Abnormal Release Rate aren't a good
measure of customer experience.
#