# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.432:** \"**Performance measurement; File format definition\";**
TS 32.435: \"Performance measurement; eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file
format definition\";
**TS 32.436: \"Performance measurement; Abstract Syntax Notation 1 (ASN.1)
file format definition\".**
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor 3G PLMN.
During the lifetime of a PLMN, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see
3GPP TS 32.600 [4].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of a PLMN network require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document and the other related 3GPP TSs
listed above is to describe the mechanisms involved in the collection of the
data.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the ASN.1 file format definition for performance
measurement results collection whose semantics is defined in 3GPP TS 32.432
[5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.432: \"Performance Measurement: File format definition\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation X.680: \"Information technology -- Abstract Syntax
Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**network Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements. These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
\- Element Management Functions for management of Network Elements on an
individual basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the
corresponding local terminals.
\- Sub-Network Management Functions that are related to a network model for a
set of Network Elements constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may
include relations between the Network Elements. This model enables additional
functions on the sub-network level (typically in the areas of network topology
presentation, alarm correlation, service impact analysis and circuit
provisioning).
**Network Manager (NM):** provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the Network Elements. All
communication with the network is based on open and well-standardised
interfaces supporting management of multi-vendor and multi-technology Network
Elements.
**Operations System (OS):** generic management system, independent of its
location level within the management hierarchy.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
ASN.1 Abstract Syntax Notation 1
BER Basic Encoding Rules
EM Element Manager
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
PM Performance Management
# 4 Mapping
Table 4.1 maps the file content items in the 3GPP TS 32.432 [5] to those used
in the ASN.1 (see [6]) file format definitions.
Table 4.1 Mapping of File Content Items to ASN.1 types
* * *
File Content Item ASN.1 Type Description measDataCollection MeasDataCollection  
measFileHeader MeasFileHeader  
measData MeasData  
measFileFooter MeasFileFooter  
fileFormatVersion FileFormatVersion  
senderName SenderName For ASN.1 format, the string may be empty (i.e. string
size =0) in case the DN is not configured in the sender. senderType SenderType  
vendorName VendorName  
collectionBeginTime CollectionBeginTime  
neId NEId  
neUserName NEUserName  
neDistinguishedName NEDistinguishedName  
neSoftwareVersion NESoftwareVersion  
measInfo MeasInfo  
measInfoId MeasInfoId  
measTimeStamp MeasTimeStamp  
jobId JobId  
granularityPeriod GranularityPeriod  
reportingPeriod ReportingPeriod  
measTypes MeasTypes  
measValues MeasValues  
measObjInstId MeasObjInstId  
measResults MeasResults  
suspectFlag SuspectFlag  
timeStamp TimeStamp ASN.1 GeneralizedTime format.
* * *
# 5 ASN.1 file format definition
The ASN.1 file format definitions implement the measurement result structure
and parameters defined in clauses 5.2 and 5.3 of 3GPP TS 32.401 [3].
For ASN.1 formatted files, BER encoding rules shall apply. Embedded comments
are integral parts of the standard format; i.e. any implementation-claiming
conformance to this annex shall also conform to the comments.
PM-File-Description
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS::= BEGIN
MeasDataCollection::= SEQUENCE
{
measFileHeader MeasFileHeader,
measData SEQUENCE OF MeasData,
measFileFooter MeasFileFooter
}
MeasFileHeader::= SEQUENCE
{
fileFormatVersion PrintableString (SIZE (0..15)),
senderName PrintableString (SIZE (0..400)),
senderType SenderType,
vendorName PrintableString (SIZE (0..32)),
collectionBeginTime TimeStamp,
...
}
\-- The sole purpose of the ellipsis notation used in the file header is to
facilitate inter-release compatibility, vendor specific additions are not
allowed in implementations claiming conformance to the TS. However, it is
acknowledged that this feature does enable the use of non-standard extensions
to the file header without loosing compatibility to the file format specified
in the present document.
SenderType::= PrintableString (SIZE (0..8))
TimeStamp::= GeneralizedTime
MeasData::= SEQUENCE
{
nEId NEId,
measInfo SEQUENCE OF MeasInfo
}
NEId::= SEQUENCE
{
nEUserName PrintableString (SIZE (0..64)),
nEDistinguishedName PrintableString (SIZE (0..400)),
nESoftwareVersion PrintableString (SIZE (0..64)) OPTIONAL
}
MeasInfo::= SEQUENCE
{
measTimeStamp TimeStamp,
granularityPeriod INTEGER,
measTypes SEQUENCE OF MeasType,
measValues SEQUENCE OF MeasValue
reportingPeriod INTEGER OPTIONAL,
jobId INTEGER OPTIONAL,
measInfoId PrintableString (SIZE (0..64)) OPTIONAL,
}
MeasType::= PrintableString (SIZE (1..64))
MeasValue::= SEQUENCE
{
measObjInstId MeasObjInstId,
measResults SEQUENCE OF MeasResult,
suspectFlag BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE
}
MeasObjInstId::= PrintableString (SIZE (0..400))
\-- The size of the concatenated measObjInstId and neDistinguishedName must
not exceed 400.
MeasResult::= CHOICE
{
iValue INTEGER,
rValue REAL,
noValue NULL,
...
}
\-- Normal values are INTEGERs and REALs. The NULL value is reserved to
indicate that the measurement item is not applicable or could not be retrieved
for the object instance. The sole purpose of the ellipsis notation used in the
MeasResult choice is to facilitate inter-release compatibility in case the
choice needs to be extended in future releases.
MeasFileFooter::= TimeStamp
END
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example of ASN.1 Measurement Report File
For readability, a kind of pseudo ASN.1 was used instead of the BER encoding.
MeasDataCollection ::= {
measFileHeader {
fileFormatVersion ::= \"32.436 V6.1\",
senderName ::=
\"DC=a1.companyNN.com,SubNetwork=1,IRPAgent=1,SubNetwork=CountryNN,MeContext=MEC-
Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1\",
senderType ::= \"RNC\",
vendorName ::= \"Company NN\",
collectionBeginTime ::= 20000301140000
},
measData {
nEId {
nEUserName ::= \"RNC Telecomville\",
nEDistinguishedName ::=
\"DC=a1.companyNN.com,SubNetwork=1,IRPAgent=1,SubNetwork=CountryNN,MeContext=MEC-
Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1\",
nESoftwareVersion ::= \"2.1\"
},
measInfo {
measInfoId ::= Category A
measTimeStamp ::= 20000301141430,
jobId ::= \"1231\",
granularityPeriod ::= 900,
reportingPeriod ::= 1800,
measTypes {
\"attTCHSeizures\",
\"succTCHSeizures\",
\"attImmediateAssignProcs\",
\"succImmediateAssignProcs\"
},
measValues {
{
measObjInstId ::= \"RncFunction=RF-1,UtranCell=Gbg-997\",
measResults {
iValue ::= 234,
iValue ::= 345,
iValue ::= 567,
iValue ::= 789
},
suspectFlag ::= FALSE
},
{
measObjInstId ::= \"RncFunction=RF-1,UtranCell=Gbg-998\",
measResults {
iValue ::= 890,
iValue ::= 901,
iValue ::= 123,
iValue ::= 234
},
suspectFlag ::= FALSE
},
{
measObjInstId ::= \"RncFunction=RF-1,UtranCell=Gbg-999\",
measResults {
iValue ::= 456,
iValue ::= 567,
iValue ::= 678,
iValue ::= 789
},
suspectFlag ::= TRUE
}
}
}
},
measFileFooter ::= 20000301141500
}
#