# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 32.501: \"Self-configuration of network elements; Concepts and
requirements\".
TS 32.508: \"Procedure flows for multi-vendor plug and play eNB connection to
the network\".
**TS 32.509: \"Data formats for multi-vendor plug and play eNB connection to
the network\".**
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the data formats used between network entities
involved in the multi-vendor plug and play eNB connection to network.\ These
data formats are based on requirements and use cases specified in 3GPP TS
32.501 [4].\ The procedure flows where these data exchanged are defined in
3GPP TS 32.508 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.501: \"Telecommunication management; Self-configuration of
network elements; Concepts and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.508: \"Telecommunications management; Procedure flows for
multi-vendor plug and play eNB connection to the network\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[7] IETF RFC 1035: \"Domain Names - Implementation and Specification\".
[8] IETF RFC 2131: \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol\".
[9] IETF RFC 2132: \"DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions\".
[10] IETF RFC 3396: \"Encoding Long Options in the Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol (DHCPv4)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[12] IETF RFC 6712: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP
Transfer for the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.501 [4] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] and in TS 32.501 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 32.501 [4] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] and in TS 32.501 [4].
# 4 Data formats for Multi-Vendor Plug and Connect (MvPnC)
## 4.1 MvPnC client identification in DHCP requests
The eNB performing the Initial IP Autoconfiguration procedure specified in
clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 32.508 [5] identifies itself as MvPnC compatible DHCP
client by using the Vendor Class Identifier DHCP option specified in clause
9.13 of RFC 2132 [9] in the following way:
\- DHCP option code 60;
\- Length 5 bytes;
\- Vendor class identifier \"MvPnC\".
The use of Vendor Class Identifier DHCP option with specific value for MvPnC
is illustrated in table 4.1.1.
Table 4.1.1: Use of Vendor Class Identifier
* * *
Code Length Vendor Class Identifier  
60 5 M v P n C
* * *
## 4.2 MvPnC entities information in DHCP replies
### 4.2.1 General
The information that eNB receives from the DHCP server while performing the
Initial IP Autoconfiguration procedure specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS
32.508 [5] may be classified in two categories: basic IP configuration and
MvPnC specific configuration.
The basic IP configuration information is documented in RFC 2131 [8] and RFC
2132 [9] and may include the following:
\- IP address (\"yiaddr\" field in [8]);
\- Subnet Mask (option 1 in [9]);
\- Router(s) (option 3 in [9]);
\- IP address(es) of the DNS server(s) (option 6 in [9]);
\- Domain Name (option 15 in [9]).
The MvPnC specific configuration information is described in detail in clauses
4.2.2, 4.2.3 and 4.2.4.
The DHCP option \"Vendor Specific Information\" specified in the clause 8.4 of
RFC 2132 [9] is used as an opaque container carrying the MvPnC specific
configuration from the DHCP server to the eNB performing the MvPnC procedure.
The multiple pieces of MvPnC specific configuration within the Vendor Specific
Information container are encoded as a sequence of code/length/value fields
(also known as \"Encapsulated vendor-specific options\" specified in clause
8.4 of RFC 2132 [9]).
The use of Vendor Specific Information DHCP option container with encapsulated
vendor-specific options encoding is illustrated in table 4.2.1.1.
Table 4.2.1.1: Use of the Vendor Specific Information
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | Code | L | V | | | | | | | | | ength | endor | | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | 1-255 | cific | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | | Con | Con | ... | | | | | | | | figur | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | ation | | | | | | | | | attr | attr | | | | | | | | | ibute | ibute | | | | | | | | | 1 | 2 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | 43 | n | Type1 | Le | Data | Type2 | Le | Data | ... | | | | | nght1 | | | ngth2 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | octet | octet | octet | octet | n | octet | octet | n | ... | | | | | | o | | | o | | | | | | | ctets | | | ctets | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+
The content of the configuration attributes (specific type code value, valid
length and data type) carried in the format illustrated in table 4.2.1.1 is
specified in the clauses 4.2.2, 4.2.3 and 4.2.4 of the present document.
If the size of MvPnC configuration data contained in \"Vendor Specific
Information\" option 43 is greater than 255 bytes, the RFC 3396 [10] encoding
is used.
To avoid ambiguity in the interpretation of string MvPnC configuration
attributes, the ASCII character encoding shall be used.
Standard network byte order shall be used with appropriate conversion function
at the eNB (matching the local little-endian / big-endian byte order).
Some MvPnC configuration attributes may be missing (e.g. the SeGW FQDN
attribute may be not present if the SeGW IP address is present) or just have
zero length (type octet followed by length octet with value zero and no data
octets).
The qualifiers identifying which attributes are mandatory, Optional (O),
Conditional Mandatory (CM) or Conditional Optional (CO) and corresponding
conditions are defined it the clauses 4.2.2, 4.2.3 and 4.2.4.
The order of MvPnC configuration attributes is not important (e.g. attribute
of type \"1\" may appear after the attribute of type \"5\").
### 4.2.2 Certification Authority (CA/RA) server
This clause specifies the information about Certification Authority server
that eNB receives from DHCP server in Initial IP Autoconfiguration procedure
specified in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 32.508 [5] and uses for Certificate
Enrolment procedure.
Table 4.2.2.1: CA/RA configuration attributes
* * *
Attribute name Attribute tag (code) Attribute length Attribute qualifier
Attribute description
IP address of the CA/RA 01 Variable CO IP address of the CMP server. An IPv4
IP address is usually represented as 4 octets.
FQDN of the CA/RA 02 Variable CO ASCII string representing the Fully Qualified
Domain Name of the CMP server. In case the FQDN is used, the IP address of the
DNS server needs to be made available to the eNB before certificate enrolment.
Port number of the CA/RA 03 Variable M Integer representing the port number
used by CMP server.\ The port for HTTP/HTTPSs transfer of CMP messages is not
explicitly given in RFC 6712 [12], therefore this parameter is required. The
port number is usually represented as 2 octets.
Path to the CA/RA directory 04 Variable M ASCII string representing the path
to the CMP server directory.\ A CMP server may be located in an arbitrary path
other than root.
Subject name of the CA/RA 05 Variable M ASCII string representing the subject
name of the CA/RA.\ The use is described in 3GPP TS 33.310 [11] clause 9.5.3.
Protocol indication 06 Variable CM ASCII string representing the protocol
(HTTP or HTTPS) to be used for certificate enrolment.\ The use is described in
3GPP TS 33.310 [11] clause 9.6.
* * *
Table 4.2.2.2: Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition IP address CO qualifier The IP address is optional if the FQDN
is present FQDN CO qualifier The FQDN is optional if the IP address is present
Protocol indication CM qualifier The protocol indication is mandatory if HTTPS
protocol is used
* * *
### 4.2.3 Security Gateway (SeGW)
This clause specifies the information about Security Gateway server that eNB
receives from DHCP server in Initial IP Autoconfiguration procedure specified
in clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 32.508 [5] and uses for Establishing Secure
Connection procedure.
Table 4.2.3.1: Security Gateway configuration attributes
* * *
Attribute name Attribute tag (code) Attribute length Attribute qualifier
Attribute description IP address of the SeGW 07 Variable CO IP address of the
Security Gateway. An IPv4 IP address is usually represented as 4 octets. FQDN
of the SeGW 08 Variable CO ASCII string representing the Fully Qualified
Domain Name of the Security Gateway. In case the FQDN is used, the IP address
of the DNS server needs to be made available to the eNB before establishing
secure connection.
* * *
Table 4.2.3.2: Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition IP address CO qualifier The IP address is optional if the FQDN
is present FQDN CO qualifier The FQDN is optional if the IP address is present
* * *
### 4.2.4 Element Manager (EM)
This clause specifies the information about Element Manager that eNB receives
either from DHCP server in Initial IP Autoconfiguration procedure specified in
clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 32.508 [5] or from secure DHCP server in Establishing
Connection to Element Manager procedure specified in clause 5.5 of 3GPP TS
32.508 [5] and uses for Establishing Connection to Element Manager procedure.
Table 4.2.4.1: Element Manager configuration attributes
* * *
Attribute name Attribute tag (code) Attribute length Attribute qualifier
Attribute description IP address of the EM 09 Variable CO IP address of the
Element Manager. An IPv4 IP address is usually represented as 4 octets. FQDN
of the EM 10 Variable CO ASCII string representing the Fully Qualified Domain
Name of the Element Manager. In case the FQDN is used, the IP address of the
DNS server needs to be made available to the eNB before establishing
connection to the Element Manager.
* * *
Table 4.2.4.2: Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition IP address CO qualifier The IP address is optional if the FQDN
is present FQDN CO qualifier The FQDN is optional if the IP address is present
* * *
## 4.3 MvPnC entities Fully Qualified Domain Names (FQDN)
### 4.3.1 General
This clause describes the Fully Qualified Domain Names (FQDNs) used in Multi
Vendor Plug and Connect (MvPnC) procedures.
The FQDNs used in MvPnC are in the form of a domain name as specified in IETF
RFC 1035 [7].
The sub-domains used in MvPnC are allocated within the \".3gppnetwork.org\"
domain.\ The GSM Association is in charge of allocating the new sub-domains of
\".3gppnetwork.org\" domain name.\ The procedure specified in Annex E of 3GPP
TS 23.003 [6] is used for the sub-domain allocation.
The FQDNs used in MvPnC follow the general encoding rules specified in clause
19.4.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [6].
The format of FQDNs used in MvPnC follows the \"\.\.\\" pattern.
NOTE: Where \"\.\.oam\" represents the \ shown
in the first row of table E.1 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [6].
The \ label is optional and is required in the operator deployments
where multiple instances of a particular network entity type are not provided
by the same vendor. If present, the \ label is in the form
\"vendor\\", where \ field corresponds to the ID of the vendor. The
specific deployment scenario (e.g. one network entity instance per vendor or
one network entity instance for all vendors) is not known to the eNB when it
connects to the network. Therefore, it should first try to resolve the FQDN
containing the \ label and if it fails, try to resolve the FQDN
without the \ label.
The details of the \ label are described in clauses 4.3.2, 4.3.3 and
4.3.4.
The \ label is the operator\'s OAM realm domain name in the form of
\"oam.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org\", where \"\\" and \"\\"
fields correspond to the MNC and MCC of the operator\'s PLMN. Both the
\"\\" and \"\\" fields are 3 digits long. If the MNC of the PLMN is
2 digits, then a zero shal be added at the beginning.
An example of an OAM realm domain name is:
MCC = 123;
MNC = 45;
Which gives the OAM realm domain name: \"oam.mnc045.mcc123.3gppnetwork.org\".
### 4.3.2 Certification Authority (CA/RA) server
The Certification Authority server (CA/RA) FQDN is derived as follows. The
\"cara\" \ label is added in front of the operator\'s OAM realm domain
name:
cara.oam.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
If particular operator deployment scenario has multiple CA/RA servers (one per
vendor), the \ label is added in front of the \"cara\" label:
vendor\.cara.oam.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
An example of a CA/RA FQDN is:
MCC = 123;
MNC = 45;
ViD = abcd;
Which gives the CA/RA FQDN: \"cara.oam.mnc045.mcc123.3gppnetwork.org\" and
\"vendorabcd.cara.mnc045.mcc123.3gppnetwork.org\".
### 4.3.3 Security Gateway (SeGW)
The Security Gateway (SeGW) FQDN is derived as follows.\ The \"segw\"
\ label is added in front of the operator\'s OAM realm domain name:
segw.oam.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
If particular operator deployment scenario has multiple Security Gateways (one
per vendor), the \ label is added in front of the \"segw\" label:
vendor\.segw.oam.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
An example of a SeGW FQDN is:
MCC = 123;
MNC = 45;
ViD = abcd;
Which gives the SeGW FQDN: \"segw.oam.mnc045.mcc123.3gppnetwork.org\" and
\"vendorabcd.segw.mnc045.mcc123.3gppnetwork.org\".
### 4.3.4 Element Manager (EM)
The Element Manager (EM) FQDN is derived as follows.\ The \"em\" \
label is added in front of the operator\'s OAM realm domain name:
em.oam.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
If particular operator deployment scenario has multiple Element Managers (one
per vendor), the \ label is added in front of the \"em\" label:
vendor\.em.oam.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
An example of a EM FQDN is:
MCC = 123;
MNC = 45;
ViD = abcd;
Which gives the EM FQDN: \"em.oam.mnc045.mcc123.3gppnetwork.org\" and
\"vendorabcd.em.mnc045.mcc123.3gppnetwork.org\".
#