# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
3GPP TS 32.591: \"Telecommunications management; Home eNode B (HeNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Concepts and
requirements for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management System (HeMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.592: \"Telecommunications management; Home eNode B (HeNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Information
model for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management System (HeMS) \".
3GPP TS 32.593: \"Telecommunications management; Home eNode B (HeNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure
flows for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management System (HeMS)\".
3GPP TS 32.594: \"Telecommunications management; Home eNode B (HeNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Data
definitions for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management System (HeMS)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts and requirements of OAM for Home
eNodeB (HeNB). The requirements captured in this document shall be met via
Type 1 interface between HeNB and HeMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] TR-069 Amendment 2, CPE WAN Management Protocol v1.1, Broadband Forum.
[5] 3GPP TS 32.435: \"Performance Measurement, eXtensible Markup Language
(XML) file format definition\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Alarm
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) \".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.220: \" Service requirements for Home Node B (HNB) and Home
eNode B (HeNB)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.320: \"Security of Home Node B (HNB) / Home evolved Node B
(HeNB)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.551: \" Energy Saving Management (ESM); Concepts and
requirements \".
[10] 3GPP TR 32.826: \" Study on Energy Savings Management (ESM) \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1], in that
order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
HeMS Home eNodeB Management System
HeNB Home eNodeB
# 4 Concepts and background
Home eNodeB has the following characteristics:
\- The quantity of Home eNodeBs is likely to be large
\- There may be many Home eNodeB vendors
\- The location of Home eNodeB could be in a private residence which may not
be accessible for frequent on-site maintenance
Based on the above characteristics, this specification defines the
functionalities needed for the management of Home eNodeB over a Type 1
interface.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Configuration Management
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-001** The HeNB shall be able to automatically, i.e. without
human operator on-line interaction or attention, configure itself to be ready
for service when powered up and connected to HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-002** The HeNB shall be able to automatically, i.e. without
human operator on-line interaction or attention, configure itself to be in
service when powered up and connected to HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-003** The HeNB shall be able to automatically, i.e. without
human operator on-line interaction or attention, upgrade its software/firmware
and configuration.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-004** The HeNB auto-configuration shall be done in such way
that the performance of the surrounding macro cells is not adversely affected.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-005** The HeNB auto-configuration function should be
adaptive to react to change in the network and changes in the radio
environment.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-006** The operator shall be able to remotely reboot the
HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-007** The operator shall be able to remotely start/stop the
radio transmission of the HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-008** In case IPsec is used, the system should be engineered
to ensure that the HeNB IP address changes as minimally as possible.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-009** The operator shall be able to remotely reconfigure the
frequency and radio bandwidth of HeNB to adapt to changes in the radio
environment and required bandwidth.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-010** The HeNB should allow configuration of the IPsec or
non-IPsec usage option based on the operator's policy [8].
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-011** The operator shall be able to activate/deactivate
energy savings on one or multiple HeNBs in the network [9][10].
**REQ-OAMP_CM-CON-012** The operator shall be able to configure energy saving
policy for the one or more HeNBs in the network [9][10].
### 5.1.2 Performance Management
**REQ-OAMP_PM-CON-001** The HeNB may have the capability to collect its
performance related data.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-CON-002** The HeNB shall send performance data based on operator
configured policy.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-CON-003** Operator shall be able to retrieve performance data
file from the HeNB.
### 5.1.3 Fault Management
**REQ-OAMP_FM-CON-001** The HeNB shall support Fault Management to enable the
operator to monitor and manage the HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-CON-002** The HeNB shall provide alarm related information only
on demand by the operator or based on operator configured policy.
### 5.1.4 Security Management
**REQ-OAMP_SM-CON-001** The HeNB shall have the capability to protect itself
against Denial of Service attack over the Type 1 interface.
## 5.2 Actor roles
Not defined in this version.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
Not defined in this version.
## 5.4 High level use cases
### 5.4.1 HeNB Energy Saving use cases
**UC1a: Capacity-Limited Networks**
**Capacity-limited networks are normally dimensioned to cope with peak time
traffic demand and can hence be under-utilized in off-peak times peak time
traffic demand e.g. at certain hours of the night, when the overall load as
well as the load distribution onto the different cells may differ
significantly from peak times.**
**For energy saving management in such networks, the objective is therefore to
adapt the network to these changing conditions by activating energy saving on
selected cells. One approach is to concentrate the load into a few selected**
cells **that remain active during low traffic demand periods with increased
coverage area and to deactivate the remaining less loaded** cells**.**
UC1b: Hybrid E-UTRAN Macro Cell and HeNB Cell Coverage
A variation of the above use case is to have all cells in the building can be
shut down. The overlay macro cell can provide coverage for all the HeNBs in
that area.
Depending on the architecture, energy saving decisions and corresponding state
transfers are made by network elements (or element / domain managers) or by
network management systems.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Configuration Management
The requirements for configuration management are as follows:
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-001** The HeNB configuration shall be administered by the
HeMS utilising the TR-069 CWMP Protocol, reference [4].
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-002** HeMS shall be able to reboot the HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-003** HeMS shall have remote access to the HeNB to
start/stop the radio transmission.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-004** HeMS shall have remote access to the HeNB to
start/stop the radio transmission on the frequencies specified by HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-005** HeMS shall maintain the configuration data of the
HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-006** When the HeNB is initially powered up and connected to
the HeMS, HeMS shall send the initially needed configuration data to the HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-007** If the inner IPsec tunnel IP address of the HeNB
changes and HeNB is connected to HeMS via IPsec Tunnel then the HeNB shall
notify the HeMS using TR-069.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-008** The HeMS shall specify which parameters it needs to be
notified of when the HeNB changes their values through auto-configuration. The
HeNB shall notify the HeMS of changes in the values of any such auto-
configured parameters.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-009** The HeNB shall inform the HeMS of its ability to auto-
configure parameters or groups of parameters that are relevant to the HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-010** HeMS shall be able to specify a value, or a valid
range of values, for any parameter that is auto-configurable by the HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-011** Configuration management capability for the HeNB shall
be supported by means of TR-069 RPCs SetParameterValues, AddObject and
DeleteObject . Optionally a bulk configuration management file may be
supported. In this case the TR-069 manager uses the RPC download method to
trigger a CM file download from a file server.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-012** The HeNB shall provide a capability allowing the HeMS
to manage downloading of HeNB software/firmware image files and provide
mechanisms for version identification and notification to the HeMS of the
success or failure of a file download.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-013** In normal operation, the HeNB shall maintain its
configuration data following a HeNB reboot.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-014** The HeNB shall support capabilities to inform the HeMS
about the results of specific actions triggered by the HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-015** It shall be possible to initiate a management
connection at the request of either the HeNB or the HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-016** The HeNB shall be able to inform the HeMS of the
changes in radio environment and required radio bandwidth.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-017** The operator shall be able to remotely reconfigure the
frequency and radio bandwidth of HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-018** If the HeNB is unable to offer service for an operator
configured time period it will deactivate the air interface.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-019** The HeNB shall support a capability to allow the HeMS
to activate Local IP Access.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-020** The HeNB shall support a capability to allow the HeMS
to deactivate Local IP Access.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-021** The HeMS should be able to securely configure the HeNB
according to the operator\'s policy, whether or not to use IPsec for
subsequent connections.[]{#__RefHeading___Toc295905908 .anchor}
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-022** The HeNB should support a capability allowing the HeMS
to initiate energy saving activation.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-023** The HeNB should support a capability allowing the HeMS
to initiate energy saving deactivation.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-024** When a HeNB is in energySaving state the HeMS shall
not consider the NE as a fault, and no alarms shall be raised.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-025** The HeNB should support a capability allowing the HeMS
to configure the time period during which energy saving is allowed or not
allowed.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-026** The HeNB should support a capability to notify the
HeMS when it goes into or out of energySaving state.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-027** The HeNB should support a capability allowing the HeMS
to configure a cell traffic load threshold and time duration to be used for
the decision if a network element goes into energySaving state.
**REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN-028** The HeNB should support a capability allowing the HeMS
to configure a cell traffic load threshold to be used for the decision if a
network element goes out of energySaving state.
### 6.1.2 Performance Management
The HeNB may support Performance Management to enable the operator to monitor
the HeNB network based on the business level requirements.
The requirements for performance management are as follows.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-001** The HeNB may have the Performance Management
capabilities administered by the HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-002** The HeNB shall support the retrieval of the
Performance Information from the HeNB utilising the file transfer option of
TR-069 CWMP Protocol, reference [4].
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-003** The HeNB shall be configurable by the HeMS to produce
an XML File at regular intervals which contains the HeNB performance
Information and then upload the XML File.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-004** The XML File Formats produced by the HeNB shall adhere
to the 3GPP XML Performance Management File Formats, reference [5].
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-005** The HeNB shall upload PM files using TR-069 compliant
file transfer protocols.
**REQ-OAMP_PM-FUN-006** HeMS shall have the ability to configure policies for
the HeNB performance data file upload.
### 6.1.3 Fault Management
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-001** The HeNB shall have the Fault Management capabilities
administered through the HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-002** The HeNB shall have the ability to send alarm related
information to HeMS according to operator configured policy.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-003** The alarm related information to be sent to the HeMS
by the HeNB shall support the inclusion of the appropriate Information
attributes, as defined in 3GPP TS.32.111-2, reference [6].
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-004** The HeNB shall maintain the following information:
> a. Alarm Management Information -- which contains the alarm management and
> reporting parameters configurable by the HeMS
>
> b. Alarms List -- Alarms currently active on the HeNB
>
> c. Alarm History -- contains the alarms previously created by the HeNB.
>
> d. Pending Delivery Queue -- contains the alarms queued to be sent to the
> HeMS on the next management connection
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-005** The HeNB shall support the following ways of alarm
handling:
a. Expedited handling-- the HeNB connects to the HeMS immediately to raise the
alarm and logs the alarm in the Alarm History.
b. Queued handling -- the HeNB queues the alarm internally pending connection
to the HeMS, logs the alarm in the Alarm History, and delivers the alarm on
the next connection to the HeMS
c. Logged handling -- the HeNB does not send the alarm to the HeMS and logs
the alarm in the Alarm History.
d. Disabled handling-- the HeNB does not send the alarm to the HeMS and will
not log the alarm in the Alarm History
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-006** The HeMS may configure the alarm handling for each
type of HeNB alarm according to the HeNB alarm handling capabilities and the
default handling if not specified by the HeMS shall be "Logged handling".
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-007** The HeMS shall have the ability to throttle the
sending of alarms from the HeNB to the HeMS
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-008** The HeMS shall have the capability to retrieve alarm
related information from the HeNB using TR-069 RPC Method Calls.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-009** The HeMS shall have the capability to completely purge
on the HeNB the Alarms List and the Pending Delivery Queue and may have the
capability to completely purge on the HeNB the history of Alarms.
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-010** The HeMS shall have the capability to _**activate and
deactivate** the alarm reporting by the HeNB._
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-011** The _HeMS shall be able to define the frequency of
passive reporting._
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-012** The _HeMS shall be informed immediately of alarms
(raised, changed, cleared) classified as expedited notifications only._
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-013** The HeNB shall provide a capability allowing the HeMS
to access information that it may use to diagnose and resolve connectivity or
service issues.
### 6.1.4 Security Management
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN-001**.The HeNB shall have the capability to communicate with
the HeMS via TR-069 CWMP, reference [4], through the support of one of the two
security mechanisms determined by the Network Operator's Security Policies:
\- utilising SSL/TLS outside the IPsec Tunnel
\- within the IPsec Tunnel with the option to utilise SSL/TLS within the IPsec
Tunnel for additional end-to-end security
TR-069 CPE devices are currently factory programmed with a Bootstrap HeMS URL
only and therefore the HeNB capable CPEs requiring to utilise IPsec for
connection to the HeMS either require to be factory programmed with Bootstrap
Security Gateway/IPsec Information or this information is supplied outside of
the IPsec tunnel before tunnel establishment utilising SSL/TLS.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN-002** The HeNB shall provide a capability to prevent
tampering with the interactions that take place between the HeNB and the HeMS
as well as management functions of a HeNB.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN-003** The HeNB shall provide a capability allowing the HeMS
to authenticate the HeNBs.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN-004** The HeNB shall be able to authenticate the HeMS prior
to responding to interactionstriggered by the HeMS.
**REQ-OAMP_SM-FUN-005** The HeNB shall provide a capability supporting
confidentiality for interactionstaking place between the HeNB and the HeMS.
## 6.2 Actor roles
Not defined in this version.
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
Not defined in this version.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Energy saving activation on selected network elements
(**_Centralized ES_**)
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Activating energy saving for a | | | | selected network elements in a | | | | part of the network | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | HeMS as the user | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) and | | | | their OSS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | **_Centralized ES is | | | | performed._** | | | | | | | | The network operator has | | | | decided to activate energy | | | | saving on selected network | | | | elements in a part of the | | | | network (network elements, e.g. | | | | base stations) based on time | | | | period and network load. This | | | | requires to activate energy | | | | saving on some network elements | | | | and to activate | | | | compensatingForEnergySaving on | | | | others. | | | | | | | | HeMS is monitoring the load on | | | | the NE. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The network topology should | | | | allow transferring some network | | | | elements into | | | | energySaving _State_ while | | | | maintaining coverage by | | | | transferring some other into | | | | _ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. base | | | | stations) are not in a faulty | | | | state. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The HeMS decides to activate | | | | energy saving on selected | | | | network elements in a part of | | | | the network** based on | | | | monitored decreased network | | | | load and time period. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The HeMS makes a decision on | | | | which NEs should enter | | | | energySaving _state_ , | | | | _compensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state_ , or _notEnergySaving | | | | state_ based on network load, | | | | geographic positions and time | | | | of day. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | Based on the output of step1, | | | | the HeMS initiates energy | | | | saving activation and energy | | | | saving compensation activation | | | | on the NEs selected for the | | | | respective state transition. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (M) | After the completion of the | | | | energy saving activation | | | | process, theNE informs the HeMS | | | | on the result of the process. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **The selected network elements | | | | are in _energySaving state_ , | | | | and other selected network | | | | elements are in | | | | _compensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state_.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving activation has | | | | been performed on some selected | | | | NEs. Other selected NEs are in | | | | _compensatingForEnergySaving_ | | | | state. The network coverage is | | | | maintained. The network | | | | capacity is adapted to the | | | | reduced load. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN --023, | | | | REQ-OAMP,_CM-FUN --025, | | | | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN --027 | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
### 6.4.2 Deactivation of energy saving on selected network elements
(**_Centralized ES_** )
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Deactivating energy saving for | | | | a selected part of the network | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | HeMS as user | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) and | | | | their OSS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | **_Centralized ES_** is | | | | performed. | | | | | | | | The network operator has | | | | decided to deactivate energy | | | | saving on selected network | | | | elements in a part of the | | | | network (network elements, e.g. | | | | base stations) based on time | | | | period and network load. | | | | | | | | HeMS is monitoring the load on | | | | the NE. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The affected network elements | | | | are in energySaving _state or in | | | | ES-Compensate state._ | | | | | | | | Network elements (base | | | | stations) are not in a faulty | | | | state. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The HeMS decides to | | | | deactivate energySaving for | | | | selected network elements in a | | | | part of the network** based on | | | | network load. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The HeMS makes a decision on | | | | which NEs should remain in | | | | _energySaving state_ or | | | | _compensatingforEnergySaving | | | | state_ , or enter | | | | _notEnergySaving state_ based | | | | on network load, geographic | | | | positions and maximum coverage | | | | of base stations. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | Based on the output of step1, | | | | the HeMS initiates energy | | | | saving deactivation and energy | | | | saving compensation | | | | deactivation on the NEs | | | | selected for the respective | | | | state transition. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (M) | After the completion of the | | | | energy saving deactivation | | | | process, the NE informs the | | | | HeMS on the result of the | | | | process. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **The selected network elements | | | | come out of energy saving | | | |_state_.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving deactivation has | | | | been performed on the selected | | | | NEs. The selected NEs are in | | | | notEnergySaving state. The | | | | network coverage is maintained. | | | | The network capacity | | | | accommodates the increased | | | | load. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN --024, | | | | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN --025, | | | | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN --027 | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
### 6.4.3 Energy saving activation on selected network elements (Distributed
ES)
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Activating energy saving for a | | | | selected network elements in a | | | | part of the network | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | HeMS as user | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) and | | | | their OSS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network operator has | | | | enabled the distributed energy | | | | saving function on selected | | | | network elements in a part of | | | | the network (network elements, | | | | e.g. base stations). This | | | | allows to activate energy | | | | saving on some network elements | | | | and to activate energy saving | | | | compensation on others. | | | | | | | | HeMS configures the policy for | | | | load threshold. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The network topology should | | | | allow transferring some network | | | | elements into energySavingstate | | | | while maintaining coverage by | | | | transferring some others into | | | | ES-Compensate state. | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. base | | | | stations) are not in a faulty | | | | state. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The distributed algorithm | | | | decides to activate energy | | | | saving on selected network | | | | elements in a part of the | | | | network** based on monitored | | | | decreased network load and time | | | | period provisioned policy. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The NE executes the energy | | | | saving algorithm to determine | | | | which neighboring NEs should | | | | enter energySaving, | | | | compensatingForEnergySaving, or | | | | notEnergySaving state. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | Based on the output of step 1, | | | | those NEs that have been | | | | selected to be transferred to | | | | compensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state, initiate energy saving | | | | compensation and inform the | | | | HeMS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (M) | Based on the output of step 1, | | | | those NEs that have been | | | | selected to be transferred to | | | | energySaving state, perform | | | | energy saving activation and | | | | inform the HeMS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **The selected base stations | | | | are in energySaving state, and | | | | other selected base stations | | | | are in** | | | | compensatingForEnergySaving | | | | **state.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving activation has | | | | been performed on some selected | | | | NEs. Other selected NEs are in | | | | compensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state. The network coverage is | | | | maintained. The network | | | | capacity is adapted to the | | | | reduced load. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN--25, | | | | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN --026, | | | | REQ-OAMP,_CM-FUN --028, | | | | REQ-OAMP_CM- REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN | | | | --030 | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
### 6.4.4 Energy saving deactivation on selected network elements (Distributed
ES)
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Deactivating energy saving for | | | | a selected part of the network | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | HeMS as user | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | Network elements (NEs) and | | | | their OSS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network operator has | | | | enabled the energy saving | | | | distributed function on | | | | selected network elements in a | | | | part of the network, so that | | | | the NEs can deactivate energy | | | | saving state depending on load | | | | conditions. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The affected network elements | | | | are in energySaving state or in | | | | compensatingForEnergySaving | | | | state. | | | | | | | | Network elements (e.g. base | | | | stations) are not in a faulty | | | | state. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | The **distributed algorithm | | | | decides to deactivate energy | | | | saving for a selected part of | | | | the network** based on energy | | | | saving policy. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The NE executes the energy | | | | saving algorithm that decides | | | | which NEs remain in | | | | energySaving state or | | | | _compensatingforEnergySaving | | | | state_ or enter notEnergySaving | | | | state. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | Based on the output of step 1, | | | | those NEs that in energySaving | | | | state or | | | | _compensatingforEnergySaving | | | | state which_ have been selected | | | | to be transferred to | | | | notEnergySaving state, initiate | | | | energy saving deactivation or | | | | energy saving compensation | | | | deactivation and inform the | | | | HeMS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **The selected network elements | | | | are in nonEnergySaving state.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | Energy saving deactivation has | | | | been performed on the selected | | | | NEs. The selected NEs are in | | | | notEnergySaving state. The | | | | network coverage is maintained. | | | | The network capacity | | | | accommodates the increased | | | | load. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN--25, | | | | REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN --026, | | | | REQ-OAMP,_CM-FUN --029, | | | | REQ-OAMP_CM- REQ-OAMP_CM-FUN | | | | --030 | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Energy Saving use cases for HeNB
# A.1 UC1a: Capacity-Limited Networks
**Capacity-limited networks are normally dimensioned to cope with peak time
traffic demand and can hence be under-utilized in off-peak times peak time
traffic demand e.g. at certain hours of the night, when the overall load as
well as the load distribution onto the different cells may differ
significantly from peak times.**
**For energy saving management in such networks, the objective is therefore to
adapt the network to these changing conditions by activating energy saving on
selected cells. One approach is to concentrate the load into a few selected**
cells **that remain active during low traffic demand periods with increased
coverage area and to deactivate the remaining less loaded** cells**.**
HeNBs are ideal candidates for policy based energy saving. For this use case
let us consider an office building where there are several HeNBs deployed.
Figure A.1-1
Offices are generally closed between 9:00 PM to 6:00 AM. A policy based energy
saving can be used to shut down cells that would not have any traffic during
these times. Depending on the need one of cells can provide minimum coverage
for the building.
Figure A.1-2: Different network arrangements corresponding to capacity demand
variation for energy saving purposes
# A.2 UC 1b: Hybrid E-UTRAN Macro Cell and HeNB Cell Coverage
Alternately, if the building is completely closed for holidays or weekends all
cells in the building can be shut down. The overlay macro cell can provide
coverage for all the HeNBs in that area.
{width="3.573611111111111in" height="2.3493055555555555in"}
Figure A.2-1
Figure A.2-2: Hybrid E-UTRAN Macro Cell and HeNB Cell Coverage
In this scenario, two E-UTRAN Cells with different cell types cover the same
geographical area. Cell B (HeNB Cell) is covered totally by Cell A (Macro
Cell). Generally, Cell A is deployed by eNB to provide continuous coverage of
the area, while Cell B is deployed by Home eNB to increase the capacity of the
special sub-areas, such as home or business mall or office. The energy saving
procedure in the coverage of Cell B (ES area) may be triggered in case that
light traffic or no traffic in Cell B is detected. Cell B deactivation of
energy saving may also be triggered when the traffic of ES area resumes to a
high level. Home eNB which deploys the HeNB cell can be totally switched off
during the ES procedure.
_Activating energy saving on certain NEs and modifying radio parameters for
increasing coverage for other cells can lead to different neighbor relations
as well as different cell and frequency layouts, which should be addressed by
automatic neighbor relation, interference control, e.g. through OAM-driven
configuration or SON function. Depending on the specific scenarios, activating
energy saving on NEs could ultimately lead to switching off all radio-
transmission-related functions at a site, which would lead to reduced energy
consumption and could implicitly lead to even further energy saving, e.g. when
air condition systems at a site adapt to the reduced cooling requirements --
which is not considered here in detail._
Depending on the architecture, energy saving decisions and corresponding state
transfers are made by network elements (or element / domain managers) or by
network management systems.
#