# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies PS domain Online Charging in a roaming context,
when the Gateway node implementing the IP access to the PDN for data traffic,
pertains to the VPLMN, whereas the Online Charging System (OCS) pertains to
the HPLMN.
The study will focus, in a first phase, on high level scenarios for Flow Based
Charging, relying on defined TS 23.203 [207] PCC roaming architectures with Gy
crossing PLMNs, in order to investigate the following aspects:
\- Information availability in both PLMNs
\- Inter-PLMN connection mechanisms for Diameter messages
\- Impacts on Inter-operator charging
\- Whether a \"proxy OCS\" is needed
The two following configurations will be addressed:
\- Gy between OCS residing in HPLMN and PCEF located in PGW VPLMN, for Local
Breakout Roaming configuration defined by TS 23.401 [208] and TS 23.203 [207].
\- Gy between OCS residing in HPLMN and PCEF located in IP-Edge fixed
broadband access owned by a Convergent fixed-mobile VPLMN, for Non Seamless
WLAN Offload (NSWO) 3GPP UEs traffic defined by annex S of TS 23.203 [207].
During this first phase, the study will also investigate a basic set of Online
Charging features and parameters, to be used in an inter-PLMN situation.
Based on conclusions and recommendations for the first phase, the second phase
of the study will address the inter-PLMN Gyn Reference Point for the support
of Application Based Charging.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Architecture and Principles\".
[2] - [10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
[12] - [19] Void.
[20] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[21]-[34] Void.
[35] 3GPP TS 32.275: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
MultiMedia Telephony (MMTel) charging\".
[36] - [49] Void.
[50] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging applications\".
[51] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\".
[52] 3GPP TS 32.297: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) file format and transfer\".
[53] 3GPP TS 32.296: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Online Charging System (OCS) applications and interfaces\".
[54] 3GPP TS 32.295: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) transfer\".
[55] - [99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[102] - [199] Void.
[200] - [205] Void.
[206] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control (PCC); Reference points\".
[207] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and Charging Control Architecture\".
[208] 3GPP TS 23.401: \" General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[209] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[210] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\"..
[211] 3GPP TS 24.229: \" IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[212] 3GPP TS 23.003: \" Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[213] 3GPP TS 29.215: \"Policy and Charging Control (PCC) over S9 reference
point \".
[214] - [299] Void.
[300] - [399] Void.
[400] Void.
[401] IETF RFC 3588 (2003): \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[402] IETF RFC 4006 (2005): \"Diameter Credit-Control Application\".
[403] - [499] Void.
[500] GSMA PRD IR.65: \"IMS Roaming and Interworking Guidelines\".
[501] GSMA PRD IR.88: \"LTE Roaming Guidelines\".
[502] GSMA PRD IR.92: \"IMS Profile for Voice and SMS\".
[503] GSMA PRD IR.94: \"IMS Profile for Conversational Video Service\".
[504] GSMA PRD RCC.07: \"Rich Communication Suite 5.1 Advanced Communications
Services and Client Specification\".
[505] GSMA FCM.01: \"VoLTE Service Description and Implementation
Guidelines\".
[506] GSMA PRD BA.27: \"Charging and Accounting Principles\".
[507] GSMA PRD BA.12: \"Transferred Account Procedure (TAP) and Billing
Information\".
[508] - [599] Void.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [100] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR
21.905 [100].
**static policy rules:** As per TS 23.203 [207], the PCRF may authorize
dynamic PCC rules for service data flows without a corresponding AF session.
Such PCC rules may be statically configured at the PCRF or dynamically filled
with the UE provided traffic mapping information. Static policy rules, as used
in this document, refers to the configuration of policy parameters in the
PCRF.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Gx Reference point between a PCRF and a PCEF.
Gxx Reference point between a PCRF and a BBERF.
Gy Online charging reference point between a PCEF and an OCS.
Gyn Online charging reference point between a TDF and an OCS.
Gz Offline charging reference point between a PCEF and an OFCS.
Gzn Offline charging reference point between a TDF and an OFCS.
Ro Online charging reference point between a 3G network element and the OCS.
Rx Reference point between the PCRF and an AF.
S9 Reference point between a PCRF in the HPLMN (H-PCRF) and a PCRF in the
VPLMN (V‑PCRF)
Sd Reference point between the PCRF and a TDF.
Sp Reference point between a PCRF and an SPR.
Sy Reference point for policy enforcement between OCS and the PCRF
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[100] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in TR 21.905 [100].
AVP Attribute Value Pair
DEA Diameter Edge Agent
H-PCRF A PCRF in the HPLMN
IP‑CAN IP Connectivity Access Network
OCS Online Charging System
NDS Network Domain Security
NSWO Non-Seamless WLAN Offload
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
RG Rating Group
SEG Security Gateway
SI Service identifier
SPR Subscription Profile Repository
TDF Traffic Detection Function
UDR User Data Repository
V-PCRF A PCRF in the VPLMN
# 4 Study Phase 1
## 4.1 Baseline Architectures
### 4.1.1 Local Breakout Roaming Architecture
For configuration with Gy between OCS residing in HPLMN and PCEF located in
PGW VPLMN, for Local Breakout Roaming, there are two Architecture References.
The Evolved 3GPP Packet Switched Domain Roaming Architecture for local
breakout defined in TS 23.401 [208], and copied as Figure 4.1.1.1.
{width="6.674305555555556in" height="4.386111111111111in"}
Figure 4.1.1.1: Roaming architecture for local breakout, with home
operator\'s\ application functions only
The Policy and Charging Control Architecture for Evolved 3GPP Packet Switched
domain, Roaming Local Breakout defined in TS 23.203 [207], copied as Figure
4.1.1.2, extends the architecture to include the PCEF in the PDN Gateway of
the VPLMN, the TDF and Offline Charging System of the VPLMN and the Online
Charging System (OCS) of the HPLMN.
Figure 4.1.1.2: Overall PCC architecture for roaming with PCEF in visited
network (local breakout) when SPR is used
TS 23.203[207] adds the following statements regarding the VPLMN:
  * \"For a visited access, the VPLMN may use an OCS proxy between the PCEF and the OCS\" for Gy reference point.
  * \"Through roaming agreement, the HPLMN operator may allow the VPLMN operator to operate the V‑PCRF without using the capabilities described in clause 6.2.1.3.3 (i.e. no S9 is used) \" for S9 reference point.
NOTE: Either SPR or UDR is used in this architecture.
### 4.1.2 Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access Convergent scenario Roaming
Architecture
For configuration with Gy between OCS residing in HPLMN and PCEF located in
IP-Edge fixed broadband access owned by a Convergent fixed-mobile VPLMN, the
Architecture Reference is defined in TS 23.203 [207] Annex S and copied as
Figure 4.1.2.1.
Figure 4.1.2.1: PCC Reference architecture for Fixed Broadband Access
convergence (roaming)\ when SPR is used
NOTE: Either SPR or UDR is used in this architecture.
## 4.2 Scenarios
### 4.2.1 Scenario A: IMS conversational video service over LTE -- Roaming LBO
#### 4.2.1.1 Description
A UE establishes an IMS conversational video service per GSMA IR.94 [503]
towards another UE, while roaming in a VPLMN with traffic broken out from the
Visited Network.
Per GSMA IR.92 [502], the following apply:
> \- This profile has been designed to support IMS roaming with both P-CSCF
> and PGW in the visited network.
>
> \- \"A default bearer must be created when the UE creates the PDN connection
> to the IMS well‑known APN, as defined in 3GPP specifications. A standardized
> QCI value of five (5) must be used for the default bearer. It is used for
> IMS SIP signalling\".
>
> \- \"IMS Communication Service Identifier (ICSI) value used must indicate
> the IMS Multimedia Telephony service\".
>
> \- \"The dedicated bearer for Conversational Voice must utilize the
> standardized QCI value of one (1) \".
Per GSMA IR.94 [503], the following apply:
> \- \"The dedicated bearer for Conversational Video stream may be a GBR or a
> non-GBR bearer, if GBR it must be QCI =2\" (option selected by this
> scenario).
>
> \- \"The network must initiate the creation of dedicated bearer resources to
> transport the voice and the video media\".
Per GSMA IR.88 [501] the following apply:
> \- \"For LTE voice roaming, the PCRF in the visited network may be
> configured with static policy rules for roaming subscribers, in order to
> configure the default and dedicated bearers as specified in IR.92 and IR.94.
> As an alternative, and dependent on operator agreements, dynamic PCC may be
> used to exchange policy information between the hPCRF and the vPCRF (that is
> S9 interface)\".
Assumptions for the scenario A:
> \- In this scenario, RG values selected for default bearer, voice component,
> and video component are different.
#### 4.2.1.2 Message Flow
##### 4.2.1.2.1 Introduction
The flows are derived from those described in GSMA FCM [505]. Not all the
Nodes involved at IMS and EPC levels are reflected, but mainly those
interacting for the purpose of online charging are shown. E.g. the HSS is not
part of the picture, although through update loc process, UE subscription\'s
data are retrieved by the MME in VPLMN from the HSS in HPLMN (i.e. authorized
VPLMN...).
Also for simplification PGW will be used instead of PCEF when flow based
charging is described: embedded PCEF functionality is assumed.
Two alternatives are described:
  * Alternative A: use of S9.
\- Alternative B: no use of S9, but static policies instead.
##### 4.2.1.2.2 UE Originating
This clause provides the description of one IMS conversational video service
establishment by UE on Originating side.
Figure 4.2.1.2.2.1: Initial Attach with default bearer creation
A UE needs to Initial Attach and have a PDN connection to the IMS well‑known
APN in order to receive IMS services. During this Initial attach, the always-
on IP connectivity for UE of the EPS is enabled by establishing a default EPS
bearer, with the standardised value QCI 5, used for IMS SIP signalling.
1\. The UE initiates the Attach procedure to E-UTRAN. The request from the UE
may contain the APN (IMS) to be employed for default bearer activation. When
the request from the UE does not provide an APN, the MME should use a PDN GW
corresponding to the default APN. Based on user's subscription information
retrieved from HSS, the allocation of a VPLMN PGW for this APN is allowed. The
MME/SGW sends a Create Session Request (IMSI, IMS APN, Default EPS Bearer QoS
(QCI 5), APN-AMBR, Charging Characteristics...) message to the selected VPLMN
PGW.
2\. The PDN GW generates a Charging Id and performs an IP-CAN Session
Establishment procedure to obtain the default PCC rules for the UE from the
V-PCRF, sending (IMSI, IMS APN, APN-AMBR, Default EPS Bearer QoS (QCI 5),
Charging Id, Charging Characteristics (including pre-defined OCS/OFCS
addresses)...).
**Alternative A. use of S9: step 3 to 5**
3\. Based on the subscriber identity, the V‑PCRF determines the request is for
a roaming user, and based on roaming agreements, S9 towards HPLMN may be used.
The V-PCRF stores the information received in the CCR command from the PGW and
sends a new request over S9 containing parameters received over Gx (IMSI, IMS
APN, Default-EPS-Bearer-QoS (QCI =5), APN-AMBR, PLMN id, Charging Id...)
towards the H-PCRF..
4\. The H‑PCRF detects the IP‑CAN session uses visited access. Based on
user\'s authorized QoS for IMS APN, the H-PCRF provisions QoS (QCI=5) for the
default EPS bearer, and derives PCC Rule-d assigned with RGd and QCI 5. The
H-PCRF also provides the HPLMN OCS Address to be used for the UE. This
preliminary PCC Rule-d allows DNS and SIP signalling traffic.
5\. The H-PCRF forwards over S9, the decisions to be applied to the PGW by the
V-PCRF: PCC Rule-d to activate, \"Online enabled\" to be applied as default
charging method, OCS address in HPLMN,...).
**Alternative B.** Alternatively, based on roaming agreement, the HPLMN
operator may allow the VPLMN operator to operate the V‑PCRF without use of S9,
and static policies to be applied: QoS (QCI=5) to be provisioned for the
default EPS bearer, preliminary PCC Rule0 assigned with RG0 and QCI 5 to allow
DNS and SIP signalling traffic, and HPLMN OCS Address to be used.
**Key issue #1:** in Alternative B, RG value for default bearer (here PCC-
Rule0 and RG0) should be agreed between VPLMN and HPLMN results in configuring
within the VPLMN, RG values for roamers with LBO, these RG values may be
different from the one applied for its own subscribers (i.e. non-roamers).
**Key issue #2:** different Vendor-specific RG values used for the default
bearer. In Alternative A or B, pre-defined rules may be invoked for roaming
charging. For Alternative A, vendor-specific pre-defined rules for each PGW
are provided by the VPLMN to the HPLMN for use over S9.
**Key issue #5:** in Alternative B, OCS address needs to be determined by
VPLMN
6\. When S9 is used, Alternative A, the V-PCRF enforces visited operator
policies regarding QoS authorization requested by the home operator per the
roaming agreements: validates the Default-EPS-Bearer-QoS (QCI =5). The V-PCRF
provisions the PCC Rule-d to be installed, associated with all other
parameters received over S9 including HPLMN OCS Address to be used, sending
CCA to PDN GW. When S9 is not used, Alternative B, the V-PCRF defines PCC Rule
0 based on static policies for the roaming partner.
7\. The PGW installs the received PCC Rule-d (or alternatively PCC-Rule0),
enforces the authorized QoS (QCI 5). As Online Charging is applicable to the
PDN connection, and PCC Rule-d (or alternatively PCC-Rule0), is activated,
then PGW creates a Gy session towards the OCS, based on OCS address received
over Gx (overriding the pre-defined OCS addresses determined by the Charging
Characteristics). The PGW sends CCR-I with a set of relevant information in
order to get OCS\'s authorization for the PDN connection (IMSI, IMS APN,
Charging Id, PGW address, PGW PLMN Id, Qos information (QCI 5)...), and in
addition requests quota for RGd (alternatively RG0).
NOTE 1: The P-GW may request quota during the Gy session establishment as
shown in this flow, or may wait to request quota when data is received for the
service data flow associated with the provisioned PCC rules. This method would
utilize a CCR update and CCA not shown in this figure.
8\. Based on checks whether the user is authorized for this PDN connection,
and quota can be allocated for RGd (alternatively RG0), the OCS allocates
appropriate quota along with a set of re-authorization triggers.
9\. The OCS sends CCA to the PGW with granted quota.
10\. If authorized by the OCS, the PGW acknowledges the Create session
Request.
11\. Messages are exchanged between UE, E-UTRAN, MME, SGW, PGW for
uplink/downlink packets to be able to be sent/received by UE, and also for the
UE to acquire P-CSCF address to contacted in VPLMN. (e.g. the P-CSCF is sent
by the PGW in the PCO information sent to the UE).
Figure 4.2.1.2.2.2: IMS session establishment -- UE Originating until SIP 183
Progress -- part 1
12\. Based on the obtained P-CSCF Address, the UE performs IMS registration
procedure through appropriate PDN connection over the EPS default bearer,
towards the HPLMN IMS.
13\. The UE initiates an IMS conversational video service: SIP INVITE request
is sent towards the P-CSCF in VPLMN, indicating IMS Communication Service
Identifier (ICSI) MMTel with SDP offer including voice and video media
components.
14\. P-CSCF generates an ICID (IMS Charging Identifier). The P-CSCF identifies
the requested service information (ICSI), the needed connection information
(IP address of the down link IP flow(s), port numbers to be used, etc.) and
the HPLMN the request needs to be routed-to.
15\. P-CSCF routes the request towards the HPLMN S-CSCF with the service
requested, ICID and associated SDP offer. The S-CSCF forwards the request
towards MMTel AS.
16\. After performing services-related checks, based on subscriber profile,
and \"online charging\" found set for this subscriber, MMTel AS creates a new
Ro Online Charging session towards the OCS in order to get authorization for
this IMS conversational video service with SDP offer description, ICID, and
request time quota.
17\. This IMS conversational video service with SDP offer description is
authorized by the OCS, and preliminary time quota may be granted in returned
CCA.
18\. The OCS sends CCA to the MMTel AS with granted quota.
19\. The SIP INVITE is forwarded to the remote party.
20\. The remote party returns a SIP 183 Progress with SDP answer with selected
codecs, which is sent by S-CSCF/MMTel-AS towards the VPLMN P-CSCF. An asserted
ICSI is also conveyed from HPLMN towards the P-CSCF.
21\. Ro session is updated with the SDP answer received.
22\. The OCS checks quota allocation for this SDP answer.
23\. The OCS sends CCA to the MMTel AS with new granted quota.
24\. The S-CSCF/MMTel-AS sends SIP 183 Progress with SDP answer towards the
VPLMN P-CSCF. An asserted ICSI is also conveyed from HPLMN towards the P-CSCF.
25\. The P-CSCF provides service information derived from SIP session
information, SDP answer to the V-PCRF by sending a Diameter AAR over a new Rx
Diameter session for the session authorization and provisioning the
corresponding PCC rules. The P-CSCF sends (ICID, media IP flows description,
QoS-related information, asserted ICSI...) to V-PCRF and subscribes to
Successful resource allocation.
**Alternative A: use of S9: steps 26-27**
26\. The V-PCRF stores the received session information, and forwards the
Diameter AAR to the H-PCRF in order to get authorization and obtain PCC Rules
from session-related information.
27\. The H-PCRF responds to the V-PCRF with a Diameter AAA after storage of
received information.
28\. V-PCRF sends acknowledgement AAA to P-CSCF.
**Alternative A. use of S9: steps 29-30**
29\. The H-PCRF performs check from subscription-related information about
allowed service(s), QoS information... The H-PCRF determines the \"SI= service
IDvi\" to be used, based on ICSI MMTel asserted service and media flows
description. The H-PCRF derives the PCC Rule(s) to be installed: PCC Rule-vo
(QCI 1, ICID, service-IDvi, RGvo) for flows associated to voice media
components, and PCC Rule-vi (QCI 2, ICID, service-IDvi and RGvi) for flows
associated to video media components.
30\. The H-PCRF sends a S9 RAR to the V-PCRF to request that the PCEF
installs, modifies or removes PCC Rules and updates the policy decision
**Alternative B.** Alternatively, based on roaming agreement, static policies
apply instead use of S9, as input for PCC Rule generation: \"SI = service
ID1\", RG1 (voice) and RG2 (video) are derived .
**Key issue #3:** in Alternative B, SI, RG values for conversational video
service, with voice and video component (here PCC-Rule1, RG1, PCC-Rule2, RG2)
should be agreed between VPLMN and HPLMN results in configuring within the
VPLMN, SI/RG values for roamers, these SI/RG values may be different from the
ones applied for its own subscribers (i.e. non-roamers).
**Key issue #4:** in Alternative B, different Vendor-specific SI, RG values
for conversational video service, with voice and video component.
31\. When S9 is used, Alternative A, the V-PCRF enforces visited operator
policies regarding QoS authorization requested by the home operator per the
roaming agreements: The V-PCRF executes interactions with PGW according to
received instructions from S9 (or alternatively based on static policies if
alternative B): provisioning of PCC Rules PCC Rule-vo and PCC Rule-vi (or
alternatively PCC-Rule1 and PCC-Rule2), by sending RAR to the PGW and
associated event triggers subscriptions, including subscription to successful
resources allocation.
32\. PGW acknowledges by sending RAA to the V-PCRF.
**Alternative A. use of S9: step 33**
> 33\. The V-PCRF acknowledges by sending RAA to the H-PCRF.
Figure 4.2.1.2.2.3: IMS session establishment -- UE Originating until SIP 183
Progress -- part 2
34\. The PGW performs the bearer binding and QoS resource reservation
associated to the installed PCC-Rule-vo and PCC-Rule-vi (alternatively PCC
Rule1 and PCC Rule2). Based on received PCC Rules QCI and ARP, the PGW
determines 2 dedicated bearers need to be activated (one for QCI 1 and one for
QCI 2).
The PGW generates Charging Id for the dedicated bearer with QCI 1. As Online
Charging is applicable to the PDN connection, and PCC Rule-vo (alternatively
PCC-Rule-1) is activated, then PGW creates a new Gy session towards the OCS
for the dedicated bearer. The PGW sends CCR-I with (IMSI, IMS APN, Charging
Id, Qos information (QCI 1),...), and in addition may requests quota for RGvo
provided with ICID, and Service-IDvi (alternatively RG1 provided with ICID and
Service-ID1).
NOTE 2: The P-GW may request quota during the Gy session establishment as
shown in this flow, or may wait to request quota when data is received for the
service data flow associated with the provisioned PCC rules. This method would
utilize a CCR update and CCA not shown in this figure.
NOTE 3: When Charging per IP-CAN session is active in the P-GW, then step 34
is replaced with a CCR-U on the already established Gy session if there is no
quota already allocated for the given RG.
35\. Based on checks whether the user is authorized for this bearer, and quota
can be allocated for RGvo (alternatively RG1), the OCS allocates appropriate
quota along with a set of re-authorisation triggers.
36\. The OCS sends CCA to the PGW with granted quota.
37\. Dedicated bearer activation is sent towards the SGW in order to activate
the new bearer with QCI 1.
38\. Successful create bearer response is received by the PGW.
Steps 34 to 38 apply to each dedicated bearer.
39\. After the successful activation of the 2 dedicated bearers, if indication
of resource allocation success has been requested, PGW indicates to the V-PCRF
the successful provisioning for flows under PCC Rule-vo (QCI 1) (alternatively
PCC-Rule1) and flows under PCC Rule-vi (QCI 2) (alternatively PCC-Rule2).
**Alternative A. use of S9: steps 0-41**
40\. With S9 this successful resources allocation is also notified to the
H-PCRF.
41\. The H-PCRF informs about this notification to the VPLMN by sending S9 RAR
to the V-PCRF
42\. The V-PCRF subsequently notifies to the P-CSCF about this successful
resources allocation (since P-CSCF subscribed to this). With S9 the V-PCRF
proxies the RAR received from the H-PCRF.
43\. The P-CSCF responds with RAA to the V-PCRF.
**Alternative A. use of S9: steps 44-45**
44\. The V-PCRF proxies the RAA to the H-PCRF.
45\. The H-PCRF responds to step 39 with CCA to the V-PCRF.
46\. The V-PCRF responds with CCA to the PGW.
47\. Once the P-CSCF has been notified that all resources are established
(i.e. the 2 dedicated bearers) SIP 183 Progress with SDP answer is forwarded
to the originating UE by the P-CSCF.
Figure 4.2.1.2.2.4: IMS session establishment - UE Originating next step after
SIP 183 Progress
48\. SIP exchange (PRACK, UPDATE, Ringing) between Originating UE and Remote
party through IMS VPLMN and HPLMN Networks, indicating appropriate resources
reservation (due to dedicated bearers established). Ro session updates may
occur with SDP offer/SDP answer.
49\. The remote party answers: SIP 200 OK (INVITE) is received by MMTel
AS/S-CSCF.
50\. Ro session is updated with the final negotiated SDP Answer upon final
response
51\. IMS session with this final description is authorized by OCS and new time
quota may be granted.
52\. The OCS sends CCA to the MMTel AS/S-CSCF with granted quota.
53\. SIP 200 OK (INVITE) is forwarded towards the originating UE through the
P-CSCF in VPLMN.
54\. The P-CSCF sends AAR message to V-PCRF over the Rx session in order to
enable all media IP flows.
**Alternative A: use of S9: step 55-56**
55\. The V-PCRF stores the received session information, and forwards the
Diameter AAR to the H-PCRF in order to get authorization.
56\. The H-PCRF authorizes the request and responds with an AAA message to the
visited PCRF.
57\. The V-PCRF answers to P-CSCF, sending AAA.
58\. The H-PCRF derives the PCC Rule(s) to be installed in order to enable
media flows.
59\. The H-PCRF sends a S9 RAR to the V-PCRF to request that the PCEF
installs, modifies or removes PCC Rules and updates the policy decision.
**Alternative B:** Alternatively, based on roaming agreement, static policies
apply instead use of S9, and the V-PCRF takes the decision to enable media
flows.
60\. The V-PCRF executes interactions with PGW in order to enable the flows
within installed PCC Rule-vo, PCC-Rule-vi (alternatively PCC-Rule1, PCC-
Rule2).
61\. The PGW answers to V-PCRF sending RAA.
62\. The V-PRCF answers to H-PCRF sending RAA.
63\. SIP ACK message is sent from Originating UE to remote party.
Video traffic is sent over the appropriate dedicated bearer.
64\. The traffic is counted under \"Service-IDvi\" within RGvi, and there is
no more Quota for RGvi.
65\. CCR-U is issued by the PGW towards the OCS to get more quota. The used
units counted under Service-IDvi and RGvi are reported along with the quota
request.
66\. OCS deducts used units and allocates quota for RGvi.
67\. OCS replies CCA to PGW with allocated quota.
##### 4.2.1.2.3 UE Terminating
This clause provides the description of one IMS conversational video service
establishment by UE on Terminating side.
Prior to these flows, the UE proceeds to Initial Attach with default bearer
creation steps 1-11 as depicted in Figure 4.2.1.2.2.1.
Figure 4.2.1.2.3.1: IMS session establishment- UE Terminating until SIP 183
Progress
12\. Based on the obtained P-CSCF Address, the UE has previously performed a
IMS registration procedure through appropriate PDN connection over the EPS
default bearer, towards the HPLMN IMS.
13\. The S-CSCF receives a SIP INVITE request from a remote party, indicating
IMS Communication Service Identifier (ICSI) MMTel with SDP offer including
voice and video media components, and ICID. The S-CSCF forwards the request
towards MMTel AS.
14\. After performing services-related checks, based on subscriber profile,
and \"online charging\" found set for this subscriber, MMTel AS creates a new
Ro Online Charging session towards the OCS in order to get authorization for
this IMS conversational video service with SDP offer description, ICID, and
requests time quota.
15\. This IMS conversational video service with SDP offer description is
authorized by the OCS, and pre-liminary time quota may be granted in returned
CCA.
16\. The OCS sends CCA to the MMTel AS/S-CSCF.
17\. The S-CSCF identifies the VPLMN the request needs to be routed-to, and
forwards SIP INVITE to the P-CSCF in VPLMN with SDP offer, ICSI, ICID.
18\. The P-CSCF identifies the requested service information (ICSI), the
needed connection information (IP address of the down link IP flow(s), port
numbers to be used etc.).
19\. The P-CSCF forwards SIP INVITE towards UE.
20\. The UE sends SIP 183 Progress response containing the SDP answer with
selected codecs.
21\. PCC Rules resolution from service information, PCC Rules provisioning:
same steps as steps 25 to 33 Figure 4.2.1.2.2.2 for PCC Rules provisioning,
with same Key issues.
22\. IP-CAN session modification and Gy sessions creation: same steps as steps
34 to 46 Figure 4.2.1.2.2.3 for bearer resources handling and Gy sessions.
23\. Once the P-CSCF has been notified that all resources are established
(i.e. the 2 dedicated bearers) SIP 183 Progress with SDP answer is forwarded
to the HPLMN and then towards the remote party.
Figure 4.2.1.2.3.2: IMS session establishment UE Terminating- next step after
SIP 183 Progress
24\. SIP exchange (PRACK, UPDATE, Ringing) between Terminating UE and Remote
party through IMS VPLMN and HPLMN Networks, indicating appropriate resources
reservation (due to dedicated bearers established). Ro session updates may
occur with SDP offer/SDP answer.
25\. The UE answers with SIP 200 OK (INVITE) towards the MMTel AS/S-CSCF in
HPLMN through the P-CSCF in VPLMN.
26\. Flows enablement: steps 54 to 62 in Figure 4.2.1.2.2.4 for enabling the
flows.
27\. Ro session is updated with the final negotiated SDP Answer upon final
response.
28\. IMS session with this final description is authorized by OCS and new time
quota may be granted.
29\. The OCS sends CCA to the MMTel AS/S-CSCF.
30\. SIP 200 OK (INVITE) is forwarded towards the remote party.
31\. SIP ACK message is received from remote party and forwarded towards the
UE.
Video traffic is received over the appropriate dedicated bearer.
32\. Gy control of quota: steps 64 to 67 in Figure 4.2.1.2.2.4 for volume
control under quota allocation by OCS.
#### 4.2.1.3 Key issues #1 and #3
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Description
When S9 interface is not in use between H-PCRF and V-PCRF, RGs used by VPLMN
for HPLMN subscribers, which are roaming in the VPLMN with LBO scenario, need
to be understood and correctly interpreted by HPLMN for proper charging.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 Current status
Currently operators are not using inter-PLMN PS online charging agreements
which results in misinterpretation by HPLMN of any VPLMN defined RG if S9
interface is not used, leading to improper online charging.
##### 4.2.1.3.3 Alternative Solutions
###### 4.2.1.3.3.1 Alternative Solution 1: Common RGs defined by VPLMN
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.1.1 Description
VPLMN operator needs to allocate a set of RGs to services used under roaming
conditions with LBO. Such RGs may not be all different from the ones already
used by the VPLMN for its own subscribers.
VPLMN needs to have an agreement with each HPLMN on usage of LBO scenario with
inter-PLMN PS online charging. The agreement covers a set of RGs defined by
VPLMN together with their associated Services.
VPLMN operator installs static policy rules for all defined RGs that will be
used by all partners HPLMNs.
In the HPLMN side two variants of solution are considered:
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.1.2 Home OCS responsible for interpreting VPLMN-specific
RGs (Solution 1a)
The OCS in HPLMN is responsible for interpretation of VPLMN-specific RGs for
online charging.
In this variant the home OCS is aware of all RGs included in all agreements
with partner operators providing roaming with LBO and without use of S9
interface. Home OCS needs to have the functions needed to interpret such RGs
and VPLMN identity combinations.
NOTE: Internal OCS implementation may choose to \"map\" these VPLMN-specific
RG values to a common internal set of RG values for processing.
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.1.3 Proxy OCS responsible for RGs mapping (Solution 1b)
A Proxy OCS in H-PLMN is responsible for possibly needed mapping of VPLMN
agreed RGs to the corresponding internal RGs of the H-PLMN. In this case Proxy
OCS will need to receive all inter-PLMN Gy traffic sent by partner operators
and proxy it to the internal OCS.
In this variant the proxy OCS is aware about all RGs included in all
agreements with partner operators providing roaming with LBO and without use
of S9 interface. When the mapping between RGs is required, Proxy OCS needs to
have the functions needed to map such RGs and VPLMN identity combination to
internal RGs.
In case a HPLMN RG corresponds to multiple VPLMN RGs, the proxy OCS needs to
perform quota management, storage and subsequent fragmentation from quota
granted by the OCS for the HPLMN RG to quota towards VPLMN RGs.
This variant requires no changes to the home OCS.
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.1.4 Discussion
Solution 1 guarantees for operators all of the following together:
\- Full opacity of internal RGs used by operators and how they map to their
internal services.
\- VPLMN has minimal constraints in implementing PS online charging for LBO,
by simply defining, to its convenience, RGs for LBO services which are
dedicated for subscribers of other operators.
\- HPLMN has the ability to maintain internal RGs without involving partners.
\- Only the owner of the subscriber needs to deal with mapping operations
affecting RGs used to charge its own subscribers. No need to ask partners to
do and maintain mappings on its behalf.
\- RGs definition is strictly owned by the operator and is independent from
vendors/organizations.
\- Flexible implementation of mapping/interpretation operations using Proxy
OCS or within OCS.
###### 4.2.1.3.3.2 Alternative Solution 2: Common RGs defined by HPLMN
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.2.1 Description
As part of agreements between HPLMN and VPLMN, the RGs to be used in VPLMN for
roaming with LBO are those defined independently by each HPLMN: same RGs as
those used by HPLMN for their own subscribers when at home, or dedicated RGs.
Since the V-PCRF is the entity responsible for providing the RGs, it maintains
the set of all the RGs of HPLMN partners for the static policy rules used for
roaming traffic.
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.2.2 Discussion
Instead of mapping concept between PLMN RGs, it is seen as the V-PCRF\'s
behaviour to select the appropriate RG based on a criteria \"roamer\".
The RGs allocation is considered as associated to internal business model of
the HPLMN, which Operator may not want to expose towards VPLMNs.
###### 4.2.1.3.3.3 Alternative Solution 3: S9 to be used as soon as Gy is
needed
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.3.1 Description
S9 Reference point specified in TS 23.203 [207] for stage 2 and TS 29.215
[213] for stage 3 allows dynamic RGs allocation by HPLMN for their subscribers
which are roaming in the VPLMN with LBO scenario, based on sessions
description criteria (service, Qos...), so inter-PLMN Gy can be accurately
used.
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.3.2 Solution 3a: S9 mandatory to be used as soon as Gy is
needed
As part of agreements between HPLMN and VPLMN, for any service which needs to
be online charged-for at data level using Gy, use of S9 is required so the RGs
are dynamically provided by the HPLMN.
The VPLMN authorizes the requested PCC rules provided over S9 and
transparently applies the RGs provided over S9. There is no need for
maintenance of HPLMN-specific RG in VPLMN.
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.3.3 Solution 3b: S9 mandatory to be used as soon as Gy is
needed with RGs beyond pre-agreed or standardized RGs
As part of agreements between HPLMN and VPLMN, when services need to be online
charged-for at data level using Gy, and corresponding RG needs to be different
from pre-agreed or standardized RGs, use of S9 is required.
The VPLMN authorizes the requested PCC rules provided over S9 and
transparently applies the RGs provided over S9.
This solution can use pre-agreed or standardized RGs.
###### 4.2.1.3.3.4 Alternative Solution 4: Definition of well-known RGs and
beyond
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.4.1 Description
GSMA identifies a set of services that are required to be online charged as
data usage (e.g. Video over LTE, RCS). The GSMA defines a catalog of well-
known RGs values, one for each identified service (e.g. RG=2 for video).
GSMA also defines a default and well-known \"Default bearer\" RG value
applicable to all services using the default bearer.
Use of solution 2 may also be considered, as part of roaming agreements
between HPLMN and VPLMN, to allow extension to agreed services beyond services
specified by GSMA.
For services which cannot be identified by the VPLMN but determined as
authorized for using the default bearer, the \"Default bearer\" RG should be
used.
In case the HPLMN wants to perform differentiated online charging for any
other services (i.e. not under selected solution per roaming agreement, nor
specified by GSMA) without bi-lateral per-service pre-arrangement, use of S9
is required to be part of roaming agreements between HPLMN and VPLMN so the
RGs are dynamically provided by the HPLMN on services invocation.
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.4.2 Discussion
In case of overlap between the well-known RGs defined by GSMA and those
selected by the PLMN, appropriate adaptation will need to be ensured within
the PLMN. Need for introducing methods based on roaming agreements for
extending beyond the set of GSMA specified services is discussed.
For specific services not specified by GSMA, Solution 1 is requested to be
considered, as another alternative to solution 2, as part of roaming
agreements.
Advantage claimed by the solution 4 is the definition of basic roaming package
applicable for a set of GSMA services expected to be largely deployed, while
offering the capability for other services to be deployed between PLMNs in a
flexible manner.
###### 4.2.1.3.3.5 Alternative Solution 5 -- GSMA Standardization
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.5.1 Description
Recommend that GSMA standardize a set of RG values to be used for the default
bearer and for each service and media type. If a particular service or media
type has different possible QoS parameters that could be assigned, then a RG
value should be standardized for each variation. If a service or media type is
requested other than the standardized set, the VPLMN operator chooses to
reject the request or select one of the standardized service or media types.
Since quota management is defined by 3GPP on a RG basis, the use of SI-level
reporting is not necessary.
###### # 4.2.1.3.3.5.2 Discussion
Reliance on mapping of RG and SI values on a PLMN-specific basis in network
nodes adds a significant burden to the operator to define these values in
roaming agreements and for an operator to add the necessary mapping software
either in existing nodes or a new proxy OCS node.
Reliance, however, on a set of standardized values for RGs will allow for
faster introduction of Video over LTE and various RCS services without
depending on any identifier mapping nodes or software in the network, nor and
additional specification in 3GPP.
NOTE: With standardization, there is the possibility that GSMA will decide to
utilize RG values that are already in use by the home operator. There is also
the possibility that GSMA will decide on finer granularity of RG values than
in use by the home operator. To address the concerns, the operator will need
to provide a solution that is outside the scope of 3GPP and GSMA.
##### 4.2.1.3.4 Evaluation and recommendation
###### 4.2.1.3.4.1 Evaluation
The solution 4 is proposed not to be considered as a standalone solution, but
instead as a combination of solutions for a phased approach: combination of
existing solution 5 (GSMA catalog and \"Default bearer\" RG can be covered by
solution 5) solution 2, and solution 3b.
The table 4.2.1.3.4.1 provides a comparison of the different solutions (except
solution 4 due to reason mentioned above) based on a set of selected criteria
in order to proceed to their evaluation.
Table 4.2.1.3.4.1: solutions evaluation
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | S | S | S | S | S | S | | | olution | olution | olution | olution | olution | olution | | | 1a | 1b | 2 | 3.a | 3.b | 5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | TR | 4.2.1. | 4.2.1. | 4.2. | 4.2.1. | 4.2.1. | 4.2. | | clause | 3.3.1.2 | 3.3.1.3 | 1.3.3.2 | 3.3.3.2 | 3.3.3.3 | 1.3.3.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Short | Common | Common | Common | S9 | S9 | GSMA | | desc | RGs | RGs | RGs | ma | ma | S | | ription | defined | defined | defined | ndatory | ndatory | tandard | | | by | by | by | to be | to be | ization | | | VPLMN. | VPLMN. | HPLMN. | used as | used as | | | | | | | soon as | soon as | | | | Static | Static | Pe | Gy is | Gy is | | | | policy | policy | r-HPLMN | needed. | needed | | | | rules | rules | Static | | with RG | | | | (RGs ) | (RGs ) | policy | | beyond | | | | in | in | rules | | per | | | | V-PCRF | V-PCRF | (RGs ) | | -agreed | | | | defined | defined | in | | or | | | | by | by | V-PCRF | | stand | | | | VPLMN | VPLMN | for all | | ardized | | | | for all | for all | roamers | | RGs. | | | | roamers | roamers | LBO. | | | | | | LBO | LBO | | | | | | | w | w | | | | | | | hatever | hatever | | | | | | | HP | HP | | | | | | | LMN(s). | LMN(s). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Home | Proxy | | | | | | | OCS | OCS | | | | | | | resp | resp | | | | | | | onsible | onsible | | | | | | | for | for RGs | | | | | | | inter | mapping | | | | | | | preting | | | | | | | | VPLMN-s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | RGs | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PLMN | \"C | Same as | \"C | Same as | Same as | No | | e | harging | s | harging | S | S | \"c | | xposure | model\" | olution | model\" | olution | olution | harging | | of | for | 1a | for | 2. | 2. | model\" | | their | \" | | their | | | e | | \"c | roamers | | subs | | | xposure | | harging | LBO\" | | cribers | | | | | model\" | exposed | | when | | | | | by | by | | roaming | | | | | dis | VPLMN. | | di | | | | | closing | | | sclosed | | | | | RGs | HPLMN's | | by | | | | | se | i | | HPLMN. | | | | | lection | nternal | | | | | | | for | \"c | | | | | | | ser | harging | | | | | | | vice(s) | model\" | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | their | | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | | scriber | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | closed. | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VPLMN | Low: | Same as | C | Heavy: | Heavy: | Low: | | impact | single | s | omplex: | New S9 | New S9 | single | | (i.e. | set of | olution | R | in | in | set of | | for | RGs for | 1a | equires | terface | terface | RGs for | | r | all | | the | | | all | | oamers) | r | | VPLMN | | | r | | | oamers. | | to | | | oamers. | | | | | m | | | | | | | | aintain | | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | | RGs for | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | HPLMN | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | rtners. | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | HPLMN | C | Heavy | None | Heavy: | Heavy: | Low: | | impact | omplex: | and | | New S9 | New S9 | single | | ( | Require | c | | in | in | set of | | i.e.for | RGs | omplex: | | terface | terface | RGs for | | their | interpr | | | and | and | all | | subsc | etation | new | | H-PCRF | H-PCRF | subs | | ribers) | for all | proxy | | depl | depl | cribers | | | p | OCS | | oyment. | oyment. | when | | | artners | Node | | | | r | | | VPLMNs | and | | | | oaming. | | | within | require | | | | | | | the | RGs | | | | | | | HPLMN | interpr | | | | | | | | etation | | | | | | | | for all | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | artners | | | | | | | | VPLMNs | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | HPLMN | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Impact | HPLMN | Same as | VPLMN | None: | None: | None: | | on | needs | s | needs | no need | no need | no need | | Roaming | pe | olution | pe | for | for | for | | agr | r-VPLMN | 1a | r-HPLMN | roaming | roaming | roaming | | eements | roaming | | roaming | agr | ag | agr | | | agr | | agr | eement. | reement | eement. | | | eements | | eements | | for | | | | | | | | dymanic | | | | | | | | RGs. | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Flex | Not | Same as | Not | Fully | Flex | Not | | ibility | fl | s | fl | flex | ible:No | fl | | for new | exible: | olution | exible: | ible:No | need to | exible: | | RG | Roaming | 1a | Roaming | need to | change | need | | intro | agr | | agr | change | roaming | GSMA | | duction | eements | | eements | roaming | agr | st | | or RG | with | | with | agr | eements | andardi | | change. | all | | all | eements | for | sation. | | | HPLMN | | VPLMN | | dymanic | | | | p | | p | | RGs | | | | artners | | artners | | | | | | to be | | to be | | | | | | c | | changed | | | | | | hanged. | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Homo | No: | Same as | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | | geneous | will be | s | | | | | | c | differe | olution | | | | | | harging | ntiated | 1a | | | | | | for a | on a | | | | | | | sub | pe | | | | | | | scriber | r-VPLMN | | | | | | | roaming | basis | | | | | | | across | | | | | | | | various | | | | | | | | PLMNs | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Issu | Not | Same as | None | None | None | Not | | es/limi | p | s | | | | p | | tations | ossible | olution | | | | ossible | | | for the | 1a + | | | | for the | | | HPLMN | | | | | HPLMN | | | to | Quota | | | | to | | | decide | man | | | | decide | | | on | agement | | | | on | | | s | split | | | | s | | | ervices | over 2 | | | | ervices | | | d | Nodes | | | | d | | | ifferen | in | | | | ifferen | | | tiation | HPLMN | | | | tiation | | | to be | (proxy | | | | to be | | | applied | OCS + | | | | applied | | | for the | OCS) | | | | for the | | | purpose | | | | | purpose | | | of | | | | | of | | | c | | | | | c | | | harging | | | | | harging | | | their | | | | | their | | | subs | | | | | subs | | | cribers | | | | | cribers | | | when | | | | | when | | | roaming | | | | | roaming | | | LBO: | | | | | LBO: | | | this is | | | | | this is | | | d | | | | | d | | | ictated | | | | | ictated | | | by the | | | | | by GSMA | | | VPLMN's | | | | | s | | | s | | | | | ervices | | | ervices | | | | | d | | | d | | | | | ifferen | | | ifferen | | | | | tiation | | | tiation | | | | | model. | | | model. | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Impact | None | None | None | None | None | None | | 3GPP | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Impact | State | State | State | Specify | Specify | Specify | | GSMA | \"it is | \"it is | \"it is | that | that | the RGs | | | VPLMN's | VPLMN's | HPLMN's | \"use | \"use | for the | | | repons | repons | repons | of S9 | of S9 | s | | | ability | ability | ability | is | is | ervices | | | to | to | to | r | r | e | | | define | define | define | equired | equired | xpected | | | static | static | static | as soon | as soon | to use | | | policy | policy | policy | as Gy | as Gy | Gy. | | | rules | rules | rules | is | is | | | | for all | for all | for | ne | needed | | | | roa | roa | their | eded\". | with | | | | mers\". | mers\". | subs | | dynamic | | | | | | cribers | | RG | | | | | - | when | | alloca | | | | | proxy | roa | | tion\". | | | | | OCS | ming\". | | | | | | | Node in | | | | | | | | HPLMN, | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | archi | | | | | | | | tecture | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Solution 1b is not recommended as it is expected to have heavy impacts in
HPLMN and complex, mainly due to proxy OCS introduction, and also this
solution has issues/limitations.
Both solution 1 and solution 2 require bi-lateral pre-agreement of RGs on a
PLMN-specific basis and corresponding adaptation within their Network (a PLMN
will play both roles: VPLMN and HPLMN). In case such solution based on bi-
lateral agreements are required by GSMA for addressing particular situations,
the following aspects would need to be considered:
\- Solution 1a has some limitations compared to solution 2
\- Solution 1a favours the \"Charging model\" selected by the VPLMNs whereas
solution 2 favours \"Charging model\" selected by the HPLMNs. Whether exposing
a \"Charging model\" is an important criterion or not for the selection, is
left to GSMA appreciation.
Solution 3a, although relying on the complete set of 3GPP specified
capabilities for inter-PLMN Gy to be able to be used in an efficient manner,
may be considered as a constraint for fast deployment of GSMA Video over LTE
and various RCS services, due to introduction of a new interface.
Solution 3b has the same benefit and constraint than solution 3a, however
would be beneficial in a long term approach for full flexibility.
Solution 5, although not flexible enough for new RGs introduction beyond those
standardized by GSMA, would allow fast introduction of GSMA services.
###### 4.2.1.3.4.2 Recommendation
The recommendation is to select the solution 5 for fast GSMA services
deployment, and to consider allowing the solution 3b which could be used by
Operators in a phased approach.
An LS should be sent to GSMA so they can to make the final conclusion, based
on this recommendation and the evaluation provided for each solution in clause
4.2.1.3.4.1.
#### 4.2.1.4 Key issues #2 and #4
##### 4.2.1.4.1 Description
When S9 interface is not in use between H-PCRF and V-PCRF, RGs (and/or SIs)
used by VPLMN for HPLMN subscribers, which are roaming in the VPLMN with LBO
scenario, need to be understood and correctly interpreted by HPLMN for proper
charging. Before any agreement can take place with other partners, each PLMN
may first have issues to determine the RGs (and/or SIs) to be used for its own
subscriber due to various PGW, PCRF/SPR and OCS vendor-specific implemented
values.
##### 4.2.1.4.2 Current status
For the purpose of intra-PLMN PS online charging, there may be existing PGWs,
PCRF/SPRs and OCSs mechanisms based on Vendor-specific RGs (and/or SIs)
requiring mapping to Operator's selected RGs (and/or SIs).
In case S9 interface is not used, without correct mapping, the RGs (and/or
SIs) used for inter-PLMN PS online charging will lead to improper online
charging.
##### 4.2.1.4.3 Alternative Solutions
###### 4.2.1.4.3.1 Alternative Solution 1: Enforce RGs selected for inter-PLMN
The PGWs, PCRF/SPRs and OCSs mechanisms based on Vendor-specific RGs (and/or
SIs) are extended to incorporate the correspondence with the RGs (and/or SIs)
agreed between Operators to be used in roaming LBO context,
This solution is applicable whatever the solution retained for Key issues#1
and Key issues#3.
##### 4.2.1.4.4 Evaluation and recommendation
It is recommended to adopt solution 1.
### 4.2.2 Scenario B: RCS File Transfer over LTE -- Roaming LBO
#### 4.2.2.1 Description
An UE establishes a RCS File Transfer service per GSMA RCC.07 [504] towards
another UE, while roaming in a VPLMN with traffic broken out from the Visited
Network.
UE RCS device is assumed to be configured for VoLTE, and the home network is
assumed to support use of IMS APN.
Per GSMA RCC.07 [504], the following apply in consequence:
\- Per clause 2.9.1.4:
• \"All services on a device configured for VoLTE, whether it is in RCS-VoLTE
mode or in RCS-CS mode, shall follow the general rules as per IR.88] [501],
APN usage as per IR.92 [502]\"
• \"When the device and the home network support the use of the IMS APN, the
IMS APN shall be used to access the RCS services\".
\- Per clause 2.9.1.3 (assuming RCS device configured for VoLTE):
For all IMS traffic the following applies for an RCS device configured for
VoLTE/VoHSPA:
• \"APN usage shall be according to [PRD-IR.92]\".
• \"For LTE bearer management see section 4.3 of [PRD-IR.92] \".
For all RCS IMS traffic the following applies:
• \"For a device in RCS-VoLTE mode: LTE QCI (QoS class identifier) 8 and 9
shall be supported so that either may be used for MSRP traffic\".
Per GSMA IR.92 [502], the following apply (as for scenario A):
\- \"This profile has been designed to support IMS roaming with both P-CSCF
and PGW in the visited network\".
\- \"A default bearer must be created when the UE creates the PDN connection
to the IMS well‑known APN, as defined in 3GPP specifications. A standardised
QCI value of five (5) must be used for the default bearer. It is used for IMS
SIP signalling\".
Per GSMA IR.88 [501] the following apply (as for scenario A):
\- \"For LTE voice roaming, the PCRF in the visited network may be configured
with static policy rules for roaming subscribers, in order to configure the
default and dedicated bearers as specified in IR.92 and IR.94. As an
alternative, and dependent on operator agreements, dynamic PCC may be used to
exchange policy information between the hPCRF and the vPCRF (that is S9
interface)\".
The RCS File Transfer service is described in GSMA RCC.07 [504] clause 3.5,
and especially:
  * \"File Transfer is based on [GSMA PRD RCC.12 RCS 5.2 Endorsement of OMA SIP/SIMPLE IM 2.0, Version 3.0] and [GSMA PRD RCC.11 RCS 5.2 Endorsement of OMA CPM 2.0 Conversation Functions, Version 3.0], as well as on the extensions described in [RFC5547]\".
Additional assumptions for the scenario B:
  * In this scenario, RG values selected for default bearer and MSRP media session are different.
\- Charging Characteristics applied by the PGW for foreign subscribers is the
Visiting default behaviour, which includes the setting \"online charging
disabled\" as the default charging method. In the scenario, the V-PCRF
supersedes this default charging method with \"online charging
enabled\"setting for the RCS File Transfer.
\- Charging per IP-CAN bearer applies (as for scenario A).
#### 4.2.2.2 Message Flow
##### 4.2.2.2.1 Introduction
UE needs to Initial Attach and have a PDN connection to the IMS well‑known APN
in order to receive IMS services, including RCS services defined in RCC.07
[504]. During this Initial attach, the always-on IP connectivity for UE of the
EPS is enabled by establishing a default EPS bearer, with the standardised
value QCI 5, used for IMS SIP signalling.
Two alternatives are described:
  * Alternative A: use of S9
\- Alternative B: no use of S9, but static policies instead.
##### 4.2.2.2.2 UE Originating RCS File Transfer
This clause provides the signalling flows of RCS File Transfer service
establishment by UE on Originating side, without having an ongoing session.
For simplification, IMS establishment of the MSRP session between two users is
assumed without the usage of preconditions and reliable provisional responses.
Similar scenario can be found in TS 24.247 [214] annex A.4.2.
This Initial Attach with default bearer creation as depicted in Figure
4.2.1.2.2.1 applies, and the following steps occur after steps 1-11 in Figure
4.2.1.2.2.1.
Figure 4.2.2.2.2.1: IMS session establishment for MSRP session until SIP 200
OK
12\. Based on the obtained P-CSCF Address, the UE performs relevant
registration (CPM service) procedure through appropriate PDN connection over
the EPS default bearer, towards the HPLMN IMS.
13\. The UE initiates a RCS File Transfer service: SIP INVITE request is sent
towards the P-CSCF in VPLMN, indicating CPM session for File Transfer service
(CPM Feature Tag 'urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.oma.cpm. filetransfer') with
SDP offer including media description for MSRP media stream and attributes
related to the file transfer.
14\. P-CSCF generates an ICID (IMS Charging Identifier). The P-CSCF identifies
the requested service information (File Transfer), the needed connection
information (IP address of the down link IP flow(s), port numbers to be used
etc.), and the HPLMN the request needs to be routed-to.
15\. P-CSCF routes the request towards the HPLMN S-CSCF with the service
requested, ICID and associated SDP offer. The S-CSCF potentially forwards the
request towards an AS. The S-CSCF asserts the requested service, adding the
P-Asserted-Service header field set to the value of the asserted CPM service
ICSI (i.e. urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.oma.cpm.filetransfer).
16\. After performing services-related checks, based on subscriber profile,
and \"online charging\" found set for this subscriber, the AS/IMS-GWF creates
a new Ro Online Charging session towards the OCS in order to get authorization
for this \"RCS File Transfer\" service with SDP offer description, ICID, and
request time quota.
17\. This RCS File Transfer service with SDP offer description is authorized
by the OCS, and pre-liminary time quota may be granted in returned CCA.
18 The OCS sends CCA to the MMTel AS with granted quota.
19\. The SIP INVITE is forwarded to the remote party.
20\. The remote party answers: SIP 200 OK (INVITE) is received by the
AS/S-CSCF with SDP answer indicating that the terminating UE is ready for the
MSRP session.
21\. Ro session is updated with the final SDP Answer upon final response.
22\. RCS File transfer service with this SDP description is authorized by OCS
and new time quota may be granted
23\. The OCS sends CCA to the MMTel AS with new granted quota.
24\. SIP 200 OK (INVITE) is forwarded towards the P-CSCF in VPLMN with SDP
answer and asserted CPM service ICSI service.
25\. PCC Rules resolution from service information, PCC Rules provisioning:
same steps as steps 25 to 33 Figure 4.2.1.2.2.2, with same Key issues and
appropriate parameters:
The P-CSCF provides asserted CPM ICSI service for the RCS File Transfer to the
V-PCRF
The H-PCRF determines the \"SI = service IDft\" to be used, based on RCS File
Transfer asserted service and media flows description, and derives PCC Rule-ft
(QCI 8, ICID, service-IDft, RGft) for flows associated to MSRP media session.
**Alternative B:** with static policies \"SI = service ID10\", RG10 (RCS FT)
for RCS File Transfer service, with MSRP media session.
**Key issue #3 and #4:** [ ]{.underline} relate to SI, RG values for RCS File
Transfer, with MSRP media session (here PCC-Rule10, RG10).
26\. IP-CAN session modification and Gy sessions creation: Same steps as steps
34 to 46 Figure 4.2.1.2.2.3 for bearer resources handling and Gy sessions,
with appropriate parameters:
The PGW performs the bearer binding and QoS resource reservation associated to
the installed PCC-Rule-ft (alternatively PCC Rule10). Based on received PCC
Rules QCI and ARP, the PGW determines one dedicated bearer need to be
activated with QCI 8.
Gy creation for the dedicated bearer with QCI 8, based on PCC Rule-ft
(alternatively PCC-Rule-10).
27\. Once the P-CSCF has been notified that all resources is established (i.e.
the dedicated bearer) SIP 200 OK (INVITE) with SDP answer is forwarded to the
originating UE by the P-CSCF.
28\. Flows enablement: same steps as steps 54 to 62 Figure 4.2.1.2.2.4 for the
flows within active PCC Rule-ft (alternatively PCC-Rule10).
The File Transfer is carried out over the dedicated bearer using MSRP session.
29\. UE A sends MSRP SEND towards remote UE with file data.
30\. The remote UE acknowledges the reception of the MSRP SEND request with an
MSRP 200 (OK)
Step 29-30 are repeated for the whole data file to be transferred.
31\. Gy control of quota: steps 64 to 67 in Figure 4.2.1.2.2.4 for volume
exchanged control under \"Service-IDft\" within RGft.
32-33. File transfer can continue via MSRP SEND/200 OK exchange.
##### 4.2.2.2.3 GSMA RCS services
In scenario B, the UE Originating case \"RCS File Transfer over LTE -- Roaming
LBO\" provided with a detailed flow description, is also applicable to any
other GSMA RCS service requiring data usage to be online charged over Gy:
compared to RCS File Transfer, these RCS services are expected to be based on
different characteristics for the service/bearers.
The UE Terminating case for RCS services requiring data usage to be online
charged over Gy, is also similar as the UE Terminating case for Scenario A,
differing with characteristics for the service/bearers.
Therefore, identified Key issues from existing scenarios A and B are also
applicable to any other GSMA RCS service for which Gy is required.
#### 4.2.2.3 Key issues
Following Key issues apply:
\- RG/Service-ID across PLMNs: Key issues #1 and #3 clause 4.2.1.3
\- RG/Service-ID across Vendors: Key issues #2 and #4 clause 4.2.1.4
\- Home OCS Address determination: Key issue #5 clause 4.4.1
### 4.2.3 Scenario C: Turn off data service in V-PLMN when subscribed usage
threshold reached
#### 4.2.3.1 Description
A UE generates a service data flow traffic related to a non-VoLTE data
service. The data service has a subscribed data usage threshold. When the
threshold is reached the data service should be turned off with no effect to
other existing services.
The following applies:
\- Usage of data service is monitored by home OCS via Gy interface.
\- Both charging per IP-CAN bearer and charging per IP-CAN session apply.
\- The Service related to service data flow can be of any type, i.e. IMS, non
IMS and including RCS.
\- This scenario assumes that an IP-CAN bearer is already established between
the UE and the P-GW and that PCC rules associated to the considered service
data flow are already provisioned into the PCEF.
#### 4.2.3.2 Message Flow
Figure 4.2.3.2.1: Turn off data service when subscribed threshold reached
1\. User data traffic for the considered service data flow starts.
2\. The PCEF initiates a request towards the H-OCS. In the request, it asks
for an RSU for the new service using the appropriate RG / Sid. Two options:
apply:
> a. If there is already quota obtained for the IP-CAN bearer than a
> CCR[Update] is sent using the RG associated with the service.
>
> b. If there is no quota obtained for the IP-CAN bearer then a CCR-I is sent
> using the RGassociated with the service.
3\. The H-OCS returns the expected CCA with a GSU [VT (Validity Time)] and the
additional triggers needed according to its own rules for that service. It
also starts counting against the limit set by the subscriber for data roaming.
4\. The PCEF authorizes the user traffic and starts managing the session by
controlling the allocated quota against the usage.
5\. The granted quota is depleted.
6\. PCEF sends additional CCR[Update] to the H-OCS according to the triggers
set and to quota depletion. When such a request reaches H-OCS with USU, the
accumulated usage is counted and compared with the subscriber threshold.
7\. If the threshold was not met, than the standard quota is allocated in the
GSU, and the service is allowed to continue.
8\. Additional CCR[Update] increase the accumulated usage. At one point the
accumulated usage reaches the subscribed threshold.
9\. In case the threshold was reached, the CCA will contain a FUI (Final-Unit-
Indication) for that service, and the GSU will contain only the delta between
the threshold limit and the actual consumed data. The FUI may contain the
specific ACTION expected, and the additional information required for that
action.
10.The final granted quota is depleted.
11\. Upon depletion of final quota, the PCEF activates the indicated action.
If the directive is \'Terminate\', than upon depleting the last quota, the
PCEF blocks the data traffic of the service. If the directive is \'Redirect\'
then PCEF directs the traffic to the redirection address.
12\. The PCEF then sends a CCR[Update] with reporting reason final to indicate
to OCS that the service was terminated.
Regular Gy Credit-Control mechanism is used to monitor data usage online by
home OCS. In case of subscribed usage threshold is reached, the service is
turned off, i.e. barred by OCS using Gy termination action as described in
clause 6.5.3 of TS 32.299. The termination action can be either a simple
termination of the service or a redirection.
#### 4.2.3.3 Key issues
##### 4.2.3.3.1 Description
No issues were found in scenario C.
##### 4.2.3.3.2 Evaluation and recommendation
Regular Gy mechanism can be used to turn off data service in V-PLMN when
subscribed usage threshold is reached.
### 4.2.4 Scenario D: non-IMS service provided from AF in HPLMN
#### 4.2.4.1 Description
An UE in VPLMN is provided with a service from an AF located in HPLMN
requiring Dynamic Policy and Charging Control of traffic plane resources, and
the associated traffic is LBO in VPLMN.
This scenario differs from the IMS-based scenario due to the service/flows
description for PCC Rules generation, is supplied by an AF residing in HPLMN.
Therefore use of S9 together with QCI(s) is assumed as part of roaming
agreements between HPLMN and VPLMN for the corresponding PCC Rules dynamic
provisioning in the VPLMN Access Network.
RG(s) assigned to PCC Rules are expected to reflect the accuracy level for
quota allocation selected by the HPLMN: for this particular service to be
controlled by separate quota under a QCI, the set of flows needs to be
assigned with dedicated RG(s) for this QCI.
#### 4.2.4.2 Message Flow
Prior to these flows, the UE proceeds to Initial Attach towards the VPLMN PGW
allocated for the selected APN. A PDN connection with a default bearer is
created as described in Figure 4.2.1.2.2.1.
For simplification, it is assumed only one Rx interaction occurs between the
AF and the PCRF for initial provisioning of service information with media IP
flows description, and instruction from AF to enable these IP flow(s).
Figure 4.2.4.2.1: Service provided by AF in HPLMN -- establishment
UE interaction occurs with the AF for requesting the service. AF service level
behaviour is not described.
1\. The AF provides service and media component information to the H-PCRF by
sending a Diameter AAR over a new Rx Diameter session for the session
authorization and provisioning the corresponding PCC rules with IP flow(s)
enablement. An AF-Application-Identifier is provided for identifying the
particular service.
2\. The H-PCRF stores the received Service Information and performs check from
subscription-related information about allowed service(s) and media
components.
3\. The H-PCRF sends AAA to the AF.
4\. The H-PCRF determines the \"SI\" to be used based on the identified
service, and derives the PCC Rule(s) to be installed for the flows: PCC Rule
(QCI, service-ID, RG).The reporting level setting for PCC Rule(s) is per
rating goup.
5\. The H-PCRF sends a Diameter RAR to the V-PCRF for requesting the PCC Rules
to be installed and flows to be enabled in VPLMN.
6\. The V-PCRF enforces visited operator policies received from the H-PCRF
based on roaming agreements: provisioning of PCC Rules with RG, service-IDs,
RG reporting level and QCI as received over S9.
7\. The V-PCRF executes interactions with PGW for provisioning of PCC Rules
and setting associated event triggers subscriptions, including subscription to
successful resources allocation, by sending RAR to the PGW.
8\. The PGW enforces the received PCC Rules.
9\. PGW acknowledges by sending RAA to the V-PCRF.
10\. The V-PCRF sends RAA to H-PCRF.
11\. The PGW performs the bearer binding and QoS resource reservation
associated to the installed PCC Rules. For the PCC Rules set with \"online
enabled\" and new RGi, which require the same QCI as the default bearer, the
same Gy session as for the default bearer is used. For these conditions, the
PGW sends CCR-U with MSCC (RGi, ,...) corresponding to the PCC Rules to
request authorization and quota for RGi.
12\. Based on checks whether the user is authorized for this RGi, and quota
can be allocated, the OCS allocates appropriate quota.
13\. The OCS sends CCA to the PGW with granted quota.
14\. For the PCC Rules set with \"online enabled\", with a QCI for which the
PGW determines a dedicated bearer needs to be created, the PGW generates a
Charging Id and creates a new Gy session for this dedicated bearer. The PGW
sends CCR-I with (IMSI, IMS APN, Charging Id, Qos information (QCI),...), and
in addition, may request quota for RGj.
15\. Based on checks whether the user is authorized for this bearer, and quota
can be allocated for RGj the OCS allocates appropriate quota along with a set
of re-authorisation triggers.
16\. The OCS sends CCA to the PGW with granted quota.
17\. Dedicated bearer activation is sent towards the SGW in order to activate
the new bearer with appropriate QCI.
18\. Successful create bearer response is received by the PGW.
Step 14 to 18 may be repeated in case several dedicated bearers need to be
created.
19\. After the successful activation of the dedicated bearer(s), PGW answers
to V-PCRF the successful provisioning for flows under PCC Rules.
20\. This successful resources allocation is also notified to the H-PCRF over
S9.
21\. The H-PCRF notifies to the AF about this successful resources allocation.
22\. The AF responds with RAA to the H-PCRF.
23\. The H-PCRF responds with CAA to the V-PCRF.
24\. The V-PCRF responds with CCA to the PGW.
25\. The flows associated to the service can run over the relevant bearers,
and allocated quota are controlled by OCS.
#### 4.2.4.3 Key issues
The Key issues #1, #3 and #5 are not relevant here, since S9 is needed for
this scenario to be applicable.
No new Key Issue identified.
### 4.2.5 Scenario E: Initial Attach in roaming LBO
#### 4.2.5.1 Description
An UE in VPLMN performs an Initial Attach to establish a PDN connection to an
APN for which allocation of a VPLMN PGW is allowed, with associated traffic
LBO in VPLMN.
Both alternatives are considered: Alternative A (use of S9) and Alternative B
(no S9).
The main differences from the Initial Attach IMS-based scenario are:
\- APN is different from the IMS well‑known APN
\- Default EPS Bearer QoS may have a QCI value different from 5
\- Dedicated Bearer(s) may be established.
#### 4.2.5.2 Message Flow
##### 4.2.4.5.1 Introduction
Based on user's subscription information retrieved from HSS, allocation of a
VPLMN PGW for the selected APN is allowed, and the bearer level QoS parameter
to be used for default bearer activation is supplied.
##### 4.2.4.5.2 Initial Attach
This clause provides the description of Initial Attach for PDN connection
towards an APN resulting in LBO in VPLMN.
Figure 4.2.5.2.2.1: Initial Attach
A UE needs to Initial Attach and have a PDN connection to the APN. During this
Initial attach, the always-on IP connectivity for UE of the EPS is enabled by
establishing a default EPS bearer, with the QCI value supplied by the HSS.
Steps 1 to 10 are similar as steps 1 to 10 in Figure 4.2.1.2.2.1, with
following adaptations:
\- APN is different from IMS APN, and QCI may be different from QCI 5 for the
default bearer.
\- As result from H-PCRF behaviour (**Alternative A. use of S9**) or as static
Rules (**Alternative B**):
\- Multiple PCC Rules and multiple RGs apply to the default bearer (PCC Rules
with QCI and ARP matching the Authorized Default EPS Bearer QoS).
\- PCC Rules require dedicated bearers (different QCI from QCI for the default
bearer) to be established.
\- The Gy session for the default bearer may contain multiple MSCC (i.e. RGs)
for requesting quota.
11\. For a set of PCC Rules, the PGW determines dedicated beare(s) need to be
activated with required QCI.One Gy session per dedicated bearer is created,
and in addition per each Gy session quota per RGs may be requested to OCS.
NOTE : When Charging per IP-CAN session is active in the P-GW, then in step
11, already established Gy session is used for quota requests (i.e. CCR-U) if
there is no quota already allocated for the given RGs.
#### 4.2.5.3 Key issues
The same Key Issues as scenario A for Initial Attach apply:
\- RGs across PLMNs: Key issues #1 and #3 clause 4.2.1.3
\- RGs across Vendors: Key issues #2 and #4 clause 4.2.1.4
\- Home OCS Address determination: Key issue #5 clause 4.4.1
### 4.2.6 Scenario F: non-IMS service provided from AF in VPLMN
#### 4.2.6.1 Description
An UE in VPLMN is provided with a service from an AF located in VPLMN
requiring Dynamic Policy and Charging Control of traffic plane resources, and
the associated traffic is LBO in VPLMN.
Use of S9 is assumed.
This scenario differs from the IMS-based scenario due to missing standardized
service level framework for service information exchange between VPLMN and
HPLMN such as the framework provided by IMS: in IMS, the P-CSCF in VPLMN is
specified to receive an asserted IMS Communication Service Identifier (ICSI)
from the H-PLMN S-CSCF based on supplied SIP session and SDP components
information, and to provide corresponding session and media components
information over Rx. Without such framework, the H-PCRF needs to be able to
understand the service information (with media flows) description information
received over Rx (through S9) for appropriate PCC Rules generation.
RG(s) assigned to PCC Rules are expected to reflect the accuracy level for
quota allocation selected by the HPLMN: for this particular service to be
controlled by separate quota under a QCI, the set of flows needs to be
assigned with dedicated RG(s) for this QCI.
#### 4.2.6.2 Message Flow
Prior to these flows, the UE proceeds to Initial Attach towards the VPLMN PGW
allocated for the selected APN. A PDN connection with a default bearer is
created as described in Figure 4.2.5.2.2.1.
For simplification, it is assumed only one Rx interaction occurs between the
AF and the PCRF for initial provisioning of service information with media IP
flows description, and instruction from AF to enable these IP flow(s).
Figure 4.2.6.2.1: Service provided by AF in VPLMN -- establishment
UE interaction occurs with the AF for requesting the service. AF service level
behaviour is not described.
1\. The AF provides service and media component information to the V-PCRF by
sending a Diameter AAR over a new Rx Diameter session for the session
authorization and provisioning the corresponding PCC rules with IP flow(s)
enablement. An AF-Application-Identifier (pre-agreed between PLMNs) may be
provided for identifying the particular service.
2\. PCC Rules resolution from service information, PCC Rules provisioning:
same steps as steps 26 to 33 Figure 4.2.1.2.2.2, with appropriate parameters:
The H-PCRF derives the PCC Rule(s) (QCI, service-ID, RG) to be installed for
the flows based on AF-Application-Identifier and media flows description.
**Alternative B is not applicable.**
3\. For the PCC Rules set with \"online enabled\"and new RGi, which require
the same QCI as the default bearer, update the default bearer Gy session, and
RGi quota allocation by OCS as per steps 11 to 13 Figure 4.2.4.2.1.
4\. For the PCC Rules set with \"online enabled\", with a QCI for which the
PGW determines a dedicated bearer needs to be created, new Gy session for this
dedicated bearer. The bearer is authorized and RGj quota allocation by OCS as
per steps 14 to 18 Figure 4.2.4.2.1.
NOTE : When Charging per IP-CAN session is active in the P-GW, then in step 4
is, already established Gy session is used for quota requests (i.e. CCR-U) if
there is no quota already allocated for the given RGs. 5\. Interaction between
PGW, V-PCRF, AF, and H-PCRF after successful bearers activation.
#### 4.2.6.3 Key issues
The Key issues #1, #3 and #5 are not relevant here, since S9 is needed for
this scenario to be applicable.
No new Key Issue identified.
### 4.2.7 Scenario G: generic scenario without S9
#### 4.2.7.1 Description
An UE in VPLMN is provided with a service from an AF located in HPLMN or AF
located in VPLMN and the associated traffic is LBO in VPLMN.
Assumption is: No use of S9.
#### 4.2.7.2 Message Flow
Prior to these flows, the UE proceeds to Initial Attach towards the VPLMN PGW
allocated for the selected APN. A PDN connection with a default bearer is
created as described in Figure 4.2.5.2.2.1.
##### 4.2.7.2.1 Service provided by AF in HPLMN
Since S9 is not used, there is no possibility for the HPLMN to apply dynamic
Policy and Charging Control of traffic plane resources is VPLMN, therefore
this \"service provided by AF in HPLMN\" is not applicable when S9 cannot be
used.
Based on PCC Rules employed for the default bearer, the UE could be able to
use the default bearer for services not requiring any specific RG nor
dedicated QCI (i.e. using the default bearer only). The same Key issues #1 and
#5 apply here for the use of static policy rules, and OCS Address
respectively.
##### 4.2.7.2.2 Service provided by AF in VPLMN
Since S9 is not used, the service needs to be identified by the V-PCRF, based
service and media component description supplied by AF over Rx in case Policy
and Charging Control of traffic plane resources is required.
The service description provided to the V-PCRF needs to match with a
description pre-agreed with HPLMN (AF-Application-Identifier...), for the
V-PCRF to be able to derive PCC Rules (QCI, service-ID, RG) for this
particular service. The same Key issues #1, #3 and #5 apply here for the use
of static policy rules, and OCS Address.
Based on PCC Rules employed for the default bearer, the UE could be able to
use the default bearer for services not requiring any specific RG nor
dedicated QCI (i.e. using the default bearer only). The same Key issues #1 and
#5 apply here for the use of static policy rules, and OCS Address
respectively.
#### 4.2.7.3 Key issues
The Key issues #1, #3 and #5 are applicable for both scenario when relevant.
### 4.2.8 Scenario H: 3GPP UE NSWO under Fixed Access in Mobile - Fixed
Broadband Access Convergent
#### 4.2.8.1 Description
The scenario describes a 3GPP UE connection to a Fixed Broadband Access owned
by a VPLMN (i.e. Mobile --Fixed Broadban Access Convergent scenario), with
traffic routed over WLAN (NSWO) for the service provided,
#### 4.2.8.2 Message Flow
##### 4.2.8.2.1 Introduction
The flows are almost similar as the generic flows for a 3GPP UE provided with
services in PLMNs LBO roaming context since they mainly rely on exchanges
within PCC architecture. Instead of Initial Attach, an IP-CAN session with a
default Qos applies, and since there is no \"bearer\" concept, a single Gy
session is used for IP-CAN session authorization and quota allocation.
Use of S9 is assumed as part of roaming agreements between HPLMN and VPLMN for
the corresponding PCC Rules provisioning.
For simplification IP-Edge will be used instead of IP-Edge [PCEF] for the
description: embedded PCEF functionality is assumed.
##### 4.2.8.2.2 Service provided from AF in HPLMN
This clause provides the description of a 3GPP UE connection to a Fixed
Broadband Access owned by a VPLMN, with traffic routed over WLAN (NSWO), and
service provided from an AF located in his HPLMN.
Figure 4.2.8.2.2.1: Service provided by AF in HPLMN -- NSWO traffic
1\. The IP-Edge is aware the 3GPP UE has been allocated an IPv4 Address and/or
IPv6 prefix, and triggers an IP-CAN session establishment.
2\. The IP-Edge sends an indication of the IP-CAN session establishment to the
PCRF, to obtain the default PCC rules for the UE from the V-PCRF, sending
(IMSI, NSWO APN, Charging Id, Charging Characteristics (indication the default
charging method configured is \"Online Disabled\")...).
3\. Based on the subscriber identity, the V‑PCRF determines the request is for
a roaming user, and based on roaming agreements, S9 towards HPLMN is to be
used. The V-PCRF stores the information received in the CCR command from the
IP Edge and sends a new request over S9 containing parameters received over Gx
(IMSI, NSWO APN, PLMN id, Charging Id, indication that the default charging
method configured is \"Online Disabled\"...) towards the H-PCRF.
4\. The H‑PCRF detects the IP‑CAN session uses visited access. Based on user's
subscription for NSWO APN, the H-PCRF determines the Default QoS for the IP-
CAN session, and applicable PCC Rules assigned with (RGs, Service-IDs). The
H-PCRF also provides the HPLMN OCS Address to be used for the UE.
5\. The H-PCRF forwards over S9, the decisions to be applied to the IP Edge by
the V-PCRF: PCC Rules to activate, \"Online enabled\" to be applied as default
charging method instead of the configured one, OCS address in HPLMN,...).
6\. The V-PCRF enforces visited operator policies and validates the Default
QoS provided by the home operator per the roaming agreements. The V-PCRF
provisions the PCC Rules to be installed, associated with all other parameters
received over S9, also provides HPLMN OCS Address to be used, sending CCA to
IP Edge.
7\. The IP-Edge installs the PCC Rules.
8\. As Online Charging is applicable to the IP-CAN session, and PCC Rules are
activated, then IP-Edge creates a Gy session towards the OCS, based on OCS
address received over Gx. The IP-Edge sends CCR-I with a set of relevant
information in order to get OCS's authorization for the IP-CAN session (IMSI,
NSWO APN, Charging Id, IP Edge address, IP Edge PLMN Id, Qos information
(Default Qos)...), and in addition may requests quota for RGs.
NOTE: The IP-Edge may request quota during the Gy session establishment, or
may wait to request quota when data is received for the service data flow
associated with the provisioned PCC rules. This method would utilize a CCR
update and CCA not shown in this figure.
9\. Based on checks whether the user is authorized for this IP-CAN session,
and quota can be allocated for RGs, the OCS allocates appropriate quota along
with a set of re-authorisation triggers.
10\. The OCS sends CCA to the PGW with granted quota
The UE has an IP-CAN session established for its NSWO traffic with Default
Qos.
11\. UE interaction occurs with the AF for requesting a service. AF service
level behaviour is not described. This triggers an action towards the Network.
12\. PCC Rules derived from service information provided by the AF are
installed into the IP Edge, according to steps 1 to 10 in Figure 4.2.4.2.1
(generic scenario with service provided by AF in HPLMN) with IP-Edge (instead
of PGW).
13\. For the PCC Rules set with \"online enabled\", and associated with new
RGs (set of RGi), the IP-Edge sends CCR-U with MSCC (RGi,...) to request quota
for the RGi.
14\. Based on checks whether the quota can be allocated for RGi, the OCS
allocates appropriate quota.
15\. The OCS sends CCA to the PGW with granted quota
16\. The NSWO traffic associated to the service can go through and is
controlled under quota allocation
##### 4.2.8.2.3 Service provided from AF in VPLMN
This clause provides the description of a 3GPP UE connection to a Fixed
Broadband Access owned by a VPLMN, with traffic routed over WLAN (NSWO), and
service provided from an AF located in his VPLMN.
Prior to these flows, the UE proceeds to IP-CAN session establishment to NSWO
APN, with a Default QoS, as described in Figure 4.2.8.2.2.1 steps 1 to 10.
Figure 4.2.8.2.3.1: Service provided by AF in VPLMN -- NSWO traffic
UE interaction occurs with the AF for requesting the service. AF service level
behaviour is not described.
1\. The AF provides service and media component information to the V-PCRF by
sending a Diameter AAR over a new Rx Diameter session for the session
authorization and provisioning the corresponding PCC rules with IP flow(s)
enablement. An AF-Application-Identifier (pre-agreed between PLMNs) may be
provided for identifying the particular service.
2\. PCC Rules resolution from service information, PCC Rules provisioning:
same steps as steps 26 to 33 Figure 4.2.1.2.2.2, with appropriate parameters:
The H-PCRF derives the PCC Rule(s) (QCI, service-ID, RG) to be installed for
the flows based on AF-Application-Identifier and media flows description.
**Alternative B is not applicable.**
3\. For the PCC Rules set with \"online enabled\", and associated with new RGs
(set of RGi), the IP-Edge sends CCR-U with MSCC (RGi),...) to request quota
for the RGi. RGi is allocated with quota.
4\. The NSWO traffic associated to the service can go through and is
controlled under quota allocation
#### 4.2.8.3 Key issues
The Key issues #1, #3 and #5 are not relevant here, since S9 is needed for
these scenarios to be applicable.
No new Key Issue identified.
## 4.3 Solution for a dedicated Inter-PLMN PS Domain Online Charging profile
### 4.3.1 Scenario 1: Gy in Local Breakout Roaming Architecture
#### 4.3.1.1 Requirements
The current PS Flow Based online charging as specified in TS 32.251 [11]
offers a very large set of capabilities for Operators to be able to deploy
accurate charging models for the full set of services provided to their
subscribers within the PLMN.
In order to facilitate Interoperability for this PS Flow Based online charging
between PGW and OCS pertaining to different PLMNs, only the key set of
capabilities needs to be retained, while fulfilling the requirements for
services to be accurately charged-for in roaming LBO situations.
#### 4.3.1.2 Alternative dedicated profiles
##### 4.3.1.2.1 Alternative 1 -- Dedicated profile 1 -- Gy LBO
###### 4.3.1.2.1.1 Principles
Following principles apply:
\- Session charging with Unit Reservation (SCUR) with Centralized Unit
Determination and Centralized Rating
\- Categorization of service data flows traffic achieved by RGs
###### 4.3.1.2.1.2 Message flows
Figure 4.3.1.2.1.2.1: Initial Gy session for a bearer -- no quota request
1\. The Network conditions are met to start a Gy session.
2\. The PGW starts the Gy session sending Reserve Units Request [Initial,
IMSI, PS information,...].
3\. OCS checks whether the user is allowed for the service description (APN,
Qos...).
4\. Once the request is validated, OCS sends successful answer to PGW.
5\. The bearer is authorized, for the default bearer this implies the PDN
connection is authorized.
Figure 4.3.1.2.1.2.2: Initial Gy session for a bearer -- quota request.
1\. The Network conditions are met to start a Gy session, and two RGs are
associated to installed PCC Rules (e.g. RG1, RG2).
2\. The PGW starts the Gy session sending Reserve Units Request [Initial,
IMSI, PS information,...], and optionally simultaneously requests quota for
the two RGs (RG1 and RG2) by including Multiple Unit Operation (RSU, RG1) for
each RG. RSU is sent as empty.
3\. OCS checks whether the user is allowed for the service description (APN,
Qos...) and if requested RGs are allowed for quota to be allocated.
4\. Once the request is validated, and corresponding quota are reserved, the
OCS sends Reserve Units Response [Initial] with granted Quota, associated
Validity Time and may also provide associated re-authorization trigger(s).
5\. The bearer is authorized, and traffic identified under the corresponding
PCC Rules consumes quota allocated to associated RGs. Downlink and uplink
volume can be separately counted.
Figure 4.3.1.2.1.2.3: Trigger condition met and "used quota" reporting
1\. Volume quota was previously allocated to RG, optionally with associated
armed triggers (e.g. Qos Change).
2\. Trigger condition is met for interaction with OCS:
a. "Ro specific chargeable event" occurs (e.g. threshold reached, QHT expires,
Quota exhaustion, validity time reached, forced re-authorization)
b. Trigger previously armed is met
3\. PGW reports the used units, sending Reserve Units Request [Update, IMSI,
PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RSU, RG, USU, Reporting-reason). In
case a, the Reporting-reason includes the value corresponding to the specific
event, in case b the Reporting-reason= RATING_CONDITION_CHANGE is indicated
with the associated trigger. PGW may request more quota for RG, including RSU
as empty.
4\. Used Service Units reported are deducted, and OCS checks if more quota is
allowed for the requested RG.
5\. Once the request is validated, and corresponding quota are reserved, the
OCS sends Reserve Units Response with granted Quota, associated Validity Time
and re-authorization trigger(s).
6\. Traffic identified under the corresponding PCC Rules can continue and
consumes quota allocated to associated RG.
Figure 4.3.1.2.1.2.4: IP-CAN bearer deactivation
1\. IP-CAN bearer is deactivated and 2 RGs (RG1 and RG2) were active
2\. PGW terminates the Gy session and reports the used units for each RG,
sending Debit Units Request [Terminate, Termination-Cause = DIAMETER_LOGOUT,
IMSI, PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RG1, USU, Reporting-reason),
Multiple Unit Operation (RG1, USU, Reporting-reason)...) with Reporting-
reason= FINAL.
3\. Used Service Units reported are deducted, and OCS closes the RGs and Gy
session.
4\. OCS sends Debit Units Response [Terminate]
Figure 4.3.1.2.1.2.5: Service termination implying RG termination
RG1 and RG2 were previously allocated Volume quota, and associated traffic
consumes quota.
1\. The last service data flows under RG1 is terminated
2\. PGW reports the termination for RG1with the used units, sending Request
Units Request [Update, IMSI, PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RSU,
RG1, USU, Reporting-reason=FINAL)...].
3\. The Used Service Units reported are deducted, and the MSCC associated to
RG1 is closed.
4\. OCS sends successful answer to PGW.
Traffic for services under RG2 still continues and consumes quota.
Figure 4.3.1.2.1.2.6: re-autorization request triggered from OCS for a
particular RG
1\. RG was previously allocated Volume quota. The OCS determines rating
conditions are changed (e.g. change of user's tariff Plan or subscription) for
the RG and quota needs to be re-authorized.
2\. OCS sends Re-Auth-Request for this RG
3\. PGW answers by sending Re-Auth-Answer with Result-code
=DIAMETER_LIMITED_SUCCESS (2002)
4\. Traffic for the RG is put on hold
5\. PGW reports the used units sending Reserve Units Request [Update, Multiple
Unit Operation (RSU, RG, USU, Reporting-reason=FORCED_REAUTHORISATION...)],
and may request for more quota by including RSU as empty.
6\. The Used Service Units reported are deducted, and the OCS may grant new
quota for the RG, if authorized under new conditions.
7\. OCS sends Reserve Units Response with granted Quota, associated Validity
Time when new quota is decided (The OCS may also decide to close the RG).
8\. Traffic for services under RG continues and consumes quota.
Figure 4.3.1.2.1.2.7: Gy termination triggered by OCS
Gy termination triggering from OCS can be achieved through different solutions
as specified in 32.299, clause 6.5.5: they are all applicable but only one of
them is reflected here: scenario with ASR.
1\. OCS determines the Gy session needs to be terminated (e.g. subscription's
condition change)
2\. The OCS sends Abort-Session-Request to the PGW for the Gy session
3\. The PGW answers Abort-Session-Answer to OCS
4\. The PGW terminates all the traffic under each active RG(s)
5\. PGW reports the termination for each RG sending Debit Units Request
[Terminate, IMSI, PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RG1, USU,
Reporting-reason=FINAL), Multiple Unit Operation (RG2, USU, Reporting-
reason=FINAL)...].
6\. The Used Service Units reported are deducted, the RGs are closed, and the
Gy session is closed
7\. OCS sends successful answer to PGW.
###### 4.3.1.2.1.3 Message content
Basic structure of a Debit / Reserve Units Request message specified in TS
32.251 [11] Table 6.2.1.2.1.1 fully applies, and extended with a detailed
description for Multiple Unit Operation applicable to inter-PLMN:
Table 4.3.1.2.1.3.1: Structure of the Multiple Unit Operation in message
request for inter-PLMN
* * *
Information Element Category Description Multiple Unit Operation O~C~ As
specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Granted Service Unit - Not used in Debit /
Reserve Units Request message. Requested Service Unit O~C~ Sent as empty CC
Time - Not part of inter-PLMN profile CC Money - Not used in 3GPP. CC Total
Octets - Not part of inter-PLMN profile CC Input Octets - Not part of inter-
PLMN profile CC Output Octets - Not part of inter-PLMN profile CC Service
Specific Units - Not part of inter-PLMN profile AVP - Not used in 3GPP. Used
Service Unit O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Reporting Reason O~C~ As
specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Tariff Change Usage - Not part of inter-PLMN
profile CC Time O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. CC Money - Not used in
3GPP. CC Total Octets O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. CC Input Octets
O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. CC Output Octets O~C~ As specified in TS
32.299 [50]. CC Service Specific Units - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Event
Charging TimeStamp - Not part of inter-PLMN profile AVP - Not used in 3GPP.
Tariff Change Usage - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units Request message.
Service Identifier - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Rating Group O~C~ As
specified in TS 32.299 [50]. G-S-U Pool Reference - Not used in Debit /
Reserve Units Request message. Validity Time - Not used in Debit / Reserve
Units Request message. Operation Result - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units
Request message. Final Unit Indication - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units
Request message. Time Quota Threshold - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units
Request message. Volume Quota Threshold - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units
Request message. Quota Holding Time - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units
Request message. Quota Consumption Time - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units
Request message. Reporting Reason O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Trigger
O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Refund Information - Not part of inter-
PLMN profile Envelope - Not part of inter-PLMN profile AF Correlation
Information O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Service Specific Info - Not
part of inter-PLMN profile QoS-Information O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299
[50].
* * *
Basic structure of a Debit / Reserve Units Response message specified in TS
32.251 [11] Table 6.2.1.2.2.1 applies, with the exception that Operation Event
Failure Action (Direct-Debiting-Failure-Handling) is not applicable, which
results in table described below:
Table 4.3.1.2.1.3.2: Debit / Reserve Units Response message contents
* * *
Information Element Category Description Session Identifier M Described in
32.299 [50] Operation Result M Described in 32.299 [50] Originator Host M
Described in 32.299 [50] Originator Domain M Described in 32.299 [50]
Operation Identifier M Described in 32.299 [50] Operation Type M Described in
32.299 [50] Operation Number M Described in 32.299 [50] Operation Failover
O~C~ Described in 32.299 [50] Multiple Unit Operation O~C~ Described in 32.299
[50] Operation Failure Action O~C~ Described in 32.299 [50] Operation Event
Failure Action - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Redirection Host O~C~
Described in 32.299 [50] Redirection Host Usage O~C~ Described in 32.299 [50]
Route Information O~C~ Described in 32.299 [50] Failed parameter O~C~
Described in 32.299 [50] Service Information O~M~ Described in 32.299 [50]
* * *
The table above is extended with a detailed description for Multiple Unit
Operation applicable to inter-PLMN:
Table 4.3.1.2.1.3.3: Structure of the Multiple Unit Operation in message
response for inter-PLMN
* * *
Information Element Category Description Multiple Unit Operation O~C~ As
specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Granted Service Unit O~C~ As specified in TS
32.299 [50]. Tariff Time Change - Not part of inter-PLMN profile CC Time O~C~
As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. CC Money - Not used in 3GPP. CC Total Octets
O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. CC Input Octets O~C~ As specified in TS
32.299 [50]. CC Output Octets O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. CC Service
Specific Units - Not part of inter-PLMN profile AVP - Not used in Debit /
Reserve Units Answer message. Requested Service Unit - Not used in Debit /
Reserve Units Answer message. Used Service Unit - Not used in Debit / Reserve
Units Answer message. Tariff Change Usage - Not used in 3GPP. Service
Identifier - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Rating Group O~C~ As specified in
TS 32.299 [50]. G-S-U Pool Reference - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Validity
Time O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Operation Result O~C~ As specified
in TS 32.299 [50]. Final Unit Indication O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50].
Final Unit Action M As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Restriction Filter Rule -
Not part of inter-PLMN profile Filter Id - Not part of inter-PLMN profile
Redirect Server O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Redirect Address Type M
As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Redirect Server Address M As specified in TS
32.299 [50]. Time Quota Threshold O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Volume
Quota Threshold O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Unit Quota Threshold -
Not part of inter-PLMN profile Quota Holding Time O~C~ As specified in TS
32.299 [50]. Quota Consumption Time O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299 [50].
Reporting Reason - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units Answer message. Trigger
Oc As specified in TS 32.299 [50]. Trigger Type O~C~ As specified in TS 32.299
[50]. PS Furnish Charging Information - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Refund
Information - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Envelope Reporting - Not part of
inter-PLMN profile Time Quota Mechanism - Not part of inter-PLMN profile AF
Correlation Information - Not used in Debit / Reserve Units Answer message.
AVP - Not used in 3GPP.
* * *
Amongst Trigger/Trigger Type applicable over Gy, those applicable for inter-
PLMN if any, need to be discussed.
The PS information specified in TS 32.251 [11] as applicable for inter-PLMN is
described below:
Table 4.3.1.2.1.3.4: Structure of the PS Information for inter-PLMN
* * *
Information Element Category Description Charging Id OC As specified in TS
32.251 [11] Node Id - Not part of inter-PLMN profile PDN Connection Charging
Id OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] PDP/PDN Type OC As specified in TS 32.251
[11] PDP/PDN Address OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] PDP/PDN Address prefix
length OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] Dynamic Address Flag - Not part of
inter-PLMN profile Dynamic Address Flag Extension - Not part of inter-PLMN
profile Negotiated QoS Profile OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] Serving Node
Address - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Serving Node Type - Not part of
inter-PLMN profile SGW Change - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages PGW
Address OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] TDF Address - Not part of Debit /
Reserve Units Messages SGW Address - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units
Messages ePDG Address - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages MME Number
for MT SMS - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages MME Name - Not part of
Debit / Reserve Units Messages MME Realm - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units
Messages CG Address - Not part of inter-PLMN profile IMSI MCC MNC OC As
specified in TS 32.251 [11] IMSI Unauthenticated Flag - Not part of inter-PLMN
profile PGW MCC MNC OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] TDF MCC MNC - Not part
of Debit / Reserve Units Messages NSAPI - Not part of inter-PLMN profile
Called Station Id OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] Session Stop Indicator OC
As specified in TS 32.251 [11] Selection Mode OC As specified in TS 32.251
[11] Charging Characteristics - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Charging
Characteristics Selection Mode - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Serving Node
MCC MNC - Not part of inter-PLMN profile CN Operator Selection Entity - Not
part of inter-PLMN profile MS Time Zone OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11]
Charging Rule Base Name - Not part of inter-PLMN profile ADC Rule Base Name -
Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages User Location Info OC As specified
in TS 32.251 [11] User Location Info Time - Not part of inter-PLMN profile
User CSG Information - Not part of inter-PLMN profile 3GPP2 User Location Info
- Not part of inter-PLMN profile TWAN User Location Information - Not part of
inter-PLMN profile Presence Reporting Area Information - Not part of inter-
PLMN profile RAT Type OC As specified in TS 32.251 [11] Furnish Charging
Information - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages Offline Charging -
Not part of inter-PLMN profile PDP Context Type - Not part of inter-PLMN
profile Traffic data volumes - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages
Service data container - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages User
Equipment Info - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages Terminal
Information - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages Start Time - Not part
of Debit / Reserve Units Messages Stop Time - Not part of Debit / Reserve
Units Messages Change Condition - Not part of Debit / Reserve Units Messages
Diagnostics - Not part of inter-PLMN profile Low Priority Indicator - Not part
of Debit / Reserve Units Messages
* * *
#####
##### 4.3.1.2.2 Alternative 2 -- Dedicated profile 2 -- Gy LBO
###### 4.3.1.2.2.1 Principles
Same as solution 1 with in addition:
\- Session charging with Unit Reservation (SCUR) with Decentralized Unit
Determination and Centralized Rating
######
###### 4.3.1.2.2.2 Message flows
The same message flows as in clause 4.3.1.2.1.2 apply with the difference that
request for quota from the PGW contains units, i.e. in all flows when RSU
(Requested Service Unit) is present when sending from the PGW, it contains
units, and the OCS checks whether the requested units are allowed and can be
granted.
##### 4.3.1.2.3 Evaluation and recommendation
Alternative 2 introduces the Decentralized Unit Determination capability,
allowing units to be requested by the VPLMN, which adds complexity to IOT and
deviates from original simplification intention.
It is concluded to adopt alternative 1 Dedicated profile 1 -- Gy LBO, for the
dedicated profile.
This Dedicated profile 1 should be introduced in a new Informative Annex in TS
32.251[11]. An LS should be sent to inform GSMA about creation of this new
Annex to incorporate the dedicated profile.
#### 4.3.1.3 Alternative solutions for dedicated profiles handling
##### 4.3.1.3.1 Solution 1 -- use of OCS proxy
###### 4.3.1.3.1.1 Principles
A new node OCS proxy is introduced in VPLMN.
The current PS Flow Based online charging as specified in TS 32.251 [11]
retains between VPLMN PGW and VPLMN OCS proxy.Between VPLMN OCS proxy and
HPLMN OCS, the concluded dedicated profile in clause 4.3.1.2 applies.
###### 4.3.1.3.1.2 Message flows
Figure 4.3.1.3.1.2.1: initiate a Gy session when OCS proxy responsible for
dedicated profile conversion
1\. The Network conditions are met to start a Gy session.
2\. The PGW starts the Gy session sending Reserve Units Request [Initial,
IMSI, PS information,...], and optionally simultaneously requests quota for a
specific RGs (RG1) by including Multiple Unit Operation (RSU, RG1).
3\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Request[Initial], based on the Reserve
Units Request [Initial] received from PGW in step2, after filtering the AVPs
which VPLMN operator would not like to expose to roaming partners, e.g.
Serving node Address.
4\. OCS proxy sends the request to determined home OCS to starts a Gy session.
5\. OCS checks whether the user is allowed for the service description (APN,
Qos...) and if quota is allowed for the requested RG.
6\. Once the request is validated, and corresponding quota are reserved, the
OCS sends Reserve Units Response [Initial] with granted Quota, associated
Validity Time and may also provide associated re-authorization trigger(s).
7\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Response[Initial], based on the
Reserve Units Response [Initial] received from HPLMN OCS in step6.
8\. OCS proxy sends the response back to PGW.
9\. The bearer is authorized, and traffic identified under the corresponding
PCC Rules consumes quota allocated to associate RGs. Downlink and uplink
volume can be separately counted.
Figure 4.3.1.3.1.2.2: trigger condition are met
1\. Trigger condition is met for interaction with OCS:
a. "Ro specific chargeable event" occurs (e.g. threshold reached, QHT expires,
Quota exhaustion, validity time reached, forced re-authorization)
b. Trigger previously armed is met
2\. PGW reports the used units, sending Reserve Units Request [Update, IMSI,
PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RSU, RG, USU, Reporting-reason). In
case a, the Reporting-reason includes the value corresponding to the specific
event, in case b the Reporting-reason= RATING_CONDITION_CHANGE is indicated
with the associated trigger. PGW may request more quota for RG, including RSU
as empty.
3\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Request[Update], based on the Reserve
Units Request [Update] received from PGW in step2, after filtering the AVPs
which VPLMN operator would not like to expose to roaming partners, e.g.
Serving node Address.
4\. OCS proxy sends the request to home OCS.
5\. Used Service Units reported are deducted, and OCS checks if more quota is
allowed for the requested RG.
6\. Once the request is validated, and corresponding quota are reserved, the
OCS sends Reserve Units Response with granted Quota, associated Validity Time
and re-authorization trigger(s).
7\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Response[Update], based on the Reserve
Units Response [Update] received from HPLMN OCS in step6.
8\. OCS proxy sends the response back to PGW.
9\. Traffic identified under the corresponding PCC Rules can continue and
consumes quota allocated to associated RG.
Figure 4.3.1.3.1.2.3: IP-CAN bearer deactivation
1\. IP-CAN bearer is deactivated and 2 RGs (RG1 and RG2) were active
2\. PGW terminates the Gy session and reports the used units for each RG,
sending Debit Units Request [Terminate, Termination-Cause = DIAMETER_LOGOUT,
IMSI, PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RG1, USU, Reporting-reason),
Multiple Unit Operation (RG1, USU, Reporting-reason)...) with Reporting-
reason= FINAL.
3\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Request[Terminate], based on the
Reserve Units Request [Terminate] received from PGW in step2, after filtering
the AVPs which VPLMN operator would not like to expose to roaming partners,
e.g. Serving node Address.
4\. OCS proxy sends the request to home OCS to terminate the Gy session.
5\. Used Service Units reported are deducted, and OCS closes the RGs and Gy
session.
6\. OCS sends Debit Units Response [Terminate]
7\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Response[Terminate], based on the
Reserve Units Response [Terminate] received from HPLMN OCS in step6.
8\. OCS proxy sends the response back to PGW.
Figure 4.3.1.3.1.2.4: Service termination implying RG termination
RG1 and RG2 were previously allocated Volume quota, and associated traffic
consumes quota.
1\. The last service data flows under RG1 is terminated
2\. PGW reports the termination for RG1with the used units, sending Request
Units Request [Update, IMSI, PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RSU,
RG1, USU, Reporting-reason=FINAL)...].
3\. OCS proxy generates a Request Units Request [Update], based on the Request
Units Request [Update] received from PGW in step2, after filtering the AVPs
which VPLMN operator would not like to expose to roaming partners, e.g.
Serving node Address.
4\. OCS proxy sends the request to home OCS to terminate the Gy session.
5\. The Used Service Units reported are deducted, and the MSCC associated to
RG1 is closed.
6\. OCS sends successful answer.
7\. OCS proxy generates a Request Units Response [Update], based on the
Request Units Response [Update] received from HPLMN OCS in step6.
8\. OCS proxy sends the response back to PGW.
Figure 4.3.1.3.1.2.5: re-autorization request triggered from OCS for a
particular RG
1\. RG was previously allocated Volume quota. The OCS determines rating
conditions are changed (e.g. change of user's tariff Plan or subscription) for
the RG and quota needs to be re-authorized.
2\. OCS sends Re-Auth-Request for this RG
3\. OCS proxy generates a Re-Auth-Request, based on the Re-Auth-Request
received from HPLMN OCS in step2.
4\. OCS proxy sends the request to PGW.
5\. PGW answers by sending Re-Auth-Answer with Result-code
=DIAMETER_LIMITED_SUCCESS (2002)
6\. Traffic for the RG is put on hold
7\. OCS proxy generates a Re-Auth-Answer, based on the Re-Auth-Answer received
from VPLMN PGW in step5.
8\. OCS proxy sends the response to OCS.
9\. PGW reports the used units sending Reserve Units Request [Update, Multiple
Unit Operation (RSU, RG, USU, Reporting-reason=FORCED_REAUTHORISATION...)],
and may request for more quota.
10\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Request[Update], based on the Reserve
Units Request [Update] received from PGW in step9, after filtering the AVPs
which VPLMN operator would not like to expose to roaming partners, e.g.
Serving node Address.
11\. OCS proxy sends the request to home OCS.
12\. The Used Service Units reported are deducted, and the OCS may grant new
quota for the RG, if authorized under new conditions.
13\. OCS sends Reserve Units Response with granted Quota, associated Validity
Time when new quota is decided (The OCS may also decide to close the RG).
14\. OCS proxy generates a Reserve Units Response[Update], based on the
Reserve Units Response [Update] received from HPLMN OCS in step12.
15\. OCS proxy sends the response back to PGW.
16\. Traffic for services under RG continues and consumes quota.
Figure 4.3.1.3.1.2.6: Gy termination triggered by OCS
Gy termination triggering from OCS can be achieved through different solutions
as specified in 32.299, clause 6.5.5: they are all applicable but only one of
them is reflected here: scenario with ASR.
1\. OCS determines the Gy session needs to be terminated (e.g. subscription's
condition change)
2\. The OCS sends Abort-Session-Request to the PGW for the Gy session
3\. OCS proxy generates a Abort-Session-Request, based on the Abort-Session-
Request received from HPLMN OCS in step2.
4\. OCS proxy sends the request to PGW.
5\. PGW answers by sending Abort-Session-Answer.
6\. The PGW terminates all the traffic under each active RG(s)
7\. OCS proxy generates a Abort-Session-Answer, based on the Abort-Session-
Answer received from VPLMN PGW in step5.
8\. OCS proxy sends the response to OCS.
9\. PGW reports the termination for each RG sending Debit Units Request
[Terminate, IMSI, PS information, Multiple Unit Operation (RG1, USU,
Reporting-reason=FINAL), Multiple Unit Operation (RG2, USU, Reporting-
reason=FINAL)...].
10\. OCS proxy generates a Debit Units Request [Terminate], based on the Debit
Units Request [Terminate] received from PGW in step9, after filtering the AVPs
which VPLMN operator would not like to expose to roaming partners, e.g.
Serving node Address.
11\. OCS proxy sends the request to home OCS.
12\. The Used Service Units reported are deducted, the RGs are closed, and the
Gy session is closed
13\. OCS sends successful answer.
14\. OCS proxy generates a Debit Units Response [Terminate], based on the
Debit Units Response [Terminate] received from HPLMN OCS in step12.
15\. OCS proxy sends the response back to PGW.
##### 4.3.1.3.2 Solution 2 -- Direct Nodes Interaction
###### 4.3.1.3.2.1 Principles
Direct interaction between the VPLMN PCEF and HPLMN OCS.
The VPLMN PCEF in VPLMN uses the dedicated profile when the user is identified
as a LBO roamer.
The OCS in HPLMN, based on the user is roaming LBO uses the dedicated profile.
###### 4.3.1.3.2.2 Messages flows
The message flows as per clause 4.3.1.2.1.2 applies, i.e. direct interaction
between the PGW and the OCS with message content as per clause 4.3.1.2.1.3.
for dedicated profile 1.
The message flows as per clause 4.3.1.2.1.3 applies, i.e. direct interaction
between the PGW and the OCS for dedicated profile 2.
##### 4.3.1.3.3 Evaluation and recommendation
Solution 1 introduces a new OCS proxy Node intended to handle the inter-PLMN
dedicated profile, for the purpose of AVPs filtering: AVPs which are selected
by the VPLMN not to be exposed (e.g. Serving Node Address).
This functionality is addressed in clause 4.4.2: the recommended solution is
to re-use GSMA DEA, therefore there is no need to introduce a new dedicated
OCS proxy for this purpose.
It is concluded to adopt solution 2 - Direct Nodes Interaction.
### 4.3.2 Scenario 2: Gy in Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access Convergent Roaming
Architecture
#### 4.3.2.1 Requirements
The current PS Flow Based online charging for non-seamless WLAN offload
traffic from a 3GPP UE when served by IP-Edge [PCEF] is specified in TS 32.251
[11] Annex D, and offers the same set of capabilities as PS Flow Based online
charging for 3GPP UE served by PGW [PCEF], both within the PLMN.
Interoperability simplification is similarly required as in clause 4.3.1.1.
#### 4.3.2.2 Alternative solutions
##### 4.3.2.2.1 Solution 1 -- Dedicated profile 1 -- Gy FBA Convergent
Same description as dedicated profile 1- Gy LBO for scenario 1 in clause
4.3.1.2.1 with following differences:
\- P-GW is replaced by IP-Edge [PCEF]
\- Table 4.3.1.2.1.3.4: MS Time Zone, User Location Info and RAT Type are not
applicable.
\- Below table 4.3.2.2.1.1 applies in addition:
Table 4.3.2.2.1.1: PS Information additional field for inter-PLMN
* * *
Information Element Category Description Access Line Identifier O~C~ As
specified in TS 32.251 [11] _Fixed User Location Information_ OC As specified
in TS 32.251 [11]
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Evaluation and recommendation
It is concluded to adopt Solution 1 -- Dedicated profile 1- Gy FBA Convergent.
This solution should be introduced in a new Informative Annex in TS
32.251[11].
## 4.4 Inter-PLMN Diameter connection aspects
### 4.4.1 Key issue # 5 user\'s Home OCS determination
#### 4.4.1.1 Description
In case S9 is not used and in case the Home OCS address is not as part the
behaviour associated to the charging characteristics at bearer creation time,
the visited network will need to get the home OCS to be used for the user for
inter-PLMN online charging traffic.
#### 4.4.1.2 Current status
When S9 is used, the Home OCS address to be used for the user roaming in VPLMN
may be provided from the H-PCRF.
The user\'s Home OCS Address may also be as part of the behaviour associated
to the charging characteristics and it is overridden by the OCS Address
received from the V-PCRF over Gx if any.
#### 4.4.1.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 4.4.1.3.1 Alternative Solution1- based on Diameter Agent
Charging characteristics associated to static policy rules which are used for
LBO roaming need to be configured with the address of a Diameter Agent located
into the V-PLMN.
A Diameter Agent is used to analyse initial Diameter Gy messages and route
them to the appropriate next hop via which destination H-PLMN can be reached.
For this, the Diameter Agent will need to identify the destination H-PLMN
(e.g. using IMSI) and to determine the associated next hop address that needs
to be used for the Gy message routing. The Diameter Agent will maintain a peer
table that contains for each partner network the address of the next hop used
to reach their home OCSs.
In the HPLMN, a mechanism based on the Subscriber identity (IMSI in
Subscription-Id AVP) is needed to resolve the OCS Address to be used for the
subscriber, in case Gy signalling is received with Home domain realm.
##### 4.4.1.3.2 Alternative Solution 2 -- based on V-PCRF
###### 4.4.1.3.2.1 Description
The V-PCRF may be configured with an OCS Home domain realm to be used to reach
OCS in HPLMN, for each of the roaming partners.
For roamers in LBO, the V-PCRF makes the decision on the OCS Address to be
used, as follows:
\- provides the PGW with the OCS Address received over S9, when S9 is used and
the OCS Address is supplied;
\- provides the PGW with an OCS Home domain realm, when S9 is not used, or S9
used but no OCS Address was supplied: this OCS Home domain realm may be
configured in the V-PCRF or derived from subscriber identity as specified in
TS 23.003 [212], clause 19.2.
The PCEF should use the OCS Address or Home domain realm supplied over Gx, and
Gy messages will be sent to the appropriate next hop.
In the HPLMN, a mechanism based on the Subscriber identity (IMSI in
Subscription-Id AVP) is needed to resolve the OCS Address to be used for the
subscriber, in case Gy signalling is received with Home domain realm.
###### 4.4.1.3.2.2 Discussion
In the solution 2, the OCS Address supplied by the HPLMN (via S9) takes
precedence, when provided: this allows an optimize routing to reach the
relevant OCS serving the subscriber within the HPLMN, avoiding resolution
mechanisms to be employed in the HPLMN.
The resolution mechanism (based on User identity) in HPLMN, is always needed
to be employed in solution 1, whereas it can be avoided in solution 2 on
certain circumstances.
#### 4.4.1.4 Evaluation and recommendation
In both solutions, Gy routing based on the Home domain realm relies on
Diameter routing capabilitites provided by the outgoing DEA as per clause
4.4.5.
Both solutions require subscriber identity to OCS Address resolution mechanism
to be implemented in HPLMN, when Gy signalling is received with Home domain
realm by HPLMN. This resolution mechanism is not required to be specified.
When Home domain realm determination from subscriber identity is needed to be
performed in VPLMN, it is provided by the V-PCRF in solution 2 and by a
Diameter Agent in solution 1. It is preferred to rely on an existing Node
which is already dedicated to LBO roamers PCC functionalities, instead of
introducing a new node just for the purpose of Home domain realm
determination.
It is concluded to adopt solution 2. An LS should be sent to SA2/CT3 for OCS
Home domain realm determination from subscriber identity to be introduced in
the V-PCRF.
### 4.4.2 Key issue # 6 -- AVP filtering
#### 4.4.2.1 Description
Operators supporting online charging generally use intra-PLMN Diameter Gy
between the PCEF and the OCS located in the same PLMN. Because of internal
reasons, visited operators may not want to expose all the Diameter AVPs that
they use in intra-PLMN Diameter Gy to an OCS of a roaming partner. Filtering
mechanism is needed per roaming partner agreement when using inter-PLMN
Diameter Gy.
#### 4.4.2.2 Current status
Standard doesn't recommend a specific function responsible for the required
filtering on per roaming partner.
#### 4.4.2.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 4.4.2.3.1 Alternative Solution1- AVP Blacklist
A Proxy OCS is used between visited PCEF and the H-PLMN to enforce filtering
of selected AVPs based on AVP blacklists defined for each roaming partner.
Proxy OCS needs to support provisioning of AVP blacklist for each roaming
partner.
Visited PCEF is configured to route all the Gy traffic, of roaming subscribers
with LBO, to the Proxy OCS.
##### 4.4.2.3.2 Alternative Solution 2 -- GSMA Standardization
Recommend GSMA extend IR.88 [501], LTE and EPC Roaming Guidelines, to
transport the Gy reference point via DEAs. AVP Filtering requirements are
currently described in clause 6.5.1.3, Application Level Security. No further
specification in 3GPP is required.
#### 4.4.2.4 Evaluation and recommendation
AVPs filtering for Gy reference point needs to be done consistently with AVPs
filtering for other reference points towards roaming partners (e.g. S6a), and
rely on generic requirements: this is ensured by solution 2.
The AVP filtering functionality provided by solution 1 is the same as the
generic AVP filtering capability provided by DEAs in solution 2, with the
difference that in solution 1, this functionality is required to be supported
by proxy OCS, for the case a proxy OCS is introduced for other purposes. It is
concluded the best solution is solution 2. An LS should be sent to GSMA with
the concluded solution.
### 4.4.3 Key issue # 7 -- Security
#### 4.4.3.1 Description
It is necessary for operators to secure Diameter links between operators.
#### 4.4.3.2 Current status
As per reply LS in S5-140255, SA3 reviewed the PCC architecture with Gy/Gyn
interface between OCS in HPLMN and PCEF/TDF in VPLMN and confirms Network
Domain Security (NDS)/IP Network Layer security specified in TS 33.210 [210]
is appropriate for securing interconnection between two Operators (i.e.
different security domains) for Diameter signalling (through use of IPsec
Security Gateways (SEG)).
#### 4.4.3.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 4.4.3.3.1 Alternative Solution 1 -- GSMA Standardization
Recommend GSMA extend IR.88 [501], LTE and EPC Roaming Guidelines, to
transport the Gy reference point via SEGs. No further specification in 3GPP is
required.
#### 4.4.3.4 Evaluation and recommendation
It is concluded that the best solution is to re-use existing specification in
GSMA as per Alternative Solution 1. An LS should be sent to GSMA with the
recommended solution.
### 4.4.4 Key issue # 8 -- Topology Hiding
#### 4.4.4.1 Description
Some AVPs which may disclose internal information of a PMN but which is not
required outside the PMN should be changed/removed from all egress messages
(\"topology hiding\").
#### 4.4.4.2 Current status
IR.88 [501], LTE and EPC Roaming Guidelines, clause 6.5.1.3, Application Layer
Security, provides requirements for topology hiding at the DEA.
#### 4.4.4.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 4.4.4.3.1 Alternative Solution 1 -- GSMA Standardization
Recommend GSMA extend IR.88 [501], LTE and EPC Roaming Guidelines, to
transport the Gy reference point via DEAs. No further specification in 3GPP is
required.
#### 4.4.4.4 Evaluation and recommendation
It is concluded that the best solution is to re-use existing specification in
GSMA as per Alternative Solution 1. An LS should be sent to GSMA with the
recommended solution.
### 4.4.5 Key issue # 9 -- Routing
#### 4.4.5.1 Description
Gy Diameter messages need to be correctly routed from VPLMN to HPLMN, based on
the destination OCS to be reached, at the first interaction.
#### 4.4.5.2 Current status
IR.88 [501], LTE and EPC Roaming Guidelines, clause 3.1.3.4 Diameter Routing
provides requirements for routing on Home Network Realm at the outgoing DEA.
#### 4.4.5.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 4.4.5.3.1 Alternative Solution 1 -- GSMA Standardization
Recommend GSMA extend IR.88 [501], LTE and EPC Roaming Guidelines, to
transport the Gy reference point via DEAs. No further specification in 3GPP is
required.
#### 4.4.5.4 Evaluation and recommendation
It is concluded that the best solution is to re-use existing specification in
GSMA as per Alternative Solution 1. An LS should be sent to GSMA with the
recommended solution.
## 4.5 Inter-Operator Charging
### 4.5.1 Key issue # 10 -- Roaming LBO
#### 4.5.1.1 Description
Until now, only Home Routing model has been considered for PS domain online
charging, with appropriate wholesale defined for charging reconciliation
between PLMNs. PS online Charging in the roaming LBO situation has not been
considered.
#### 4.5.1.2 Current status
The HPLMN will be able to \"online charge\" the roaming UE (retail charging),
based on the services invocation occurring in VPLMN, relying on Gy \"service
data flows based online charging\" capability.
The VPMN will need to bill the HPLMN or the use of resources by the HPLMN
subscribers roaming in their Network, during these services invocation, based
on the usual exchange TAP [507] procedures defined for wholesale charging
reconciliation between PLMNs.
Per GSMA PRD BA.27 [506], LTE/SAE Charging and Accounting principles rely on
similar mechanisms as used in GPRS and 3G for inter operator charging, which
are applicable in roaming Home routing scenarios (i.e. SGW in VPLMN and P-GW
in HPLMN). Therefore current TAP definition is based on S-GW defined content.
#### 4.5.1.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 4.5.1.3.1 Alternative Solution1- use of PGW CDRs
Use of PGW CDR specified in TS 32.251 [11] generated from PGW in VPLMN for
wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs in TAP.
The OCS in HPLMN will need to also to generate CDRs to collect the
corresponding \" PS charging information\" over the Gy session for this
reconciliation.
##### 4.5.1.3.2 Alternative Solution2- use of SGW CDRs
Use of SGW CDR generated from SGW in VPLMN, as per current TAP for wholesale
charging reconciliation between PLMNs.
The OCS in HPLMN will need to also to generate CDRs to collect the
corresponding \" PS charging information\" over the Gy session for this
reconciliation.
#### 4.5.1.4 Evaluation and recommendation
The downside of solution 1 is that current TAP needs to be changed and more
processing is required for TAP to analyze the PGW CDRs compared to the SGW
CDRs.
However, relying on SGW CDRs would lead to inaccurate basis for reconciliation
because the volume traffic captured in SGW CDRs will differ from traffic
captured in PGW CDRs: in PGW, as result from PCC Rules enforcement, bandwith
limitations, packets may be dropped.
It is concluded that the best solution is use of PGW CDRs as per Alternative
Solution 1. An LS should be sent to GSMA with the recommended solution.
### 4.5.2 Key issue #11 -- Roaming Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access Convergent
#### 4.5.2.1 Description
There is no description for wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs,
for 3GPP UE roamers with NSWO traffic under a Fixed Broadband Access owned by
the VPLMN.
#### 4.5.2.2 Current status
In Mobile- Fixed Broadband Access scenario, the HPLMN will be able to \"online
charge\" the roaming UE (retail charging) for the NSWO traffic under the fixed
access, relying on Gy \"service data flows based online charging\" capability.
The VPMN will need to bill the HPLMN for the use of resources by the HPLMN
subscribers roaming in their Network: usual exchange GSMA TAP [507] procedures
defined for wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs are expected to be
used for this.
The existing TAP, as described in clause 4.5.1.2, is designed for Mobile
Network resources, may not have all of the information required for Fixed
Broadband access resources.
#### 4.5.2.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 4.5.2.3.1 Alternative Solution1- use of IPE CDRs
The IPE CDR specified in TS 32.251 [11] generated from IP-Edge in VPLMN
towards the VPLMN Offline Charging system for such 3GPP UE NSWO traffic, is
used for wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs in TAP.
The OCS in HPLMN may need to also to generate CDRs to collect the
corresponding PS charging information over the Gy session for this
reconciliation.
#### 4.5.2.4 Evaluation and recommendation
It is concluded that the best solution is use of IPE CDRs as per Alternative
Solution 1.
## 4.6 Conclusion and recommendations for phase 1
It is concluded on:
\- Key issues #1 and #3 (RGs issues across PLMNs) resolution per clause
4.2.1.3.4.2 recommendation.
\- Key issues #2 and #4 (RGs across vendors) resolution per clause 4.2.1.4.4
recommendation.
\- Key issue#5 Home OCS determination resolution per clause 4.4.1.4
conclusion.
\- Key issue # 6 AVP filtering resolution per clause 4.4.2.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 7 Security resolution per clause 4.4.3.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 8 Topology Hiding resolution per clause 4.4.4.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 9 Routing resolution per clause 4.4.5.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 10 (Inter-PLMN Charging) roaming LBO resolution per clause
4.5.1.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 11 (Inter-PLMN Charging) Roaming Mobile - Fixed Broadband
Access Convergent resolution per clause 4.5.2.4 conclusion.
\- Dedicated Inter-PLMN PS Domain Online Charging profiles, as per clause
4.3.1.2.3 and clause 4.3.2.3 conclusions, and dedicated profile handling as
per clause 4.3.1.3.3.
All the concluded solutions/recommendation rely on existing GSMA DEA or 3GPP
V-PCRF, therefore it is concluded that neither a \"proxy OCS\" nor an\"OCS
proxy\" is needed to be introduced in 3GPP specifications for Gy reference
point crossing PLMNs.
From these conclusions the following are expected:
\- An LS should be sent to SA2 so the reference to such OCS proxy is removed
from the statement in TS 23.203[207].
\- An LS should be sent to CT3 and CT4 to introduce OCS Home domain realm
resolution as part of V-PCRF functionality, and in TS 23.003[207] "Numbering,
addressing and identification".
\- An LS should be sent to GSMA for IR.88 [501] to consider Gy reference point
as part of DEA, and specifiy the recommended solution 5 for Key issues #1 and
#3.
From these conclusions, the following is captured in order to hightlight
whether the study addresses the expectation from GSMA:
As per reply LS S5-140692 to GSMA:
> _Additional SA5 answer:_
>
> _SA5 is in the process of defining a study item to address an Inter-PLMN Gy
> Reference Point. The following aspects will be studied:_
_\- Determine the set of information (e.g. Rating-group, service Id) needed to
be available on both sides (HPLMN and VPLMN);_ Rating group availability
across PLMNs is addressed under the set of Key issues #1 to #5 for which a
GSMA standardized solution is recommended;
_\- Inter-PLMN connection general aspects (e.g. OCS determination, Routing,
Filtering, Topology hiding);_ this is addressed under the set of Key issues #1
to #9: which are requested to be considered by GSMA under the provided
recommendations; DEA specified by GSMA;
_\- whether inter-operator charging can be fulfilled with current
description;_ this is addressed under Key issues #10 with use of PGWs CDRs;
_\- Whether a "proxy OCS" is needed; and:_ SA5 has determined such "proxy OCS"
is not needed to be introduced;
_\- Whether it would be beneficial to introduce a Dedicated Gy profile:_ an
inter-PLMN dedicated profile description will be incorporated as part of a new
informative Annex in TS 32.251[11] for Rel-13.
# 5\. Study Phase 2
## 5.1 Baseline Architectures
### 5.1.1 Local Breakout Roaming Architecture
For configuration with Gyn between OCS residing in HPLMN and TDF located in
the VPLMN, for Local Breakout Roaming, the Architecture Reference is the same
as outlined by the figure 4.1.1.2 copied from TS 23.203[207]:
\- \"For a visited access, the VPLMN may use an OCS proxy between the TDF and
the OCS\" for Gyn reference point.
\- \"Through roaming agreement, the HPLMN operator may allow the VPLMN
operator to operate the V PCRF without using the capabilities described in
clause 6.2.1.3.3 (i.e. no S9 is used) \" for S9 reference point.
Also, the following apply per TS 23.203[207]:
\- \"In order to avoid charging for the same traffic in both the TDF and the
PCEF, this specification supports charging and enforcement implemented in
either the PCEF or the TDF for a certain IP-CAN session, but not both for the
same IP-CAN session.\"
\- \"NOTE 4: An operator may also apply this solution with both PCEF and TDF
performing enforcement and charging for a single IP-CAN session as long as the
network is configured in such a way that the traffic charged and enforced in
the PCEF does not overlap with the traffic charged and enforced by the TDF.\"
\- \"For the Local Breakout scenario (Figure 5.1-4) the V-PCRF shall proxy the
Indication and Acknowledge of IP‑CAN Session Establishment over S9 between the
PCEF in the VPLMN and the H-PCRF. For TDF and solicited application reporting,
the V-PCRF shall generate ADC rules from PCC Rules containing application
detection and control information as instructed by the H-PCRF over S9. Then,
the V-PCRF shall install PCC Rules to the PCEF and ADC Rules to the TDF, if
applicable.\"
\- \"NOTE 2: There may be situations where the TDF or PCEF enhanced with ADC
is not able to detect the traffic requested by the H-PCRF. Prior agreements
could be arranged to ensure that there is a common understanding of the
meaning of application identifiers transferred between PLMNs.\"
### 5.1.2 Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access Convergent scenario Roaming
Architecture
For configuration with Gyn between OCS residing in HPLMN and TDF located in a
Convergent fixed-mobile VPLMN, the Architecture Reference is the same as
outlined by the Figure 4.1.2.1.
## 5.2 Scenarios
### 5.2.1 Scenario I: Internet service (e.g. Peer to Peer) -- Roaming LBO with
TDF used for service detection and enforcement/charging control
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
A prior roaming agreement is assumed between HPLMN and VPLMN that a TDF may be
used in the VPLMN for the PS domain application based online charging.
An UE in VPLMN performs an Initial Attach to establish a PDN connection to an
APN for which allocation of a VPLMN PGW and VPLMN TDF is allowed, with
associated traffic LBO in VPLMN.
Both alternatives are considered: Alternative A (use of S9) and Alternative B
(no S9).
The main characteristics of this scenario is:
\- TDF is involved in detection of the service (e.g. Peer to Peer traffic) and
its enforcement and charging control
#### 5.2.1.2 Message Flow
Figure 5.2.1.2.1: TDF session establishment with authorized Peer to Peer
application
1\. The UE initiates the Attach procedure to E-UTRAN. Based on user's
subscription information retrieved from HSS, the allocation of a VPLMN PGW for
this APN is allowed. The MME/SGW sends a Create Session Request (IMSI, APN,
Default EPS Bearer QoS) message to the selected VPLMN PGW.
2\. The PDN GW generates a Charging Id and performs an IP-CAN Session
Establishment procedure to obtain the default PCC rules for the UE from the
V-PCRF, sending (IMSI, APN, Default EPS Bearer QoS, Charging Id, Charging
Characteristics (including pre-defined OCS/OFCS addresses)...).
**Alternative A. use of S9: step 3 to 5**
3\. Based on the subscriber identity, the V‑PCRF determines the request is for
a roaming user, and based on roaming agreements, S9 towards HPLMN may be used.
The V-PCRF stores the information received in the CCR command from the PGW and
sends a new request over S9 containing parameters received over Gx (IMSI, APN,
Default-EPS-Bearer-QoS, PLMN id, Charging Id...) towards the H-PCRF.
4\. The H‑PCRF detects the IP‑CAN session uses visited access. Based on
user\'s authorized QoS, the H-PCRF provisions QoS for the default EPS bearer,
and derives PCC Rules, including PCC Rule with application identifier for Peer
to Peer traffic. The H-PCRF also provides the HPLMN OCS Address to be used for
the UE.
5\. The H-PCRF forwards over S9, the decisions to be applied in the visited
network by the V-PCRF: PCC Rule to activate, including PCC Rule with
application identifier and RG for Peer to Peer traffic, \"Online enabled\" to
be applied as default charging method, OCS address in HPLMN,...).
NOTE 1: The H-PCRF derives PCC rules only. If TDF is used for application
detection and control in the visited network, as per TS 23.203 [207]
requirements also listed in the sub-clause 5.1.1, the V-PCRF generates ADC
rules from PCC Rules containing application detection and control information
(i.e. application identifier for Peer to Peer traffic in this case), RG and
other charging parameters as instructed by the H-PCRF over S9.
NOTE 2: As per TS 23.203 [207] requirements also listed in the sub-clause
5.1.1, there may be situations where the TDF is not able to detect the traffic
requested by the H-PCRF. Prior agreements could be arranged to ensure that
there is a common understanding of the meaning of application identifiers
transferred between PLMNs.
**Alternative B.** Alternatively, based on roaming agreement, the HPLMN
operator may allow the VPLMN operator to operate the V‑PCRF without use of S9,
and static policies to be applied: QoS to be provisioned for the default EPS
bearer, preliminary PCC and ADC Rules assigned (ADC Rules with RG per Peer to
Peer service), and HPLMN OCS Address to be used.
**Key issue #1 (similar to key issue #3 from Phase 1):** in Alternative B, RG
value for Internet based service (e.g. Peer to Peer) (here ADC Rule and RG)
should be agreed between VPLMN and HPLMN results in configuring within the
VPLMN, RG values for roamers with LBO, these RG values may be different from
the one applied for its own subscribers (i.e. non-roamers).
**Key issue #2(similar to key issue #4 from Phase 1):** different Vendor-
specific RG values used for the Internet based service (e.g. Peer to Peer). In
Alternative A or B, pre-defined rules may be invoked for roaming charging. For
Alternative A, vendor-specific pre-defined rules for each TDF are provided by
the VPLMN to the HPLMN for use over S9.
**Key issue #3(similar to key issue #5 from Phase 1):** in Alternative B, OCS
address needs to be determined by VPLMN.
6\. V-PCRF provides ADC Rule incl. RG for Peer to Peer service and \"Online
enabled\" charging method with OCS address to the TDF.
NOTE 3: In general case, the "Online enabled" charging method may be provided
either to PGW/PCEF or to TDF. As per TS 23.203 [207] requirement also listed
in the sub-clause 5.1.1, it may also be provided to both as long as the
network is configured in such a way that the traffic charged and enforced in
the PCEF does not overlap with the traffic charged and enforced by the TDF.
7\. Based on the received ADC Rule, TDF initiates communication (CCR-I) with
OCS (by using resolved OCS address) for the RG of the Peer to Peer service per
received ADC Rule.
NOTE 4: The TDF may request quota during the Gyn session establishment as
shown in this flow, or may wait to request quota when data is received for the
service data flow associated with the provisioned ADC rules. This method would
utilize a CCR update and CCA not shown in this figure.
8\. Based on authorizations checks (e.g. whether quota can be allocated for
TDF session, and, specifically, RG corresponding to Peer to Peer service), the
OCS authorizes the charging session and allocates appropriate quota along with
a set of re-authorization triggers.
9\. The OCS sends CCA to the TDF with granted quota.
10\. The TDF replies with TSA to V-PCRF, indicating successful charging
session establishment.
11\. The PGW gets CCA from the V-PCRF with PCC Rule and installs it.
12\. The PGW acknowledges the Create session Request.
13\. Messages are exchanged between UE, E-UTRAN, MME, SGW, PGW for
uplink/downlink packets to be able to be sent/received by UE for IP-CAN
session establishment.
#### 5.2.1.3 Key issue #1
##### 5.2.1.3.1 Description
When S9 interface is not in use between H-PCRF and V-PCRF, RGs used by VPLMN
for HPLMN subscribers, which are roaming in the VPLMN with LBO scenario, need
to be understood and correctly interpreted by HPLMN for proper charging.
##### 5.2.1.3.2 Current status
Currently operators are not using Inter-PLMN PS online charging agreements
which results in misinterpretation by HPLMN of any VPLMN defined RG if S9
interface is not used, leading to improper online charging.
##### 5.2.1.3.3 Alternative Solutions
###### 5.2.1.3.3.1 Alternative solutions 1-3
Same contents as defined by the sub-clauses 4.2.1.3.3.1, 4.2.1.3.3.2,
4.2.1.3.3.3 (Alternative solutions 1-3), except that TDF is used instead of
PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy, \"applications\" are used instead of
\"services\", PCC Rules are used for transferring over S9, while it is
V-PCRF\'s responsibility to derive the corresponding ADC Rules.
###### 5.2.1.3.3.2 Alternative Solution 4: Definition of well-known RGs and
beyond
###### # 5.2.1.3.3.2.1 Description
GSMA identifies a set of services/applications that are required to be online
charged as data usage (e.g. Video over LTE, RCS). The GSMA defines a catalog
of well-known RGs values, one for each identified service (e.g. RG=2 for
video).
NOTE: It may not be appropriate to specify Internet based applications (e.g.
Peer to Peer) by GSMA, therefore this solution may not be applicable in case
of TDF.
Use of solution 2 may also be considered, as part of roaming agreements
between HPLMN and VPLMN, to allow extension to agreed services/applications
beyond services/applications specified by GSMA.
For services/applications which cannot be identified by the VPLMN but
determined as authorized for using the default bearer, the \"Default bearer\"
RG should be used (see Allternative solution 5).
In case the HPLMN wants to perform differentiated online charging for any
other services/applications (i.e. not under selected solution per roaming
agreement, nor specified by GSMA) without bi-lateral per-service pre-
arrangement, use of S9 is required to be part of roaming agreements between
HPLMN and VPLMN so the RGs are dynamically provided by the HPLMN on services
invocation.
###### # 5.2.1.3.3.2.2 Discussion
In case of overlap between the well-known RGs defined by GSMA and those
selected by the PLMN, appropriate adaptation will need to be ensured within
the PLMN. Need for introducing methods based on roaming agreements for
extending beyond the set of GSMA specified services is discussed.
For specific services/applications not specified by GSMA, Solution 1 is
requested to be considered, as another alternative to solution 2, as part of
roaming agreements.
Advantage claimed by the solution 4 is the definition of basic roaming package
applicable for a set of GSMA services/applications expected to be largely
deployed, while offering the capability for other services to be deployed
between PLMNs in a flexible manner.
###### 5.2.1.3.3.3 Alternative Solution 5 -- Dedicated RG for application
based charging
###### # 5.2.1.3.3.3.1 Description
Definition of a specific RG value to be used for application based charging
based on operator agreement.
NOTE : Using of the GSMA standardized RG value for the default bearer can be
considered to make application based charging interoperability easier.
##### 5.2.1.3.4 Evaluation and recommendation
###### 5.2.1.3.4.1 Evaluation
As noted in the Solution 4, it may not be appropriate to specify Internet
based applications (e.g. Peer to Peer) by GSMA, therefore this solution is not
applicable in case of TDF.
The evaluation follows the same principles and considerations as defined by
the 4.2.1.3.4 (TDF is used instead of PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy,
solution 4 is not applicable, solution 5 has limited functional definition for
default bearer only as described above).
###### 5.2.1.3.4.2 Recommendation
The recommendation is to select the solution 5 (RG value definition for
application based charging) and to consider allowing the solution 3b which
could be used by Operators in a phased approach.
#### 5.2.1.4 Key issue #2
##### 5.2.1.4.1 Description
When S9 interface is not in use between H-PCRF and V-PCRF, RGs (and/or SIs)
used by VPLMN for HPLMN subscribers, which are roaming in the VPLMN with LBO
scenario, need to be understood and correctly interpreted by HPLMN for proper
charging. Before any agreement can take place with other partners, each PLMN
may first have issues to determine the RGs (and/or SIs) to be used for its own
subscriber due to various TDF, PCRF/SPR and OCS vendor-specific implemented
values.
##### 5.2.1.4.2 Current status
For the purpose of Inter-PLMN PS online charging, there may be existing PGWs,
TDFs, PCRF/SPRs and OCSs mechanisms based on Vendor-specific RGs (and/or SIs)
requiring mapping to Operator's selected RGs (and/or SIs).
In case S9 interface is not used, without correct mapping, the RGs (and/or
SIs) used for Inter-PLMN PS online charging will lead to improper online
charging.
##### 5.2.1.4.3 Alternative Solutions
###### 5.2.1.4.3.1 Alternative Solution 1: Enforce RGs selected for Inter-PLMN
The PGWs, TDFs, PCRF/SPRs and OCSs mechanisms based on Vendor-specific RGs
(and/or SIs) are extended to incorporate the correspondence with the RGs
(and/or SIs) agreed between Operators to be used in roaming LBO context,
This solution is applicable whatever the solution retained for Key issue #1.
##### 5.2.1.4.4 Evaluation and recommendation
It is recommended to adopt solution 1.
## 5.3 Solution for a Dedicated Inter-PLMN PS Domain Online Charging profile
in case of Gyn.
### 5.3.1 Scenario 1: Gyn in Local Breakout Roaming Architecture
#### 5.3.1.1 Requirements
The current PS application based online charging as specified in TS 32.251
[11] offers a very large set of capabilities for Operators to be able to
deploy accurate charging models for the full set of services provided to their
subscribers within the PLMN.
In order to facilitate Interoperability for this PS application based online
charging between TDF and OCS pertaining to different PLMNs, only the key set
of capabilities needs to be retained, while fulfilling the requirements for
applications to be accurately charged-for in roaming LBO situations.
#### 5.3.1.2 Alternative dedicated profiles
#### 5.3.1.2.1 Alternative 1 - Dedicated profile 1 -- Gyn LBO
###### 5.3.1.2.1.1 Principles
Following principles apply:
\- Session charging with Unit Reservation (SCUR) with Centralized Unit
Determination and Centralized Rating.
\- Categorization of detected application traffic achieved by usage of RGs
only.
###### 5.3.1.2.1.2 Message flows
The contents here are the same as in the section 4.3.1.2.1.2 except that TDF
is used instead of PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy, ADC Rules ae used
instead of PCC Rules, \"PS application based online charging\" is used instead
of \"PS Flow based online charging\", TDF session termination is used instead
of IP-CAN bearer deactivation.
###### 5.3.1.2.1.3 Message Content
Message content in case of Gyn, dedicated Inter-PLMN profile: the same as
defined in the clause 4.3.1.2.3, except that Structure of the PS Information
for Inter-PLMN should additionally include TDF Address and TDF MCC MNC.
##### 5.3.1.2.2 Alternative 2 -- Dedicated profile 2 -- Gyn LBO
###### 5.3.1.2.2.1 Principles
Same as solution 1 with in addition:
\- Session charging with Unit Reservation (SCUR) with Decentralized Unit
Determination and Centralized Rating
###### 5.3.1.2.2.2 Message flows
The same message flows as in clause 4.3.1.2.1.2 apply with the differences
described in the sub-clause5.3.1.2.1.2 and additionally the difference that
request for quota from the TDF contains units, i.e. in all flows when RSU
(Requested Service Unit) is present when sending from the PGW, it contains
units, and the OCS checks whether the requested units are allowed and can be
granted.
##### 5.3.1.2.3 Evaluation and recommendation
Alternative 2 introduces the Decentralized Unit Determination capability,
allowing units to be requested by the VPLMN, which adds complexity to IOT and
deviates from original simplification intention.
It is concluded to adopt alternative 1 Dedicated profile 1 -- Gyn LBO, for the
dedicated profile.
This Dedicated profile 1 should be introduced in a new Informative Annex in TS
32.251[11].
#### 5.3.1.3 Alternative solutions for dedicated profiles handling
The contents here are the same as in the section 4.3.1.3 except that TDF is
used instead of PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy, ADC Rules are used
instead of PCC Rules, \"PS application based online charging\" is used instead
of \"PS Flow based online charging\", TDF session termination is used instead
of IP-CAN bearer deactivation.
Thus, also conclusion is the same as defined by the sub-clause 4.3.1.3.3.
### 5.3.2 Scenario 2: Gyn in Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access Convergent
Roaming Architecture
Same as Dedicated profile 1 -- Gyn LBO (defined in 5.3.3.1) with the following
exceptions:
\- P-GW is replaced by IP-Edge [PCEF]
\- MS Time Zone, User Location Info and RAT Type are not applicable.
\- The following parameters applies in addition:
* * *
Information Element Category Description Access Line Identifier O~C~ As
specified in TS 32.251 [11] _Fixed User Location Information_ OC As specified
in TS 32.251 [11]
* * *
## 5.4 Inter-PLMN Diameter connection aspects
### 5.4.1 Key issue # 3 user\'s Home OCS determination
#### 5.4.1.1 Description
In case S9 is not used and in case the Home OCS address is not as part the
behaviour associated to the charging characteristics at session creation time,
the visited network will need to get the home OCS to be used for the user for
Inter-PLMN online charging traffic.
#### 5.4.1.2 Current status
When S9 is used, the Home OCS address to be used for the user roaming in VPLMN
may be provided from the H-PCRF.
The user\'s Home OCS Address may also be as part of the behaviour associated
to the charging characteristics and it is overridden by the OCS Address
received from the V-PCRF over Sd if any.
#### 5.4.1.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 5.4.1.3.1 Alternative Solution1- based on Diameter Agent
Same contents as described by the sub-clause 4.4.1.3.1, except that Gy is used
instead of Gyn.
##### 5.4.1.3.2 Alternative Solution 2 -- based on V-PCRF
Same contents as described by the sub-clause 4.4.1.3.1, except that Gy is used
instead of Gyn, TDF is used instead of PGW/PCEF, Sd is used instead of Gx.
##### 5.4.1.3.3 Alternative Solution 3 - based on 3GPP CT3 alternative
**As per S5-154278, If the PCEF does not receive the Charging-Information AVP
from the V-PCRF, the PCEF could use procedures similar to the ones used by the
V-PCRF to determine the H-PCRF's realm as defined in 3GPP TS 29.215, sub-
clause 5.2: \"In case of roaming, when S9 protocol is used for 3GPP accesses,
a V-PCRF shall use, by default, the IMSI (MNC and MCC values) of the user
provided over Gxc/Gx to construct the EPC Home Network Realm/Domain, as
indicated in TS 23.003 [9], clause 19.2, and use it as Destination-Realm.
However the V-PCRF may alternatively determine the Destination-Realm based on
local configuration within the V-PCRF. This configuration follows specific
roaming agreement between the visited and the home operators.\"**
**The similar solution is proposed for TDF:**
**If the TDF does not receive the Charging-Information AVP from the V-PCRF,
the TDF could use procedures similar to the ones used by the V-PCRF to
determine the H-PCRF's realm as defined in 3GPP TS 29.215, sub-clause 5.2:
\"In case of roaming, when S9 protocol is used for 3GPP accesses, a V-PCRF
shall use, by default, the IMSI (MNC and MCC values) of the user provided over
Gxc/Gx to construct the EPC Home Network Realm/Domain, as indicated in TS
23.003 [9], clause 19.2, and use it as Destination-Realm. However the V-PCRF
may alternatively determine the Destination-Realm based on local configuration
within the V-PCRF. This configuration follows specific roaming agreement
between the visited and the home operators.\"**
#### 5.4.1.4 Evaluation and recommendation
As a result of the LS exchange with CT3, SA5 has considered that Solution 3
also fulfils the requirement for the PCEF.
Thus, in case of TDF, it is also concluded that solution 3 fulfils the
requirement. An LS should be sent to SA2/CT3 for OCS Home domain realm
determination from subscriber identity, for the TDF case, so CT3 can align the
solution for TDF with the selected solution for the PCEF .
### 5.4.2 Key issue # 4 -- AVP filtering
The contents here are the same as in the section 4.4.2, except that TDF is
used instead of PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy.
Thus, also conclusion is the same as defined by the sub-clause 4.4.2.4.
### 5.4.3 Key issue # 5 -- Security
The contents here are the same as in the section 4.4.3, except that TDF is
used instead of PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy.
Thus, also conclusion is the same as defined by the sub-clause 4.4.3.4.
### 5.4.4 Key issue # 6 -- Topology Hiding
The contents here are the same as in the section 4.4.4, except that TDF is
used instead of PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy.
Thus, also conclusion is the same as defined by the sub-clause 4.4.4.4.
### 5.4.5 Key issue # 7 -- Routing
The contents here are the same as in the section 4.4.4, except that TDF is
used instead of PGW/PCEF, Gyn is used instead of Gy.
Thus, also conclusion is the same as defined by the sub-clause 4.4.5.4.
## 5.5 Inter-Operator Charging
### 5.5.1 Key issue # 8 -- Roaming LBO
NOTE: This key issue is the same as Key issue #10 defined under Phase 1.
#### 5.5.1.1 Description
Until now, only Home Routing model has been considered for PS domain online
charging, with appropriate wholesale defined for charging reconciliation
between PLMNs. PS online charging in the roaming LBO situation has not been
considered.
#### 5.5.1.2 Current status
The HPLMN will be able to \"online charge\" the roaming UE (retail charging),
based on the services invocation occurring in VPLMN, relying on Gyn ABC online
charging capability.
The VPLMN will need to bill the HPLMN for the use of resources by the HPLMN
subscribers roaming in their Network, during these services invocation.
#### 5.5.1.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 5.5.1.3.1 Alternative Solution1- use of PGW CDRs
Use of PGW CDR specified in TS 32.251 [11] generated from PGW in VPLMN for
wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs in TAP.
The OCS in HPLMN will need to also to generate CDRs to collect the
corresponding PS Information over the Gyn session for this reconciliation.
##### 5.5.1.3.2 Alternative Solution2- use of SGW CDRs
Use of SGW CDR generated from SGW in VPLMN, as per current TAP for wholesale
charging reconciliation between PLMNs.
The OCS in HPLMN will need to also to generate CDRs to collect the
corresponding PS Information over the Gyn session for this reconciliation.
##### 5.5.1.3.3 Alternative Solution3- use of TDF CDRs
Use of TDF CDR specified in TS 32.251 [11] generated from TDF in VPLMN for
wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs in TAP. It is assumed that QoS
charging is not required.
The OCS in HPLMN will need to also to generate CDRs to collect the
corresponding PS Information over the Gyn session for this reconciliation.
#### 5.5.1.4 Evaluation and recommendation
The downside of solution 1 and 3 is that current TAP needs to be changed and
more processing is required for TAP to analyze the PGW CDRs compared to the
SGW CDRs.
However, relying on SGW CDRs or on PGW CDRs (solutions 1 and 2) would lead to
inaccurate basis for reconciliation because the volume traffic captured in SGW
CDRs or in PGW CDRs will differ from traffic captured in TDF CDRs: in TDF as a
result of ADC Rules enforcement (which may lead to gating or bandwidth
limitation), packets may be dropped.
It is concluded that the best solution is use of TDF CDRs as per Alternative
Solution 3.
### 5.5.2 Key issue #9 -- Roaming Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access Convergent
NOTE: This key issue is the same as Key issue #11 defined under Phase 1.
#### 5.5.2.1 Description
There is no description for wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs,
for 3GPP UE roamers with NSWO traffic under a Fixed Broadband Access owned by
the VPLMN.
#### 5.5.2.2 Current status
In Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access scenario, the HPLMN will be able to
\"online charge\" the roaming UE (retail charging) for the NSWO traffic under
the fixed access, relying on Gyn ABC online charging capability.
The VPLMN will need to charge the HPLMN for the use of resources by the HPLMN
subscribers roaming in their Network: usual exchange GSMA TAP [507] procedures
defined for wholesale charging reconciliation between PLMNs are expected to be
used for this.
The existing TAP, as described in clause 4.5.1.2, is designed for Mobile
Network resources, may not have all of the information required for Fixed
Broadband access resources.
#### 5.5.2.3 Alternative Solutions
##### 5.5.2.3.1 Alternative Solution1- use of TDF CDRs
The TDF CDR specified in TS 32.251 [11] generated from TDF in VPLMN towards
the VPLMN OCS for such 3GPP UE NSWO traffic, is used for wholesale charging
reconciliation between PLMNs in TAP.
The OCS in HPLMN may need to also to generate CDRs to collect the
corresponding PS Information over the Gyn session for this reconciliation.
#### 5.5.2.4 Evaluation and recommendation
It is concluded that the best solution is use of TDF CDRs as per Alternative
Solution 1.
## 5.6 Conclusion and recommendations for phase 2
It is concluded on:
\- Key issue # 1 (RGs issues across PLMNs) resolution per clause 5.2.1.3.4.2
recommendation.
\- Key issue # 2 (RGs across vendors) resolution per clause 5.2.1.4.4
recommendation._-_ Key issue# 3 Home OCS determination resolution per clause
5.4.1.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 4 AVP filtering resolution per clause 5.4.2.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 5 Security resolution per clause 5.4.3.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 6 Topology Hiding resolution per clause 5.4.4.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 7 Routing resolution per clause 5.4.5.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 8 (Inter-PLMN Charging) roaming LBO resolution per clause
5.5.1.4 conclusion.
\- Key issue # 9 (Inter-PLMN Charging) Roaming Mobile - Fixed Broadband Access
Convergent resolution per clause 5.5.2.4 conclusion.
\- Dedicated Inter-PLMN PS Domain Online Charging profiles, as per clause
5.3.1.2.3 conclusion, and dedicated profile handling as per clause 5.3.1.3.
\- Dedicated profile 1 -- Gyn LBO with the following principles:
\- Session charging with Unit Reservation (SCUR) with Centralized Unit
Determination and Centralized Rating
\- Categorization of detected application traffic achieved by usage of RGs
only
> Shall be adopted for the dedicated profile. This Dedicated profile 1 shall
> be introduced in a new Informative Annex in TS 32.251[11].
\- Message content in case of Gyn, dedicated inter-PLMN profile, shall be as
defined in the clause 5.3.1.2.1.3.
\- Dedicated profile 1 -- Gyn FBA Convergent shall be identical to Dedicated
profile 1 -- Gyn LBO (defined by the previous bullet) with the following
exceptions:
\- P-GW is replaced by IP-Edge [PCEF]
\- MS Time Zone, User Location Info and RAT Type are not applicable.
\- The following parameters applies in addition:
* * *
Information Element Category Description Access Line Identifier O~C~ As
specified in TS 32.251 [11] _Fixed User Location Information_ OC As specified
in TS 32.251 [11]
* * *
> This Dedicated profile 1 Gyn FBA Convergent shall be reflected in a new
> Informative Annex in TS 32.251[11].
\- Direct Nodes (no OCS Proxy) interaction is concluded as per clause 5.3.1.3.
From these conclusions the following are expected:
\- An LS should be sent to CT3 for specifying solution for key issue 3.
#