# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
3GPP WG SA5 TS 32-series comprise a set of specifications for Interface N
(Itf-N) describing the requirements and solutions for various network
management domains or services (e.g. Alarm IRP, PM IRP, BasicCM IRP, KernelCM
IRP, BulkCM IRP, Notification IRP, CS IRP, FileTransfer IRP and EP IRP).
The large number of IRPs reflects the large number of diverse Network
Management (NM) domains, services and solutions which are required to satisfy
all operators\' needs taken as a whole. However, not all operators require all
network management (NM) domains services and solutions defined by these IRPs.
This present document aims at providing one or more subsets of IRP
requirements selected from the existing IRPs\' requirements and corresponding
IRP functionality based on input from operators.
# 1 Scope
The present document examines IRP requirements selected from existing IRPs\'
requirement and identifies one or more subsets of these requirements. It also
studies the grouping of IRP functionality to recommend which functionality is
needed in a network management context to satisfy every given subset of
requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements \".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
EMS Element Management System
FM Fault Management
IRP Integration Reference Point
MML Man-Machine Language
NMS Network Management System
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Overview
For the purpose of management interface 3GPP has developed an interface
concept known as Integration Reference Point (IRP) to promote the wider
adoption of standardized management interfaces in telecommunication networks.
Due to the continuous arrival of new SON functions in 3GPP Release 9 and
Release 10 (e.g. Drive Tests substitution, Energy Savings Management (ESM),
etc.), the number of IRPs which have been yet defined is quite important and,
either their number is about to increase dramatically or their complexity is
getting very large:
\- Network Resource Model IRPs:
\- Generic NRM IRP
\- E-UTRAN NRM IRP
\- EPC NRM IRP
\- Interface IRPs:
\- Basic Configuration Management IRP
\- Bulk Configuration Management IRP
\- Kernel Configuration Management IRP
\- Notification IRP
\- Alarm IRP
\- Advanced Alarm IRP
\- Subscription Management IRP
\- Generic IRP Management
\- Test management IRP
\- Notification Log IRP
\- File Transfer IRP
\- Communication Surveillance IRP
\- Entry Point IRP
\- Partial Suspension of Itf-N IRP
\- Delta Synchronization IRP
\- Performance Management IRP
\- Trace Management IRP
\- Self-Configuration of Network Elements IRP
\- Software management IRP
\- State Management IRP
\- Inventory Management IRP
\- SON functions:
\- ANR Management is using both E-UTRAN NRM IRP and Basic / Bulk Configuration
Management
\- Automatic PCI Configuration: same.
Consequently, there is a need to define a subset of IRPs, i.e. some grouping
of IRPs to determine which IRPs are needed in a given network management
application profile. The present document is to address the appropriate subset
of IRPs used for RAN including GERAN/UTRAN/E-UTRAN and Core Network
(2G/3G/LTE).
# 5 Concepts and architecture
## 5.1 General
3GPP WG SA5 has defined a set of Interface IRP specifications (the TS
32-series) for Itf-N with Requirements, Information Services (IS) and Solution
Sets (SS) for different protocols. However, some functions of Itf-N are not
used by some operators, such as acknowledgement of an alarm, manual alarm
clearing, network element creation/deletion, etc. Different operators have
different needs for using different subsets of Itf-N.
It is important to identify the essential parts from the existing
specifications based on actual use in operators\' deployments.
This present document studies Fault Management (FM), Performance Management
(PM) and Configuration Management (CM).
## 5.2 Fault Management (FM)
(Quote from TS 32.111-1 [2], version 12.0.0, Introduction)
_\"A 3G system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of various
types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a co-ordinated
manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication requirements.\
The occurrence of failures in a NE may cause a deterioration of this NE\'s
function and/or service quality and will, in severe cases, lead to the
complete unavailability of the respective NE. In order to minimize the effects
of such failures on the Quality of Service (QoS) as perceived by the network
users it is necessary to:_
_\- detect failures in the network as soon as they occur and alert the
operating personnel as fast as possible;_
_\- isolate the failures (autonomously or through operator intervention), i.e.
switch off faulty units and, if applicable, limit the effect of the failure as
much as possible by reconfiguration of the faulty NE/adjacent NEs;_
_\- if necessary, determine the cause of the failure using diagnosis and test
routines; and,_
_\- repair/eliminate failures in due time through the application of
maintenance procedures._
_This aspect of the management environment is termed \"Fault Management\"
(FM). The purpose of FM is to detect failures as soon as they occur and to
limit their effects on the network Quality of Service (QoS) as far as
possible. \"_
## 5.3 Performance Management (PM)
(Quote from TS 32.401 [5], version 11.0.0, clause 4)
_\"Any evaluation of PLMN-system behaviour will require performance data
collected and recorded by its NEs according to a schedule established by the
EM. This aspect of the management environment is termed Performance
Management._
_The purpose of any Performance Management activity is to collect data, which
can be used to verify the physical and logical configuration of the network
and to locate potential problems as early as possible.\"_
Additionally, the process of Performance Management (PM) has also been defined
in TS 32.401 [5].
(Quote from TS 32.401 [5], version 11.0.0, clause 4)
_\"_ \- _the management of the performance measurement collection process;_
> \- _the generation of performance measurement results;_
>
> \- _the local storage of measurement results in the NE;_
>
> \- _the transfer of measurement results from the NE to an OS (EM and/or NM);
> and_
>
> \- _the storage, preparation and presentation of results to the operating
> personnel.\"_
The present document emphasizes the above fourth bullet step which relates to
the Itf-N.
## 5.4 Configuration Management (CM)
(Quote from TS 32.600 [6], clause 7.1)
_\"The Itf‑N (see ref. 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]) is an object oriented interface,
i.e. all resources of the PLMN network (functional and physical resources)
whose management is standardised by the present document are represented as
Managed Object Instances (MOI) of a Network Resource Model (NRM)._
_The NRM shall be highly simplified for the purpose of the NM, based on the
assumption that all of the detailed CM actions, including fault correction
after one or more alarms, are performed by an Element Manager (EM), which
knows the vendor-specific NRM and configuration._
_The NRM identifies the basic Network Resources (NRs) to the level of detail
required by FM and PM at the Network Management (NM) level. In addition to NR
identification, the NRM also supports the alarm surveillance part of FM by
defining which alarms can be notified by which Information Object Classes
(IOCs).\"_
Generally, Configuration Management (CM) aspects of managing a PLMN network
contains the following process:
\- Installing a PLMN network;
\- Operating a PLMN network;
\- Growing/pruning a PLMN network;
\- NRM data monitoring.
In order to simplify Itf-N, only the last process is implemented through
Itf-N, while others are implemented by EM/NEs.
(Quote from TS 32.600 [6], clause 5.2)
_\"The system monitoring service component provides the operator with the
ability to receive reports (on request or spontaneously) on the configuration
of the entire network or parts of it from managed NEs. These consist of
structure, states, versions employed and data settings. The NE sends
spontaneous reports if there was an autonomous change of, for example, the
states or other values due to Fault Management (FM) actions. Also, the NM may
ask the managed EM/NE to send the information required to the NM at any time.
\"_
_\"Any inconsistencies found during system monitoring by the NM should be
reported to the operator, and it is left to the operator or an Operations
System Function (OSF) to take appropriate actions.\"_
# 6 Application of Network Management (NM) requirements
## 6.1 Fault Management (FM)
### 6.1.1 Real-time forwarding of event reports
(Quote from TS 32.111-1 [2], version 12.0.0, clause 5.2.2)
_\"If the Itf-N is in normal operation (the NM connection to the subordinate
entities is up), alarm reports are forwarded in real-time to the NM via
appropriate filtering located in the subordinate entity. These filters may be
controlled either locally or remotely by the managing NM (via Itf-N) and
ensure that only the event reports which fulfil pre-defined criteria can reach
the superior NM. In a multi-NM environment each NM shall have an own filter
within every subordinate entity which may generate notifications. \"_
### 6.1.2 Real-time forwarding of Alarm clearing message
(Quote from TS 32.111-1 [2], version 12.0.0, clause 5.2.3)
_\"On the Itf-N, alarm reports containing the value \"cleared\" of the
parameter perceivedSeverity are used to clear the alarms. The correlation
between the clear alarm and the related active alarms is performed by means of
unambiguous identifiers._
_This clearing mechanism ensures the correct clearing of alarms, independently
of the (manufacturer-specific) implementation of the mapping of alarms/state
change events in accordance with the information model of the Itf-N.\"_
### 6.1.3 Retrieval of current alarm information on NM request
(Quote from TS 32.111-1 [2], version 12.0.0, clause 5.3.1)
_\"The present document defines a flexible,_ _generic synchronization
procedure, which fulfils the following requirements:_
_\- The alarm information provided by means of the synchronization procedure
shall be the same (at least for the mandatory parameters) as the information
already available in the alarm list. The procedure shall be able to assign the
received synchronization-alarm information to the correspondent requests, if
several synchronization procedures triggered by one NM run at the same time._
_\- The procedure shall allow the NM to trigger the start at any time and to
recognize unambiguously the end and the successful completion of the
synchronization._
_\- The procedure shall allow the NM to discern easily between an \"on-line\"
(spontaneous) alarm report and an alarm report received as consequence of a
previously triggered synchronization procedure._
_\- The procedure shall allow the NM to specify filter criteria in the
alignment request (e.g. for a full network or only a part of it._
_\- The procedure shall support connections to several NM and route the
alignment-related information only to the requesting NM._
_\- During the synchronization procedure new (\"real-time\") alarms may be
sent at any time to the managing NM._
_If the EM loses confidence to its alarm list and rebuilds it, then the EM
shall indicate to the NM that the alarm list have been rebuilt. If the rebuild
of the alarm list only concerns alarms for e.g. one NE then the EM may
indicate that it is only that part of the alarm list that has been rebuilt. In
the latter case the NM may use the knowledge that only a specific subset of
the alarm list have been rebuilt to perform a partial resynchronization using
filters. \"_
## 6.2 Performance Management (PM)
The following requirements are proposed:
(Quote from TS 32.401 [5], version 11.0.0, clause 5.5.2)
_\"All scenarios for the result transfer, as far as they are relevant for
standardisation of 3G systems, are defined above. It should be noted that,
depending on an Operator\'s needs, measurement results may have to be
transferred to the EM only, the NM only, or both. \"_
The present document concentrates on parts of the above referred requirements,
namely transferring measurements to the NM.
## 6.3 Configuration Management (CM)
The following requirements are proposed:
(Quote from TS 32.600 [6], clause 6.2.3)
_\"For responses to information requests and for information reports, it
should be possible for the operator to specify where and when the information
should go. The NM, EM and NE shall provide a capability to configure the
response/reporting capabilities such that the following requirements are met
at the Itf‑N:_
\- _information forwarding shall be possible to be enabled and disabled;_
\- _information shall be possible to be forwarded to the NM as soon as it is
available;_
\- _information shall be possible to be directed to any of various NMs (one or
several).\"_
# 7 Grouping of functions
## 7.1 Fault Management (FM)
### 7.1.1 getAlarmLists
#### 7.1.1.1 Definition
(Quote from TS 32.111-2 [3], version 12.1.0, clause 6.3.2.1)
_\"The IRPManager invokes this operation to request the AlarmIRP to provide
either the complete list of AlarmInformation instances in the AlarmList or
only a part of this list (partial alarm alignment)._
_The parameters baseObjectClass and baseObjectInstance are used to identify
the part of the alarm list to be returned. If they are absent, then the
complete alarm list shall be provided (full alarm alignment). If they identify
a particular class instance, then only a) the AlarmInformation instances
related to this class instance and b) the AlarmInformation instances related
to the subordinate class instances of this class instance shall be provided
(partial alarm alignment). An instance-a is said to be subordinate to
instance-b if the DN of the latter is part of the DN of the former._
_There are two modes of operation. One mode is synchronous. In this mode, the
list of AlarmInformation instances in AlarmList is returned synchronously with
the operation. The other mode is asynchronous. In this mode, the list of
AlarmInformation instances is returned via notifications. In asynchronous mode
of operation, the only information returned synchronously is the status of the
operation. A method allowing to abort an ongoing alarm alignment process shall
be available in the asynchronous mode. The mode of operation to be used is
determined by means outside the scope of specification. To use asynchronous
mode, the IRPManager must have established a subscription with the
NotificationIRP via the subscribe operation specified in 3GPP TS 32.302
[5].\"_
The input parameters are in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.3.2.2.
The output parameters are in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.3.2.3.
The pre-condition is in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.3.2.4.
The post-condition is in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.3.2.5.
The exceptions are in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.3.2.6.
### 7.1.2 notifyNewAlarm
#### 7.1.2.1 Definition
(Quote from TS 32.111-2 [3], version 12.1.0, clause 6.8.1.1)
_\"A new AlarmInformation has been added in the AlarmList. The subscribed
IRPManager instances are notified of this fact if the added AlarmInformation
satisfies the current filter constraint of their subscription._
_There are two tables for Input Parameters. If alarmType parameter indicates
\"Communications Alarm\", \"Processing Error Alarm\", \"Environmental Alarm\".
\"Quality Of Service Alarm\" or \"Equipment Alarm\", the first table (see
clause 6.8.1.2) shall be applicable for this notifyNewAlarm. If alarmType
parameter indicates \"Integrity Violation\", \"Operational Violation\",
\"Physical Violation\", \"Security Service or Mechanism Violation\" or \"Time
Domain Violation\", the second table (see clause 6.8.1.3) shall be
applicable.\"_
The input parameters are in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.8.1.2 and 6.8.1.3.
The trigger event is in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.8.1.4.
### 7.1.3 notifyClearedAlarm
#### 7.1.3.1 Definition
(Quote from TS 32.111-2 [3], version 12.1.0, clause 6.8.3)
_\"IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager of alarm clearing if the
subject AlarmInformation satisfies the optional filter constraint expressed in
the subscribe operation._
_The notification shall contain all parameters that are filterable and are
present in the original (related) notifyNewAlarm notification.\"_
The input parameters are in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.8.3.2.
The trigger event is in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.111-2 [3], clause 6.8.3.3.
## 7.2 Performance Management (PM)
According to the requirements of Performance Management (see clause 6.2), the
operations and notifications of PM IRP is not needed, while the functionality
of a File Transfer IRP should be included, which is specified in clause 7.4.
The IRPAgent should create files containing measurement data automatically on
a preseted schedule. When the files have been prepared, the file information,
including file locations, can be retrieved by IRPManagers (one or several). An
IRPManager can request to transfer the files appropriately according to the
file information.
The measurement types and the file format should be defined. IRPManager and
IRPAgent should have an agreement on the choice of file compression format(s).
## 7.3 Configuration Management (CM)
According to the requirements of Configuration Management (see clause 6.3),
the IRPAgent should create files containing configuration data on the demand
of the IRPAgent or automatically on a preseted schedule.
When the files have been prepared in the IRPAgent, the file information,
including file locations, can be retrieved by IRPManagers (one or several). An
IRPManager can request to transfer the files appropriately according to the
file information.
NRMs for the configuration data and the file format should be defined.
IRPManager and IRPAgent should have an agreement on the choice of file
compression format(s).
## 7.4 File Transfer
### 7.4.1 notifyFileReady
#### 7.4.1.1 Definition
(Quote from TS 32.342 [4], version 12.0.0, clause 6.5.1.1)
_\"After the management data files have been prepared ready in the IRPAgent,
IRPAgent will emit notification to subscribed IRPManager(s) to notify the
availability of the file(s).\"_
The input parameters are in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.342 [4], clause 6.5.1.2.
The trigger event is in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.342 [4], clause 6.5.1.3.
### 7.4.2 notifyFilePreparationError
#### 7.4.2.1 Definition
(Quote from TS 32.342 [4], version 12.0.0, clause 6.5.2.1)
_\"The subscribed IRPManagers are notified regarding the occurrence of an
error during the preparation of the file. This notification is an event and
will not be treated as alarms defined in Alarm IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[3]).\"_
The input parameters are in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.342 [4], clause 6.5.2.2.
The trigger event is in compliance with the features specified in 3GPP TS
32.342 [4], clause 6.5.2.3.
# 8 Recommendations
This study focuses primarily on the partitioning of IRP requirements and
grouping of functions, and identifies a subset of IRPs in compliance with the
actual use in operator's deployment. Subsequent normative work may be needed
to specify the functionality corresponding to the subset.
To facilitate the subset of IRPs in the application of Itf-N, new Solution Set
may need to be specified for an efficient implementation with less complexity,
e.g. for Alarm IRP of the Fault Management.
###### ### Annex A: Partitioning of IRP\'s requirement
Table A.1 shows the list of functional requirements for FM, PM and CM of the
standard Itf-N. The subset(s) are selected from the list, providing a
reference to the partitioning of requirements in clause 6. For each subset,
the selected requirements are marked by \"Y\" in the corresponding column of
the table.
Table A.1: List and subset(s) of requirements for FM, PM and CM
* * *
No. of TS Version IRP Clause Requirement Subset 1 32.111-1 12.1.0 Alarm 5.2
Real-time forwarding of event reports Y 32.111-1 12.1.0 Alarm 5.2 Alarm
clearing Y 32.111-1 12.1.0 Alarm 5.3 Retrieval of current alarm information
and alarm history information Y 32.111-1 12.1.0 Alarm 5.4 Co-operative alarm
acknowledgement  
32.411 12.0.0 PM 5.2 Management of network performance measurements
jobs(creation, suspend, resume, stop)  
32.411 12.0.0 PM 5.2 Collect specific performance measurements on specific
network resources.  
32.411 12.0.0 PM 5.2 Collect the performance measurements in a file  
32.411 12.0.0 PM 5.2 Emit notification announcing the availability of PM
file(s)  
32.411 12.0.0 PM 5.3 Management of threshold alarms  
32.411 12.0.0 PM 5.5 Request a list of available files, including the
specification of filter  
32.411 12.0.0 PM 5.5 Manage the transfer of data files containing performance
measurement data. Y 32.601 12.0.0 Basic CM 4.2 Retrieve the value of
attributes from one or more managed object instances Y 32.601 12.0.0 Basic CM
4.2 Retrieve the containment relationships between the managed object
instances of a containment tree of managed objects.  
32.601 12.0.0 Basic CM 4.2 Retrieve the Basic CM IRP versions that are
supported by the IRPAgent  
32.601 12.0.0 Basic CM 4.2 Cancel a previously initiated operation if it has
not completed  
32.601 12.0.0 Basic CM 4.3 Create an instance of a managed object  
32.601 12.0.0 Basic CM 4.3 Delete one or more instances of managed objects  
32.601 12.0.0 Basic CM 4.3 Modify one or more attributes of one or more
instances of managed objects  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Initiate the upload (IRP Agent to NM) of CM data
over Interface-N  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Scope the Objects to be uploaded from the IRP Agent  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Initiate the download (NM to IRP Agent) of CM data
over Interface-N  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 The IRP Agent should check the consistency, syntax
and semantic of the downloaded file to ensure that the configuration changes
contained in the file can be implemented in the network  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Activate a previously downloaded configuration file
in the EM/NE via a control facility  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Two activation modes may be defined for this IRP,
distinguishable by their impact on network services in a live network.  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Activation employs a best effort mechanism  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Pre-activation  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 The activation of the new configuration in the NEs
are logged, whether successful or unsuccessful.  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Selectively retrieve the information contained in
the log  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Check the status of a configuration file operation  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 fallback to a previously known working configuration
by the IRP Manager  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Interface-N supports notifications, e.g. to indicate
completion of an operation, error cases.  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 The file format is flexible enough to include all
possible CM parameter types, i.e. standard parameters as well as vendor
specific parameters.  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 Since the files are transferred via a machine-
machine interface, the file format is machine readable using industry standard
tools  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 The files are formatted in a human readable way and
be specified by using a standardized language  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 The IRPAgent ensures that only the IRPManager that
started a Bulk CM session is subsequently allowed to send commands related to
that session  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 If the IRPAgent has the information that a
downloaded file has been changed during a session before pre-activation or
activation,a security alarm is issued  
32.611 12.0.0 Bulk CM 4.3 The IRPAgent should maintain a log of sessions  
32.661 12.0.0 Kernel CM 4.2 An operation to retrieve the Network Resource IRP
SS document versions  
32.661 12.0.0 Kernel CM 4.2 A notification that identifies the instance of a
managed object that was created.  
32.661 12.0.0 Kernel CM 4.2 A notification that identifies one or more
instances of a managed object that were deleted.  
32.661 12.0.0 Kernel CM 4.2 A notification that identifies the values of one
or more attributes of a managed object instance that were changed.  
32.661 12.0.0 Kernel CM 4.2 A notification that enables reporting of state and
status changes of a managed object instance.  
32.661 12.0.0 Kernel CM 4.2 A notification which identifies that part of or
the whole configuration information of managed system should be synchronized.
* * *
###### ### Annex B: Partitioning of IRP\'s functionality
Table B.1 shows the list of functionality for Alarm, PM, CM and related IRPs,
The subset(s) are selected from the list, providing a reference to the
partitioning of functionality in clause 7. For each subset, the selected
functions are marked by \"Y\" in the corresponding column of the table.
Table B.1: List and subset(s) of functionality
* * *
No. of TS Version IRP Clause Operation / Notification Qualifier\ Subset 1
(Interface Qualifier)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.3.1 acknowledgeAlarms M(M)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.3.2 getAlarmList M(O) Y
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.4.1 getAlarmCount M(O)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.5.1 unacknowledgeAlarms M(O)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.6.1 setComment M(O)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.7.1 clearAlarms M(M)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.8.1 notifyNewAlarm M(M) Y
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.8.2 notifyAckStateChanged M(M)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.8.3 notifyClearedAlarm M(M) Y
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.8.4 notifyAlarmListRebuilt M(M)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.9.1 notifyChangedAlarm M(O)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.10.1 notifyComment M(O)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.11.1 notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList M(O)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.12.1 notifyCorrelatedNotificationChanged M(O)
32.111-2 12.1.0 Alarm 6.13.1 notifyChangedAlarmGeneral M(O)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.3.1 subscribe M(M)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.3.2 unsubscribe M(M)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.4.1 getSubscriptionIds M(O)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.5.1 getSubscriptionStatus M(O)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.6.1 changeSubscriptionFilter M(O)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.7.1 suspendSubscription M(O)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.7.1 resumeSubscription M(O)
32.302 12.0.0 Notification 6.8.1 getNotificationCategories M(O)
32.312 12.0.0 Generic 6.3.1 getIRPVersion M(M)
32.312 12.0.0 Generic 6.4.1 getOperationProfile O(O)
32.312 12.0.0 Generic 6.4.2 getNotificationProfile O(O)
32.342 12.0.0 File Transfer 6.3.1 listAvailableFiles M
32.342 12.0.0 File Transfer 6.4.1 fileDownloadIndication O
32.342 12.0.0 File Transfer 6.5.1 notifyFileReady M Y
32.342 12.0.0 File Transfer 6.5.2 notifyFilePreparationError M Y
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.3.1 createMeasurementJob M(M)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.3.2 stopMeasurementJob M(M)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.3.3 suspendMeasurementJob O(M)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.3.4 resumeMeasurementJob O(M)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.3.5 listMeasurementJobs M(M)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.4.1 createThresholdMonitor M(O)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.4.2 deleteThresholdMonitor M(O)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.4.3 listThresholdMonitors M(O)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.5.1 suspendThresholdMonitor M(O)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.5.2 resumeThresholdMonitor M(O)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.6.1 notifyMeasurementJobStateChanged M(M)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.7.1 notifyThresholdMonitorObjectCreation M(O)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.7.2 notifyThresholdMonitorObjectDeletion M(O)
32.412 12.0.0 PM 7.7.3 notifyThresholdMonitorStatusChanged O(O)
32.602 12.0.0 Basic CM 7.3.1 getMoAttributes M
32.602 12.0.0 Basic CM 7.4.1 getContainment O
32.602 12.0.0 Basic CM 7.5.1 cancelOperation O
32.602 12.0.0 Basic CM 7.6.1 createMO O
32.602 12.0.0 Basic CM 7.6.2 deleteMO O
32.602 12.0.0 Basic CM 7.6.3 setMOAttributes O
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.3.1 startSession M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.3.2 endSession M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.3.3 abortSessionOperation M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.3.4 getSessionIds M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.3.5 getSessionStatus M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.3.6 getSessionLog M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.4.1 upload M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.5.1 download M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.5.2 validate O
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.5.3 preactivate O
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.5.4 activate M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.5.5 fallback M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.5.6 Validation and Checking Functions M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.6.1 notifySessionStateChanged M
32.612 12.0.0 Bulk CM 7.7.1 notifyGetSessionLogEnded M
32.662 12.0.0 Kernel CM 7.3.1 getNRMIRPVersion M
32.662 12.0.0 Kernel CM 7.4.1 notifyObjectCreation O
32.662 12.0.0 Kernel CM 7.5.1 notifyObjectDeletion O
32.662 12.0.0 Kernel CM 7.6.1 notifyAttributeValueChange O
32.662 12.0.0 Kernel CM 7.7.1 notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended O
32.662 12.0.0 Kernel CM 7.8.1 notifyStateChange O
* * *
#