# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the metadata for Performance Management (PM)
performance measurements (KPIs/counters). The definition would enforce
consistency in description/definition of all standardized performance
measurements (counters/KPIs) by various SDOs and organizations (or Multi-SDO)
involved in the Management of Converged Networks [6]. This consistency would
facilitate encoding and decoding of performance measurements (counters/KPIs)
exchanged (via management protocols) and/or stored in (database or files).
The metadata related to PM operations/notifications is not part of this PM
measurement metadata.
The present document takes into account the recommendations from the Fixed
Mobile Convergence (FMC) model repertoire [2] developed by the Multi-SDO JWG
on Model Alignment.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 32.156: \"Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Model Repertoire\".
[3] IETF RFC 2578: \"Structure of Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network
Information Model (FNIM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Measurement/Indicator** : A Performance attribute, a type of a parameter
that is measured on a measured object Class.
**Granularity period** : The sampling rate of Performance Measurements (aka
Performance Indicators). This is the rate of producing the measurements as
determined by the Producing Application (aka the Performance server).
**Reporting Period** : The rate (frequency) of collecting Performance
Measurements as determined by the Consuming Application, (aka the Performance
client). The Collection Resolution is an integral multiple of the
corresponding granularity.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CC Cumulative Counter
DER Discrete Event Register
FNIM Federated Network Information Model
FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence
HHO Hard Handover
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IoT Internet of Things
JWG Joint Working Group
KPI Key Performance Indicator
PM Performance Management
RAB Radio Access Bearer
SDO Standards Development Organization (e.g., 3GPP, TM Forum)
SI Status Inspection
SMS Short Message Service
# 4 Requirements
Metadata is defined as data providing information about aspects of other data.
Metadata can be exchanged in protocols, and can be stored and managed in a
database, often called a Metadata registry or Metadata repository. Metadata
can be defined in machine-readable syntax.
The PM performance measurement metadata is the properties of the performance
measurements (counters/KPIs) including their associations to other performance
measurements (counters/KPIs). The number of properties and the level of the
details in the property definition depend on the metadata intended usage.
The purpose for defining the PM performance measurement metadata is to enforce
a consistency in description/definition of all standardized counters/KPIs.
This consistency facilitates encoding, decoding, interpreting and in general,
processing of counters/KPIs defined by Multi-SDOs involved in the Management
of Converged Networks.
# 5 Definition of Performance Measurement Metadata
The table 5.1 provides the PM performance measurement metadata; i.e., the
definition of the properties.
When defining a new measurement and when this new measurement is similar to a
measurement already defined in another standard, then this standard should be
referenced and only the missing properties should be defined in addition.
Note: The following shortcuts are used in the table. Gen= GenericMeasurement,
Counter=CounterMeasurement, KPI=KPIMeasurement.
Table 5.1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Converged | Description | Legal values | Qualifier | | Property name | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen::name | This property | String | Mandatory | | | captures the | | | | | SDO agnostic | | | | | measurement | | | | | name (same | | | | | name among | | | | | several SDOs). | | | | | The name does | | | | | not carry the | | | | | measurement | | | | | family name. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen::sd | This property | String | Optional | | oAliasNameList | captures the | | | | | list of SDO | | | | | specific | | | | | measurement | | | | | names. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | measurement | | | | | name | | | | | convention is | | | | | SDO specific. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen::dataType | This property | Integer, | Mandatory | | | identifies the | | | | | type of the | Float | | | | value of the | | | | | measurement, | | | | | such as | | | | | Integer, | | | | | Float, or | | | | | derived value | | | | | types like a | | | | | fixed array of | | | | | values | | | | | (Vector) etc. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen::unit | This property | String | Mandatory | | | defines the | | | | | unit by which | | | | | the | | | | | measurement is | | | | | measured. For | | | | | example: | | | | | seconds, | | | | | Celsius, | | | | | Kelvin, | | | | | Ampere, Volt, | | | | | Watt, dB, | | | | | kBit/s, rate | | | | | per second, | | | | | etc. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen::dataRange | This property | String | Optional | | | specifies the | | | | | allowed range | | | | | of values for | | | | | a measurement. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen::family | This property | String | Mandatory | | | identifies the | | | | | measurement | | | | | family (e.g. | | | | | HHO, RAB, | | | | | SMS). Note | | | | | that this | | | | | family may | | | | | also be used | | | | | for | | | | | measurement | | | | | administration | | | | | purpose. | | | | | | | | | | Note: when | | | | | defining a new | | | | | family name, | | | | | consult the | | | | | family names | | | | | defined by | | | | | other SDOs so | | | | | that all the | | | | | names are | | | | | unique. It is | | | | | not allowed to | | | | | define a new | | | | | family with | | | | | the same | | | | | semantics of | | | | | an already | | | | | existing | | | | | family. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G | This property | String | Mandatory | | en::monitoredO | indicates the | | | | bjectClassList | list of | | | | | \> | | | | | names to which | | | | | this | | | | | measurement is | | | | | related (e.g. | | | | | UtranCell, | | | | | SgsnFunction). | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen: | This property | String | Mandatory | | :documentation | contains a | | | | | textual | | | | | description of | | | | | this modelled | | | | | element. | | | | | | | | | | Should refer | | | | | (to enable | | | | | traceability) | | | | | to a specific | | | | | requirement. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen:: | This property | String | Mandatory | | sourceStandard | identifies the | | | | | referenced | | | | | standard. All | | | | | the other | | | | | properties | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | collect | | | | | ionMethodType) | | | | | of this | | | | | measurement | | | | | refer to the | | | | | referenced | | | | | standard if | | | | | defined there. | | | | | | | | | | In case the | | | | | definition of | | | | | this | | | | | measurement | | | | | conflicts with | | | | | the referenced | | | | | definition, | | | | | the referenced | | | | | definition | | | | | takes | | | | | precedence. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gen::augmentat | This property | This property | Conditional | | ionInformation | captures | can have | Mandatory | | | measurement | different | | | | information | types | (This property | | | which is not | depending on | is specified | | | performance | the | along with the | | | information | information | specific | | | but can be | content | information | | | used to | relevant in a | type to be | | | augment the | specification | used legally | | | performance | (e.g., | | | | Measurement | Integer, Real, | a) if this | | | data. | String, set of | information is | | | | Name Value | necessary for | | | This property | pairs, | understanding | | | may be | enumeration | of the related | | | specified at | etc.). The | performance | | | the counter | specification | information | | | level or at | of this | and/or | | | group of | property | | | | counters | includes the | b) if it | | | level. | exact type of | disambiguates | | | | this | the related | | | | information. | performance | | | | | information. | | | | Examples | | | | | | | | | | Integer: | | | | | Number of IoT | | | | | respondents | | | | | | | | | | Real: | | | | | Temperature | | | | | | | | | | String: | | | | | Geolocation | | | | | | | | | | Enumeration | | | | | Type: | | | | | Operation | | | | | Status | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | This property | COUNTER,\ | Mandatory | | ounter::collec | indicates the | CUMULATIVE,\ | | | tionMethodType | five forms in | GAUGE,\ | | | | which the | DIS | | | | measurement | CRETE_EVENT,\ | | | | data can be | STAT | | | | captured. | US_INSPECTION | | | | | | | | | 1. COUNTER | | | | | | | | | | This literal | | | | | defines a | | | | | Collection | | | | | Method using a | | | | | variable whose | | | | | value can only | | | | | be incremented | | | | | and which is | | | | | reset at the | | | | | beginning of | | | | | each | | | | | granularity | | | | | period to well | | | | | defined value | | | | | (usually | | | | | "0").\ | | | | | \ | | | | | In 3GPP TS | | | | | 32.401 [4], | | | | | it is called | | | | | Cumulative | | | | | counter (CC). | | | | | | | | | | 2. CUMULATIVE | | | | | | | | | | This literal | | | | | defines a | | | | | Collection | | | | | Method using a | | | | | variable whose | | | | | value can only | | | | | be incremented | | | | | and which | | | | | wraps around | | | | | on reaching | | | | | maximum | | | | | possible value | | | | | that the | | | | | variable can | | | | | attain.\ | | | | | \ | | | | | _In IETF RFC | | | | | 2578_ [3] | | | | | _it is called | | | | | Counter | | | | | 32/Counter64._ | | | | | | | | | | 3. GAUGE\ | | | | | This literal | | | | | defines a | | | | | Collection | | | | | Method using a | | | | | dynamic | | | | | variable whose | | | | | value can be | | | | | incremented or | | | | | decremented, | | | | | and which may | | | | | be reset at | | | | | the beginning | | | | | of a | | | | | granularity | | | | | period or | | | | | recording | | | | | interval ( | | | | | multiple | | | | | consecutive | | | | | granularity | | | | | periods).\ | | | | | \ | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 32.401 [4]. | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | DI | | | | | SCRETE_EVENT\ | | | | | This literal | | | | | defines a | | | | | collection | | | | | method (using | | | | | a set of | | | | | appropriate | | | | | data | | | | | containers) | | | | | where data | | | | | related to a | | | | | particular | | | | | event type is | | | | | captured and | | | | | every nth | | | | | event is | | | | | registered, | | | | | where n ≥ 1. | | | | | The captured | | | | | information is | | | | | reset at the | | | | | beginning of | | | | | each | | | | | granularity | | | | | period.\ | | | | | \ | | | | | In 3GPP TS | | | | | 32.401 [4], | | | | | _it is called | | | | | Discrete Event | | | | | Registration | | | | | (DER)_. | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | STATU | | | | | S_INSPECTION\ | | | | | This literal | | | | | defines a | | | | | Collection | | | | | Method that | | | | | uses a | | | | | mechanism for | | | | | high frequency | | | | | samplings of | | | | | internal | | | | | counters at | | | | | predefined | | | | | rates and | | | | | captured using | | | | | appropriate | | | | | data type. The | | | | | captured | | | | | information is | | | | | reset at the | | | | | beginning of | | | | | each | | | | | granularity | | | | | period.\ | | | | | \ | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 32.401 [4]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Coun | This property | String | Conditional | | ter::condition | indicates the | | Mandatory | | | condition | | (When | | | which causes | | c | | | the | | ounter::Collec | | | measurement | | tionMethodType | | | result data to | | is COUNTER or | | | be updated. | | CUMULATIVE) | | | | | | | | This will be | | | | | defined for | | | | | example by | | | | | identifying | | | | | protocol | | | | | related | | | | | trigger events | | | | | for starting | | | | | and stopping | | | | | measurement | | | | | processes, or | | | | | updating the | | | | | current | | | | | measurement | | | | | result value. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Counter::col | This property | SUM,\ | Conditional | | lectionFormula | indicates the | COUNT,\ | Mandatory | | | formula that | MIN,\ | (When multiple | | | may be applied | MAX,\ | values are | | | to whole or | AVERAGE,\ | collected) | | | part of | FIRST,\ | | | | information | LAST,\ | | | | collected (and | PRODUCT,\ | | | | optionally | S | | | | processed) | TDEV_SAMPLE,\ | | | | using any of | STDEV | | | | the specified | _POPULATION,\ | | | | Collection | VARI | | | | Method Types | ANCE_SAMPLE,\ | | | | (Cou | VARIANCE | | | | nter::collecti | _POPULATION,\ | | | | onMethodType). | MEDIAN,\ | | | | | MODE_SNGL,\ | | | | These formulas | LARGE,\ | | | | are standard | SMALL,\ | | | | statistical | PER | | | | functions | CENTILE_INC,\ | | | | which reduce a | Q | | | | set of values | UARTILE_INC,\ | | | | to single | PER | | | | indicative | CENTILE_EXC,\ | | | | value based on | QUARTILE_EXC\ | | | | type of | OTHER | | | | function | | | | | applied. | | | | | | | | | | Relationship | | | | | to other | | | | | Properties: | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | C | | | | | ounter::collec | | | | | tionMethodType | | | | | takes either | | | | | of the values | | | | | DER or SI, | | | | | then: | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | property | | | | | Counter::proc | | | | | essingProperty | | | | | is specified | | | | | then the | | | | | specified | | | | | processing | | | | | should be | | | | | carried out on | | | | | the collected | | | | | information | | | | | and the | | | | | Counter::col | | | | | lectionFormula | | | | | should be | | | | | applied to the | | | | | processed | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | property | | | | | Counter::proc | | | | | essingProperty | | | | | is not | | | | | specified then | | | | | the | | | | | Counter::col | | | | | lectionFormula | | | | | should be | | | | | applied on the | | | | | collected | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | C | | | | | ounter::collec | | | | | tionMethodType | | | | | does not take | | | | | either of the | | | | | values DER or | | | | | SI, then: | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | Counter::col | | | | | lectionFormula | | | | | should be | | | | | applied on the | | | | | collected | | | | | information. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Counter | This property | Integer | Conditional | | ::collectionFo | indicates the | | Mandatory | | rmulaParameter | parameter in | | (When | | | case of LARGE, | | Counter::col | | | SMALL, | | lectionFormula | | | PERCENTILE | | is: LARGE, | | | formulae | | SMALL, | | | (Coun | | PERCENTILE) | | | ter::Formula). | | | | | This parameter | | | | | will indicate | | | | | different type | | | | | of value based | | | | | on formula | | | | | type. | | | | | | | | | | Relationship | | | | | to other | | | | | Properties: | | | | | | | | | | This property | | | | | is applicable | | | | | in case | | | | | Counter::col | | | | | lectionFormula | | | | | is specified | | | | | and that | | | | | property may | | | | | take one of | | | | | the three | | | | | values LARGE, | | | | | SMALL, | | | | | PERCENTILE. In | | | | | all other | | | | | cases this is | | | | | not relevant. | | | | | This is used | | | | | during | | | | | processing of | | | | | collected | | | | | information | | | | | using any of | | | | | the above | | | | | formulas., | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cou | This property | String | Conditional | | nter::otherCol | indicates the | | Mandatory | | lectionFormula | formula of a | | (When | | | measu | | Counter::col | | | rement/Counter | | lectionFormula | | | where the | | is "OTHER") | | | value of | | | | | Counter::col | | | | | lectionFormula | | | | | is OTHER. | | | | | | | | | | Relationship | | | | | to other | | | | | Properties: | | | | | | | | | | This property | | | | | is applicable | | | | | in case | | | | | Counter::col | | | | | lectionFormula | | | | | is specified | | | | | and that | | | | | property takes | | | | | the value | | | | | OTHER. | | | | | | | | | | This property | | | | | is not | | | | | applicable in | | | | | all other | | | | | cases. (I.e., | | | | | this is used | | | | | to process | | | | | collected | | | | | information or | | | | | processed | | | | | information | | | | | when | | | | | Counter::proc | | | | | essingProperty | | | | | is specified | | | | | and | | | | | C | | | | | ounter::collec | | | | | tionMethodType | | | | | takes the | | | | | value DER or | | | | | SI. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Counter::sa | This property | Integer | Conditional | | mplingInterval | indicates the | | Mandatory | | | sampling | | (When | | | interval of a | | c | | | collection | | ounter::Collec | | | method type in | | tionMethodType | | | the case where | | is | | | the collection | | STAT | | | is carried out | | US_INSPECTION | | | by sampling | | or GAUGE and | | | the target at | | the collection | | | fixed | | is carried out | | | intervals | | by sampling it | | | during a | | in fixed time | | | granularity | | intervals) | | | period. | | | | | | | | | | Relationship | | | | | to other | | | | | Properties: | | | | | | | | | | This property | | | | | is applied if | | | | | C | | | | | ounter::collec | | | | | tionMethodType | | | | | takes the | | | | | values | | | | | STAT | | | | | US_INSPECTION | | | | | or GAUGE and | | | | | is used during | | | | | collection of | | | | | measurement | | | | | information. | | | | | It is not | | | | | relevant for | | | | | all other | | | | | C | | | | | ounter::collec | | | | | tionMethodType | | | | | values. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Counte | This property | Integer; Used | Conditional | | r:samplingRate | indicates the | in case of DER | Mandatory | | | sampling of | Collection | (When | | | every Nth | Method | c | | | event of a | | ounter::Collec | | | specified | | tionMethodType | | | event type to | | is DER and the | | | be observed of | | collection is | | | those | | carried out by | | | occurring in a | | sampling the | | | granularity | | Nth event) | | | period. | | | | | | | | | | Relationship | | | | | to other | | | | | Properties: | | | | | | | | | | This property | | | | | is applicable | | | | | when the | | | | | C | | | | | ounter::collec | | | | | tionMethodType | | | | | takes the | | | | | value DER and | | | | | is used during | | | | | collection of | | | | | measurement | | | | | information. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Counter::proc | This property | String | Conditional | | essingProperty | describes the | | Mandatory | | | processing to | | | | | be carried out | | (When | | | on the data | | c | | | collected | | ounter::Collec | | | using a | | tionMethodType | | | Collection | | is DER or | | | Method. This | | STAT | | | is valid for | | US_INSPECTION | | | DER and SI | | and when | | | Collection | | pre-processing | | | Methods. | | needs to be | | | | | carried out | | | Relationship | | before | | | to other | | applying | | | Properties: | | counter::coll | | | | | ectionFormula) | | | In case this | | | | | property is | | | | | specified, the | | | | | indicated | | | | | processing | | | | | should be | | | | | carried out on | | | | | the data | | | | | collected by | | | | | the | | | | | Co | | | | | unter::collect | | | | | ionMethodType. | | | | | The specified | | | | | formula | | | | | (Counter::coll | | | | | ectionFormula) | | | | | should then be | | | | | applied on the | | | | | processed | | | | | data. | | | | | | | | | | In case this | | | | | property is | | | | | not specified, | | | | | no processing | | | | | needs to be | | | | | carried out on | | | | | the data | | | | | collected by | | | | | the | | | | | Co | | | | | unter::collect | | | | | ionMethodType. | | | | | The specified | | | | | formula | | | | | (Counter::coll | | | | | ectionFormula) | | | | | should be | | | | | applied | | | | | directly on | | | | | the | | | | | information | | | | | collected by | | | | | Co | | | | | unter::collect | | | | | ionMethodType. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | KPI::form | This property | String | Mandatory | | ulaDescription | contains a | | | | | textual | | | | | description of | | | | | the | | | | | KPI::formula | | | | | Specification. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | KPI::formul | This property | String | Mandatory | | aSpecification | contains the | | | | | formula. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ### Annex A: Measurement Profile
The converged metadata defined in the clause 5 are defined in a UML profile to
use them as templates for defining measurement instances.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="6.6625in"}
Figure A.1: Measurement Profile
The profile is associated to the Class metaclass on a case by case basis. This
allows a model designer to define individual measurement instances. See an
example below:
{width="5.3125in" height="3.4340277777777777in"}
Figure A.2: Example Counter Measurement Definition
{width="5.3125in" height="2.3645833333333335in"}
Figure A.3: Example KPI Measurement Definition
**Table A.1: Counter: SuccEstabPSSetupTimeMax (UMTS)**
* * *
Property Value Gen::name SuccEstabPSSetupTimeMax Gen::sdoAliasNameList  
Gen::dataType INTEGER Gen::unit Milliseconds Gen::dataRange  
Gen::family UMTS.RAB Gen::monitoredObjectClassList RNC Gen::documentation This
counter shows the maximum time for establishing a successful setup of a PS
session in a time window. Gen::sourceStandard 3GPP
Gen::augmentationInformation  
Counter::collectionMethodType GAUGE Counter::condition  
Counter::collectionFormula MAX Counter::collectionFormulaParameter  
Counter::otherCollectionFormula  
Counter::samplingInterval  
Counter:samplingRate  
Counter::processingProperty The processing takes the time intervals for each
successful RAB establishment between the receipt by the RNC of a RANAP \"RAB
ASSIGNMENT REQUEST\" message to establish a RAB for PS domain, and the first
corresponding (based on RAB ID) transmission by the RNC of a RANAP \"RAB
ASSIGNMENT RESPONSE\"
* * *
Table A.2: KPI: E-UTRAN Cell Availability (LTE)
* * *
Property Value
Gen::name EUTRANCellAvailability
Gen::sdoAliasNameList
Gen::dataType Float
Gen::unit Percentage
Gen::dataRange 0..100
Gen::family Availability
Gen::monitoredObjectClassList E-UTRAN Cell
Gen::documentation A KPI that shows the Availability of E-UTRAN Cell.
Gen::sourceStandard 3GPP
Gen::augmentationInformation
KPI::formulaDescription The KPI calculates the percentage of the time when the
E-UTRAN cell is available from the overall measured time window.
KPI::formulaSpecification (($\text{measurement_period-}$sum\
($\text{RRU}\text{.}\text{CellUnavailableTime}\text{.}\lbrack\text{cause}\rbrack$))/$\text{measurement}_{\text{period}}$)
* 100
* * *
#