# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document describes the Supplementary Services belonging to the
group Line Identification Supplementary Services.
The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of the
description of the Supplementary Services are given in 3GPP TS 22.004.
The group of Line Identification Supplementary Services is divided into the
following four Supplementary Services:
**CLIP -** Calling line identification presentation (clause 1);
**CLIR -** Calling line identification restriction (clause 2);
**COLP -** Connected line identification presentation (clause 3);
**COLR -** Connected line identification restriction (clause 4).
**Definition of line identity:** The line identity is made up of a number of
information units:
\- the subscriber\'s national ISDN/MSISDN number (MSISDN number is the number
stored in the VLR);
\- the country code;
\- optionally, subaddress information. The PLMN cannot be responsible for the
content of this subaddress. (For definition of the subaddress see ITU-T
Recommendation E.164 [3] subclause 11.2).
In a full ISDN environment, the line identity shall include all the address
information necessary to unambiguously identify a subscriber.
The calling line identity is the line identity of the calling party.
The connected line identity is the line identity of the connected party.
If for the line identity of the calling party or the connected party
additional line identification is received (additional calling party/connected
party number) in a PLMN this additional line identification shall be used for
the presentation purpose of the line identification presentation services.
**Definition of Presentation and Screening Indicators:** In addition to or
instead of the line identity, the network may give a Presentation Indicator
(PI) and/or a Screening Indicator (SI) to the served subscriber. The following
information may be given:
\- Presentation Indicator showing:
a) presentation allowed, or
b) presentation restricted, or
c) number not available due to interworking;
If Presentation Indicator is set to \"Presentation Restricted\", then the MS
can get additional information on the Cause of no CLI, if provided by the
network.
The Cause of no CLI value may be one of the following :
\- Unavailable
\- reject by user
\- interaction with other services
\- coin line / pay phone
\- Screening Indicator showing:
a) user provided, verified and passed, or
b) user provided, not screened, or
c) network provided.
If the line identity is that of a PLMN subscriber, then:
the national number and the country code shall always be provided by the
network;
the subaddress shall only be included if it is provided by the user (or user
equipment);
the screening indicator shall indicate \"network provided\".
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"Numbering plan for the ISDN era\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
## 1.1 Definition
The CLIP Supplementary Service provides the called party with the possibility
to receive the line identity of the calling party.
## 1.2 Description
### 1.2.1 Description
This Supplementary Service provides for the ability to indicate the line
identity of the calling party to the called party.
The network shall deliver the calling line identity to the called party at
call set-up time, regardless of the terminal capability to handle the
information.
### 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004
[2].
## 1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 1.3.1 Provision
This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all Basic Services subscribed to
and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned for any subset of these
Basic Services.
**Override category within a PLMN**
Override category within an ISDN/PLMN. Depending on national regulations, some
networks may define categories of subscribers that have the ability to
override the presentation restriction (CLIR, clause 2) and have the calling
line identity presented (e.g., the police). The ability to have such override
category is a national option.
**Override category between a PLMN and a network providing calling line
identification restriction**
Override category between ISDN/PLMNs. When a call originates in one ISDN/PLMN
and terminates in another ISDN/PLMN and the CLIR Supplementary Service is
applied, the rules and regulations of the destination network shall apply. For
example, the override category may not be applicable in the originating
network but may be applicable in the destination network. In this situation, a
call with the CLIR Supplementary Service applied can still be overridden in
the destination network.
The override category is only applicable within the HPLMN country.
### 1.3.2 Withdrawal
The CLIP Supplementary Service shall be withdrawn at the customer\'s request
or for administrative reasons.
### 1.3.5 Activation
The CLIP Supplementary Service is activated as a result of provision.
### 1.3.6 Deactivation
The CLIP Supplementary Service is deactivated as a result of withdrawal.
### 1.3.7 Invocation
The network shall automatically invoke the CLIP Supplementary Service in the
call set-up phase.
### 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
A user who has subscribed to the CLIP Supplementary Service and receives a
call shall also receive the line identity of the calling party.
In addition to or instead of the calling line identity, the subscriber may be
given a Presentation Indicator and/or a Screening Indicator with the relevant
information. If provided by the network, the subscriber may also be given some
additional information on the Cause of no CLI in case of a presentation
restricted.
### 1.3.11 Interrogation
**Status check**
The mobile subscriber can request the status of the Supplementary Service and
be informed if the service is provided to her.
## 1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If the CLIR Supplementary Service is applicable to the call, then the called
PLMN user shall receive an indication that the calling line identity is not
available because of restriction.
NOTE: See also subclause 1.3.1 (override category).
In some interworking situations in which the connection is not completely
supported by the sufficient signalling capability, then the called PLMN user
shall receive an indication that the calling line identity is not available.
For an international call in which the originating network does not provide
the calling line identity, then the called PLMN user shall receive an
indication that the calling line identity is not available.
## 1.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 1.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 1.6.81.2 Calling line identification restriction
The CLIR Supplementary Service shall take precedence over the CLIP
Supplementary Service.
The CLIP Supplementary Service can take precedence over the CLIR Supplementary
Service when the called user has an override category. The availability of the
override category as well as the handling of calling line identity parameters
for the override category is a national matter.
#### 1.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
When a call has been forwarded and the forwarded-to user has been provided
with the CLIP Supplementary Service, the forwarded-to user shall receive the
number of the original calling user, if this calling user has not subscribed
to or invoked the CLIR Supplementary Service.
#### 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 1.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 1.6.83.1 Call Waiting
If the served mobile subscriber is provisioned with the CLIP service, the
notification of an incoming (waiting) call offered to that subscriber shall
include the calling line identity, as for a normal call.
## 1.7 Interworking considerations
According to national network specific rules, the CLIP Supplementary Services
need not be applicable, if at least one of the two parties is not an ISDN or
PLMN subscriber.
# 2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
## 2.1 Definition
The CLIR Supplementary Service enables the calling party to prevent
presentation of its line identity to the called party.
## 2.2 Description
### 2.2.1 Description
The CLIR Supplementary Service is a Supplementary Service offered to the
calling party to prevent presentation of the calling party\'s line identity,
to the called party. In the case where the called party has an override
category, see subclause 2.4.
### 2.2.2 Applicability to telecommunications services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
## 2.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 2.3.1 Provision
This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all Basic Services subscribed to
and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned for any subset of these
Basic Services.
As a service provider option, the CLIR Supplementary Service can be offered
with one subscription option permanent (invoked for all relevant calls) or
temporary (suppressed by the user on a per call basis).
In temporary mode, the subscriber may subscribe to the default values:
\- presentation restricted: or,
\- presentation not restricted.
The option applies to all BS which are provisioned for this SS.
### 2.3.2 Withdrawal
This Supplementary Service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or
for administrative reasons.
### 2.3.5 Activation
The CLIR Supplementary Service shall be activated on provision.
### 2.3.6 Deactivation
The CLIR Supplementary Service shall be deactivated on withdrawal.
### 2.3.7 Invocation
If subscribed to in the permanent mode, then the network shall automatically
invoke the CLIR Supplementary Service for each outgoing call.
If subscribed-to in the temporary mode with the default value \"presentation
restricted\", then the network shall automatically invoke the CLIR
Supplementary Service for each outgoing call unless CLIR is suppressed by
subscriber request at the time of call request.
If subscribed-to in the temporary mode with the default value \"presentation
not restricted\", then the network shall only invoke the CLIR Supplementary
Service if requested by subscriber at the time of call request.
### 2.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
When the CLIR Supplementary Service is invoked, the originating network shall
provide the destination network with a notification that the line identity of
the calling party is not allowed to be presented to the called party. The
originating network may also provide information on the cause of no CLI.
If the called party subscribes to the CLIP Supplementary Service and the CLIR
Supplementary Service has been invoked, then the called party shall receive an
indication that the calling line identity is not available due to restriction.
### 2.3.11 Interrogation
**Data request**
The mobile subscriber can request the data of the Supplementary Service.
In response the following information shall be given:
\- whether the service is provided of not;
\- if provided which mode is subscribed;
\- if subscribed-to the temporary mode, which default value.
## 2.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If the subscriber has subscribed to the permanent mode and she tries to
suppress the invocation of the CLIR Supplementary Service per MMI command
during call set-up (i.e. requests that the CLI is displayed), she shall be
notified that the suppression has not been performed and the call set-up shall
continue. If the user has not subscribed to CLIR Supplementary Service and she
tries to invoke it during call set-up per MMI command (i.e. requests that the
CLI is not displayed), the call set-up attempt shall be rejected.
If the called party has a relevant override category (see subclause 1.3.1),
the restriction service will be overridden and the calling line identity will
be presented to the called party.
## 2.5 Alternate Procedures
A VPLMN which supports the CLIR service shall ensure that the line identity of
a subscriber whose HPLMN does not support the CLIR service shall not be
displayed to the called party unless the subscriber wishes so or the called
party has CLIR override capability.
## 2.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 2.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation
See subclause 1.6.81.2.
#### 2.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
No interaction, i.e. when the CLIR Supplementary Service is applicable and
invoked for the original calling subscriber, her line identity shall not be
presented to the forwarded-to user unless the forwarded-to user has an
override category.
#### 2.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 2.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 2.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
## 2.7 Interworking considerations
On calls to or via non-ISDNs, it cannot be assured that a calling line
identification restriction indication can be carried to the destination
network. As a national option the originating network can restrict any
information identifying the calling party from being forwarded to the
destination network when the CLIR Supplementary Service is applicable. If a
destination network receives a calling line identity without any indication of
presentation allowed or restricted, the destination network shall act
according to its rules and regulations.
For inter-network calls, when the CLIR Supplementary Service is invoked, the
originating network shall provide the destination network with a notification
that the line identity of the calling party is not allowed to be presented to
the called party. The originating network may also provide information on the
cause of no CLI.
NOTE: When the Supplementary Service CLIR is invoked, some network providers
may not send the identity of the calling subscriber to other network.
# 3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
## 3.1 Definition
The Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP) Supplementary Service
provides the calling party with the possibility to receive the line identity
of the connected party.
## 3.2 Description
### 3.2.1 Description
This Supplementary Service is not a dialling check but an indication to the
calling subscriber of the connected line identity in a full ISDN/PLMN
environment, the connected line identity shall include all the information
necessary to unambiguously identify the connected party.
The network shall deliver the connected line identity to the calling party
regardless of the terminal capability to handle the information.
### 3.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
## 3.3 Normal procedure with successful outcome
### 3.3.1 Provision
This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all Basic Services subscribed to
and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned for any subset of these
Basic Services.
**Override category within a PLMN**
Override category within an ISDN/PLMN. Depending on national regulations, some
networks may define categories of subscribers that have the ability to
override the presentation restriction (COLR, clause4) and have the connected
line identity presented (e.g., the police). The ability to have such an
override category is a national option.
**Override category between a PLMN and a network providing connected line
identification restriction.**
Override category between ISDNs/PLMNs. When a call originates in one ISDN/PLMN
and terminates in another ISDN/PLMN and the COLR Supplementary Service is
applied, the rules and regulations of the originating network shall apply.
The override category is only applicable within the HPLMN country.
### 3.3.2 Withdrawal
The COLP Supplementary Service shall be withdrawn at the customer\'s request
or for administrative reasons.
### 3.3.5 Activation
The COLP Supplementary Service is activated as a result of provision.
### 3.3.6 Deactivation
The COLP Supplementary Service is deactivated as a result of withdrawal.
### 3.3.7 Invocation
The network shall automatically invoke the COLP Supplementary Service on each
outgoing call made by the served user.
### 3.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
The calling subscriber shall at the end of the call set-up phase receive the
connected line identity.
In addition to or instead of the connected line identity the subscriber may be
given a Presentation Indicator and/or a Screening Indicator with the relevant
information.
### 3.3.11 Interrogation
**Status check**
The mobile subscriber can request the status of the Supplementary Service and
be informed if the service is provided to her.
## 3.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If the COLR Supplementary Service is applicable to the call, the served user
shall receive an indication that the connected line identity is not available
due to restriction.
NOTE: See also subclause 3.3.1 (override category).
In some interworking situations in which the connection is not completely
supported by sufficient signalling capability, the served user shall receive
an indication that the connected line identity is not available.
For an international call in which the destination network does not provide
the connected line identity, then the served user shall receive an indication
that the connected line identity is not available.
## 3.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 3.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 3.6.81.4 Connected line identification restriction
The COLR Supplementary Service shall take precedence over the COLP
Supplementary Service. The COLP Supplementary Service can take precedence over
the COLR Supplementary Service when the served user has an override category.
The availability of the override category as well as the handling of connected
line identity parameters for the override category is a national option.
#### 3.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
If the served (forwarding) user selects the option that the calling user is
not notified of call forwarding, then the calling user shall receive no
forwarding notification, and the calling user shall not receive the connected
line identity when the call is answered, unless the calling user has override
capability. Otherwise, no interaction.
#### 3.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 3.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 3.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 3.6.84.1 Multiparty
Multiparty controller: no impact, i.e. neither Supplementary Service shall
affect the operation or the other Supplementary Service.
Remote parties: they shall not receive the COLP Supplementary Service
information of parties being added to the conference.
## 3.7 Interworking considerations
According to national network specific rules the COLP Supplementary Service
need not be applicable, if at least one of the two parties is not an ISDN or
PLMN subscriber.
# 4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
## 4.1 Definition
The COLR Supplementary Service enables the connected party to prevent
presentation of its line identity to the calling party.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 Description
The COLR Supplementary Service is a Supplementary Service offered to the
connected party to prevent presentation of the connected line identity, to the
calling party. In the case where the calling party has an override category,
see subclause 4.4.
### 4.2.2 Applicability to telecommunications services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
## 4.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 4.3.1 Provision
This Supplementary Service is provisioned for all Basic Services subscribed to
and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned for any subset of these
Basic Services.
### 4.3.2 Withdrawal
This Supplementary Service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or
for administrative reasons.
### 4.3.5 Activation
The COLR Supplementary Service shall be activated on provision.
### 4.3.6 Deactivation
The COLR Supplementary Service shall be deactivated on withdrawal.
### 4.3.7 Invocation
The network shall automatically invoke the COLR Supplementary Service for each
incoming call at call set-up phase.
### 4.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
If the calling party subscribes to the COLP Supplementary Service and the COLR
Supplementary Service has been invoked, then the calling party shall receive
an indication that the connected line identity is not available due to
restriction.
When the COLR Supplementary Service is invoked, the destination network shall
provide the originating network with a notification that the line identity of
the connected party is not allowed to be presented to the calling party.
### 4.3.11 Interrogation
**Status check**
The mobile subscriber can request the status of the Supplementary Service and
be informed if the service is provided to her.
## 4.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If the calling party has a relevant override category (see subclause 3.3.1)
the restriction service will be overridden and the connected line identity
will be presented to the calling party.
## 4.5 Alternate procedures
A VPLMN which supports the COLR service shall ensure that the line identity of
a subscriber whose HPLMN does not support the COLR service shall not be
displayed to the calling party unless the calling party has COLR override
capability.
## 4.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 4.6.81.3 Connected line identification presentation
See subclause 3.6.81.4.
#### 4.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
If a forwarded-to user subscribes to the COLR Supplementary Service, then the
forwarded-to user\'s line identity shall not be provided with the notification
that the call has been forwarded.
A calling user that subscribes to the COLP Supplementary Service and who has
override capability shall not be able to receive the forwarded-to user\'s line
identity as part of the diverting notification information, but can invoke the
COLP Supplementary Service with override in order to receive the connected
line identity when the call is answered.
#### 4.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 4.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 4.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
## 4.7 Interworking consideration
On calls from or via non-ISDNs, it cannot be assured that a connected line
restriction indication can be carried to the originating network. As a
national option, the destination network can restrict any information
identifying the connected party from being returned to the originating network
when the COLR Supplementary Service is applicable. If an originating network
receives a connected line identity without any indication of presentation
allowed or restricted, the originating network shall act according to its
rules and regulations.
For inter-network calls, when the COLR Supplementary Service is invoked, the
destination network shall provide the originating network with a notification
that the line identity of the connected party is not allowed to be presented
to the calling party.
NOTE: When the COLR Supplementary Service is invoked, some network providers
may not send the identity of the connected customer to other network
providers.
#