# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the supplementary services belonging to the
group Name Identification supplementary services.
The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of the
description of the supplementary services are given in TS 22.004 [2].
The group of Name Identification supplementary services is divided into the
following supplementary services:
CNAP Calling Name Presentation (clause 4).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line Identification Supplementary Services - Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
**Definition of name identity:**
The name identity is made up of the following information unit:
\- The name of the mobile subscriber for the purpose of calling name
presentation - up to 80 characters of information associated with a specific
calling party.
The calling name identity is the name identity of the calling party.
**Definition of Presentation Indicator:**
In addition to or instead of the name identity, the network may give a
Presentation Indicator (PI) to the called mobile subscriber of the CNAP
service. The following information may be given:
\- Presentation Indicator (PI) showing:
a) presentation restricted, or
b) name unavailable.
The name identity of a PLMN subscriber shall always be provided by the
network.
**Calling Party:** The calling party is the originating party.
**Called Party:** The called party is the terminating party. The CNAP service
is provided to the called party.
**Calling Name Information:** The calling name information of the calling
party includes either the calling name identity or an indication of privacy or
unavailability.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
In addition to the following abbreviations used in the present document,
abbreviations are listed in TS 21.905 [1].
CNAP Calling Name Presentation
# 4 Calling Name Presentation (CNAP)
## 4.1 Definition
The CNAP supplementary service enables the called party to receive the calling
name information of the calling party.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 Description
This supplementary service provides for the ability to indicate the name
information of the calling party to the called party at call set-up time for
all incoming calls.
The calling party takes no action to activate, initiate, or in any manner
provide Calling Name Identification Presentation. However, the delivery of the
calling name to the called party may be affected by other services subscribed
to by the calling party. For example, if the calling party has subscribed to
Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR), then the calling line identity
as well as the calling name identity shall not be presented to the called
party.
### 4.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in TS 22.004 [2].
CNAP is applicable to all telecommunication services except Short Message
service. (for further study)
## 4.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 4.3.1 Provision
This supplementary service is provisioned for all Basic Services subscribed to
and to which it is applicable, i.e. not provisioned for any subset of these
Basic Services.
This service shall be provided after pre-arrangement with the service
provider. It may be provided on a subscription basis or be generally
available.
The override category controlling the name information is separate from the
override category for the line identity information. It is left to the CNAP
service provider to ensure that no discrepancy between these two override
categories occurs. The handling of override category within a PLMN or between
PLMNs shall follow the rules applying to the override category of the line
identification services TS 22.081 [3].
### 4.3.2 Withdrawal
The CNAP supplementary service shall be withdrawn at the customer\'s request
or for administrative reasons.
### 4.3.3 Registration
Not applicable.
### 4.3.4 Erasure
Not applicable.
### 4.3.5 Activation
The CNAP supplementary service is activated as a result of provision.
### 4.3.6 Deactivation
The CNAP supplementary service is deactivated as a result of withdrawal.
### 4.3.7 Invocation
The network shall automatically invoke the CNAP supplementary service in the
call set-up phase to the terminating CNAP subscriber.
CNAP is invoked when the Calling Name Information associated with an incoming
call is available and can be presented to the called party which has
subscribed to CNAP.
### 4.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
A user who has subscribed to the CNAP supplementary service and receives a
call shall also receive the calling name information of the calling party, if
available.
The calling party takes no action to activate, initiate, or in any manner
provide the calling name identity.
When the CNAP service is subscribed and activated, the destination network
provides the called subscriber with calling name information at call set-up on
all incoming calls or during an active call for that particular call.
In addition to, or instead of, the calling name identity, the subscriber may
be given a presentation indicator with the relevant information.
### 4.3.9 Interrogation
**Status check**
The mobile subscriber can, by the appropriate control procedure, request from
the network the status of this supplementary service. Upon receiving an
interrogation request, the network shall send the status of this supplementary
service to the subscriber.
The information sent to the subscriber shall indicate whether the service is
provided to her.
The information sent in response to the interrogation of this supplementary
service shall not imply the status of any other supplementary service.
## 4.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If the name identity for a specific caller is not available, then the CNAP
subscriber shall be sent an indication that the name is unavailable.
If the network has been unable to determine the appropriate name information
within a predefined time, then the CNAP subscriber shall be sent an indication
that the name is unavailable. The predefined time is a network dependent value
such that the called user may receive the name in a timely manner prior to
answer.
If the calling name information is not available due to a system problem, such
as signalling inter-working, then a standard error treatment shall be
provided, which may be a visual display to the subscriber indicating the name
is unavailable.
## 4.5 Alternate procedures
The decision of whether the user-defined name stored in the handset should
take precedence over the calling name identity provided by the network is a
handset implementation issue.
## 4.6 Interactions with other supplementary services
Only those supplementary services for which CNAP has any interactions are
detailed in this clause. For all other supplementary services not mentioned in
this clause no interactions were identified.
### 4.6.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
No interaction.
### 4.6.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
The CLIR supplementary service shall take precedence over the CNAP
supplementary service, unless the called user has an override category. In
this latter case, it is assumed that the override category for name
information has been set so that the name information is presented to the
called user.
The Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR) information shall be used
to restrict the delivery of the calling name to the called subscriber. That
is, if the calling party has activated CLIR then instead of the calling name,
a privacy indication shall be provided to the called subscriber, which may be
a visual display indicating "private" (or Restricted) name. This method of
restricting calling name shall not restrict the use or implementation of other
calling name restriction methods when the calling party is a fixed subscriber.
These methods used by fixed subscribers are outside the scope of this
specification.
### 4.6.3 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
For an incoming call to a subscriber with both CNAP and Call Forwarding
Unconditional activated, the calling party name information shall not be
displayed at the forwarding subscribers terminal.
When a call has been forwarded and the forwarded-to user has been provided
with the CNAP supplementary service, the forwarded-to user shall receive the
name of the original calling party, if the calling party has not subscribed to
or invoked the CLIR supplementary service.
### 4.6.4 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
#### 4.6.4.1 Network Determined User Busy (NDUB)
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 4.6.4.2 User Determined User Busy (UDUB)
Same as interaction with call forwarding no reply.
### 4.6.5 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
For an incoming call to a subscriber with both CNAP and Call Forwarding on No
Reply activated, the calling party name information shall be displayed by the
predefined time while the call is alerting.
### 4.6.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
### 4.6.7 Call Waiting (CW)
If the served mobile subscriber is provisioned with the CNAP service, the
calling party name information shall be displayed to the subscriber at the
notification of an incoming (waiting) call as for a normal incoming call.
### 4.6.9 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
For Further Study.
### 4.6.10 Support of Private Numbering Plan (SPNP)
The public number corresponding to the used PNP number is used to obtain the
calling name information for delivery to the called party's terminal.
### 4.6.11 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
No interaction.
### 4.6.12 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP)
No interaction.
## 4.7 Service functions for roamers
CNAP should be available to a roaming subscriber. However, the serving system
may elect to not offer the CNAP service to any subscriber.
## 4.8 Interworking considerations
According to national network specific rules, the CNAP supplementary services
need not be applicable, if at least one of the two parties is not an ISDN or
PLMN subscriber.
#