# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification (TS) describes the Service Principles for PLMNs
specified by 3GPP. Principles and requirements for interworking with WLAN are
covered in TS22.234 [35].
3GPP specifications provide integrated personal communications services. The
system will support different applications ranging from narrow-band to wide-
band communications capability with integrated personal and terminal mobility
to meet the user and service requirements of the 21^st^ century.
3GPP specifications allow the realisation of a new generation of mobile
communications technology for a world in which personal communications
services should allow person-to-person calling, independent of location, the
terminal used, the means of transmission (wired or wireless) and the choice of
technology. Personal communication services should be based on a combination
of fixed and wireless/mobile services to form a seamless end-to-end service
for the user.
3GPP specifications should be in compliance with the following objectives:
a) to provide a single integrated system in which the user can access services
in an easy to use and uniform way in all environments;
b) to allow differentiation between service offerings of various serving
networks and home environments;
c) to provide a wide range of telecommunications services including those
provided by fixed networks and requiring user bit rates of up to 100 Mbits/s
as well as services special to mobile communications. These services should be
supported in residential, public and office environments and in areas of
diverse population densities. These services are provided with a quality
comparable with that provided by fixed networks such as ISDN and fixed
broadband Internet access;
d) to provide services via hand held, portable, vehicular mounted, movable and
fixed terminals (including those which normally operate connected to fixed
networks), in all environments (in different service environments -
residential, private domestic and different radio environments) provided that
the terminal has the necessary capabilities;
e) to provide support of roaming users by enabling users to access services
provided by their home environment in the same way even when roaming.
f) to provide audio, data, video and particularly multimedia services;
g) to provide for the flexible introduction of telecommunication services;
h) to provide within the residential environment the capability to enable a
pedestrian user to access all services normally provided by fixed networks;
i) to provide within the office environment the capability to enable a
pedestrian user to access all services normally provided by PBXs and LANs;
j) to provide a substitute for fixed networks in areas of diverse population
densities, under conditions approved by the appropriate national or regional
regulatory authority.
k) to provide support for interfaces which allow the use of terminals normally
connected to fixed networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TS 22.105 \"Services and Service Capabilities\"
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 22.038: \"SIM application toolkit, stage 1\"
[4] 3GPP TS 22.001: \" Principles of Circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.004: General on supplementary services\"
[6] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment (UE)\"
[7] 3GPP TS 22.066: \"Support of Mobile Number Portability (MNP); Service
description; Stage 1\"
[8] 3GPP TS 22.079: \"Support of Optimal Routing; Stage 1\"
[9] 3GPP TS 22.129: \"Handover Requirements between UTRAN and GERAN or other
Radio Systems\"
[10] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"Security Architecture\"
[11] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service Accessibility\"
[12] 3GPP TS 22.016: \"International mobile Station Equipment Identities
(IMEI)\"
[13] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 Specification\"
[14] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\"
[15] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"Security Threats and Requirements\"
[16] 3GPP TS 33.120: \"Security Principles\"
[17] 3GPP TS 22.042: \"Network Identity and Time Zone, Service Description,
Stage 1\"
[18] 3GPP TS 42.009: \"Security Aspects\"
[19] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"USIM Application Characteristics\"
[20] 3GPP TS 23.221 \"Architectural Requirements\"
[21] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\"
[22] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)\"
[23] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification \"
[24] 3GPP TR 23.972: \"Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony\".
[25] 3GPP TS 22.140: \"Multimedia messaging service; Stage 1\".
[26] 3GPP TS 22.226: \"Global Text Telephony, Stage 1.\"
[27] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"IP multimedia (IM) CN subsystem, stage 1\"
[28] RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\"
[29] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[30] 3GPP TS 26.233: \"Packet Switched Streaming Service (PSS) ; General
Description\"
[31] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Packet Switched Streaming Service (PSS) ; Protocols and
Codecs\"
[32] 3GPP TR 22.934: \"Feasibility study on 3GPP system to Wireless LAN
interworking\"
[33] RFC 2486: \"The Network Access Identifier\"
[34] TS 51.011: \"Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module - Mobile
Equipment (SIM-ME) interface\", Release 4
[35] TS22.234: \"Requirements on 3GPP system to wireless local area network
(WLAN) interworking\"
[36] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"UICC-terminal interface; Physical and logical
characteristics\"
[37] OMA Device Management V1.2 specifications
[38] OMA Client Provisioning V1.1 specifications
[39] void
[40] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IMS Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary
services - Stage 1\"
[41] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage 1\"
[42] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service Requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\"
[44] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1\"
[45] 3GPP TR 22.985: \"Service requirement for the 3GPP User Data Convergence
(Release 9)\"
[46] 3GPP TS 23.226: \"Global text telephony (GTT); Stage 2\"
[47] 3GPP TS 22.220: "Service requirements for Home Node B (HNB) and Home
eNode B (HeNB) (Release 9)"
## 2.2 Informative references
[43] GSMA PRD IR.34: \"Inter-Service Provider IP Backbone Guidelines\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**eCall** : A manually or automatically initiated emergency call,(TS12) from a
vehicle, supplemented with a minimum set of emergency related data (MSD), as
defined under the EU Commission's eSafety initiative.
_**IMS Centralized Services:** The provision of communication services wherein
services and service control are based on IMS mechanisms and enablers, and
support is provided for a diversity of access networks (including CS domain
and IP based, wireless and wireline), and for service continuity between
access networks._
**MSD** : The Minimum Set of Data forming the data component of an eCall sent
from a vehicle to a Public Safety Answering Point or other designated
emergency call centre. The MSD has a maximum size of 140 bytes and includes,
for example, vehicle identity, location information and time-stamp.
Further definitions are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [29].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS, the following abbreviations apply:
IVS In Vehicle System (eCall terminal and associated sub-systems in vehicle)
ME Mobile Equipment
PC Personal Computer
Further abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [29].
# 4 General
## 4.1 Aims of 3GPP specifications
It shall be capable of delivering audio, text, video and graphics direct to
people and provide them with access to the next generation of information
based services. It moves mobile and personal communications forward from
existing systems, delivering mass market low-cost digital telecommunication
and IP-based multimedia services.
The aims are:
\- to enable users to access a wide range of telecommunications services,
including many that are today undefined as well as multi-media and high data
rates.
\- to facilitate the provision of a high quality of service (particularly
speech quality) similar to that provided by fixed networks;
\- to facilitate the provision of small, easy to use, low cost terminals with
long talk time and long standby operation;
\- to provide an efficient means of using network resources (particularly
radio spectrum).
## 4.2 Standardisation of Service Capabilities
Existing systems have traditionally standardised the complete sets of
teleservices, applications and supplementary services which they provide. As a
consequence, substantial efforts are often required to introduce new services
or simply to modify the existing one (customisation). This makes it more
difficult for operators to differentiate their services. At the same time
however, this may reduce the complexity of providing a service across
different operators' networks.
3GPP shall therefore preferentially standardise service capabilities. In
circumstances where the service is meant to be used across different
operators' networks, hence a common specification set is of paramount
importance, the service should be standardised to a level of detail sufficient
to ensure interoperability and interworking across different operators'
networks. Service capabilities consist of bearers defined by QoS parameters
and the mechanisms needed to realise services. These mechanisms include the
functionality provided by various network elements, the communication between
them and the storage of associated data. This TS provides a conceptual
description of a service architecture and architecture requirements which aim
to provide service capabilities. It is intended that these standardised
capabilities should provide a defined platform which will enable the support
of speech, video, multi-media, messaging, data, teleservices, user
applications and supplementary services and enable the market for services to
be determined by users and home environments.
### 4.2.1 Provision of service capabilities in shared networks
The provision of services and service capabilities that is possible to offer
in a network shall not be restricted by the existence of the network sharing
It shall be possible for a core network operator to differentiate its service
offering from other core network operators within the shared network.
It shall be possible to control the access to service capabilities offered by
a shared network according to the core network operator the user is subscribed
to.
## 4.3 Efficient Use of Network Resources
Service capabilities shall take account of the discontinuous and asymmetric
nature of most teleservices, multimedia services and user applications in
order to make efficient use of network resources (particularly radio
resources).
When a large number of subscribers enter in a registration area in which they
have not registered, the core and radio access network shall be able to
provide a capability to optimize the mass simultaneous registration traffic at
a given instance of time. The core and radio access network shall be able to
keep providing the service (e.g. mobile originated and mobile terminated
services) without interruption for those subscribers who are originally in the
cell which receive the mass simultaneous registration traffic.
Service capabilities shall be provided in a wide range of radio operating
environments (where a radio environment is characterised in terms of
propagation environment, mobile equipment relative speeds and traffic
characteristics). Although 3GPP aims to minimise the number of radio
interfaces and to maximise commonality between them, it may utilise several
radio interfaces, each optimised for different environments. Each radio
interface may provide differing service capabilities. 3GPP specifications
include UTRA(N) radio interface supporting two modes (TDD and FDD), an Evolved
UTRA(N) radio interface and GERAN radio interface. Additionally, it may be
possible to connect to the 3GPP system using radio interfaces and fixed access
technologies specified outside of 3GPP.
3GPP specifications shall provide a mechanism which will enable a piece of
user equipment (UE) to adapt to different radio interfaces as necessary and to
determine the service capabilities available. The specifications shall also
provide a mechanism which will enable a UE to select radio interfaces capable
of providing appropriate service capabilities and support mobility between
multiple radio interfaces.
To enable network operators to render services efficiently, dimension their
networks and set tariffs that more accurately reflect radio resource usage,
real time information on resource usage is needed. When requested, it shall be
possible for the serving cell type (e.g. RAT), cell ID / UTRAN Service Area
Identity and cell / Service Area capability usage (e.g. HSDPA, E-DCH)
information to be made available to the core network. Cell / Service Area
capability usage information may include, for example, user(s) identity, start
and finish time of data transfer, up-link and down-link data rates, volumes of
data and other statistical information.
## 4.4 Compatibility with Global Standards
3GPP specifications aim to be compatible with IMT-2000 and to provide global
terminal mobility (roaming), enabling the user to take his/her terminal to
different regions of the world and to be provided with services. It is
probable that different regions of the world will adopt different radio
interface technologies. IMT-2000, as a global standard, should therefore
enable a IMT-2000 terminal to determine the radio interface technology and the
radio interface standard used in a region. Global terminal roaming also
requires the global standardisation of service capabilities. As far as
possible the method of indication of the radio interface standard and
available service capabilities shall be aligned with IMT-2000.
3GPP specifications shall enable users to access the services provided by
their home environment in the same way via any serving network provided the
necessary service capabilities are available in the serving network.
The 3GPP specifications will be available for the partner organisations to
adopt as their regional standards. For example in Europe, ETSI may adopt them
as standards for both GSM and UMTS.
## 4.5 Void
## 4.6 Functionality of Serving Network and Home Environment
The following functionality shall be the responsibility of the home
environment:
\- User Authentication.
\- SIM/USIM Issue.
\- Billing.
\- User Profile/VHE Management.
The following functionality shall be the responsibility of the serving
network:
\- Radio or other means of access.
\- Transport and signalling.
The following functionality may be the responsibility of either the serving
network, the home environment or an appropriate combination of both
\- Service Control.
\- QoS negotiation.
\- Mobility management, including roaming.
\- Automatic establishment of roaming agreements.
## 4.7 PLMN Architecture
The network is logically divided into a radio access network and a core
network, connected via an open interface. From a functional point of view the
core network is divided into a Packet Switched CN Domain, IP Multimedia (IM)
CN subsystem [27] and a Circuit Switched CN Domain. IM CN subsystem utilises
PS CN domain bearer services.
CS CN domain supports bearer independent transport. There is no difference in
service offering or UE functionality due to different transport.
A PS only 3GPP core network is possible as defined within the specification
for the Evolved Packet System (EPS) [42].
For further information see 3GPP TS 23.221 [20].
## 4.8 Interworking between PLMN and Wireless LANs
Aspects related to interworking between PLMN and WLAN are captured in TS
22.234 [35].
## 4.9 Network Sharing
Network sharing shall be transparent to the user.
The specifications shall support both the sharing of:
(i) radio access network only;
(ii) radio access network and core network entities connected to radio access
network
NOTE: In a normal deployment scenario only one or the other option will be
implemented.
It shall be possible to support different mobility management rules, service
capabilities and access rights as a function of the home PLMN of the
subscribers.
## 4.10 The Evolved Packet System
Evolved Packet System is an evolution of the 3G UMTS characterized by higher-
data-rate, lower-latency, packet-optimized system that supports multiple RATs.
The Evolved Packet System comprises the Evolved Packet Core together with the
evolved radio access network (E-UTRA and E-UTRAN).The service requirements for
the Evolved Packet System are specified in TS22.278 [42].
## 4.11 User Data Convergence
### 4.11.1 Introduction
The UDC concept [45] supports a layered architecture, separating the data from
the application logic in the 3GPP system, so that user data is stored in a
logically unique repository allowing access from core and service layer
entities, named application front-ends. And such unique repository shall be
possible to be shared among different PLMNs that have trusted relationships.
Network elements and functionalities should be designed to access profile data
remotely and without storing them permanently locally, i.e. the front-ends
shall work in a subscriber dataless configuration.
In some cases, services may depend on user data scattered over UDC and other
network elements. UDC may support the ability to access necessary network
elements to fetch user data on behalf of these services, while minimizing
impacts on existing Network Elements in which the data is located.
Applications can subscribe to specific events which will likely occur on
specific user data, and those should be notified when those events do appear.
The events can be changes on existing user data, addition of user data, and so
on.
Third party applications and non trusted network elements should only be able
to access the user data after proper authentication and authorization taking
into account security and privacy requirements, i.e. it should be possible to
present different views on the data to the parties which require access,
dependent on the authorization.UDC concept is backwards compatible with 3GPP
systems, i.e. it does not have an impact on traffic mechanisms, reference
points and protocols of existing network elements.
The UDC concept preserves user authentication and authorization of services
across domains, ensuring secured users' access to network.
### 4.11.2 Management of user data
Due to the logical centralization of user data, it is necessary for UDC to
support the provisioning of the user data, that is, user data manipulation
like creation, deletion, reading, modification and other operations.
Provisioning shall be possible via an external system, self care or
dynamically via applications offering e.g. user service configuration
facilities.
Operations carried out in the framework of UDC shall support the ACID
(Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability) characteristics.
### 4.11.3 User Data Modelling
User Data Modelling refers to the different models that apply to user data
convergence: Information Models and Data Models.
An Information Model denotes an abstract, formal representation of entity
types, including their properties and relationships, the operations (e.g.
read, write...) that can be performed on them, and related rules and
constraints. In the information model, entities might have network topology
relationship with each other.
In order to accommodate multiple applications and services, existing and new
ones, a common baseline information model shall be developed and shall, at
minimum, clearly distinguish a number of concepts as entity types:
  * \- Subscriber with relation to several users (e.g. a company and its employees),
  * \- A user attached to different subscriptions (e.g. for a private and a professional service usage)
  * \- A user using multiple devices (e.g. mobiles or fixed)
  * \- Grouping of users to certain categories
  * \- A particular user as member of a certain group
  * \- Service providers' services provided by network operators
\- Enterprise services provided by network operators
The baseline information model shall be future proof. It shall not be tied to
any specific implementation of the data base or its interfaces. It shall
provide flexibility (in its data structure and content), extensibility and
multi-application approach.
By extensible, it shall be understood that new applications and/or new service
profiles can be added by the operator, if necessary. The flexibility shall
permit new data for existing applications to be introduced, or modified.
Data Models are practical implementations of the information model, e.g. Tree-
like modelling and are not subject to standardization. It shall be possible to
derive one or more data models from the common information model.
Each application shall only interface the UDC for the data it is dealing with,
and not be impacted by other data that UDC stores for other applications. It
corresponds to the concept of a data view specific to a given application.
An application can allow access by other applications to data for which it is
responsible. This can be done under certain constraint customized by
operators.
Access to the UDC data shall be independent of the structure of the data
models, i.e. the changes in the data models shall not affect the interface.
# 5 Evolution
## 5.1 Support of 2G services
The 3GPP specifications shall be capable of supporting existing 2G services in
a manner which is transparent to the users of these services.
## 5.2 Provision and evolution of services
Since a phased approach has been adopted, the same general service principles
shall apply to each phase. Support of services from an end user perspective is
understood to be an important driver for established mobile users to stay with
their existing operator while taking the new services into use. It is
therefore important to enable operators to offer continued support of legacy
services in future releases. Previous release services shall as a principle
also be supported in the following releases.
Networks shall be capable of providing a specified core set of capabilities.
The core set of capabilities should permit home environment to offer a range
of distinctive services including those which cannot be implemented on systems
based on previous release specifications.
It shall be possible for the home environment to develop services with full
roaming capability.
The radio interface should not unnecessarily restrict the development of new
services (within physical limitations).
The standard shall provide a mechanism which allows a terminal to be easily
upgraded so that it can access new services which are within the physical
limitations of the terminal.
# 6 Classification of services
In the CS CN domain, the basic services are divided into circuit teleservices
(3GPP TS 22.003 [14]) and bearer services (3GPP TS 22.002 [21]) and they can
utilise standardised supplementary services (3GPP TS 22.004 [5]).
The PS CN Domain provides IP bearer services. SMS, USSD and UUS can also be
considered as bearer services for some applications.
IP multimedia services are the IP based session related services, including
voice communications. IP multimedia sessions use IP bearer services provided
by the PS CN Domain.
Value added non-call related services include a large variety of different
operator specific services/applications. They are usually not specified by
3GPP. The services can be based on fully proprietary protocols or standardised
protocols outside 3GPP.
In order to create or modify the above services (both call and non-call
related services) operators may utilise toolkits standardised by 3GPP (such as
CAMEL or LCS) or external solutions (e.g. Internet mechanisms). Pre-paid is an
example of an application created with toolkits that may apply to all of the
above services categories.
Figure 1: Service classification
# 7 Principles for new service capabilities
## 7.1 General
3GPP specifications shall enable the user of a single terminal to establish
and maintain several connections simultaneously. It shall efficiently cater
for applications which have variable requirements relating to specific QoS
parameters (e.g. throughput) whilst meeting other QoS targets. It shall also
cater for applications which are able to take adapt to a range of variations
in QoS.
## 7.2 Multimedia
3GPP specifications shall support development of multimedia services and
provide the necessary capabilities.
Multimedia services combine two or more media components (e.g. voice, audio,
data, video, pictures) within one call. A multimedia service may involve
several parties and connections (different parties may provide different media
components) and therefore flexibility is required in order to add and delete
both resources and parties.
Multimedia services are typically classified as interactive or distribution
services.
Interactive services are typically subdivided into conversational, messaging
and retrieval services:
[Conversational services]{.underline} are real time (no store and forward),
usually bi-directional where low end to end delays (\ 19 Police (Albania)
>
> 100 Police and Fire Brigade (Greek cities)
>
> 100 Ambulance and Fire Brigade (Belgium)
>
> 112 Police and Ambulance (Italy)
>
> 112 General emergency call, all categories (Sweden)
>
> 115 Fire Brigade (Italy)
>
> 144 Ambulance (Austria)
If the UE does not recognise the emergency call numbers but the serving
network recognises the dialled number as an emergency call number used in the
country, a normal call set up shall take place over the radio interface and
after the serving network has recognised the emergency number the call shall
be routed as an emergency call.
The user friendly MMI that specifies the type of emergency call directly (e.g.
menu) should be supported for use in any (i.e. home or visited) PLMN to avoid
the mis-connection in roaming case. This shall be allowed both with and
without SIM/USIM being present.
When emergency call establishment is initiated, the emergency call type shall
be sent by the UE if it is available.
The serving network may download additional emergency call numbers to the UE
in order to ensure that local emergency call numbers are known to the UE. The
UE shall regard these emergency numbers as valid in that country only (as
identified by the MCC) and shall discard them when a new country is entered.
If permitted by local regulation, it shall be possible for the user to prevent
the sending of his public user identifiers and the location information to the
PSAP (i.e. emergency response centre).
NOTE 3: Operator policies (e.g. requirements for support of emergency
communications) may over-ride the user request for suppression.
### 10.1.1 Identification of emergency numbers
The ME shall identify an emergency number dialled by the end user as a valid
emergency number and initiate emergency call establishment if it occurs under
one or more of the following conditions. If it occurs outside of the following
conditions, the ME should not initiate emergency call establishment but normal
call establishment. Emergency number identification takes place before and
takes precedence over any other (e.g. supplementary service related) number
analysis.
a) 112 and 911 shall always be available. These numbers shall be stored on the
ME.
b) Any emergency call number stored on a SIM/USIM when the SIM/USIM is
present.
c) 000, 08, 110, 999, 118 and 119 when a SIM/USIM is not present. These
numbers shall be stored on the ME.
d) Additional emergency call numbers that may have been downloaded by the
serving network when the SIM/USIM is present.
### 10.1.2 Domains priority and selection for UE attempts to emergency call
A UE that is connected to a domain in which it is possible for the UE to make
voice calls, shall use that domain to attempt an emergency call unless serving
network policy (based on regulatory requirements and operator needs) requires
the UE, including an unauthenticated UE, to attempt the emergency call on a
specific domain first.
If the UE is connected to more than one domain in which it is possible for the
UE to make voice calls, the UE shall attempt an emergency call on the same
domain it would use to originate a non-emergency voice call unless serving
network policy (based on regulatory requirements and operator needs) requires
the UE, including an unauthenticated UE, to attempt the emergency call on a
specific domain first.
In the case where an emergency call attempt by a UE fails, the UE should
automatically make a second attempt on the other domain if the UE supports it.
### 10.1.3 Call-Back Requirements
Subject to local/regional regulations the network shall support a call-back
from a PSAP.
It shall be possible to supply the user's Directory Number/MSISDN/SIP URI as
the CLI to the PSAP to facilitate call-back. The CLI used on call-back shall
allow the PSAP to contact the same terminal that originated the emergency
call.
NOTE: There is no specific callback requirement for CS supplementary services.
A call-back may be attempted any time after the emergency call release. In
case of a UE in limited service state, call-back is not required.
## 10.2 Emergency calls in the CS CN Domain
A CS CN Domain shall support the emergency call teleservice as defined in 3GPP
TS 22.003 [14] (TS12).
If a UE supports TS11(Telephony)[14], then it shall also support
TS12(Emergency Calls)[14]. It shall be possible to set up emergency calls
initiated by an emergency call number.
## 10.3 Emergency Calls in the PS CN Domain
Without the IM CN subsystem, emergency calls are not supported in the PS CN
domain.
## 10.4 Emergency calls in the IM CN subsystem
The IM CN subsystem shall support IMS emergency calls. It shall be possible to
set up emergency calls initiated by an emergency call number.
If a UE supports IMS Multimedia Telephony service with speech media as
specified in TS 22.173[40] via an access network, then it shall also support
IMS emergency calls via that access network.
NOTE 1: Other forms of media than speech and GTT-IP[46] for emergency services
are for further study.
Subject to the regulatory requirement, the IM CN subsystem shall be able to
unambiguously identify each emergency service defined in the national
numbering plan for the country in which the UE is located.
In accordance with national regulations for where the subscriber is located,
if the UE does not recognise a dialled number as an emergency call number but
the IM CN where the subscriber is located does recognise the dialled number as
an emergency call number (e.g. a number used in the local emergency numbering
plan) then the call shall be routed as an emergency call indicating the type
of emergency service to the correct PSAP. Subject to operator setting the call
may be prioritized .
NOTE 2: The above does not preclude the network rejecting the call and
requesting the UE to setup a new emergency call to the same emergency service.
An emergency call shall take precedence over any other services a UE may be
engaged in, if required by local regulation.
Emergency calls from an unauthenticated UE (as far as the IM CN is concerned)
shall be supported by the IM CN subsystem, if required by local regulation.
## 10.5 Void
## 10.6 Location Availability for Emergency Calls
National regulations may require wireless networks to provide the emergency
caller's location. This requirement typically overrides the caller's right to
privacy with respect to their location being revealed, but remains in effect
only as long as the authorities need to determine the caller's location. The
interpretation of the duration of this privacy override may also be different,
subject to national regulation. For example, some countries require location
to be available from the wireless network only while the call is up, while
others may allow PSAP's to unilaterally decide how long the location must be
made available.
Therefore, the requirement for providing location availability is to allow the
network to support providing a mobile caller's location to the authorities for
as long as required by the national regulation in force for that network.
Note: See TS 22.071 [44] for location service requirements on emergency calls.
## 10.7 Transfer of data during emergency calls
Emergency calls may be supplemented with emergency related data [1]. Typically
this data enables the accurate geographic location of a manually or
automatically activated emergency calling device e.g. an in vehicle system
(IVS), to be provided to the Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP).
The following requirements apply to UEs designed to be able to perform
transfer of data during an emergency call and to networks supporting transfer
of data during an emergency call:
\- The data may be sent prior to, in parallel with, or at the start of the
voice component of an emergency call.
\- Should the PSAP request additional data then this may be possible during
the established emergency call.
\- The realisation of the transfer of data during an emergency call shall
minimise changes to the originating and transit networks.
\- Both the voice and data components of the emergency call shall be routed to
the same PSAP or designated emergency call centre.
\- The transmission of the data shall be acknowledged and if necessary data
shall be retransmitted.
\- The UE shall indicate at call setup if the emergency call will carry
supplementary data.
UEs designed to be able to perform transfer data during emergency calls and
configured to only perform emergency calls with transfer of data (eCall only
mode) shall comply with the following additional requirements:
  * TheUE shall not perform mobility management procedures, including registration on a PLMN, except when attempting to initiate and during an emergency call, or to initiate a test or reconfiguration of the terminal upon request from the user..
  * For UEs that have the ability to be called back by the PSAP, the UE shall be capable to continue mobility management procedures for a limited duration following the termination of the eCall.
\- The UE shall contain an USIM application.
\- In the case where the user subscribes to other services provided by the
PLMN, it shall be possible for the network operator to reconfigure the UE so
that it can access the subscribed services.
\- It shall be possible for the user of the UE to change network
operator/service provider (i.e. to use a different USIM) or for the subscriber
to modify the existing subscription used with the UE.
\- It shall be possible for the UE upon request from the user to initiate a
call to an operator designated non-emergency MSISDN for the purpose of
accessing test and terminal reconfiguration services.
Additional national and regional requirements are as specified in Annex A.
## 10.8 Supplementary service interaction during emergency calls
Supplementary services that interrupt or divert the media path between a PSAP
and the end device shall be handled as specified in TS 22.173 [40] (e.g.
Communication Hold) for Multimedia Telephony. No such Supplementary Services
are applicable to CS Emergency Calls (TS12) according to TS 22.004 [5].
# 11 Numbering principles
The following network addressing schemes listed below shall be supported at
the relevant domains:
\- E.164,
\- E.168,
\- E.212,
\- X.121
\- Internet (including e.g. IP address, SIP URI).
## 11.1 Number portability
### 11.1.1 Requirements for CS CN domain
Some numbering schemes shall be fully independent of the supporting serving
network and the home environment, allowing users to transfer this number to
another home environment. For further information see 3GPP TS 22.066 [7].
An MSISDN shall be allocated to each new user at the start of a subscription.
This number may be allocated from one of several numbering domains. For
example:
\- home / serving environment numbering scheme;
\- national numbering scheme;
\- regional numbering scheme;
\- global numbering scheme.
A user shall be able to move subscription from one home environment to another
without changing the MSISDN provided that the new home environment offers
service in the same geographic domain. It is envisaged that home environment s
will be able to allocate MSISDNs from each of these domains as required.
### 11.1.2 Requirements for PS CN domain
None identified.
### 11.1.3 Requirements for IM CN subsystem
It shall be possible to offer number portability for E.164 numbers within IM
CN subsystem. For further information see 3GPP TS 22.066 [7].
## 11.2 Evolution path
Since 3GPP specifications aim to be aligned with IMT-2000, a primary goal in
numbering is the provision of global user numbering in line with steps taken
by the ITU - SG2.
The numbering scheme and network implementation chosen shall allow for
international/global evolution.
## 11.3 Void
## 11.4 Void
## 11.5 Void
## 11.6 Private numbering
A user may wish to use private numbers for the purposes of calling frequent
numbers. Therefore there is a requirement for the use, by the user, of Private
Numbering Plans (PNPs). These schemes may belong to the user himself, to a
home environment or a third party.
## 11.7 Numbering schemes
### 11.7.1 Multiple numbering scheme
The standards shall support the possibility of allowing the bearer service
associated with an MT call to be implicitly defined by the destination MSISDN,
for example to use a different MSISDN to establish voice, fax or data . It
will be possible for multiple MSISDNs to be associated with a single
subscription.
### 11.7.2 Single numbering scheme
The standards shall support the possibility of allowing MT calls of different
bearer types (e.g. voice, fax, data) to be routed to a single MSISDN. It is
recognized that the implementation of this may depend on the availability of
bearer information associated with an incoming call from the adjoining transit
network. In particular the standards will support this possibility in the case
of an adjoining ISDN transit network.
## 11.8 Optimal routing {#optimal-routing .list-paragraph}
The implementation of the numbering scheme used shall allow for optimal
routing; i.e. routing shall not take place simply on the number dialled.
See 3GPP TS 22.079 [8] for some scenarios for the CS CN domain. Optimal
routing for IP services is supported by the All-IP Network [42].
# 11a Identification Requirements
## 11a.1 Subscriber Identification
In 3GPP the identity of a subscriber is encoded in a identity module
application which is contained on a UICC or on a GSM SIM card. The UICC or GSM
SIM card is a removable component of the User Equipment. Three types of
identity modules are used in the 3GPP system:
\- Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM)
\- IMS Subscriber Identity Module (ISIM)
\- Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) according to GSM
General requirements:
\- In the 3GPP system each subscriber shall be uniquely identifiable.
\- The serving networks shall be able to authenticate any subscriber that
roams onto their network
\- If a UE, that is registered on the serving network, contains a GSM SIM card
or a UICC containing a identity module application, the serving network shall
be able to identify the associated home PLMN.
Note 1: UE support of GSM SIM is optional.
Note 2: See the chapter (USIM, UICC and Terminal) of the present specification
for a reference, which GSM phase SIMs need to be supported by the network.
## 11a.2 Terminal Identification
It is a requirement that the terminal can be uniquely identified by the home
environment and serving network. This shall require a terminal identity scheme
which uniquely identifies each terminal, see 3GPP TS 22.016[12].
## 11a.3 Home Environment / Serving Network Identification
Home / serving environments need to route communication to the current
location of the user. This shall require a identity scheme which uniquely
identifies the serving environment and shall be used for routing purposes.
## 11a.4 Serving Environment / Mobile Virtual Network Identification
A mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) is a service provider that does not
have its own radio access network, but resells wireless services, typically
under their own brand name, using the network of a host PLMN operator.
It should be possible to uniquely identify subscribers belonging to a
particular MVNO.
# 12 Human Factors and user procedures
The User Interface (MMI) from the end-user's point of view should be as
flexible as possible while still meeting the general service requirements. In
addition it should be capable of being updated so as to meet new services
which are still to be envisaged.
In general the following principles should be encompassed:
\- activation of services should be as simple as possible with minimum input
expected from the user;
\- feedback, to the user from the various services, should be meaningful;
\- any error recovery procedures provided should be simple to understand and
execute.
\- input from the user and information to the user should be provided in
alternative selectable modes in order to match user capabilities, preferences
and situation.
However, a detailed specification for the User Interface shall not be defined.
In particular given the global nature of the third generation systems, for
different regions of the world, different criteria will determine the
implementation of the User Interface. Also it is unlikely that there will be a
single common handset which will meet all the service requirements and
therefore a common User Interface would be impractical.
Given the flexibility of the services, there should be a wide range of User
Interface possibilities. These possibilities include simple terminals with a
single on/off button through to complex terminals providing support to
hearing/visually impaired users.
Control of CS CN Domain supplementary services (3GPP TS 22.004 [5]), may use
MMI procedures specified in 3GPP TS 22.030 [6] and existing MMI related UE
features (Annex A) may also be used. In particular the following features are
highly desirable for uniform UE implementation where appropriate:
\- Mapping of numeric keys to European alphabetic keys to ensure compatible
mnemonic dialing as defined in 3GPP TS 22.030 [6],
\- \"+\" key function to enable one key international access as defined in
Annex A
\- Structure of the MMI as described in 3GPP TS 22.030 [6]
\- Presentation of IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) as defined
in 3GPP TS 22.030 [6]
# 13 UICC, USIM and Terminal
This clause defines the functional characteristics and requirements of the
User Service Identity Module (USIM) and ISIM (IM Services Identity Module).
The USIM/ISIM are applications residing on a UICC.
## 13.1 The USIM/ISIM and User Profiles
### 13.1.1 The USIM
Every USIM shall have a unique identity and shall be associated with one and
only one home environment.
It shall be possible for a home environment to uniquely identify a user by the
USIM.
The USIM shall be used to provide security features.
For access to services, provided by PS or CS CN domains, a valid USIM shall be
required. Optionally, SIM according to GSM phase 2, GSM phase 2+, 3GPP release
99, 3GPP release 4 specifications may be supported.
The USIM shall be able to support SIM Application Toolkit as specified in 3GPP
TS 22.038 [3].
The USIM shall reside on a UICC. USIM specific information shall be protected
against unauthorised access or alteration.
It shall be possible to update USIM specific information via the air
interface, in a secure manner.
Access to the IMS services shall be possible using the USIM application in the
event of no ISIM being present on the UICC. If an ISIM is present on the UICC
it shall be used to access the IMS.
It shall be possible to store provisioning parameters on the USIM according to
DM specifications [37].
It should be possible to store provisioning parameters on the USIM according
to CP specifications [38].
It shall be possible for the network operator to configure the USIM to
indicate (through personalisation and OTA) whether provisioning parameters
according to DM specifications or provisioning parameters according to CP
specifications shall be used.
NOTE: To avoid misoperation of the UE in a mixed provisioning environment e.g.
during a transition phase when both CP and DM clients are present in the UE,
the CP parameters on the USIM can be read first. If DMinformation is present
(provisioned OTA in the CP parameters.), then use DM, otherwise use CP.
Annex A describes a number of features that may optionally be supported by the
UE and thus USIM.
### 13.1.2 User Profiles
It shall be possible for a user to be associated with one or a number of user
profiles, which the user can select and activate on a per call basis. The user
profile contains information which may be used to personalise services for the
user.
It shall be possible for one or more user profiles associated with the same
user to be active simultaneously so that the user may make or receive calls
associated with different profiles simultaneously. Activation of profiles
shall be done in a secure manner, for example with the use of a PIN.
For terminating calls the correct profile shall be indicated by the user
address used (e.g. MSISDN, SIP URI), each profile will have at least one
unique user address associated with it. For originating calls the user shall
be able to choose from the available profiles, the appropriate one for the
call. A profile identity will need to be associated with the call for
accounting and billing purposes. User profile identities need not be
standardised but a standardised means is required for indicating that a
particular profile is being used.
Simultaneous use of the same user profile on multiple terminals for the same
type of service shall not be allowed.
User profiles associated with different home environments shall not share the
same user address.
### 13.1.3 UICC usage in GERAN only Terminals
In Release 5 and later, terminals supporting only GERAN shall support USIM.
Note: It is strongly recommended that manufacturers implement SIM support on
GERAN only terminals until the population of SIMs in the market is reduced to
a low level.
### 13.1.4 Multiple USIMs per UICC
The standard shall support more than one USIM per UICC even when those USIMs
are associated with different home environments. Only one of the USIMs or the
SIM shall be active at a given time. While the UE is in idle mode, it shall be
possible for the user to select/reselect one USIM application amongst those
available on the UICC. At switch on, the Last Active USIM shall be
automatically selected. The Last Active USIM shall be stored on the UICC. By
default if there is no Last Active USIM defined in the UICC, the user shall be
able to select the active USIM amongst those available on the UICC.
The standard must not prevent the coexistence of USIM applications, each
associated with different home environments on the same UICC, so long as the
security problems which arise from such a coexistence are solved.
### 13.1.5 The ISIM
Access to the IMS services shall be possible using an ISIM application.
The ISIM shall be sufficient for providing the necessary security features for
the IMS and IMS only.
The ISIM shall reside on a UICC. ISIM specific information shall be protected
against unauthorised access or alteration.
It shall be possible to update ISIM specific information via the air
interface, in a secure manner.
Note: When accessing IMS over GERAN/UTRAN/EUTRAN or I-WLAN using ISIM, a USIM
needs also be present to access the rest of the 3GPP system. Alternatively
USIM could be used to access IMS.
## 13.2 The UICC
**Characteristics including physical formats of a UICC are defined in TS
31.101[36].**
Access to services via 3GPP system with a single UICC shall be possible.
### 13.2.1 The UICC and Applications other than the USIM or ISIM
It shall be possible for the UICC to host other applications in addition to
the USIM or ISIM, see figure 3. Service providers, subscribers or users may
need to establish additional data or processes on the UICC. Each application
on an UICC shall reside in its own domain (physical or logical). It shall be
possible to manage each application on the card separately. The security and
operation of an application in any domain shall not be compromised by an
application running in a different domain. Applications may need to use their
own security mechanisms which are separate to those specified by 3GPP e.g.
electronic commerce applications.
Examples of UICC applications are: USIM, ISIM, off-line user applications like
UPT, electronic banking, credit service, etc.
Applications should be able to share some information such as a common address
book.
It shall be possible to address applications, which reside on the UICC, via
the air interface.
Figure 3 Example of a Multifunction UICC
### 13.2.1a Void
### 13.2.2 Fast Access and Retrieval of Data from UICC
An optional \"high speed\" interface may be provided between the UICC and the
ME.
If provided, this interface shall allow fast access and retrieval of data to
support functionalities requiring large amounts of data to be transfered to
and from the UICC. Examples include:
\- on-card web servers
\- rapid access to data stored on the UICC, e.g. phone book, PLMN lists or
user data
A UICC/ME interface supporting this \"high speed\" interface shall be backward
compatible with the TS 102 221 interface specified in 3GPP TS 31.101 [36].
## 13.3 Terminals and Multiple UICCs
A single terminal may support the use of multiple UICC (e.g. with applications
like USIM and/or banking, credit card,...). Only one UICC shall be active at a
time to access a PLMN. In case the active UICC contains more than one USIM,
the requirements of 13.1.4 shall apply.
If the UICC with the active USIM is removed from the mobile terminal during a
call (except for emergency calls), the call shall be terminated immediately.
If the UICC with an active ISIM is removed during an IMS session the IMS
session shall be terminated.
# 14 Types of features of UEs
3GPP specifications should support a wide variety of user equipment, i.e.
setting any limitations on terminals should be avoided as much as possible.
For example user equipment like hand-portable phones, personal digital
assistants and laptop computers can clearly be seen as likely terminals.
In order not to limit the possible types of user equipment they are not
standardised. The UE types could be categorised by their service capabilities
rather than by their physical characteristics. Typical examples are speech
only UE, narrowband data UE, wideband data UE, data and speech UE, etc..
In order to enhance functionality split and modularity inside the user
equipment the interfaces of UE should be identified. Interfaces like UICC-
interface, PCMCIA-interface and other PC-interfaces, including software
interfaces, should be covered by references to the applicable interface
standards.
UEs have to be capable of supporting a wide variety of teleservices,
multimedia services and applications provided in PLMN environment. Limitations
may exist on UEs capability to support all possible teleservices, multimedia
services and information types (speech, narrowband data, wideband data, video,
etc.) and therefore functionality to indicate capabilities of a UE shall be
specified.
The basic mandatory UE requirements are:
\- Support for USIM. Optional support of GSM phase 2, 2+, 3GPP Release 99 and
Release 4 SIM cards [34]. Phase 1, 5V SIM cards shall not be supported.
Support for the SIM/ISIM is optional for the UE, however, if it is supported,
the mandatory requirements for SIM/ISIM shall be supported in the UE;
Note 1: There is no Release 5 specification for the SIM, and therefore
references to \"SIM\" apply to earlier releases.
Note 2: It is strongly recommended that manufacturers implement SIM support on
terminals supporting GERAN until the population of SIMs in the market is
reduced to a low level.
\- Home environment and serving network registration and deregistration;
\- Location update;
\- Originating or receiving a connection oriented or a connectionless service;
\- An unalterable equipment identification; IMEI, see 3GPP TS 22.016 [12];
\- Basic identification of the terminal capabilities related to services such
as; the support for software downloading, application execution
environment/interface, MExE terminal class, supported bearer services.
\- Terminals capable for emergency calls shall support emergency call without
a SIM/USIM/ISIM.
\- Support for the execution of algorithms required for encryption, for CS and
PS services. Support for non encrypted mode is required;
\- Support for the method of handling automatic calling repeat attempt
restrictions as specified in 3GPP TS 22.001 [4];
\- At least one capability type shall be standardised for mobile terminals
supporting the GERAN, UTRAN and E-UTRAN radio interfaces.
\- Under emergency situations, it may be desirable for the operator to prevent
UE users from making access attempts (including emergency call attempts) or
responding to pages in specified areas of a network, see 3GPP TS 22.011 [11];
\- Ciphering Indicator for terminals with a suitable display;
\- The ciphering indicator feature allows the UE to detect that the 3GPP radio
interface ciphering (user plane) is not switched on and to indicate this to
the user. The ciphering indicator feature may be disabled by the home network
operator setting data in the SIM/USIM. The default terminal behaviour shall be
to take into account the operator setting data in the SIM/USIM. However,
terminals with a user interface that can allow it, shall offer the possibility
for the user to configure the terminal to ignore the operator setting data in
the SIM/USIM. If this feature is not disabled by the SIM/USIM or if the
terminal has been configured to ignore the operator setting data in the
SIM/USIM, then whenever a user plane connection is in place, which is, or
becomes un-enciphered, an indication shall be given to the user. In addition,
if this feature is not disabled by the SIM/USIM or if the terminal has been
configured to ignore the operator setting data in the SIM/USIM, then
additional information may also be provided about the status of the ciphering.
Ciphering itself is unaffected by this feature, and the user can choose how to
proceed;
\- Support for PLMN selection.
\- Support for handling of interactions between toolkits concerning the access
to UE MMI input/output capabilities;
\- Whenever an application (e.g. a SAT/MExE/WAP application) requires the
access to the UE MMI input/output capabilities (e.g. display, keyboard,... ),
the UE shall grant this access subject to the capabilities of the UE. This
shall not cause the termination of any other applications (e.g. WAP browser or
MExE/SAT application) which were previously using these UE resources. The UE
shall give the user the ability to accept or reject the new application. In
the case that the application request is rejected, the access to the UE MMI
input/output capabilities is returned to the applications which were
previously using these UE resources. If the user decides to continue with the
new application, then when this new application is terminated, the access to
the UE MMI input/output capabilities shall be returned to the UE to be re-
allocated to applications (e.g. the preceding application which was
interrupted). Subject to the capabilities of the UE, the user shall have the
ability to switch the MMI input/output capabilities between applications.
Note: Rejecting a request to access the UE MMI input/output capabilities by an
application does not necessarily mean that it is terminated, but only that the
access to the UE MMI input/output capabilities are not granted to this
application. Handling of rejection (termination, put on hold,...) is the
responsibility of the application.
Annex A describes a number of features which may optionally be supported by
the UE.
# 15 Relationship between subscription and service delivery
## 15.1 Subscription
A subscription describes the commercial relationship between the subscriber
and the service provider.
Figure 4: Subscriber, subscription and services relationship
A subscription to a network operator may provide the user with access to one
or more domains. A Subscription shall identify the set of services, within
particular domains, to which the user has access (see figure 3); each
subscription may specify a different set of services. These services may be
provided by the CS CN Domain and/or a PS CN Domain and/or an IM CN subsystem.
Subscriptions relate to services such as Basic Services (e.g. Teleservices,
Bearer services), PS services and IM-Services (IP-based multimedia services),
which are typically provided by network operators, and to value added services
which typically are provided by network operators and/or other entities that
provide services to a subscriber
The subscription identifies:
\- the services and related services information that are made available to
the subscriber by the service provider ;
In addition a subscription to a network operator may identify:
\- the domains to which the user has been granted access by the network
operator. In particular, the PS service profile and information on the allowed
QoS parameter ranges shall be contained in the subscription.
\- the identity of the subscriber within these domains.\ Note: The identity of
a subscriber in the CS CN domain and PS CN domain (e.g. her IMSI) may
potentially be different to her identity in the IM CN subsystem
\- the radio access systems over which the subscriber may access their
services e.g. UTRAN, GERAN, EUTRAN, I-WLAN.
## 15.2 Other concepts associated with services
**Provision of services:** \ An action to make a service available to a
subscriber. The provision may be:
  * general: where the service is made available to all subscribers (subject to compatibility restrictions enforced) without prior arrangements being made with the service provider;
  * pre‑arranged: where the service is made available to an individual subscriber only after the necessary arrangements have been made with the service provider.
**Withdrawal:\** An action taken by the service provider to remove an
available service from a subscriber\'s access. The withdrawal may be:
  * general: where the service is removed from all subscribers provided with the service;
  * specific: where the service is removed on an individual basis from subscribers provided with the service.
NOTE: Access to the IM subsystem requires IP connectivity provided, for
example, through provision of the PS CN domain.
## 15.3 Requirements concerning service delivery
In general it is a requirement to allow the use of independent services
simultaneously (i.e. Basic, PS, IP multimedia and operator specific).
  1. The network usage shall be based on the services identified within the subscription, the terminal capabilities and, where applicable, roaming agreements between operators.
  2. The Home environment shall be able to decide on the service delivery in a roaming scenario. I.e. it shall control how services are delivered in line with the subscription.
  3. If an offered or required service (e.g. voice) could be provided with different technologies within the serving network, the decision on service delivery shall be based on preferences identified in the user profile and serving network capabilities and conditions (e.g. load).
  4. If the user profile does not allow an alternative service delivery method and the requested delivery method is not available in the serving network the service shall not be provided to the subscriber. This applies also to data bearer services with defined QoS parameters (or parameter ranges).
Examples:
\- A terminating voice call for a subscriber with a dual/multi mode terminal
(e.g. UTRAN/GERAN) could be delivered in a hybrid network as IM service or CS
voice call (TS11). The delivery decision is based on the preferences of
service delivery within the user profile and the network conditions. If there
is no preference information of the Home environment available the decision is
made only on the network conditions from the serving network.
\- A terminating data service (e.g. PS with QoS for real time audio) where the
network cannot provide the QoS at call setup. Both the originating and
terminating application shall be informed about the possible QoS configuration
for that call. The further handling (setup continuation, termination) depends
on the decisions of the applications.
### 15.3.1 Mobile Originated Voice calls
When a ME capable of offering voice service both on CS and IMS is CS attached
and IMS registered MO CS Voice calls (TS11) and MO IMS voice services shall be
originated on the domain specified by the Home operator policy or users
preferences. The Home Operator policy shall have precedence to user
preferences.
### 15.3.2 Mobile Terminated Voice calls
When a ME capable of offering voice service both on CS and IMS, MT CS Voice
calls (TS11) and MT IMS voice services shall be delivered over the domain
specified by the Home operator policy or users preferences. The Home Operator
policy shall have precedence to user preferences. If the call delivery attempt
fails in one domain, if specified by operator policy, it should be possible to
attempt the delivery in the other domain or the call/communication forwarding
supplementary services [41, 40] may be invoked if provisioned.
Note: The delivery decision will take into account aspects such as IMS
registration and CS attachment status.
# 16 Charging principles
The cost of the call may cover the cost of sending, transporting, delivery and
storage. The cost of call related signalling may also be included. Provision
shall be made for charging based on time, destination, location, volume,
bandwidth, access technology and quality. Charges may also be levied as a
result of the use of value added services.
It shall be possible for information relating to chargeable events to be made
available to the home environment at short notice. The requirements shall
include:
\- Immediately after a chargeable event is completed;
\- At regular intervals of time, volume or charge during a chargeable event.
  1. \- Delivery of the location of the terminal to the home environment, > e.g. cell identification;
Standardised mechanisms of transferring charging information are required to
make these requirements possible.
It should be possible for multiple leg calls (e.g. forwarded, conference or
roamed) to be charged to each party as if each leg was separately initiated.
However, in certain types of call, the originating party may wish/be obliged
to pay for other legs (e.g. SMS MO may also pay for the MT leg.).
It shall be possible to charge according to the location (e.g. cell, or zone)
and access technology that are being used to access network services.
Provision shall be made for the chargeable party to be changed during the life
of the call. There shall be a flexible billing mechanism which may include the
use of stored value cards, credit cards or similar devices.
The chargeable party (normally the calling party) shall be provided with an
indication of the charges to be levied (e.g. via the called number
automatically or the Advice of Charge supplementary service) for the duration
of the call (even though the user may change service environment). The user
shall be able to make decisions about the acceptable level of accumulated
charge dynamically or through their service profile.
If a user is to be charged for accepting a call then their consent should be
obtained. This may be done dynamically or through their service profile.
Charging and accounting solutions shall support the shared network
architecture so that end users can be appropriately charged for their usage of
the shared network, and network sharing partners can be allocated their share
of the costs of the shared network resources.
# 17 Roaming
## 17.1 Assumptions
In order to roam, the following applies:
  * Mobile terminal can connect to the radio access network.
  * Authentication (charging/billing network) must occur in order to get access to services (except for emergency calls).
  * The services offered to a roaming subscriber may be restricted by the capabilities of the visited network, and the roaming agreement between the visited and the home environment.
## 17.2 Principle
Long term evolution of the IM CN subsystem shall not be restricted by the
short/mid term inter-domain roaming requirements.
## 17.3 Requirements
Figure 5: Roaming requirements
\- The personalised services & capabilities available in a visited network are
dependent upon the subscription options in the home environment. This does not
preclude the visited network offering additional services, or access to
content providers.
\- Roaming from this release\'s home environment to CS (this release or
earlier) visited network is required
\- Roaming from this release\'s home environment to IM CN subsystem visited
network is required
\- Roaming from this release\'s home environment to PS (this release or
earlier) visited network is required
\- Roaming from previous releases\' home environment (or earlier) to this
release CS visited network is required
\- Roaming from previous releases\' home environment (or earlier) to this
release PS visited network is required
Note: When an operator allows a subscriber to roam to different domains, the
home environment needs to provide subscription data to the visited network.
The mapping between service data of the different domains is not standardised;
it is determined by the home environment and may be influenced by roaming
agreements.
# 18 Handover Requirements
Any handover required to maintain an active service while a user is mobile
within the coverage area of a given network, shall be seamless from the user's
perspective. However handovers that occur between different radio environments
may result in a change of the quality of service experienced by the user.
It shall be possible for users to be handed over between different networks
subject to appropriate roaming/commercial agreements.
For further information see 3GPP TS 22.129 [9].
# 19 Network Selection
Network selection procedures are defined in 3GPP TS 22.011 [11].
Other procedures may be offered by the UE.
# 20 Security
Security matters are considered in 3GPP TS 21.133 [15] and 3GPP TS 33.120
[16].
# 21 Voice Call Continuity
## 21.1 General
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide continuity between CS voice services
(Teleservice 11[14]) and the full duplex speech component of IMS multimedia
telephony service [40] with no negative impact upon the user's experience of
the voice service. This functionality is known as voice call continuity. Voice
call continuity shall be executed when continuation of a voice service is
required based on operator policy across a change in the connection of the UE
to the 3GPP system as the user moves from using the CS domain to using IMS and
vice versa.
The user experience shall be unaffected by the transition from a CS voice
service to a full duplex speech component of IMS multimedia telephony and vice
versa, and the user shall experience no disruption in the voice service
provided. The voice service is continued with the same ME.
It shall be possible to support Voice call continuity between IMS and the CS
domain belonging to different operators; i.e., when the user's IMS services
are under the control of the home IMS and the user is roaming in the coverage
of the visited CS network.
It shall be possible for an operator to enable or disable Voice call
continuity for a given subscriber e.g. based on roaming conditions, terminal
capabilities.
## 21.2 Support of Supplementary Services
The voice call continuity user's experience shall be such that, to the
greatest degree possible, a consistency of service is provided regardless of
the underlying communication infrastructure and technology. With regard to
supplementary services, the general principle is that CS-based supplementary
services only apply whilst a VCC subscriber is in the CS domain and equivalent
services over IMS only apply whilst a VCC subscriber is in the IMS domain,
although there are exceptions listed below. It is not required to synchronise
the supplementary service settings of the CS domain with the related service
settings of the IMS (e.g. different forwarding numbers may apply over CS and
over IMS).
The following supplementary services apply. The impact on the supplementary
services in case the VCC is executed for the calling party, the called party,
or both is described below.
### 21.2.1 Line Identification Services
A user who has subscribed to the CLIP Supplementary Service and receives a
call shall also receive the line identity or appropriate IMS information of
the calling party.
The identity presentation is not changed for the duration of the call
regardless of whether the call undergoes VCC.
If the CLIR Supplementary Service or IMS identity restriction is applicable to
the call, then at call setup time the called user shall receive an indication
that the identity is not available because of restriction.
The indication is not changed for the duration of the call regardless of
whether the call undergoes VCC.
If COLP or a corresponding IMS service is applicable to a call the calling
subscriber shall receive the connected line identity or appropriate IMS
information at call setup time.
The identity presentation is not changed for the duration of the call
regardless of whether the call undergoes VCC.
If the COLR Supplementary Service or IMS identity restriction is applicable to
the call, then the calling user shall receive an indication at call setup time
that the identity of the connected party is not available because of
restriction.
The indication is not changed for the duration of the call regardless of
whether the call undergoes VCC.
### 21.2.2 All Call Forwardings
It shall be possible to perform VCC on a call which was forwarded due to call
forwarding supplementary services in the CS or redirecting services in the
IMS.
### 21.2.3 Call Waiting
The functionality of call waiting supplementary service in the CS domain shall
not be affected by the user's ability to undergo VCC.
Note: Whether the user will continue to receive call waiting notifications in
the case their call is continued in the IMS will depend on whether a call
waiting service is available in the IMS.
### 21.2.4 Call Hold
It shall be possible to re-establish a call which has been put on hold before
undergoing VCC, after the VCC has been performed.
### 21.2.5 Multiparty
It shall be possible for any party in a multiparty call to undergo VCC and to
stay in the call. It shall be possible to terminate the entire multiparty call
when the served mobile subscriber releases even if she is connected via the
IMS after undergoing VCC.
### 21.2.6 All Call Barrings
If a call were to undergo VCC and that would result in the call being barred
in the target domain/system, it shall be up to the home operator policy
whether the call continues in the target domain/system, the call terminates,
or VCC is not executed for the call.
### 21.2.7 Void
### 21.2.8 Void
### 21.2.9 All other Supplementary Services
Other supplementary services are not discussed in this section as they do not
apply to calls in progress (i.e. they apply to call set up only) or their
support and/or the need for standardised implementation has not been
identified as critical for VCC in this Release.
## 21.3 Quality of Service
Voice call continuity shall not adversely impact the quality of the voice
service experienced by the user.
## 21.4 Security
Voice call continuity shall not adversely impact the security of the 3GPP
system.
Security mechanisms of the 3GPP system shall be reused for voice call
continuity.
## 21.5 Emergency calls
Voice call continuity for emergency calls shall be applicable to single radio
UEs.
Voice call continuity of emergency calls shall only be performed when all the
following conditions are met:
\- the source network is IMS;
\- the target network supports emergency calls;
\- the user is moving out of coverage;
\- the source and target network belong to the same operator;
\- the target network supports voice call continuity.
## 21.6 Charging
It shall be possible to indicate in the charging information that a VCC event
has occurred (e.g., so that appropriate ratings can be applied for the CS and
IMS parts of the continued voice call).
## 21.7 VCC Activation
It shall be possible to activate VCC based on operator policies, taking into
account any of the following:
\- Radio conditions e.g. radio quality thresholds and related hysteresis
\- Coverage availability e.g.: Always prefer I-WLAN, if certain SSID are
available
# 22 IMS Centralized Services
## 22.1 General
The ICS user shall receive both registered and unregistered services in a
consistent manner when the user accesses IMS either via the CS or the PS
domain (both of which can be supported by 3GPP access networks or non‑3GPP
access networks). Support of UEs enhanced with ICS capability as well as UEs
without ICS capability shall be possible.
NOTE: The impacts to support non-3GPP CS domains to support of ICS are outside
the scope of 3GPP.
## 22.2 Service Consistency
Subscribers shall have a consistent user experience regardless of the domain
used, subject to the constraints of the UE and access network.
## 22.3 Service Continuity
ICS shall support service continuity between CS and PS domains (both of which
can be supported by 3GPP access networks or non‑3GPP access networks), subject
to the constraints of the UE and access networks.
Note : The impacts to support non 3GPP CS domains are outside the scope of
3GPP.
The service continuity shall include:
\- Basic services
\- Non mid-call services
\- Mid-call services
## 22.4 IMS Services
The set of IMS services supported by ICS shall include at least the following,
subject to the constraints of the UE and access networks:
IMS Multimedia Telephony services (including speech, video, etc.) and
supplementary services defined within [40].
Multimedia priority service
Note: Other IMS hosted services supported by an operator or 3rd party may be
supported.
ICS shall not limit the ICS user's capability to make emergency calls
## 22.5 Roaming Support
An ICS user shall be able to receive full ICS support from the HPLMN while
roaming in the VPLMN, subject to the constraints of the VPLMN (e.g. roaming
agreements, operator policies).
The Home operator shall be able to control if the UE enhanced with ICS
capability shall act without ICS capability while roaming.
# 23 CS IP interconnection requirements
## 23.1 Introduction
CS IP interconnect represents the interconnection of MSC Server functionality
between 2 CS networks over an underlying IP infrastructure.
## 23.2 IP interconnect
The IP connection used for CS IP interconnect shall be generic such that it
can support all combinations of core network interconnection. E.g. the IP
interconnection shall be shared between the IMS interconnection and the CS IP
interconnection.
It shall be possible to handle the inter-connection of all services over this
generic IP interface. The handling of security and charging shall also be
generic for all IP interconnect scenarios.
## 23.3 MSC server interconnect
The following requirements apply at the interconnection point when two PLMNs
are interconnected by means of IP transport technology for 2G and 3G CS
services.
The system shall support the capability for CS service interoperability and
interworking.
It shall be possible to apply operator defined policy at the interconnection
point.
The system shall support the capability to control the session resources when
two different network domains are connected that may have, for example,
different IP addressing schemes.
The system shall support IP inter-connection between core networks either by
direct connection or by using an intermediate carrier (e.g. GSMA IPX [43]).
The system shall support both bilateral interconnection between two carriers
and multilateral interconnection (e.g GSMA IPX [43]) by means of intermediate
carrier.
The system shall support either
\- transparent relay of the IP signalling and traffic;
\- service aware interconnection
The system shall support codec negotiation across one or multiple
interconnects to minimise transcoding (and preferably eliminate it) to provide
the highest quality service to the user.
# 24 Service Alignment & Migration
## 24.1 Introduction
Services can be offered to the users via different service domains, e.g.
certain teleservices and supplementary services via CS or Multimedia Telephony
and supplementary services via IMS. Especially for the supplementary services
given below a strong relationship exists from the user\'s point of view.
Therefore means shall be provided to enable a consistent user experience when
changing from one service domain to the other.
The requirements in this clause are applicable during the migration to an ICS.
The ability to synchronise the service settings will facilitate the migration
from a CS to an IMS based network and will allow network operators maximum
flexibility in their migration strategies.
## 24.2 Alignment of supplementary services settings
Based on user preferences and if provisioned by the home operator the network
shall automatically synchronise the parameter settings of the supplementary
services listed in the following table:
* * *
CS Voice (TS11) Supplementary Services Equivalent Multimedia Telephony
Services in IMS domain Service Behaviour Required CLIP/CLIR OIP/OIR
Consistency of presentation CoLP/CoLR TIP/TIR Consistency of presentation CNAP
OIP/OIR Consistency of presentation Call Forwarding CDIV Call forwarding/CDIV
shall work consistently no matter which domain the user is in. The settings
(e.g. forwarding numbers) shall remain the same across domains for all the
parts of the service for which there is an equivalent. Call Waiting
Communication Waiting The busy state of the user shall be available to both
domains so that this can be applied no matter from which domain an incoming
call/communication originates. The activation status of Call Waiting and
Communication Waiting shall be synchronised. Call Hold Communication HOLD Any
calls held in one domain shall remain held on moving to a different domain. It
shall be possible to re-establish a call that was put on hold in another
domain. Multiparty CONF Any conference (multiparty) calls set up in one domain
shall remain in force if any user moves to another domain. Closed User Group
Closed User Group Consistency required across domains CCBS CCBS Consistency
required across domains Call Deflection Defined in CDIV Consistency required
across domains Explicit Call Transfer ECommT Consistency required across
domains. The UE state (i.e. if busy or not) shall be available in both domains
to ensure that this can be applied consistently. Call Barring Communication
Barring Call/ Communication Barring shall work consistently no matter which
domain the user is in. The settings (i.e. barred numbers) shall remain the
same across domains. AoC AoC Consistent support across domains. If the user
moves from one domain to the other during the communication, the AoC shall
indicate the correct charge for the total duration of the communication.
* * *
The operator shall be able to provision the user with the possibility to
define which of the above settings shall be synchronised automatically and
which settings can exist independently of each other. E.g. a user might decide
that the activation status of CLIP/OIP, CLIR/OIR, Call Waiting/Communication
Waiting etc. is synchronised but that the call forwarding status and
forwarded-to-number is different from the communication diversion settings and
the diverted-to-party address.
If the synchronisation of supplementary services, which use the UE\'s busy
state for invocation, is activated the busy state of the UE shall be available
in both domains.
Note: The \"user not reachable\" or \"user not logged in\" conditions in the
different domains are independent of each other. This means, e.g. not being
registered in the IMS does not affect the invocation of CFNRc in the CS
domain.
Synchronisation of settings means that the most recent changes which have been
applied in one domain are propagated to the other domain.
There are certain circumstances under which the synchronisation will fail e.g.
when a user inserts a SIP URI as diverted-to-party address in the IMS domain
which has no Tel URI associated with it. In such a case there is no valid
setting for the CS domain for this particular parameter and therefore the CS
domain service setting shall remain unchanged. The user may receive a
notification about the failure of the synchronisation procedure and its cause.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Description of optional user equipment features
## A.1 Display of called number
This feature enables the caller to check before call setup whether the
selected number is correct.
## A.2 Indication of call progress signals
Indications shall be given such as tones, recorded messages or visual display
based on signalling information returned from the PLMN. On data calls, this
information may be signalled to the DTE.
Call progress indicators are described in 3GPP TS 22.001 [4].
## A.3 Country/PLMN indication
The country/PLMN indicator shows in which PLMN the UE is currently registered.
This indicator is necessary so that the user knows when \"roaming\" is taking
place and that the choice of PLMN is correct. Both the country and PLMN will
be indicated. When more than one visited PLMN is available in a given area
such information will be indicated.
The PLMN name is either:
\- Stored in the ME and associated with the MCC+MNC combination received on
the broadcast channel;
\- NITZ (see 22.042 [17]) (in which case it overrides the name stored in the
UE);
\- stored in the USIM in text and /or graphic format and associated with the
MCC+MNC combination, and optionally the LAI, received on the broadcast channel
(in which case it overrides the name stored in the UE and -- if present -- the
NITZ name).
It shall be possible to store on the USIM at least 10 PLMN Identifications
(MCC+MNC combination and optionally the LAI) for which the same PLMN name
shall be displayed.
The PLMN name stored in the USIM has the highest priority, followed by the
PLMN name provided by NITZ. The PLMN name stored in the ME has the lowest
priority.
If the PLMN name stored in the USIM is not available in text format and the UE
is unable to display the graphic format, the PLMN name provided by NITZ has
the highest priority, the PLMN name stored in the ME has the next priority.
## A.4 Service Provider Name indication
The service provider name is stored in the USIM in text and/or optionally
graphic format. It shall be possible to associate at least 10 PLMN
Identifications (MCC+MNC combination) with the same SP Name.
When registered on the HPLMN, or one of the PLMN Identifications used for
Service Provider Name display:
(i) The SP Name shall be displayed;
(ii) Display of the PLMN Name is an operator's option by setting the
appropriate fields in the USIM (i.e. the Service Provider name shall be
displayed either in parallel to the PLMN Name or instead of the PLMN Name).
When registered on neither the HPLMN, nor one of the PLMN Identifications used
for Service Provider Name display:
(i) The PLMN name shall be displayed;
(ii) Display of the SP Name is an operator's option by setting the appropriate
fields in the USIM.
If the UE is unable to display the full name of the Service Provider the name
is cut from the tail end. The storage of Service Provider name and options,
and choice of options, shall be under control of the network operator.
## A.4a Core Network Operator Name indication
It shall be possible for the UE to display the name of the core network
operator the user has selected.
## A.5 Keypad
A physical means of entering numbers, generally, though not necessarily, in
accordance with the layout shown in figure A.1.
See also 3GPP TS 22.030 [6] (Man-Machine Interface).
Additional keys may provide the means to control the UE (e.g. to initiate and
terminate calls).
* * *
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 * 0 #
* * *
Figure A.1
## A.6 Short message indication and acknowledgement
This feature allows the delivery of short messages to a UE from a service
centre. Such messages are submitted to the service centre by a
telecommunications network user who can also request information of the status
of the message by further interrogation of the service centre. The service
centre then transmits the message to an active UE user.
The UE must therefore provide an indication to the user that a message has
been received from the service centre and must also send an acknowledgement
signal to the PLMN to show that this indication has been activated. The PLMN
then returns this acknowledgement to the service centre.
The short message service teleservice is described in specification 3GPP TS
22.003 [14].
## A.7 Short message overflow indication
An indication shall be given to the user of the short message service when an
incoming message cannot be received due to insufficient available memory.
## A.8 International access function
Provision is made for a direct, standard method of gaining international
access. For this purpose the UE may have a key whose primary or secondary
function is marked \"+\". This is signalled over the air interface and would
have the effect of generating the international access code in the network. It
may be used directly when setting up a call, or entered into the memory for
abbreviated dialling.
This feature is of benefit since the international access code varies between
CEPT countries, which might cause confusion to a user, and prevent the
effective use of abbreviated dialling when roaming internationally. Users may
still place international calls conventionally, using the appropriate
international access code.
## A.9 Service Indicator (SI)
An indication is given to the user that there is adequate signal strength (as
far as can be judged from the received signal) to allow a call to be made.
Additionally the network should be capable of providing, and the UE may
display, an indication of the serving cells\' capabilities e.g. GPRS, HSDPA,
HSUPA.
If indicated by the registered network, the UE in idle mode may display an
indication of one of the radio access technologies provided to the UE in the
network on which the UE is registered with the following priority order:
E-UTRAN, UTRAN, GERAN.
Displaying the serving cell\'s capabilities and the access technology are
mutually exclusive.
## A.10 Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF)
The UE shall be capable of initiating DTMF in accordance with specifications
3GPP TS 22.003 [14]. Optionally, the UE may provide a suppress function which
allows the user to switch off the DTMF function.
## A.11 On/Off switch
The UE may be provided with a means of switching its power supply on and off.
Switch-off shall be \"soft\", so that on activation, the UE completes the
following housekeeping functions: termination of a current call, detach (where
applicable) and storing required data in the SIM/USIM before actually
switching off. As far as possible, this procedure should also apply on power
failure (e.g. remote switch-off or low battery).
## A.12 Sub-Address
This feature allows the mobile to append and/or receive a sub-address to a
Directory Number, for use in call set-up, and in those supplementary services
that use a Directory Number.
## A.13 Short Message Service Cell Broadcast
The Short Message Service Cell Broadcast enables the mobile equipment to
receive short messages from a message handling system.
The short message service cell broadcast teleservice is described in
specification 3GPP TS 22.003 [14]
## A.14 Short Message Service Cell Broadcast DRX
This feature enables a mobile equipment to save on battery utilization, by
allowing the mobile equipment to not listen during the broadcast of messages
the subscriber is not interested in.
## A.15 Support of the extended Short message cell broadcast channel
This feature allows a mobile equipment by supporting of the extended Short
message cell broadcast channel to enhance the capacity of the service. The
support of the extended channel has low priority, i.e. the UE can interrupt
the reading of this channel if idle mode procedures have to be executed.
## A.16 Network Identity and Timezone
The feature provides the means for serving PLMNs to transfer current identity,
universal time and the local timezone to mobile equipments, and for the mobile
equipments to store and use this information. This enhances roaming by
permitting accurate indication of PLMN identities that are either newer than
the ME or have changed their name since the ME was sold. Additionally time and
timezone information can be utilized by MEs as desired.
The network name time and timezone information will normally be transferred
from the network to the ME:
1) Upon registering on the network.
2) When the UE geographically relocates to a different Local Time Zone.
3) When the network changes its Local Time Zone, e.g. between summer and
winter time.
4) When the network changes its identity.
5) At any time during a signalling connection with mobile equipment.
Further details of this feature are described in 3GPP TS 22.042 [15].
## A.17 Network\'s indication of alerting in the UE
This feature provides the means for serving PLMNs to transfer to a UE an
indication that may be used by the UE to alert the user in a specific manner
in the following cases:
\- mobile terminating call
\- network initiated USSD
\- network initiated Mobile Originated (MO) connection, if the ME supports the
\"network initiated MO connection \" feature.
Eight different indications are defined, whether the mobile terminating
traffic is a call or USSD or related to the network initiated MO connection
procedure. These indications are sent by the network and received by the UE:
\- Three of these indications are used as levels, reflecting some kind of
urgency: level 0 indicates that the UE shall not alert the user for USSD and
remain silent in the case of call, level 2 shall be considered by the UE as
more important than level 1 for the purpose of alerting the user.
\- The five other indications are used as categories, identifying different
types of terminating traffic. The UE shall inform the user in a specific
manner for each of these five categories. Nevertheless, the possible forms of
the alert (different ringing tones, displayed text, graphical symbols...) is
still up to the mobile manufacturer (some forms of alerts can be
simultaneously used, e.g. ringing tones and text on the display).
The management of the feature by the UE requires for the handling of
categories that :
\- the SIM/USIM stores for each category an informative text (maximum 25
characters per category) describing the type of terminating traffic associated
with the category. This information could be used by the UE when alerting the
user (display on the screen). It is necessary for the network operator to be
able to change the meaning of each category.
\- The user has the ability to set up his/her own association between the type
of terminating traffic (identified by each category) and the different types
of alert provided by the UE. To help the user in this choice, the UE uses the
informative text associated with each category (as stored in the SIM/USIM).
The UE should keep this association when switched off.
Default settings should also be defined in the ME for the following cases :
\- when the UE receives a call, USSD or a request for a network initiated MO
connection with no alerting indication,
\- when the UE receives a call, USSD or a request for a network initiated MO
connection with a category of alerting not defined in the SIM/USIM.
These default settings should be separated per type of mobile terminated
traffic received (call, USSD or request for a network initiated MO
connection).
A UE supporting the feature shall act according to the following points in
case of mobile terminating traffic :
\- when a mobile terminating traffic is received without any indication (level
or category), the ME shall act as if it was not supporting the feature, i.e.
use a default alert (e.g. associated with this type of mobile terminating
traffic).
\- if a level is indicated, the UE shall use an alert enabling the user to
differentiate between the three levels.
\- if a category is indicated, then :
\- if the SIM/USIM used in the UE does not store any information on that
feature, the UE shall ignore the category received with any mobile terminating
traffic and act as if it was not supporting the feature, i.e. use a default
alert (e.g. associated with this type of mobile terminating traffic).
\- if the category is not defined in the SIM/USIM, the UE shall act as if it
was not supporting the feature, i.e. use a default alert (e.g. associated with
this type of mobile terminating traffic).
\- if the category is defined in the SIM/USIM, the UE shall use the alert
associated with this category. In addition, it would be very useful for the
user to be notified of the informative text associated with this category (e.g
on the display).
Some interactions between this feature and other services related to alerting
are described below :
\- the call waiting service has priority on this feature, i.e. the call
waiting tone will be played and not the alert derived by this feature. If
possible, two different indications should be given to the user (e.g. the call
waiting tone and a text on the display indicating call waiting, and in
addition a text relative to the type of the new call received).
\- the presentation of the calling line identity takes priority on this
feature, if it is not possible to display this information and another
information related to this feature.
\- In case of interaction between this feature and UE specific features to
alert the user (e.g. whole silent mode), the user should still be able to
differentiate between the different levels or different types of terminating
traffic, even if the alert itself may be changed.
## A.18 Network initiated Mobile Originated (MO) connection
The \"Network Initiated Mobile Originated connection\" feature allows the
network to ask the mobile equipment to establish a mobile originated
connection. The serving PLMN provides the mobile equipment with the necessary
information which is used by the mobile equipment to establish the connection.
Currently only the network initiated mobile originated call feature is
specified. It is mandatory for a UE supporting CCBS and is used in the case of
a CCBS recall.
## A.19 Abbreviated dialling
The directory number or part of it is stored in the mobile equipment together
with the abbreviated address. After retrieval the directory number may appear
on the display.
Abbreviated dialling numbers stored in the UE or USIM may contain wild
characters.
If wild characters are used to indicate missing digits, each wild character
shall be replaced for network access or supplementary service operation, by a
single digit entered at the keypad. The completed directory number is
transmitted on the radio path.
## A.20 Barring of Dialled Numbers
This feature provides a mechanism so that by the use of an electronic lock it
is possible to place a bar on calling any numbers belonging to a pre-
programmed list of numbers in the SIM/USIM.
Barred Dialling Numbers stored in the /USIM may contain wild characters.
Under control of PIN2, \"Barred Dialling Mode\" may be enabled or disabled.
The selected mode is stored in the SIM/USIM.
Under PIN2 control, it shall be possible to add, modify or delete a particular
\"Barred Dialling Number\" (BDN) and to allocate or modify its associated
comparison method(s). This BDN may have the function of an abbreviated
dialling number / supplementary service control (ADN/SSC), overflow and/or
sub-address.
When BDN is inactive, no special controls are specified, and the barred
dialling numbers may be read (though not modified or deleted, except under
PIN2 control) as if they were normal abbreviated dialling numbers. Access to
keyboard and normal abbreviated dialling numbers (including sub-address) is
also permitted.
When Barring of Dialled Numbers is active:
\- Considering a number dialled by the user, if it exists a BDN for which
there is a successful comparison (see below) between that BDN and the dialled
number, then the ME shall prevent the call attempt to that number. If there is
no BDN to fulfil those conditions, the call attempt is allowed by the ME.
With each BDN is associated one (or a combination of) comparison method(s)
used between that BDN and the number dialled by the user. At least three
different comparison methods are possible:
\- The comparison is made from the first digit of that BDN, from the first
digit of the dialled number and for a number of digits corresponding to the
length of the BDN.
\- The comparison is made from the first digit of that BDN, from any digit of
the dialled number and for a number of digits corresponding to the length of
the BDN.
\- The comparison is made backwards from the last digit of that BDN, from the
last digit of the dialled number and for a number of digits corresponding to
the length of the BDN.
\- If a BDN stored in the SIM/USIM contains one or more wild characters in any
position, each wild character shall be replaced by any single digit when the
comparison between that BDN and the dialled number is performed.
\- If a BDN contains a sub-address, and the same number without any sub-
address or with that sub‑address is dialled, the ME shall prevent the call
attempt to that number.
\- Numbers specified as \"barred\" may only be modified under PIN2 control.
\- If the ME does not support barring of dialled numbers, the UE with a BDN
enabled USIM shall not allow the making of calls and the UE with BDN enabled
SIM shall not allow the making or receiving of calls. However, this feature
does not affect the ability to make emergency calls.
If \"Fixed Number Dialling\" and \"Barring of Dialled Numbers\" are
simultaneously active, the dialled number shall be checked against the two
features before the ME allows the call attempt. In that case, a dialled number
will only be allowed by the ME if it is in the FDN list and if the comparison
between that number and any number from the BDN list is not successful.
The UE may support other selective barrings, e.g. applying to individual
services (e.g. telephony, data transmission) or individual call types (e.g.
long distance, international calls).
## A.21 DTMF control digits separator
Provision has been made to enter DTMF digits with a telephone number, and upon
the called party answering the UE shall send the DTMF digits automatically to
the network after a delay of 3 seconds (± 20 %). The digits shall be sent
according to the procedures and timing specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [13].
The first occurrence of the \"DTMF Control Digits Separator\" shall be used by
the ME to distinguish between the addressing digits (i.e. the phone number)
and the DTMF digits. Upon subsequent occurrences of the separator, the UE
shall pause again for 3 seconds (± 20 %) before sending any further DTMF
digits.
To enable the separator to be stored in the address field of an Abbreviated
Dialling Number record in the SIM/USIM, the separator shall be coded as
defined in 3GPP TS 31.102 [19]. The telephone number shall always precede the
DTMF digits when stored in the SIM/USIM.
The way in which the separator is entered and display in the UE, is left to
the individual manufacturer\'s MMI.
MEs which do not support this feature and encounter this separator in an ADN
record of the SIM/USIM will treat the character as \"corrupt data\" and act
accordingly.
## A.22 Selection of directory number in messages
The Short Message Service (SMS), Cell Broadcast Service (CBS), Multimedia
Message Service (MMS), Network Initiated USSD or Network Response to Mobile
Originated USSD message strings may be used to convey a Directory Number,
which the user may wish to call.
## A.23 Last Numbers Dialled (LND)
The Last \"N\" Numbers dialled may be stored in the SIM/USIM and/or the ME.
\"N\" may take the value up to 10 in the SIM/USIM. It may be any value in the
ME. The method of presentation of these to the user for setting up a call is
the responsibility of the UE but if these numbers are stored in both the
SIM/USIM and the UE, those from the SIM/USIM shall take precedence.
## A.24 Service Dialling Numbers
The Service Dialling Numbers feature allows for the storage of numbers related
to services offered by the network operator/service provider in the SIM/USIM
(e.g. customer care). The user can use these telephone numbers to make
outgoing calls, but the access for updating of the numbers shall be under the
control of the operator.
NOTE: No MMI is envisaged to be specified for these numbers and it is left to
mobile manufacturer implementations.
A specific example of Service Dialling Numbers is the storage of mailbox
dialling numbers on the SIM/USIM for access to mailboxes associated with
Voicemail, Fax, Electronic Mail and Other messages.
## A.25 Fixed number dialling
This feature provides a mechanism so that by the use of an electronic lock it
is possible to place a bar on calling any numbers other than those pre-
programmed in the SIM/USIM.
Under control of PIN 2, \"Fixed Dialling Mode\" may be enabled or disabled.
The mode selected is stored in the SIM/USIM.
Fixed Dialling Numbers (FDNs) are stored in the SIM/USIM in the Fixed Dialling
Number field. FDN entries are composed of a destination address/Supplementary
Service Control. Destination addresses may have the format relevant to the
bearer services/teleservices defined in [21] and [14]. FDN entries may take
the function of an Abbreviated Dialling Number/Supplementary Service Control
(ADN/SSC), Overflow and/or sub-address. Fixed Dialling Numbers stored in the
SIM/USIM may contain wild card characters.
The Fixed Dialling feature is optional, however when Fixed Dialling Mode is
enabled, an ME supporting the feature shall;
\- Prevent the establishment of bearer services/teleservices to destination
addresses which are not in FDN entries on a per bearer service/teleservice
basis. The list of bearer services/teleservices excluded from the FDN check
shall be stored in the SIM/USIM. Those bearer services/teleservices are
characterised by their service code as described in [23]. For instance if the
SMS teleservices is indicated in this list, SMS can be sent to any
destination. By default, the ME shall prevent the establishment of any bearer
service/teleservice to destination addresses which are not in FDN entries.
\- Only allow modification, addition or deletion of Fixed Number Dialling
entries under control of PIN2.
\- Allow the establishment of bearer services/teleservice to destination
addresses stored in FDN entries. For SMS, the Service Center address and the
end-destination address shall be checked.
\- Support the reading and substitution of wildcards in any position of an FDN
entry, via the ME MMI.
\- Allow the user to replace each wildcard of an FDN entry by a single digit,
on a per call basis without using PIN2. The digit replacing the wildcard may
be used for network access or supplementary service operation.
\- Only allow Supplementary Service (SS) Control (in Dedicated or Idle mode)
if the SS control string is stored as an FDN entry.
\- Allow the extension of an FDN entry by adding digits to the Fixed Dialling
number on a per call basis.
\- Allow the emergency numbers (see Section 8.4) to be called, even if it is
not an FDN entry.
\- Allow normal access to ADN fields (i.e. allow ADN entries to be modified,
added or deleted) and the keyboard.
\- Allow use of ADNs subject to the FDN filter.
When FDN is disabled, an ME supporting FDN shall;
\- Allow FDN entries to be read as though they were normal ADN entries.
\- Only allow modification, addition or deletion of Fixed Number Dialling
entries under control of PIN2.
\- Allow normal access to ADN fields and the keyboard.
If the ME does not support FDN, the UE shall not allow the making of calls
when Fixed Dialling is enabled in the USIM, and the UE shall not allow the
making or receiving of calls when Fixed Dialling is enabled in the SIM.
However, emergency calls (112 and other user defined emergency numbers) shall
still be possible.
NOTE: Wildcards are stored on the SIM/USIM. The wildcard coding is given in
3GPP TS 31.102 [19].
## A.26 Message Waiting Indication
A short message may be used to provide and indication to the user about the
status and number of types of messages waiting on systems connected to the
PLMN. The ME shall present this indication as an icon on the screen, or other
MMI indication, and store the indication status on the SIM/USIM to allow the
status to be retained through power off/on, SIM/USIM movement between UEs
etc..
The ME shall be able to accept and acknowledge these message waiting status
short messages irrespective of the memory available in the SIM/USIM.
## A.27 Requirements for the transfer of eCall Minimum Set of Data (MSD)
With the exception of the following specific requirements, considered
necessary for the satisfactory operation of the eCall service, all existing
TS12 emergency call requirements shall apply.
An eCall shall consist of a TS12 emergency call supplemented by a minimum set
of emergency related data (MSD). The contents of the MSD e.g. vehicle
identity, location information and other parameters, are defined by the public
safety authorities.
\- An eCall may be initiated automatically, for example due to a vehicle
collision, or manually by the vehicle occupants;
> \- An IVS, or other UE designed to support eCall functionality, shall
> include in the emergency call set-up an indication that the present call is
> either a Manually Initiated eCall (MIeC) or an Automatically Initiated eCall
> (AIeC).
\- The Minimum Set of Data (MSD) sent by the In vehicle System (IVS) to the
network shall not exceed 140 bytes;
\- The MSD should typically be made available to the PSAP within 4 seconds
measured from the time when end to end connection with the PSAP is
established;
\- Should the MSD component not be included in an eCall, or is corrupted or
lost for any reason, then this shall not affect the associated TS12 emergency
call speech functionality.
\- A call progress indication shall be provided to the user whilst the MSD
transmission is in progress.
\- To reduce the time taken to establish an eCall an IVS whilst in eCall only
mode, may receive network availability information whilst not registered on a
PLMN.
\- PLMNs should make use of eCall indicators, received in the emergency call
set-up, to differentiate eCalls from other TS12 emergency calls.
\- The MIeC and AIeC should be used by the serving network to filter and route
eCalls to dedicated, eCall equipped, PSAPs.
\- Where the eCall indicators are not supported by the serving network, the
time needed for the PSAP eCall modem to differentiate between eCalls and other
TS12 calls, before routing the call to an operator, shall not exceed 2 seconds
from when the IVS receives notification that the PSAP has answered the call.
\- The PSAP shall be given an indication that the incoming call is an eCall.
\- When a TS12 emergency call, other than an eCall, is routed to a PSAP that
supports the eCall service, the eCall equipment shall not cause audible
interference to the emergency voice call.
\- When an eCall is routed to a PSAP, that does not support the eCall service,
the In Vehicle System (IVS) shall not emit any audible tones for longer than 2
seconds from the time that the call is first answered.
Throughout the duration of the emergency call and following receipt of the MSD
by the PSAP
\- It shall be possible for the PSAP to send a confirmation to the IVS that
the MSD has been acted upon.
\- It shall be possible for the PSAP to request the IVS to re-send its most
recent MSD.
\- It shall be possible for the PSAP to instruct the IVS to terminate the
eCall.
## A.28 Requirements for \"In Case of Emergency\" (ICE) information
The In Case of Emergency (ICE) information are used to enable first
responders, such as paramedics, fire-fighters, and police officers, to contact
a victim's emergency contact(s) in order to identify the victim and obtain
important medical information or other information required during an
emergency.
A UE shall have the capability to store one or more "ICE information" on the
UICC. The "ICE information" shall list the type of information which is to be
configured by the mobile operator as described in the table below.
Table A.28.1: \"ICE information\" description
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ICE | ICE | ICE | ICE | ICE | | | inf | inf | inf | inf | inf | | | ormation | ormation | ormation | ormation | ormation | | | type | type | value 1 | value 2 | value n | | | format | value | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Des | Two | It shall | It shall | Present | Present | | cription | formats | be | be | only if | only if | | | shall be | possible | possible | ex | ex | | | defined | to store | to have | plicitly | plicitly | | | in this | this | at least | i | i | | | release: | inf | one ICE | ndicated | ndicated | | | | ormation | inf | by the | by the | | | 1- Phone | in text | ormation | ICE | ICE | | | number | or | value | inf | inf | | | format. | graphic | field. | ormation | ormation | | | For the | format. | If more | type | type | | | phone | | than one | format. | format. | | | number | | inf | | | | | format | | ormation | | | | | it shall | | value | | | | | be | | fields | | | | | possible | | are | | | | | to store | | required | | | | | a name | | it shall | | | | | and a | | be | | | | | phone | | i | | | | | number. | | ndicated | | | | | | | by the | | | | | 2- Free | | ICE | | | | | format. | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | It shall | | type | | | | | be | | format. | | | | | possible | | | | | | | for the | | It shall | | | | | mobile | | be | | | | | operator | | possible | | | | | to | | for the | | | | | p | | subsc | | | | | rovision | | riber to | | | | | zero, | | add, | | | | | one or | | modify, | | | | | several | | view, or | | | | | i | | delete | | | | | nstances | | any ICE | | | | | of a | | inf | | | | | given | | ormation | | | | | format | | value. | | | | | on the | | | | | | | UICC. | | For the | | | | | | | free | | | | | | | format | | | | | | | ICE | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | type | | | | | | | format, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | possible | | | | | | | to store | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | in text | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | graphic | | | | | | | format. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | pre | | | | | | | -defined | | | | | | | ICE | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | type | | | | | | | formats | | | | | | | the ME | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | adapt | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | mode to | | | | | | | the type | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | ICE | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | umerical | | | | | | | mode for | | | | | | | phone | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | input). | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
The following table provides an example of ICE information stored on the UICC:
Table A.28.2: "ICE information" example
* * *
ICE information type ICE information type value ICE information value 1 ICE
information value 2 Phone Number \"Contact in case of emergency\" My Wife
+3364566 Phone Number \"Contact in case of emergency\" Family Smith +3364565
Phone Number \"Contact in case of emergency\" My Family doctor: Dr. Jones
+33643234 Free Format \"Medical Information\" My blood type is A+, I am
allergic to etc. N/A Free Format \"Home Postal Address\" 15 rue de la Paix,
Paris, France N/A Free Format "Language" French N/A Free Format "Travel
Information" London, from 3^rd^ July. to 29^th^ July, 2008 N/A
* * *
Provision is made for direct and unambiguous read access from the UE to ICE
information stored on the UICC.
The subscriber may choose not to enter any ICE information.
The default configuration for this information shall be that they are
accessible even when the security features on either the UE or UICC have been
enabled (e.g. the keypad is locked). **It shall be possible for the subscriber
to change this default setting to prevent accessibility to the ICE information
(i.e.** a user configurable setting in the UICC indicates whether the ICE
information on the UICC shall be displayed or not, if the ICE access procedure
described in TS 22.030 [6] is invoked**).**
The unlocking of ICE information shall not allow access to other secure
information on the UICC or UE. The ICE information value should not be
accessible to ME or UICC applications.
The ICE access procedure is described in TS 22.030 [6].
#