# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System (ETWS) introduces a means to deliver
Warning Notification simultaneously to many mobile users who should evacuate
from approaching Earthquake or Tsunami. Mobile user who received Warning
Notification is able to know a threat is approaching or already happened
nearby. Then the user is able to determine where and when to evacuate
according to delivered Warning Notification. Mobile phone is a kind of the
closest media for people. This system helps people to prevent from disaster
situation or mitigate damage.
The characteristic of this service is the need of quick and optimised
information delivery. Currently, it is not possible to know beforehand the
fact that an Earthquake is imminent.
The Japanese government intends to create Earthquake early detection systems,
which is called Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) System, during 2007 and expects
that mobile operators study the feasibility of realizing a system for
delivering Earthquake Early Warning information to mobile phone users.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification defines the stage one description of the
Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System (ETWS) Requirements. Stage one is the
set of requirements seen primarily from the users' and service providers'
points of view.
This TS includes information applicable to network operators, service
providers, terminal and network manufacturers, in case of deployment of ETWS.
ETWS deployment depends on operator decision or national regulations.
This TS contains the core requirements for the Earthquake and Tsunami Warning
System, which are sufficient to provide a complete service.
This TS also contains regional requirements for Earthquake and Tsunami Warning
System.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 22.968: \"Study for requirements for a Public Warning System
> (PWS)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Earthquake and Tsunami Warning Service:** is a service that delivers
Earthquake and Tsunami _Warning Notifications_ provided by _Warning
Notification Providers_ to the UEs which have the capability of receiving
_Warning Notifications_ within _Notification Areas_ through the 3GPP network.
**Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System:** is a subsystem of Public Warning
System that delivers _Warning Notifications_ specific to Earthquake and
Tsunami provided by _Warning Notification Providers_ to the UEs which have the
capability of receiving _Warning Notifications_ within _Notification Areas_
through the 3GPP network.
**Notification Area:** is an area where _Warning Notifications_ are sent.
**Primary Notification:** is information which is used specifically in
_Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System_ in order to notify users about the
most urgent event in seconds rather than minutes, such as imminent occurrence
of Earthquake.
**Secondary Notification:** is information which is used specifically in
_Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System_ in order to notify users supplementary
information that is of lesser urgency such as instructions on what to do /
where to get help, for example, map to refuge facilities, time table of food
distribution. These information, in general, would be issued by local
government.
**Warning Notification Provider:** is an agency (e.g. government, local
government, public service organisations) that provides W _arning
Notifications_ and requests PLMN operators to deliver them.
**Warning Notification:** is information which notifies users of the imminent
occurrence of the events and may provide users with additional information,
such as instructions on what to do / where to get help as long as the
emergency lasts. _Warning Notification_ is classified into two types depending
on the urgency, which are _Primary Notification_ and _Secondary Notification_.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> EEW Earthquake Early Warning
>
> ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
# 4 Overview of the Earthquake and Tsunami Warning Service and System
## 4.1 Overview of the service
Earthquake and Tsunami Warning service is provided to users by PLMN operators.
Warning Notification Providers produce Warning Notification to PLMN operator
when an event occurs e.g. an Earthquake. PLMN operators distribute Warning
Notifications to users by utilizing ETWS.
## 4.2 Overview of the system
{width="6.292361111111111in" height="4.1506944444444445in"}
Figure.1 Overview of Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
A generic ETWS architecture is depicted in Figure 1. Only ETWS (i.e. the
components inside the dashed box in Figure 1) is in the scope of 3GPP
specification. The ETWS consists of the PLMN that is capable to deliver
Warning Notification and the UEs that are capable to receive Warning
Notification.
A Warning Notification Provider is able to send Warning Notification to the
users in Notification Area by activating ETWS.
Warning Notification is classified into two types depending on the purpose and
urgency of the notification.
The first type of Notification is called Primary Notification. This type of
notification delivers the most important information of the threat that is
approaching to users (e.g. the imminent occurrence of Earthquake or Tsunami).
The notification shall be delivered to the users as soon as possible.
The second type of Notification is called Secondary Notification. This type of
notification delivers additional information, such as instructions on what to
do / where to get help as long as the emergency lasts.
{width="6.625in" height="4.195833333333334in"}
Figure.2 Typical notification procedure
Figure.2 shows the typical notification procedure of Earthquake and Tsunami
Warning Service.
(1) The occurrence of a disaster is detected by a Warning Notification
Provider.
(2) The Warning Notification Provider publishes a Primary Notification to
PLMN. The Warning Notification Provider is able to specify the Notification
Area where the Warning Notification is expected to be distributed. The content
of the Primary Notification only includes the most urgent information related
to the disaster.
(3) The Primary Notification is delivered to users in the Notification Area
specified by the Warning Notification Provider. The UE which detects the
delivery of the Primary Notification alerts the user e.g. by sound and
vibration. Alerted user is expected to start evacuation.
(4) The Warning Notification Provider may publish a Secondary Notification to
PLMN. The Warning Notification Provider is able to specify the Notification
Area where the Warning Notification is expected to be distributed. The content
of the Secondary Notification may include additional information, such as
instructions on what to do / where to get help as long as the emergency lasts.
(5) The Secondary Notification is delivered to users in the Notification Area
specified by the Warning Notification Provider. The UE which detects the
delivery of the Secondary Notification alerts the users e.g. by specified
buzzer and vibration. Alerted users are able to recognize additional
information.
(6) The Warning Notification Provider may be able to publish multiple
Secondary Notifications to PLMN. The Warning Notification Provider is able to
specify the Notification Area where the Warning Notification is expected to be
distributed. The content of the Secondary Notification may include additional
information, such as instructions on what to do / where to get help as long as
the emergency lasts.
(7) The Secondary Notification is delivered to users to the Notification Area
specified by the Warning Notification Provider. The UE which detects the
delivery of the Secondary Notification alerts the users e.g. by specified
buzzer and vibration. Alerted users are able to recognize additional
information.
(8) The Warning Notification Provider may request dissemination of
notification to the PLMN to stop.
# 5 General Requirements
## 5.1 Background
Warning Notifications are expected to be delivered to the users while
satisfying the following requirements.
\- Quick Warning Notification delivery after the occurrence of Earthquake or
Tsunami.
Earthquake and Tsunami propagate very fast. The duration time between the
actual occurrence of the disaster and its arrival is very short. The order of
the duration time is around seconds or minutes at most. Therefore the Warning
Notifications shall be delivered quickly to the users in the emergency
impacted area so that they could take any actions to escape from danger.
\- Accurate Warning Notification delivery.
Warning Notification delivery urges the users to take the actions such as
evacuation. Therefore, the Warning Notification shall be delivered to the
users accurately in the Notification Area and the content of Warning
Notification should be understandable for many types of users (i.e. impaired
persons, foreigners).
## 5.2 High level general requirements for Warning Notification delivery
The following list gives the high level general requirements for Warning
Notification delivery:
\- Warning Notification shall be delivered to the Notification Area specified
by the Warning Notification Provider.
\- Publication of Warning Notification can be limited to the Notification Area
where the Warning Notification is expected to be distributed.
\- Warning Notifications shall be delivered to the UEs regardless of their
status i.e. whether or not the terminal is in idle-mode.
## 5.3 Duration of delivery time
Duration of the delivery time for PLMN operators is the time from the receipt
of the Warning Notification by the PLMN operator, i.e. the edge of the 3GPP
network, to the time that the Warning Notification is successfully delivered
to the UEs.
Provisioning of delivery of Primary and Secondary Notification may be
required.
\- Primary Notification shall be delivered within 4 seconds to the UE in the
Notification Area where the Warning Notification is expected to be distributed
even under congestion situation.
\- Secondary Notification is delivered to the users in the Notification Area
where the Warning Notification is expected to be distributed even under
congestion situation.
Note: UEs that are out of coverage or switched off are not considered in the
requirements.
Note: Secondary Notification may not always be generated as it depends on the
Warning Notification Provider's policy.
Note: Primary Notification may not always be generated (i.e. the warning may
start with a Secondary Notification).
## 5.4 Granularity of the distribution
Requirements from the perspective of the granularity of the distribution are
the following.
\- Based on the geographical information indicated by the Warning Notification
Provider, it shall be possible for the PLMN operators to select the
Notification Areas based on their network configuration of the area coverage
such as distribution of cells, Node Bs, RNCs, etc.
\- The geographical Area, e.g. prefecture, county, etc. shall be possible to
be designated statically or dynamically by Warning Notification Provider. It
is FFS how Warning Notification Provider and Network operators designates the
geographical area.
## 5.5 Information element and volume
The following are the requirements from the perspective of information element
and amount of data.
Both Primary and Secondary Notification shall
\- support at least 2 types of emergency events, which are Earthquake and
Tsunami
\- be able to indicate the preferred UE behaviours when receiving Warning
Notification, (e.g. whether to display text in the foreground, whether to ring
a buzzer, whether to vibrate)
\- be distinguishable from notifications generated for the purpose of testing,
training and other notification services.
\- be sent in an optimized type and amount of data, for example, a text with a
certain length, by considering the delivery platforms for ETWS
Primary Notification shall
\- convey data which is small enough to be sent quickly on the network.
\- convey small amount of data to indicate the imminent occurrence of
Earthquake and Tsunami, etc.
Secondary Notification may
\- convey a large amount of data in order to deliver text, audio to instruct
what to do / where to get help, graphical data such as a map indicating the
route from present position to evacuation site, time table of food
distribution.
Note: The amount of data to be sent within a Primary Notification would be a
few bytes to achieve quick information delivery.
## 5.6 Priority
Requirements from the perspective of priority are as follows.
\- Primary Notification has higher priority than Secondary Notification.
\- Notifications shall be able to be sequenced by the PLMN according to
priority of notification in case that Primary Notification and Secondary
Notification should exist at the same time in PLMN.
## 5.7 Support of Warning Notification Providers
PLMN operators shall be able to support the following functionalities through
interaction with Warning Notification Providers.
\- Activation of Warning Notification delivery
\- Cancellation of Warning Notification delivery
A cancellation is a command to the ETWS to stop dissemination of a specific
Warning Notification.
## 5.8 UE Requirements
### 5.8.1 User Interface
UE behaviour shall follow the request provided by the Warning Notification
Provider.
It shall be possible for users to configure the behaviour of a UE with regard
to ETWS alerting and should allow at least volume adjustment.
Note: different regulatory requirements might exist with regards to pre-
emption of ongoing calls.
The audible / visual indication shall be able to be suppressed by users\'
manual operation (e.g. by pushing keys) and subsequently re-enable it.
It shall be possible to configure the UE such that it is possible to
automatically suppress duplicate notifications received later and subsequently
re-enable it.
A duplicate is a repetition of a previous notification as determined by a
parameter such as a message ID.
### 5.8.2 Support of non-ETWS capable UEs
Support of non-ETWS capable UEs is subject to regulatory requirements and/or
operator\'s policy.
### 5.8.3 Battery Life of the UE
Battery life of the UE shall not be significantly reduced by the introduction
of ETWS.
### 5.8.4 Enabling and disabling of Warning Notifications
It shall be able for users to \"opt-out\" of some or all of the Warning
Notifications provided by the ETWS. The user shall be able to select UE
options via the User Interface to disable, or later re-enable, the UE
behaviour in response to some or all Warning Notifications
Note: The ability to disable some of the Warning Notifications may be subject
to regulatory requirements.
Note: If the UE is enabled for ETWS in the HPLMN then it should remain enabled
for ETWS when roaming, likewise when the roamer returns to the HPLMN then ETWS
should be returned to the original state, subject to the regulatory
requirements and operator policy.
# 6 Security
Requirements from the perspective of security are as follows.
\- It shall be possible to prevent spoofing Warning Notifications.
\- It shall be possible to protect the integrity of the Warning Notification.
\- It shall be possible to authenticate the source of the Warning
Notification.
Note: The requirements apply subject to regional regulator policies.
# 7 Subscription and Charging
Requirements from the perspective of subscription and charging are as follows.
\- It shall be possible to provide Earthquake and Tsunami Warning service
without charging the user.
\- It shall be possible for the PLMN operators to bill the Warning
Notification Provider.
Note: Some regulators may require unregistered UEs to receive Warning
Notifications.
# 8 Roaming
ETWS shall be able to deliver Warning Notifications to roaming users with ETWS
capable UEs.
Under no circumstances, will the network translate, or in any other way,
change the content of the Warning Notification.
Upon receiving Primary Notification which includes small amount of data to
indicate the imminent occurrence of an Earthquake and/or Tsunami, the UE shall
display the Warning Notification in a way that is easy to understand by the
user, such as an icon or picture.
Note: It is expected that that the Warning Notification Provider will send the
Warning Notification in the languages in common use in the specific area or in
such a way that the Warning Notification can reasonably be understood.
#