# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
  * presented to TSG for information;
```{=html}
``` \- presented to TSG for approval;
```{=html}
``` \- or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This TS defines the service requirements from users' and operators'
perspective for the support of IP multimedia applications through the IMS.
IP multimedia applications are supported by IP multimedia sessions in the IM
CN Subsystem. IP multimedia sessions use IP connectivity bearers (e.g. GPRS as
a bearer). Examples of IP multimedia applications include speech
communication, real time multimedia applications, shared online whiteboards
etc.
This TS, in general, does not standardise usage of IP multimedia applications,
but instead identifies the requirements to enable their support.
In order to align IP multimedia applications wherever possible with non-3GPP
IP applications, the general approach is to adopt non-3GPP IP based solutions.
The existing legacy tele- and supplementary services shall not be re-
standardised as IP multimedia applications, and multimedia equivalent
applications may be created with toolkits.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TS 22.003: \" CS Teleservices supported by a PLMN\".
[2] Void
[3] Void
[4] Void
[5] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service; Stage 1\"
[8] Void
[9] RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\"
[10] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"; Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); Service definition -- Stage 1\"
[11] 3GPP TS 22.057: \"; Mobile Execution Environment (MexE); Service
description, Stage 1\"
[12] 3GPP TS 22.038: \"3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; USIM/SIM Application Toolkit
(USAT/SAT); Service description; Stage 1\"
[13] Open Mobile Alliance (OMA): OMA-RD-Parlay_Service_Access-V1_0-20100427-A
[14] 3GPP TR 21.905 : \"Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications\"
[15] RFC3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\"
[16] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service Aspects; Stage 1
Service Requirement for the 3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP)\"
[17] ETSI ETS 300 284: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); User-to-
User Signalling (UUS) supplementary service; Service description\"
[19] ETSI TS 102 424: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Requirements of the NGN network to
support Emergency Communication from Citizen to Authority\"
[20] 3GPP TS 22.173 : \" Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary
services \"
[21] 3GPP TS 31.103: \"Characteristics of the IP Multimedia Services Identity
Module (ISIM) application\".
[22] IETF RFC 5039: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Spam\"\
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5039.txt?number=5039
## 2.2 Informative references
[18] GSMA PRD IR.34: \"Inter-Service Provider IP Backbone Guidelines\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this TS the following definitions apply:
**Access independence:** the ability for the subscribers to access their IP
Multimedia services over any access network capable of providing IP-
connectivity, e.g. via:
• 3GPP accesses (e.g. E-UTRAN, UTRAN, GERAN)
• Non 3GPP accesses with specified interworking (e.g. WLAN with 3GPP
interworking, DOCSIS^®^, WiMAX**^™^** and cdma2000^®^ access)
• Other non 3GPP accesses that are not within the current scope of 3GPP (e.g.
xDSL, PSTN, satellite, WLAN without 3GPP interworking)
**Conference:** An IP multimedia session with two or more participants. Each
conference has a "conference focus". A conference can be uniquely identified
by a user. An example for a conference could be a multimedia game, in which
the conference focus is located in a game server.
**Conference Focus:** The conference focus is an entity which has abilities to
host conferences including their creation, maintenance, and manipulation of
the media. A conference focus implements the conference policy (e.g. rules for
talk burst control, assign priorities and participant's rights).
**IM CN subsystem:** (IP Multimedia CN subsystem) comprises of all CN elements
for the provision of IP multimedia applications over IP multimedia sessions
**IMS Inter UE Transfer: Transfer at the IMS-level of all or some of the media
components of an IMS session between UEs under the control of the same end-
user while maintaining service continuity.**
**IP multimedia application:** an application that handles one or more media
simultaneously such as speech, audio, video and data (e.g. chat text, shared
whiteboard) in a synchronised way from the user's point of view. A multimedia
application may involve multiple parties, multiple connections, and the
addition or deletion of resources within a single IP multimedia session. A
user may invoke concurrent IP multimedia applications in an IP multimedia
session.
**IP multimedia service:** an IP multimedia service is the user experience
provided by one or more IP multimedia applications.
**IP multimedia session:** an IP multimedia session is a set of multimedia
senders and receivers and the data streams flowing from senders to receivers.
IP multimedia sessions are supported by the IP multimedia CN Subsystem and are
enabled by IP connectivity bearers (e.g. GPRS as a bearer). A user may invoke
concurrent IP multimedia sessions.
**Unsolicited Communication:** Unsolicited Communication (UC) denotes bulk
communication in IMS where the benefit is weighted in favour of the sender. In
general the receiver(s) of UC do not wish to receive such communication. UC
may comprise of, e.g., \"SPam over IP Telephony (SPIT)\" [22] or \"SPam over
IP Messaging (SPIM)\".
Further definitions are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [14].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS the following abbreviations apply;
BVC Basic Voice Call
DOCSIS^®^ Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications
> WiMAX**^™^** Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access
NOTE: WiMAX**^™^** is a trademark of the WiMAX Forum\ DOCSIS^®^ is registered
trademark of Cable Television Laboratories, Inc.\ cdma2000^®^ is a registered
trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA-USA)
# 4 Introduction
IP has opened up a whole range of communication applications, which may allow
operators to develop totally new value added applications as well as to
enhance their existing solutions. The open architecture and platforms
supported by IP and operating systems may lead to applications and new
opportunities that are more difficult to replicate using a standard switched
centralised solution.
A complete solution for the support of IP multimedia applications (including
voice communications) shall be available. The solution consists of UEs, GERAN
or UTRAN radio access networks and GPRS evolved core network. One of the main
objectives for 3GPP specifications is to ensure that the availability and
behaviour of these IP applications when used via the 3GPP mobile access is at
least as good as when used via other mobile access types.
# 5 High level requirements
Support for IP multimedia sessions shall be provided in a flexible manner to
allow operators to differentiate their services in the market place as well
customise them to meet specific user needs. This shall be provided by the use
of service capabilities in both networks and terminals, for the creation and
support of IP multimedia applications.
The following high level requirements shall be supported for IP multimedia
applications:-
\- Negotiable QoS for IP multimedia sessions both at the time of a session
establishment as well as during the session by the operator and the user
\- Negotiable QoS for individual media components in an IP multimedia session
both at the time of establishing a media component as well as when the media
component is active by the operator and the user
\- End to end QoS for voice at least as good as that achieved by the circuit-
switched wireless systems shall be enabled
\- Support of roaming, negotiation between operators for QoS and for Service
Capabilities is required. Such negotiation should be automated rather than
manual, e.g., when another operator adds new service capabilities.
\- Support of roaming and interconnection shall include the capability for
media to be routed optimally between IMS operators, i.e. according to criteria
set by the operators.
\- Possibility for a network operator to implement IP Policy Control for IP
multimedia applications.
\- IP multimedia sessions shall be able to support a variety of different
media types. A set of media types shall be identified to ensure
interoperability (e.g. default codec selection and header compression).
\- Within each IP multimedia session, one or more IP multimedia applications
shall be supported. It shall be possible to support multiple IP multimedia
applications to efficiently provide a coherent and consistent IP multimedia
service experience. Such support involves identifying which applications are
invoked per subscriber, understanding the appropriate order of the set of
applications, and resolving application interactions during the session.
\- The possibility for IP multimedia applications to be provided without a
reduction in privacy, security, or authentication compared to corresponding
packet switched and circuit switched services.
\- IMS shall be capable to provide transcoding (at least for vocie sessions)
where needed when two UEs do not support a common codec.
\- Interconnection between two IMS domains shall be supported.
Note: see also Section 10
\- Roaming shall be supported enabling users to access IP multimedia services
provisioned by the:
\- Home Environment
\- Serving Network
\- The principle of access independence shall be supported. It is desirable
that an operator should be able to offer services to their subscribers
regardless of how they obtain an IP connection (e.g. E-UTRAN, UTRAN, GERAN,
fixed lines, LAN, DOCSIS^®^, WiMAX**^™^** and cdma2000^®^ access).
> Note: Access independence principle can only be ensured by 3GPP for the
> access technologies 3GPP has defined or has defined specific interworking.
\- It shall be possible for the users to access IM CN via an IP connection
(e.g. GPRS, fixed lines, LAN) with Network Address Translation (NAT) deployed.
\- It shall be possible to support session-related internet applications that
have been developed outside the 3GPP community.
\- It shall be possible to limit the view of an operator's network topology to
authorised entities.
\- It shall be possible to support the multiple UEs associated with a single
IMS service subscription. It shall be possible to share one Public User
Identity between multiple UEs. It shall also be possible to identify the
individual UEs with separate Public User Identities. IMS shall be able to
route sessions towards the identified UE(s), e.g. based on UE capability, User
preference and/or Network preferences.
\- It shall be possible for a service to identify and interact with a specific
UE even when multiple UEs share the same single Public User Identity. A UE
shall be capable to identify and interact with a specific UE even when
multiple UEs share the same single Public User Identity, except when the UE
supports only limited capabilities and thus is unable to become engaged in a
service that requires such functionality. Examples include a telemetry-only
capable UE that only supports the capabilities for point-to-point
communication.
\- The IMS shall be capable to access information about the state of a user\'s
access connection, whether the user is roaming or not. According to operator
policies this information may be provided to applications.
\- The IMS shall be capable to access user location information, whether the
user is roaming or not. According to operator policies this information may be
provided to applications.
\- Where required (e.g. by regulation) the IMS shall provide the capability
for the user to indicate to the network that a communication is malicious.
Note: see also MCID in [20].
\- Where required (e.g. by regulation) the IMS shall provide the capability
for the network, on behalf of the user, to reject incoming communications from
users who have restricted the presentation of their originating identity.
Note: see also ACR in [20].
\- The IMS shall support the capability of enabling early media for an IMS
multimedia session
Note: Early media refers to media (e.g., audio and video) that is exchanged
before a particular session is accepted by the called user.
# 6 Standardised service capability approach
IP multimedia applications shall, as a principle, not be standardised,
allowing operator specific variations. It shall be possible to enable rapid
service creation and deployment using service capabilities.
It is important that commercially available IP multimedia applications are
supported. In general compatibility shall be with these IP multimedia
applications instead of building 3GPP-specific solutions.
The following options shall be available in the 3GPP standards to enable
service delivery:
\- an architectural framework shall be created that enables maximum
flexibility in the end user device and network servers, similar in concept to
that used in the Internet.
> This framework shall enable an operator to efficiently deploy IP multimedia
> applications in a network-agnostic manner without having to wait for these
> applications or additional enabling technology, to be standardised in 3GPP.
\- service capabilities (enhanced to control IP multimedia applications),
which will allow IP multimedia applications to be deployed in a vendor
independent manner
> CAMEL [10], MExE [11], SAT [12] and OSA [13], should be improved to support
> IP multimedia applications, e.g. additions to APIs, service capability
> features, service capability servers, user profile etc.
\- the IM CN Subsystem user related data to be stored in a standardised format
and to be managed and accessed using standardised mechanisms of the 3GPP
Generic User Profile (GUP) [16].
\- mechanisms which allow the network or the application to understand the
limitations of the mobile and thereby take appropriate actions.
Note: There is a concern that with a large variety of toolkits to create
applications, service interworking between terminals and networks may be
compromised and needs to be addressed.
# 7 User service requirements
IP multimedia sessions provide the ability for users to invoke IP multimedia
applications to send and receive (where applicable) voice and data
communications, even when roaming. This includes interworking with existing
voice and data networks for both fixed (e.g. PSTN, ISDN, internet etc.) and
mobile users.
The IM CN subsystem shall support interworking with existing fixed and mobile
voice and IP data networks, including PSTN, ISDN, Mobile and Internet.
It shall be possible to have basic voice calls between IMS users and users in
CS domain/PSTN-style networks. When an IM session originates or terminates in
a CS telephony call, the experience of the CS telephony network user should
not substantially differ from that of a call between two CS telephony network
users in terms of aspects such as the delay to set-up communications and the
total permissible delay in transporting speech between the end users. The IM
CN subsystem does not necessarily have to support all services offered by the
CS telephony network.
## 7.1 Identifying IP multimedia application subscriptions
There is no requirement to support standardised subscription mechanisms for IP
multimedia applications.
IP multimedia applications may require to be provisioned and configured by
users and operators. Since the source and variety of IP multimedia
applications may not be standardised, the specific feature codes to provision,
enable and configure IP multimedia applications may not be standardised
either. .
Note: The standardised service capabilities, personalised Internet web pages
and evolving IP mechanisms may be used to allow user (self) provisioning,
configuration and enabling of IP multimedia applications.
## 7.2 Access to the IM CN subsystem
### 7.2.0 General
IMS, complying with the principle of access independence, supports IP
multimedia applications via IP multimedia sessions **over a multitude of** IP
Connectivity Access Networks. These include e.g. E-UTRAN, UTRAN, GERAN, fixed
line, I-WLAN, DOCSIS^®^, WiMAX**^™^** and cdma2000^®^ access.
### 7.2.1 Access control
The IM CN subsystem shall be able to verify at any time that the user is
entitled to use the resources of the IM CN subsystem.
## 7.2.2 IMS Registration and De-registration
In order to be able to access services from the IM CN Subsystem a UE shall
register on the IM CN Subsystem.
\- A UE that supports IMS shall be able to register on the IM CN Subsystem.
\- A UE may support automated IMS registration, e.g. when gaining access to
the PS domain.
\- A UE that supports IMS shall be able to de-register from the IM CN
Subsystem.
\- The network operator shall be able to de-register a UE from the IM CN
Subsystem.
## 7.3 Capability negotiation
The IMS shall provide the capability for IP multimedia applications (whether
it is an application of a user or the network) to negotiate their capabilities
to identify and select the available media components, QoS etc. of IP
multimedia sessions. It shall be possible for the capability negotiation to
take place on invocation, acceptance and during an IP multimedia session (e.g.
following a change in UE capabilities, change in media types etc.). Capability
negotiation may be initiated by the user, operator or an application on behalf
of them.
In order to support the user\'s preferences for IP multimedia applications,
the capability negotiation shall take into account the information in the user
profile whenever applicable. This includes the capability to route the IP
multimedia session to a specific UE, when multiple UEs share the same IMS
service subscription.
## 7.4 Redirecting of IP Multimedia sessions
The IMS shall support the capability for the user, or the network on behalf of
the user, to identify an alternative destination for an IP multimedia session
or individual media of an IP multimedia session. Redirection to alternative
destinations may be initiated by the sending party, receiving party or the
network on their behalf. It shall be possible for redirection to be initiated
at various stages of an IP Multimedia session. For example:
  * Prior to the set up of an IP Multimedia session
  * During the intial request for an IP Multimedia session
  * During the establishment of an IP Multimedia session
  * While the IP Multimedia session is ongoing
Redirection can be applied for all Multimedia sessions unconditionally or it
can be caused by any of a set list of events or conditions. Typical causes
could be:
  * Identity of the caller
  * Location or presence of the calling or called party
  * If the called party is already in a session
  * If the called party is unreachable or unavailable in some other way
  * If the called party does not respond
```{=html}
``` \- After a specified alerting interval
  * User's preference on routing for specific IP Multimedia session based on the capabilities of multiple UEs sharing the same IMS service subscription.
  * Time of day.
There are other causes that could be applied that do not require
standardisation.
## 7.5 Invoking an IP multimedia session
The user shall be able to invoke one or more IP multimedia sessions. The user
shall also be able to activate concurrent IP multimedia applications within
each IP multimedia session.
### 7.5.1 Identification of entities
Both telecom and internet numbering and addressing schemes shall be supported
as public identities. IP multimedia communication establishment (both
originating and terminating) depending on originator shall be able to be based
on E.164/TELURI (e.g. tel:+4412345678) [15]or SIP URI
(sip:my.name\@company.org) [9]. It shall be possible to assign several public
identities for one subscription.
Whilst not required for routing between terminals within the IMS, it should be
possible for the network to recognise and treat URIs, containing \'IM\' or
\'Pres\' prefixes, received from other networks supporting such prefixes.
Whilst not required for routing between terminals within the IMS, it should be
possible to append an \'IM\' or \'Pres\' prefix to an outgoing URI to enable
routing to the correct addressee in external networks supporting such
prefixes.
Public identities shall be administered by the network operator and shall not
be changeable by the user.
It shall be possible for the network operator to guarantee the authenticity of
a public identity presented for an incoming session to a user where the
communication is wholly across trusted network. This is equivalent to the
situation for CLIP with today's telephony networks.
It shall be possible for the network operator to use
\- the same E.164 number for IP multimedia sessions and CS speech telephony
(TS11) [1]
\- a different E.164 number if desired for IP multimedia sessions
This allows customers who originally had only an E164 MSISDN to retain the
same number for receiving communications in the IM domain and also in the CS
domain when outside IM coverage.
### 7.5.2 Negotiation at IM session invocation
It shall be possible for the capability negotiation to take place at the time
of the IP multimedia session invocation. Refer to subclause 7.3 for further
details on capability negotiation on IP multimedia session invocation.
### 7.5.3 Emergency communications
The requirements for Emergency communications are contained in [5] for PLMN
specified by 3GPP and in [19] for NGN broadband accesses.
## 7.6 Handling of an incoming session (by the terminating entity)
### 7.6.1 Automatic re-routing
IMS shall provide the capability to handle communications rejected (e.g. due
to unavailability of PSTN/ISDN resources) using re-routing.
### 7.6.2 Presentation of session originator identity
The IMS shall present the identity of the session originator (see 7.5.1).The
network shall suppress the presentation of the identity when requested by the
session originator.
Operator policies (e.g. requirements for support of emergency communications)
may over-ride the user request for suppression.
### 7.6.3 Negotiation of an incoming session
Interaction with the user profile shall be supported, and additionally direct
interaction with the user may be required. Refer to subclause 7.3 for further
details on capability negotiation on an incoming IP multimedia session.
### 7.6.4 Accepting or rejecting an incoming session
It shall be possible for the user to either accept, reject, ignore or re-
direct an incoming IP multimedia session. Further, it shall also be possible
for the user to accept only a subset of the offered media, not have any of the
media offered to him at all etc.
## 7.7 Handling of an ongoing session
### 7.7.1 User modification of media in an ongoing session
The user shall be able to negotiate the addition or deletion of media
components of IP multimedia applications during an IP multimedia session.
Refer to subclause 7.3 for further details on capability negotiation during an
IP multimedia session.
### 7.7.2 Suspending and resuming of an ongoing session
It shall be possible for the user to suspend an IP multimedia session, and
resume that IP multimedia session at a later time.
### 7.7.3 Presentation of identity of connected-to party of a session
It shall be possible to present to the originator of a session the identity of
the party to which she is connected (see 7.5.1).
However, the connected-to party shall be able to request that her identity is
not revealed to the originator of the session.
Operator policies (e.g. requirements for support of emergency communications)
may over-ride the user request for suppression.
## 7.8 Ending a session
The user shall be able to end an IP multimedia session at any time during the
session. The network may end an IP multimedia session at any time during the
session (e.g. in failure conditions).
## 7.9 Void
## 7.10 Handling of conferences
Conferences allow users participating in the conference to communicate with
all other participants simultaneously. A conference has a \"conference
focus\", that controls the conference.\ Note that a user, participating in the
conference, depending on the conference policy may be allowed to communicate
with the focus (e.g. to request invitation of another user into the
conference).
The following minimum user requirements for conferences exist:
\- A user shall be able to request the creation of a conference.
\- A user shall be able to request to join an existing conference.
\- A user participating in the conference shall be able to request
modification of the conference (e.g. add/remove media, manipulation of data
streams, add/remove participants) depending on the conference policy.
\- A user participating in the conference shall be able to request termination
of the conference, depending on the conference policy.
\- A user participating in the conference shall be able to receive information
from the conference focus (e.g. participants in conference, participants
joining or leaving the conference)
## 7.11 Handling of multicast services
Multicast services allow IMS users and service providers to send multimedia to
a group of IMS users simultaneously in an unidirectional way of communication.
The underlying network may be able to support mechanisms that optimize the
delivery of multimedia to the individual members of that group (e.g. MBMS [7])
Note: an example for applicability of multicast services could be the IMS
based "Push to talk over Cellular" service, that is being standardised by OMA.
\- An IMS application located on an application server in the network shall be
able to request that multimedia is sent to a group of IMS users, which are
specified by this request.
\- Depending on the capabilities of the underlying network IMS shall be able
to use optimized mechanisms of the network (e.g. multicast capabilities such
as MBMS [7]) for the delivery of multimedia to the group of IMS users.
## 7.12 Support for Local Numbers in the IMS
A number or short code originating from a UE may correspond to a local number
based on HPLMN/VPLMN\'s numbering plan, a service number in the HPLMN/VPLMN,
or a private numbering plan.
A number or short code may have a local context indicator (LCI) added to it.
The value of an LCI helps the HPLMN to route the call and, if necessary, route
the call to the country/VPLMN/private network of origin. The LCI may include:
\- access specific information consist of e.g. country code plus network code,
country code plus area code, or an identification of a private numbering plan;
\- the home domain;
\- an indication that UE does not support processing of the dialled string; or
\- any other value entered by the user.
If the HPLMN cannot interpret the number or short code based on the included
LCI, the HPLMN may apply policies to translate local numbers to globally
routable identity and to route the call.
The HPLMN shall analyse the received number and route the call as follows:
\- If the number or short code has an LCI, the HPLMN should interpret the
short code to a globally routable URI or E.164 number according to the value
of the LCI, and then correctly route the call. If the HPLMN is unable to
resolve or route the received number then an error message shall be returned
to the originating UE.
## 7.13 User determined user busy
The network shall support the capability of a user to reject an incoming IMS
session with an indication of \"user busy\". This indication may be used by
the network as a trigger for certain services e.g. Call Forwarding on Busy. If
the session rejection is propagated back to the originator, the \"user busy\"
indication must be provided as the cause of the rejection.
The conditions for user determined \"user busy\" include:
  * the session is offered to a single contact that rejects with a \"user busy\" indication; or
  * the session is offered to multiple contacts with a single public identity, and one contact rejects with a \"user busy\" indication on behalf of the set of contacts; or
  * the session is offered to multiple contacts; and
```{=html}
``` \- none of the contacts progress the session; and
  * one or more of the contacts rejects with a \"user busy\" indication.
NOTE: A contact is e.g. a terminal, a UE, or some other kind of equipment in
the user premises.
## 7.14 IMS Inter UE Transfer
The IMS shall be able to provide IMS Inter UE Transfer between:
\- different UEs connected via the same IP-CAN,
\- different UEs connected via different 3GPP IP-CANs,
\- different UEs connected via a 3GPP IP-CAN and a non-3GPP IP-CAN (e.g. fixed
line connectivity),
\- different UEs connected via different non-3GPP IP-CANs.
In addition the IMS shall be able to provide IMS Inter UE Transfer from UEs
connected via an IP-CAN to ICS entities that provide interworking with UEs in
the CS Domain.
Note 1. In this case it might not be possible to retrieve the session after it
has been transferred.
Note 2. When interworking with the UEs in the CS domain, the available IUT
features are limited by the UE's capabilities.
The following requirements are applicable for IMS Inter UE Transfer.
\- The IMS shall support the capability to transfer/retrieve some or all of
the media components to/from different IMS UEs having the same IMS
subscription while providing continuous service experience to the user. In
order to provide continuous service experience to the user, the receiving IMS
UE capabilities (e.g. display resolutions, codecs capabilities, and access
network data rate, etc.) shall be taken into consideration and the transferred
sessions adapted accordingly.
\- It shall be possible to provide continuous service experience when the
session is transferred between IMS UEs of different capabilities.
\- It shall be possible to transfer some or all media components to the target
IMS UE without transferring service control.
\- Inter UE Transfer shall be subject to operator policy.
IMS shall support the capability to add /delete media components across
different UEs having the same IMS subscription while providing continuous
service experience to the user.
An IMS user shall be able to control media components of an IMS session
between different UEs having the same IMS subscription as following:
\- Add new media components to different UEs.
\- Remove media components of an ongoing multimedia session from different
UEs.
## 7.15 Prevention of Unsolicited Communication in IMS (PUCI)
### 7.15.1 High level requirements
Unsolicited communication is not covered in this release.
### 7.15.2 Detection of Unsolicited Communication
Void.
### 7.15.3 Prevention of Unsolicited Communication to the terminating party
Void.
### 7.15.4 Notification of UC to the originating party
Void.
### 7.15.5 Conveying information on UC to other networks
Void.
# 8 Interworking requirements
## 8.1 General
The IMS shall support the capability for interoperability with the following:
\- PLMN CS domain,
\- PSTN/ISDN networks,
\- Packet Cable network,
\- Internet.
\- Other non 3GPP networks providing IP Multimedia sessions.
The scope of this interoperability may result in a limited service capability.
## 8.2 Interworking with PLMN CS Domain
The IMS shall support conveyance of voice calls and multimedia services
between IMS users and users in CS domain (within the limits set by the CS
domain).
If more than one IMS party is involved in a communication with a PSTN
party/parties, the communication between the IMS parties shall not be
adversely impacted by the presence of a PSTN party.
Note: That this boundary may still be subject to regulatory requirements
associated with communications with the PSTN including, but not limited to,
lawful interception of voice calls and multimedia services, and number
portability.
The boundary interworking shall be able to convey the information associated
with the services listed below:
> CLIP/CLIR;
>
> Call Forwarding.
>
> Also due to regulatory reasons the subscriber identity may be required to be
> conveyed via the IMS-CS/PSTN boundary to enable calling line identification
> services on both sides.\ \ Support of:
>
> Call barring,
>
> Call waiting/hold,
>
> MPTY,
>
> on the boundary interface is for further study.
## 8.3 Interworking with PSTN/ISDN networks
### 8.3.0 General
Interworking between IMS and PSTN/ISDN networks shall be supported. PSTN/ISDN
networks in this context refer to legacy PSTN/ISDN and TISPAN NGNs supporting
PSTN/ISDN Emulation.
NOTE: TISPAN NGN supporting PSTN/ISDN Emulation provide to the end-user the
same experience as a legacy PSTN/ISDN and from a interconnection perspective
the TISPAN NGN behaves like an IMS network.
As a network option and depending on inter-operator policies, the IMS shall
support transit of traffic between PSTN/ISDN networks.
### 8.3.1 Overlap Signalling
Support for overlap signalling in the IMS is an option limited to the
interworking with PSTN/ISDN networks that use overlap signalling. Support of
this option shall be based on inter-operator policies at the interconnection
point. The IMS of operators not supporting overlap signalling shall not be
affected.
In the absence of such inter-operator policies, networks interworking with IMS
shall select appropriate signalling mechanisms to complete the call without
any impact on IMS networks not supporting overlap signalling..
NOTE 1: PSTN/ISDN networks that convert overlap signalling to en-bloc, are
considered to be networks that do not use overlap signalling.
In the cases where a PSTN/ISDN network, based on inter-operator policies,
provides overlap signalling into the IMS, the following requirements shall be
taken into account:
\- For calls terminating in the IMS, conversion of overlap signalling to en-
bloc shall take place within the IMS domain.
\- Impact on the IMS shall be minimized.
\- The service experience for the end-user shall be similar to the PSTN/ISDN.
\- When the IMS network supports transit of traffic, transit of overlap
signalling may be supported towards destination networks, if the policy
permits overlap signalling towards those.
NOTE 2: Overlap signalling support should not be linked to E.164 numbering
schemes.
NOTE 3: Overlap signalling is not generated or terminated by an IMS UE it is
only generated or terminated by devices within the PSTN/ISDN networks.
### 8.3.2 Subaddressing (SUB)
Where public telecommunication numbers are used, the IMS may support the
Subaddress (SUB) service that allows the called (served) user to expand his
addressing capacity beyond the one given by the public telecommunication
number.
NOTE: Subaddressing is required for interoperability with existing users.
Subaddressing is required when at least one of the users services are provided
from an ISDN.
The IMS may support the interoperability of Subaddressing with the PSTN/ISDN
networks and vice versa.
### 8.3.3 User-to-User Signalling (UUS)
The IMS may support the User-to-User Signalling (UUS) service that enables a
calling party to send and/or receive a limited amount of User-to-User-
Information (UUI) to/from a called party in association with a communication.
NOTE: UUS is required for interoperability with existing users.
UUS is required when at least one of the users services are provided from an
ISDN.
The IMS may support the interoperability of User-to-User Signalling services
with the PSTN/ISDN networks and vice versa.
Only UUS service 1 with an implicit request is supported [17].
## 8.4 Void
## 8.5 Interworking with Packet Cable
The IMS shall support the capability for interoperability with Packet Cable
networks. The scope of this interoperability may result in a limited service
capability.
## 8.6 Interworking with Internet
The IMS shall support interworking with the Internet.
# 9 IP Addressing
## 9.1 General
The Operator of an IMS infrastructure may base the implementation on IPv4
only, IPv6 only or both. The choice is an operator option.
The IMS may support UEs using IPv4 only, IPv6 only or both at an IP-based
User-Network Interface. The choice is an operator option.
## 9.2 IP addressing for cdma2000 access to IMS
The IMS may support UEs using simultaneous multiple IP addresses.
# 10 Interconnection requirements
10.1 Introduction
IMS interconnect represents the interconnection of IMS functionality between 2
IMS networks over an underlying IP infrastructure.
10.2 IP interconnect
The IP connection used for IMS IP interconnect shall be generic such that it
can support all combinations of core network interconnection. E.g. the IP
interconnection shall be shared between the IMS interconnection and the CS IP
interconnection.
It shall be possible to handle the inter-connection of all services over this
generic IP interface. The handling of security and charging shall also be
generic for all IP inter-connect scenarios.
10.3 IMS interconnect
The following requirements apply at the interconnection point between two
different IMS domains.
In case two UEs, belonging to two IMS domains, do not support a common codec
for voice service session, the network shall be capable to provide transcoding
functionality at the interconnection point between the two domains.
The IMS shall support the capability for service interoperability by means of
service interworking requirements defined in section 8.
The IMS shall support the capability for service identification, when such
information is available.
It shall be possible to apply operator defined policy at the interconnection
point..
The system shall support the capability for control the session resources when
two different network domains are connected which may have different IP
addressing scheme.
The IMS shall support full IP inter-connection between core networks either by
direct connection or by using an intermediate carrier (e.g. GSMA IPX [18]).
The IMS shall support both bilateral interconnection between two carriers and
multilateral interconnection (e.g GSMA IPX [18]) provided by intermediate
carrier.
The IMS shall support service aware interconnection.
Note: service awareness could be based on service identification, media
parameters etc.
The IMS shall support codec negotiation across one or multiple interconnects
to minimise transcoding (and preferably eliminate it) to provide the highest
quality service to the user.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example IP multimedia application scenarios
The following example scenarios describe the personalised handling of
individual media in multimedia applications (note that this list is neither
complete nor exhaustive):-
1) The user is in a voice communication, and receives an incoming IP video
communication. The user decides not to accept the communication, but diverts
the incoming video to a messaging system. Further, the user is given an
indication that there is a video message in his mail box
2) The user is in a voice communication, and receives an incoming video
communication. The user decides to accept the communication but wishes to
switch between the two communications.
3) The user is idle in a network and not involved in a communication. The user
modifies his user profile to divert all voice communications other than those
from high priority, pre-identified callers (e.g. his boss). In this scenario
all emails and text messages continue to be received regardless of the sender.
4) On receiving a communication, the calling party\'s identity is displayed
(if not restricted) and user shall be able to decide whether to accept the
communication, or divert to a messaging system. The user shall be able to
request media handling of the communication (e.g. media splitting to different
destinations, media conversion).
5) The user is busy in a communication when receiving an incoming
communication, but responds to the originating party that he will respond
later. The user may request that the originating party\'s details (if not
restricted) are stored with a reminder in user\'s profile.
6) Hi-fi sound (nuances, character of voice)\ [Person(s)]{.underline}:
Marketing Manager, Rita\ [Situation]{.underline}: She is at a launch party for
some customers in London. In the break she listens to her messages and one
from another customer in Tokyo gets her attention. He just wants her to call,
but doesn't say if it is urgent or not.\ [Solution]{.underline}: Due to the
excellent sound quality of the terminals involved and the messaging system,
she picks up the faint irritation in his voice and decides to call him
immediately. It was urgent and she could remedy the situation easily by
emailing the information from her built in PDA storage. The customer was
relieved as he was just going in to a very important meeting.\
[Benefit(s)]{.underline}: Good sound quality gives more information to base
judgements on, i.e. emulates real life meetings better.
7) Stereo sound (nuances, character of voice plus positions, sound-scapes)\
[Person(s)]{.underline}: Purchase Officer, Gustavo\ [Situation]{.underline}:
Participates in a conference to discuss purchase of a new kind of steel for
the factory in Rio. As he is on the road he calls from his hotel room in
Sydney. The conference is in the head office in Rio. The local department has
invited the two final contenders to have them argue their cases. The two
companies are positioned at the different ends of the table. One of the groups
is presenting and mentions something about deliveries. A side remark is barely
audible, "we can't deliver that quality and that quantity this year !" Who
gave this remark?\ [Solution]{.underline}: The excellent sound quality
together with the stereoscopic sound gives Gustavo the information he needed.
It was the other group that gave the remark. The decision was made for him at
that point. He gave the order to the presenting group right after they
finished a very good presentation that told him everything he wanted to hear.
The setup at the head office was done with two synchronized UEs at each end of
the table.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: Stereoscopic sound gives even more
information than just hi-fi sound to base judgements on, i.e. emulates real
life meetings better.
8) Conference/chat with \"private rooms\"\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: A project
team at an IT company: Rick, Diana, Ted, Sven and Liu\ They are based in
different cities.\ [Situation]{.underline}: The project team has one of their
weekly reporting meetings using their mobile communicators. In the middle of
the meeting, Rick and Diana get lost in a lengthy arguing on some detailed
design matters that bores the rest of the team. Ted, the moderator, finds that
it is nevertheless necessary to give Rick and Diana some minutes to finish
their discussion, so he decides to not interrupt them. At the same time Sven
remembers that he need to remind Liu to send a report to him on the latest
findings from her research work.\ [Solution]{.underline}: The team use a
conference/chat service with the new facility \"private rooms\". This allows
Sven to direct a few words in privacy to Liu. Sven activates easily this
feature by the GUI of his communicator. Liu is immediately notified by the GUI
of her communicator that Sven is now talking privately with her (this is
necessary to avoid embarrassing misunderstandings that could occur if Liu
would answer Sven in the \"common room\" instead of in the new \"private
room\" that Sven has created).\ Since the voices of all conference members are
synthetically mapped in a stereophonic projection, Liu is able to hear what
Sven is saying, even though he speaks simultaneously with the other team
members (the communicator will not automatically adjust the sound volume of
the \"common room\", since it cannot know if Liu is more interested in Sven\'s
comments or in continuing to listen to the other team members).\
[Benefit(s)]{.underline}: This service emulates virtual presence in a
conference room in the best possible way without adding more visionary
technologies like holographic projections, etc. The synthetic stereophonic
sound projection provides good possibilities for a conference member to
discriminate unwanted voices even if the meeting situation is informal and
spontaneous and everyone are talking at the same time. The flexible
possibilities to create one or more \"private rooms\" make it easy to make
private comments to selected colleagues. The easy-to-use and fast responding
GUI makes the needed end-user effort to create a new \"room\" so low, that it
feels natural to use the function even for exchanging just a few quick words.\
[Alternative use]{.underline}: Exchange the IT project team with a gang of
teenagers that are planning what to do in the weekend. The service works
perfectly well also in that scenario and provides the same benefits.\
[Additional features]{.underline}: Easy GUI controlled addition of new
participants (can be initiated by any of the participants), including
addressing, notification/invitation, etc. (cf. \"outgoing call\" in PSTN). GUI
notification of new incoming session invitations (cf. \"incoming call\" in
PSTN) and possibility to choose action as desired (incorporate the \"calling
party\" in the existing conference session, creating a new separate session,
rejecting the invitation, diverting it to a messaging system, etc.)
Whiteboarding and/or application sharing.
9) Multiplayer mobile gaming with voice channel\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: Joe
(age 15), Blenda (age 14), Fredric (age 15) and all their \"cyber friends\" in
the Shoot-n-Shout v.14.0 community\ [Situation]{.underline}: In the legendary
multiplayer game Shoot-n-Shout v.14.0 the most popular game mode is a team
competition. The idea is simply to shoot down the members of the concurring
teams. There are always a lot of active game sessions in CyberSpace. At a
web/WAP service operated by the game application provider, interested
potential players can choose a game session and also find other gamers to form
a team with. There is a text chat service where potential team-mates can learn
to know each other.\ Joe, Blenda and Fredric meet on the web/WAP chat and
decide to form a team to take up the fight in one of the Shoot-n-Shout
sessions. They are preparing a game strategy in advance through the text chat
service, but when they have started the battle it takes too long time to type
text, so they the will need another way to communicate with each other.\
[Solution]{.underline}: The game application provider makes use of a
conference/chat service with \"private rooms\" in order to provide a multi-
player voice service to the players of Shoot-n-Shout. When a game starts there
is one \"common room\" where all players can talk (or rather shout) to each
other and one \"private room\" for each team. Players in a team can also
dynamically create more \"private rooms\" if they only like to talk to one (or
a few) of their friends. (See the conference/chat scenario for details.)\ The
volume (and stereophonic position) of the players voices when they are using
the \"common room\" is controlled so that it matches the virtual surroundings
in the game environment. As an example, players that are behind a wall will
only be heard as a vague whisper in the distance.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: A
voice channel will enhance the gaming experience for several popular network
games.
10) Application sharing with voice commentary\ [Person(s)]{.underline}:
Marketing Manager, Rita and Media expert, Jones\ [Situation]{.underline}: The
launch of a new campaign for some customers in London. Last minute feedback is
that one of the customers is expecting the latest gadget to be included, even
if its only a prototype. Rita knows it's not included in the presentation and
she has no information with her.\ [Solution]{.underline}: Rita calls Jones,
the media guru they employed for design of their important presentations. He
has the information and some pictorials. He sends them over into Rita's
PowerPoint application and they edit the new slide together as they discuss
the textual information to be included.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: The process
is extremely interactive and the session takes only 5 minutes thanks to the
broadband connection and the fact that they don't need to Ping-Pong the
pictures and the text back and forth. (Emphasize mobile or fixed access as
required). The customer is happy and a Letter of Intent is signed.\
[Comments]{.underline}: By adding voice and pictures in an interactive session
we achieve both effectiveness and interaction, two desired components.
11) Emergency location with voice conversation, navigation and picture
transfer\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: Ma Beth, her children and the pet dog
Bobby\ [Situation]{.underline}: The family is out driving in the country side
and they take a turn on the slippery country road a bit too fast. They slide
down into the ditch. Bobby the dog in the back of the van gets a heavy box of
books on top of his left paw. It may be broken, and you can tell it certainly
hurts from the loud yelps that come out in a rushed stream. The rest of the
family is ok. They were all buckled up.\ [Solution]{.underline}: Ma Beth
reaches for her communicator as soon as she has recovered from the initial
shock. She calls 112 (911 or similar). The answer comes after 23 seconds and
the operator immediately confirms the identity and the location of the van. Ma
Beth is a bit taken aback by this quick information and has to think for
awhile, then confirms the location as possibly correct. She then states the
problem and she gets connected to a vet that asks a few pertinent questions.
She can show a close up picture of the dog's left paw and the vet confirms a
possible (95%) broken leg just above the paw. He gives a few quick
instructions and sends her a map of the closest emergency animal hospital. The
map shows her current position and soon displays the quickest way to get to
the hospital. Well there, Bobby is taken care of and things are looking up.
Even the kids are smiling now that the dog is calm and free from pains, and he
looks so funny with his little cast.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: The initial
call transfers emergency information to the operator automatically. This
ensures minimum delay to correct action. The Communicator transfers the
picture that gives enough information to make a very accurate and fast
assessment of the situation. Then the map transfer and display on the terminal
together with the current position gives clear information and directions for
Ma Beth to drive and make the right turns at every corner. In her still half-
shocked state she can drive to the hospital without hesitation about where to
go. Very reassuring for all parties including the dog that gets fastest
possible help.\ [Comments]{.underline}: The call is initially just a voice
call but evolves with the best of positioning in emergency situations and
navigational aid together with picture and graphics transfer.
12) The Real Virtual Theatre and Foyer Chat room -- Fixed Network example\
[Person(s)]{.underline}: Theatre going "cultural" group with one member (Bob)
in a hospital bed.\ [Situation]{.underline}: The group is watching the play
and are utterly fascinated by the first act. When they come out into the foyer
in the break they remember Bob. They really want to share this first act with
him since they know Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream is his favorite.\
[Solution]{.underline}: Bob uses the theatre's online streaming service via
the hospital network. (At only half the price of a theatre ticket!). The play
displays in color and stereo surround sound on his bedside TV set. In the
break his friends call him up from the theatre chat room. The chat room is
equipped with 3D sound pick up and local display screens with streaming
facilities. They set up the streaming from one of the screens to be
synchronized with Bob's bedside equipment. Their voices are also mixed into
the sound streams as they talk. Bob now gets both the playbacks from the first
act and his friends' voices in 3D surround sound. Bob's voice is projected
close to the screen as if he was standing leaning on the bench right there.
His voice is very clear and full of emotions as he speaks to the various
playbacks. Both parties can control the playbacks and watch their own
selection in a second window on the screen.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: Bob can
pick up every nuance in the lively discussion, including the whispered
comments from Greta in the back. The group is almost feeling Bob's presence
because of the emotional clarity and distinct position of his voice. As both
parties have control and visibility of the streaming sessions, it is very
effective and very interactive.\ [Comments]{.underline}: Experiential services
are sought after. This one can be a bit exclusive because of the equipment
requirements, but the uses are many.
13) Mobile synchronized MM container\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: The married
couple Bill and Christine and their daughter Linda\ [Situation]{.underline}:
Bill is on a business travel to Spain. He calls his wife Christine every night
using his MMM terminal. Often Christine is answering at home using her
Screenphone, but this particular evening Christine has arranged a baby-sitter
for their children so she could go to a restaurant with some friend. When Bill
is calling, she is sitting on the commuter train on her way home. Bill often
show some pictures during his calls (both live pictures showing the
environment where he is at the moment and pictures that he has been taking
during the day with his separate digital camera).\ Today, their talk starts
off as a common voice conversation. After a while Bill likes to show Christine
the lovely sunset view that he can see from his hotel room, so he make some
snapshots with the built-in camera of his terminal and sends them in real-time
mode to Christine. Christine likes to show one of them to their little
daughter Linda when she comes home.\ [Solution:]{.underline} With a quick
gesture on the touchscreen of Christine's MMM terminal, she instantly moves
the selected picture from the real-time session window to the "multimedia
container" icon. All the contents of the "container" is automatically mirrored
between the MMM terminal and her home server. In this way, Christine can
easily pick up the picture from her Screenphone at home. If Linda is at sleep
when Christine comes home, she can wait until tomorrow.\
[Benefit(s)]{.underline}: The "multimedia container" can be used for every
type of MM content that one likes to have available both at home and at
another location. This "container paradigm" is very intuitive and stimulates
the use of images, video clips etc. for a multitude of purposes. The
"container" can be used both for transferring content from the MMM terminal to
the home server (as in this scenario) and in the opposite direction.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Business models use cases
The IMS supports agreements between the access network operator and the
network operator providing IMS services (IMS operator).
The IMS shall be able to offer services to users that are attached to access
networks owned by another operator.
The service offering may be restricted by the capabilities of the access
network and the agreement between the access network operator and the IMS
operator.
The IMS shall support at least the following operator\'s domain relationships:
a) Access network to IMS relationships
a.1) Access network and the IMS it connects to, belong to the same operator as
shown in figure B.1.
Figure B.1
a.2) Access network and the IMS it connects to, belong to different operators
having an interconnection as shown in figure B.2.
Figure B.2
b) IMS level relationships
b.1) The IMS (e.g. 3GPP or NGN) to which the access network connects and the
Home IMS (e.g. NGN or 3GPP) which provides the IMS services belong to
different operators as shown in figure B.3.
Figure B.3
b.2) The IMS (e.g. 3GPP or NGN) to which the access network connects and the
Home IMS (e.g. NGN or 3GPP) which provides the IMS services are the same as
shown in figure B.4.
Figure B.4
b.3) The IMS (e.g. 3GPP or NGN) to which the access network connects and the
Home IMS (e.g. NGN or 3GPP) which provides the IMS services belong to the same
operator as shown in figure B.5.
Figure B.5
An IMS operator shall be capable of connecting to other network operators via:
\- an interconnect model where agreements are established between two
operators;
\- an interconnect model where intermediate network(s) can provide
interconnect on behalf of multiple operators (and may be based on an agreement
between the operators and their intermediate network provider).
A single IMS operator shall be able to choose to support either of the
interconnect models, or both of the interconnect models simultaneously.
###### ## Annex C (Informative): Basic communication cases for IMS networks
A basic communication case can be described on a per IMS basis by stating the
IMS entry point and an exit point for the communication as shown in figure
C.1.
The following general types of entry/exit point can be identified:
\- Access (for communication to from terminals);
\- Interconnect to non-IMS network;
\- Interconnect to other IMS;
\- Internal network resource (e.g. a conference bridge for conferencing
services).
As a general rule a network based on IMS shall support the following basic
communication cases on a per network basis, as shown in Table C.1.
Table C.1
* * *
From\ To (exit point)  
(entry point)
                              Access Network    Interconnect to other IMS   Interconnect to\   Internal Network Resource
                                                                            non-IMS network
Access Network Required Required Required Required
Interconnect to other IMS Required Required
Interconnect to\ Required Required Required non-IMS network
Internal Network Resource Required
* * *
It is not precluded that other, more complex communication cases may be
provided by service level concatenation of basic communication cases, e.g. by
means of call diversion services.
Figure C.1: Graphical representation of supported basic communication cases
###### ## Annex D (normative): Access to IMS via non-3GPP access
This annex defines additional specific requirements for access to IMS via
non-3GPP access.
These requirements shall not apply to terminals having a 3GPP access.
For non-3GPP-only terminals with neither ISIM nor USIM, the IMC may be used to
access the IMS via a non-3GPP access technology. However, if ISIM [21] is
present it shall be used to access IMS or if ISIM is not present but USIM [yy]
is present, USIM shall be used to access IMS.
#