# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
3G mobile systems, through the increase in available bandwidth, offer new
possibilities and services. One of these new services will be the ability to
stream sound and movies to mobile devices.
Streaming is a mechanism whereby media content can be rendered at the same
time that it is being transmitted to the client over the data network.
Streaming services are required whenever instant access to multimedia
information needs to be integrated into an interactive media application. This
has to be seen in contrast to other multimedia services like for instance MMS
where multimedia content is delivered to the user asynchronously by means of a
"message".
Interactive applications that use streaming services include on-demand and
live information delivery applications. Examples of the first category are
music, music videos and news-on-demand applications. Live delivery of radio
and television programs are examples of the second category, this could e.g.
make it possible to listen to domestic radio while abroad.
A web server works with requests for information, it delivers that particular
information as fast as possible, completes the transaction, disconnects and
goes on to other requests. A client connects to a web server only when it
needs information. This strategy works well as long as pictures and text are
to be received. If a client wants to watch video or listen to audio, the
entire file must be received before it can be played. The problem is that
these kinds of files can be very large thus potentially causing storage
problems in the client and resulting in long start-up latency. A streaming
service improves this by allowing the media to be consumed as it is received,
thereby reducing the latency and removing the need to store the media.
In addition to providing the streaming mechanism the PSS also encompasses the
composition of media objects thereby allowing compelling multimedia services
to be provisioned. For instance, a mobile cinema ticketing application would
allow the user to view the film trailers.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification defines the stage one description of the Packet-
switched Streaming Service (PSS). Stage one is the set of requirements that
shall be supported for the provision of a streaming service, seen primarily
from the user's and service providers' points of view but also includes the
service capabilities of the PSS itself
This TS includes information applicable to network operators, service
providers, terminal and network manufacturers.
This TS contains the core requirements for the Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS), which are sufficient to enable a range of services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.101: "Service Principles".
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 22.105: "Services and Service Capabilities".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.233: "Transparent End to End Packet Switched Streaming Service
(PSS): General Description".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.234: "Transparent End to End Packet Switched Streaming Service
(PSS): Protocol and Codecs".
[6] 3GPP TS 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.115: "Charging and Billing".
[8] IETF RFC 2046: "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) part 2: media
types".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.242: "Digital Rights Management (DRM)".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Client:** in the context of Streaming Service the client is a device (or
service) that receives media objects and/or multimedia composition
instructions from a server.
**Media Type:** a type of media e.g. text, audio, video, graphics (see section
5.2)
**Media Object:** an instance of a media type (e.g. a picture) or a
combination of instances of media types (e.g. a video clip that includes
audio)
**Media Attribute:** an attribute of a media object depending on the media
type e.g. the colour of a piece of text
**Multimedia Composition:** the position in time and space of media objects
relative to one another
**Multimedia Services:** Services that handle several types of media such as
audio and video in a synchronised way from the user's point of view. A
multimedia service may involve multiple parties, multiple connections, and the
addition or deletion of resources and users within a single communication
session.
Server: in the context of the Streaming Service the server is a device (or
service) that delivers media objects and/or multimedia composition
instructions in response to client requests.
**Streaming** : a mechanism whereby media content can be rendered at the same
time that it is being transmitted to the client over the data network.
**Streaming Service** : an alternative way of referring to the PSS.
**Terminal Profile:** Set of information about the physical capabilities of
the terminal.
**User Profile:** Is the set of information necessary to provide a user with a
consistent, personalised service environment, irrespective of the user's
location or the terminal used (within the limitations of the terminal and the
serving network).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
CODEC Coder / DECoder
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
PS Packet Switched
PSS Packet Switched Streaming Service
QoS Quality of Service
UE User Equipment
# 4 Entities involved in Streaming service
The figure shows the basic entities involved in the Streaming service and how
they connect.
Clients initiate the service and connect to the selected content server.
Content servers can generate live content e.g. video from a concert. User
profile and terminal capability data can be stored on a network server and
will be contacted at the initial set up. User Profile will provide the
Streaming service with the user's preferences. Terminal capabilities will be
used by the Streaming service to decide whether or not the client is capable
of receiving the streamed content.
Portals are servers allowing convenient access to streamed media content. For
instance, a portal might offer content browse and search facilities. In the
simplest case, it is simply a Web/WAP-page with a list of links to streaming
content. The content itself is usually stored on content servers, which can be
located elsewhere in the network.
Figure 01: Network elements involved in a 3G packet switched streaming service
# 5 Service Requirements
## 5.1 General
• The Release 5 Transparent End-to-End Packet-switched Streaming Service (PSS)
shall add enhanced capabilities to the existing Transparent End-to-End Packet-
switched Streaming Service (PSS)[TS26.233 and 26.234]
• The PSS uses a Client / Server model. The client controls the server by
sending requests to the server, which responds to these commands.
• The PSS shall support downlink streaming.
• The PSS shall maintain backwards compatibility (i.e. a Rel4 client should be
able to interoperate with a Rel5 server and vice versa).
• The PSS should consider interoperability with streaming elements (protocols,
formats etc) already in use in other industries (e.g. the internet).
• The PSS shall support access to live content in addition to pre-authored
content. E.g. ability to listen to domestic radio station whilst abroad.
• It shall be possible for an operator to configure a PSS television service
so that the typical channel switching time, from the end user\'s perspective,
does not exceed 2 seconds. A PSS television service may include live content
offering or video on-demand content offering.
• PSS TV should allow support for time shifted live media consumption.
• The PSS should be able to support mechanisms that allow for efficient usage
of transport resources (e.g. by compression of data in PSS).\ Such mechanisms
should have no or minimal impacts on the core network and access networks.
Note: Such mechanisms may not be available for all streamed content.
• The PSS shall:
• use open standards where these are available for Streaming service
requirements
• use standard procedures and interfaces to avoid interoperability problems
among client, server and encoder
\- The live PSS shall define an interaction procedure to provide
interoperability between server and encoder.
\- The live PSS shall define an interaction procedure to provide
interoperability between server and server.
• use extensions to existing standards if needed
## 5.2 Media Types
• The PSS should support multiple media types (see ref [8]) to enable rich,
compelling multimedia services, for example:
• Audio (including speech)
• Video
• Still image
• Graphics (2D and 3D) including animation
• Text
• Plain text
• Formatted text e.g. size, colour, font
• Synthetic audio (e.g. MIDI)
• Metadata e.g. indication that text has been supplied for the hard of hearing
• The number of implementations of each media type shall be kept to a minimum,
considering the implementation impact to the terminals, interoperability,
contents mobility and backward compatibility.
• The PSS shall share media codecs with other 3G multimedia services to allow
easy interworking when needed.
• The PSS should be able to call upon a font that is available across all
terminals, either by use of an agreed default font in all terminals or by
downloading the font prior to display. This requirement applies to formatted
text only and is dependent upon the terminal capability.
## 5.3 Multimedia Composition and Interaction
• The PSS shall enable the creation of multimedia services incorporating
multiple media objects.
• The PSS shall provide the capability to position and synchronise media
objects on the client.
• The PSS shall support flowing/scrolling of text or graphics in any
direction.
• The PSS shall provide the capability to specify the media attributes \--
text (e.g. colour, size, font, format) or graphics (e.g. size, colour) -- in
relation to the timebase of other media objects. E.g. in a karaoke application
where the audio track and song lyrics are downloaded together, it should be
possible to not only display the song lyrics in time to the music but to
display the lyrics in different colours to indicate to the user when to sing
them
• The PSS shall provide the capability to update media objects dynamically.
E.g. substitution of news report with a more up to date version on the content
server.
• The PSS should provide the capability to update the attributes of media
objects dynamically. E.g. colour coded pre-paid indicator to indicate credit
level.
• The PSS should provide the capability to update the multimedia composition
dynamically. E.g. the user interacts with the application and changes a scene.
• The PSS shall provide the capability that allows the user to navigate
through or interact with the multimedia service. E.g. Once a user has
downloaded a "tour of London" application the user has the ability to navigate
through London and see video clips or hear audio descriptions of points of
interest in London.
• The PSS shall provide the capability that allows clients of different
capabilities to maximise the user experience. E.g. if a client did not support
graphic animations it could render a single image.
• The PSS shall support the transfer to the terminal of information on the
accessed content in addition to the filename (e.g. song title, artist).
## 5.4 Transport
• The PSS transport shall be provided by the PS Domain.
• Quality of Service (e.g. time delay) requirements shall be in accordance
with requirements in 22.105 (ref. 3)
• The PSS should be able to work over different QoS bearers.
• The PSS shall provide a mechanism whereby the client is sent a list of media
encoding bit rates and the client determines which one to use based on the
network service bearers offered and the user preferences.
• The PSS client shall be capable of requesting an appropriate level of QoS
for the session. The QoS supplied may be limited by the local operator's
access policy and/or network functionality.
• The PSS should provide mechanisms for streaming servers and clients to adapt
to the network conditions in order to achieve significant improvement in the
quality of streaming, e.g. using information on end-to-end transport quality
from the network.
• The PSS should provide a reliable delivery mechanism that enables the user
to receive the content without any errors due to the transport mechanism, i.e.
a delivery mechanism without bit errors or packet loss. Such mechanism should
support the following features :
\- The rendering of video content without any transport degradation : the
content is downloaded without any errors, it assures that the subscribers see
the content that has been designed by the content creators.
Note: User expectation of live video is related to the fact that it is
delivered without interruptions or long delays. As such, reliable delivery
mechanism is not considered for rendering of live video content (under poor
conditions it might even be difficult to achieve).- The rendering of the
content should start before the transfer is complete.
\- A broken session should be restarted efficiently without going back to the
beginning : the PSS client is able to detect what content is missing and to
ask the server to send this content.
Note: In addition to the regular PSS transport mechanism it is possible to use
download transport mechanisms in the following way: Audiovisual data
encapsulated in a file is transmitted from the server to the client. The user
is able to play the content during the file download, giving a similar look
and feel to the regular PSS transport mechanism.
## 5.5 Service Personalization
• The PSS should support the ability for the client to have specific
preferences described in the user profile. For example, if the user wants to
watch a news show the preferred language (speech or subtitles) is specified in
the user profile
• The PSS shall support a basic set of terminal capabilities.
• For the purpose of optimised presentation of the media streaming, PSS shall
include capability exchange and negotiation mechanisms on server/client
capabilities and user preferences at the session set up.
• The client should be able to send user preferences to the server during a
streaming session. E.g. the user may toggle between mono and stereo sound.
## 5.6 Service Management
User's control of the service:
• The client shall initiate the streaming session.
• The user shall have the possibility to stop the streaming session after it
has been invoked.
• The user shall have the possibility to pause the streaming session after it
has been invoked. E.g. if a user has activated the streaming session and then
gets a phone call, he/she shall be able to decide whether or not he/she wants
the streaming session to continue. After a pause the user can choose to resume
the streaming session.
• The PSS should be able to simultaneously handle the streaming session and
conversational (circuit or packet?) services (e.g. voice and video telephony)
• The user shall have the possibility of jumping to another point within the
media clip (i.e., random access)
• The user should be able to search through media content whilst viewing the
content.
• If the content is available under different formats corresponding to the
terminal capabilities and user preferences, the client should have the
opportunity to choose the format for which the content will be streamed.
Assuming the user has already set the user profile and the client is aware of
this.
Service Provider's management of the service:
• The end user should be notified if the PSS is unavailable.
• The Streaming session should be gracefully disconnected if the client is not
capable of handling the streamed content.
• The service provider should have the means by which a streaming session can
be gracefully terminated (e.g. in a prepay scenario when the user's account
has run out of credit)
• The PSS should be able to support real-time quality of service metrics data
from the UE.
# 6 Security
The user shall be able to use the PSS in a secure manner. Mechanisms shall be
provided to ensure that the media objects are only sent to and accessed by the
intended end-user(s).
• PSS shall support end-to-end security (e.g. between the server and the
Streaming client).
# 7 Charging
PSS should support various charging mechanisms, for example, time base
charging, volume based charging, event based charging, content based charging.
It shall be possible to include the following streaming specific data, as a
minimum, in the CDRs as charging information:
\- streaming type (e.g. real-time or non real-time),
\- volume of streaming content delivered
\- volume of data delivered
> \- time of start of delivery
\- duration
\- Qos, including transmission rate, packet loss ratio, transfer delay(latency
,jitter),
\- Streaming service sender / -recipient
\- number of Streaming events sent
\- number of Streaming events received.
\- Media type
\- Content id (the particular content stream being accessed)
# 8 Digital Rights Management
PSS shall support the 3GPP DRM mechanism (see ref [9])
# 9 Interworking
The standard shall permit interworking with other streaming technologies.
# 10 Service Interaction
\- The PSS shall define a common file format (common to all download
mechanisms) for easy service interaction with other multimedia delivery
services defined in 3GPP (e.g. MMS).
\- It shall be possible for the PSS to interact with the MMS and other 3GPP
multimedia delivery services. The interfaces and protocols used between the
PSS and other 3GPP multimedia delivery services shall be standardized.
Note : Service interaction with MMS is especially important because there are
application scenarios where media delivery via a streaming service could be
replaced by media delivery via MMS and vice versa.
\- The PSS shall define a server file format to provide easy interoperability
between Content Creators and Service Providers.
###### ## Annex A (informative): PSS Examples
Some domains may benefit from the convenient, ubiquitous and more reachable
mobile device. A second challenge for operators and service providers is to
utilise the 'mobile' effect for providing value-added services. We believe
successful wireless data services will exploit the unique mobile
characteristics. A non-exhaustive list of these mobile service characteristics
can be presented as follows:
• Content everywhere: Locally interactive content and remote interaction
(back-channels) in relation to interactive streamed media, including
rewind/pause functions will define the key features for providing attractive
and friendly contents for distance learning applications and other information
services (news, financial, etc). Scanning headlines of daily newspapers is
already about to become a popular 'waiting time' activity. In the learning
context, one may imagine that a student will be able to select on his portal
page the school section from which he will be able to view a list of classes
that will take place and to preview current live lectures, required readings,
etc.
• Lifestyle facilitators: When discovering a tourism site one may want access
to leisure and travel information (e.g., flight deals, package holidays,
quality hotels, fun activities, etc). During weekend outings and holidays, a
common use case will be the following: one uses the location finder to find
the nearest shop where he can find the desired object at the desired price, a
navigation guide helps him to determine how he will get to the shop or store.
• Entertainment services: Gaming is already being touted as the biggest
generator of minutes of use for interactive cellular services in Asia and
Europe. Features such as streamed 2D graphics, 3D objects, complex animations
and multi-user technologies will attract more subscribers by allowing richer
experiences with more fancy navigation schemes. As an example of future
scenario, when online-games will become very popular, 3D-graphics of the new
multimedia mobile phones allow a bunch of fancy games. Players can join multi-
user games, some use a virtual location as well as the real location in a
funny interactive way
This set of multimedia applications should be foreseen for the Release 5 and
the future releases.
Service Examples
All these service examples could use or be enhanced by PSS.
Infotainment
Video on demand, including TV
Audio on demand, including news, music, etc
Multimedia Travel Guide
Karaoke -- song words change colour to indicate when to sing
Multimedia information services:
• Sports
• News
• Stock quotes
• Traffic
Weather cams -- gives information on other part of country or the world
Edutainment
Distance learning -- video stream of teacher or learning material together
with teacher's voice or audio track.
How to ? service -- manufacturers show how to program the VCR at home
Corporate
Field engineering information -- junior engineer gets access to on line
manuals to show how to repair the central heating system
Surveillance of business premises or private property (real-time and non real-
time)
M-commerce
Multimedia Cinema ticketing application
On line shopping -- product presentations could be streamed to the user and
then the user could buy on line.
#