# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Report (TR) presents the results of the feasibility study on
Multimedia Priority Service. The intent of this feasibility study is to assess
the ability of 3GPP specifications to meet high-level requirements identified
for Multimedia Priority Service. This feasibility study consisted of a multi-
step process, namely:
\- Identify high-level requirements for Multimedia Priority Service.
\- Determine relevant 3GPP specifications for Multimedia Priority Service.
\- Perform a gap analysis to assess the ability of existing 3GPP
specifications to meet the high-level Multimedia Priority Service
requirements.
As defined in this document, Multimedia Priority Service allows qualified and
authorized users to obtain priority access to the next available radio channel
on a priority basis before other PLMN users during situations when PLMN
congestion is blocking session establishment attempts. In addition, Multimedia
Priority Service supports priority sessions an \"end-to-end\" priority basis.
Multimedia Priority Service is intended to be used by qualified and authorized
users, i.e., emergency service personnel, only during times of emergency
situations and network congestion. Access to Multimedia Priority Service is
limited to key personnel and those with leadership responsibilities and is not
intended for use by all emergency service personnel. This is to ensure that
emergency service personnel cannot \"take over\" the network and deny other
non-emergency service subscribers a reasonable level of service.
Multimedia Priority Service providers should adhere to uniform, nationwide
operating access procedures. Multimedia Priority Service can provide
significant benefits for public safety. There may be times during emergencies
when non- Service Users will be unable to obtain access to their wireless
services (because Multimedia Priority Service personnel are using the
channels); nevertheless, the benefits of Multimedia Priority Service outweigh
any inconvenience to non-Service Users.
It is assumed that Multimedia Priority Service will be available at all times
in equipped markets in both the HPLMN and VPLMN within a country where the
PLMN provider is offering the service. The capability for pre-emption could be
supported, with the option to turn it on/off depending on regional
requirements. Multimedia Priority Service is applicable to both GERAN and
UTRAN and is activated on a per session basis using Multimedia Priority
Service procedure described in clause 4.8.
Multimedia Priority Service, supported by the 3GPP system set of services and
features, is one element in the ability to deliver calls of a high priority
nature from mobile to mobile networks, mobile to fixed networks, and fixed to
mobile networks.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report (TR) presents the results of the feasibility study on
Multimedia Priority Service. The intent of this feasibility study is to assess
the ability of 3GPP specifications to meet high-level requirements identified
for Multimedia Priority Service. This feasibility study consisted of a multi-
step process, namely:
\- Identify high-level requirements for Multimedia Priority Service.
\- Determine relevant 3GPP specifications for Multimedia Priority Service.
\- Perform a Gap Analysis to assess the ability of existing 3GPP
specifications to meet the high-level Multimedia Priority Service
requirements.
Additional functionalities not documented in this TR are considered outside
the scope of this TR. Such additional functionality may be on a network-wide
basis, nation-wide basis or particular to a group of users..
The Multimedia Priority Service is intended to be utilised for both Voice and
Data in the Packet-switched (PS) domain and the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS).
The Multimedia Priority Service is intended to interwork with external
networks to provide an end-to-end service. Therefore, service interactions
with external networks are considered within the scope of this document,
although the specification of these interactions may be in other standards. If
this occurs, a reference to that specification is made.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[6] 3GPP TR 22.952: \"Priority Service Guide\".
[7] IETF RFC [4412]: \"Communications Resource Priority for Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
[8] 3GPP TR 22.950: \"Priority Service feasibility study\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Refer to [1] for definitions and abbreviations used in this document that are
not defined below.
## 3.1 Definitions
**Service User** : Subscriber to Multimedia Priority Service
## 3.2 Abbreviations
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
# 4 High-level requirements
The following clauses describe the high-level requirements to support
Multimedia Priority Service. These high-level requirements are used as a basis
for the gap analysis described in Clause 6.
## 4.1 Priority Session origination
A session shall receive priority ingress treatment (priority access to voice
or traffic channels) for session origination, when the session is setup by a
Service User using the multimedia priority service procedure described in
clause 4.8.
## 4.2 Priority Session establishment to called party
A session shall receive priority egress treatment (priority access to voice or
traffic channels) for session delivery to the terminating resource/user (e.g.,
called party), when the session is setup by a Service User using the priority
service procedure described in clause 4.8.
## 4.3 Priority Session progression
The Service User shall receive priority session treatment/progression through
the mobile network(s). A priority session should be given higher priority over
normal sessions in the originating mobile network, the interconnected networks
and the terminating network.
## 4.4 Priority radio resource queuing
Multimedia Priority Service assumes a signalling channel is available.
When a Multimedia Priority Service session encounters a \"no radio available\"
condition in the session path involving an ingress or egress air-interface, or
both, and,
\- at session origination, and upon recognition of the Multimedia Priority
Service code, the Multimedia Priority Service session request is queued in the
cell serving the calling party and processed for the next available radio
channel in that cell in accordance with the caller's priority level and
session initiation time.
\- at session termination upon recognition of a priority session indication in
an incoming session request, the Multimedia Priority Service session request
is queued in the cell serving the called party and processed for the next
available radio channel in that cell in accordance with the session's priority
level and request arrival time.
## 4.5 Priority levels
A Service User shall be assigned one of _n_ priority levels. Priority levels
are defined as 1, 2, 3, ..., _n_ , with 1 being the highest priority level and
_n_ being the lowest priority level.
## 4.6 Invocation on demand
Multimedia Priority Service is invoked only when requested and an idle voice
or traffic channel required for an origination request is not available.
If an idle voice or traffic channel is available when Multimedia Priority
Service is requested, the origination request is allowed to proceed normally
without delay.
Invocation of Multimedia Priority Service at ingress access (origination),
during session progression (end-to-end), or egress access (termination) is
considered complete when one of the following occurs:
\- A radio (voice or traffic) channel is assigned to the session (at
origination or termination),
\- The loss of radio contact or roaming to another PLMN provider's system (at
origination only),
\- The Service User cancels the request,
\- Expiration of the maximum allowed time to hold for the next available radio
(voice or traffic) channel (at origination or termination), or
\- Deletion of the Multimedia Priority Service request due to arrival of a
higher priority request coupled with lack of queue capacity (at origination or
termination).
## 4.7 Applicability to telecommunications services
Multimedia Priority Service shall be applicable to PS-based services.
## 4.8 Multimedia Priority Service code/identifier
Multimedia Priority Service is requested by including the Multimedia Priority
Service code/identifier in the origination request.
## 4.9 Roaming
Multimedia Priority Service shall be able to be supported during roaming when
the roaming network supports Multimedia Priority Service.
## 4.10 Handover
Multimedia Priority Service shall be able to be supported during handover.
## 4.11 Charging
The system should record the following Multimedia Priority Service charging
information, in addition to non- Multimedia Priority Service information:
\- Multimedia Priority Service invocation attempts.
\- Session information (origination and/or termination) on which Multimedia
Priority Service was used to gain access to the radio channel.
\- Recording of appropriate Multimedia Priority Service information (e.g.,
Priority Level).
## 4.12 Queuing requests for bearer resources
Multimedia Priority Service shall be able to support queuing of Multimedia
Priority Service requests for bearer resources. Queuing request provides the
capability to place a Multimedia Priority Service request that has experienced
a congestion condition for bearer resources into a queue associated with the
resource until the resource becomes available or until a maximum queuing time
has expired.
## 4.13 Reversion from UTRAN to RAN
As a service provider option, when resources are congested or not available on
UTRAN, it shall be possible for Multimedia Priority Service calls intended to
be established on UTRAN to revert to RAN. Reversion may occur for ingress or
egress radio access.
# 5 Additional description of multimedia priority service
## 5.1 Priority Session setup/invocation
If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service and sufficient resources
(e.g., a radio (voice or traffic) channel) are available, then session
establishment proceeds in the originating system. The session is given
priority treatment during establishment.
If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service but sufficient resources
(e.g., a radio (voice or traffic) channel) are not available, if the queue for
the resource is not full, then the session request is queued in accordance
with the user's priority level and session request initiation time, until
sufficient resources (e.g., the next available radio (voice or traffic)
channel in the cell) are available. The user should be given an indication
that session establishment is progressing. The network treats the user as
busy, if applicable for the bearer service, while a multimedia priority
session request for the user is queued.
If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service but sufficient resources
(e.g., a radio (voice or traffic) channel) are not available, if the queue for
the resource is full, and if the user's Multimedia Priority Service priority
is higher than one or more Priority Service session requests already in the
queue, then the lowest, most recent session request in the queue is dropped
from the queue. The user's session request is placed in the queue in
accordance with the user's priority level and session request initiation time.
The user should be given an indication that session establishment is
progressing. The network treats the user as busy, if applicable for the bearer
service, while a multimedia priority session request for the user is queued.
When sufficient resources (e.g., a radio (voice or traffic) channel) become
available and are assigned to the session, session establishment proceeds in
the originating system.
It is desirable that if the system changes the resources allocated to a
Service User (e.g., cell handover), then the session establishment should
proceed as if the resources had remained the same (e.g., queue status).
The following indications should be provided to the Service User:
\- Acceptance of a Multimedia Priority Service request.
\- Rejection of a Multimedia Priority Service request.
\- Loss of a pending request (e.g., loss of radio contact and possibly roaming
to another system).
A Multimedia Priority Service session request may be removed from the queue by
the Service User cancelling the request. The session request shall also be
removed by the system, if radio contact is not maintained with the requesting
UE.
## 5.2 Priority session progression
The Multimedia Priority Service session request receives priority treatment
for session establishment to interconnected networks supporting priority.
## 5.3 Priority session establishment to called party
If sufficient resources (e.g., a terminating radio (voice or traffic) channel)
are available, then the session is established with the called party.
If sufficient resources (e.g., a terminating radio (voice or traffic) channel)
are not available and the queue for the resource serving the called party is
not full, then the session request is queued in accordance with the session's
priority level, until sufficient resources (e.g., the next available radio
(voice or traffic) channel in the cell) serving the called party are
available.
If sufficient resources (e.g., a terminating radio (voice or traffic) channel)
are not available, the queue for the resource serving the called party is
full, and the session's priority level is higher than one or more Multimedia
Priority Service session requests in the queue, then the lowest, most recent
session request in the queue is dropped from the queue. The user's session
request is placed in the queue in accordance with the session's priority
level.
When sufficient resources (e.g., a terminating radio (voice or traffic)
channel) become available and are assigned to the session, the session is
established with the called party.
It is desirable that if the system changes the resources allocated to the
called party (e.g., cell handover), then the session establishment should
proceed, as if the resources had remained the same (e.g., queue status).
## 5.4 Exception procedures or unsuccessful outcome
During session establishment, the following exceptions or unsuccessful
outcomes can occur:
\- If a non-Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service, then session
request is not allowed to proceed and the session is dropped.
\- If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service but the UE times out
while the session request is undergoing Multimedia Priority Service queue
processing, then the UE returns to the null state and the session is dropped.
\- If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service, sufficient resources
(e.g., a radio (voice or traffic) channel) are not available, and the queue
for the resource is full, and the user's Multimedia Priority Service priority
is lower than all of the Multimedia Priority Service session requests in the
queue, then the session is dropped.
\- If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service, and is queued for a
resource, but the user loses coverage, then the session request is removed
from the queue and is dropped.
\- If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service, and is queued for a
resource, but the maximum allowed time in queue expires before a resource
becomes available in the cell, then the session request is removed from the
queue and is dropped.
\- If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service, and is queued for a
trunk resource (if applicable for the bearer service), but the user loses
coverage, then the session request is removed from the trunk queue and is
dropped.
\- If a Service User invokes Multimedia Priority Service, and is queued for a
trunk resource (if applicable for the bearer service), but the maximum allowed
time in queue expires before a trunk resource becomes available in the cell,
then the session request is removed from the trunk queue and is dropped.
At session establishment to the Called Party, the following exceptions or
unsuccessful outcomes can occur:
\- If sufficient resources (e.g., a radio (voice or traffic) channel) are not
available and the queue for the cell is full, but the calling party's priority
is lower than all of the Priority Service session requests in the queue, then
the session is not established and the Service User is given an appropriate
indication.
\- If the session request is queued for a resource but the called party's UE
loses coverage, then the session request is removed from the queue and the
Service User is given an appropriate indication.
\- If the session request is queued for a resource but the maximum allowed
time in queue expires before a resource becomes available in the designated
terminating cell, then the session request is removed from the queue and the
Service User is given an appropriate indication.
# 6 Multimedia priority service gap analysis
## 6.1 IP multimedia subsystem (IMS)
IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) is specified in:
\- 3GPP TS 22.228, \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1\" [2].
\- 3GPP TS 23.228, \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\" [3].
\- 3GPP TS 24.229, \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\" [4].
## 6.2 Summary of IMS capabilities
The IMS comprises all 3GPP capabilities and elements for provision of IP
multimedia services. This includes signalling and bearer related capabilities
and network elements as specified in 3GPP TS 23.002 [5].
To achieve access independence and to facilitate interoperation with terminals
across the Internet, the IMS supports protocols based on IETF \"Internet
standards\". For example, IP multimedia services are supported based on an
IETF defined session control capability (i.e., Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)).
The IMS enables PLMN operators to offer their subscribers IP multimedia
services based on and built upon Internet applications, services and
protocols. The IMS is intended to enable the convergence of, and access to,
voice, video, messaging, data and web-based technologies for the wireless
user.
## 6.3 Support for Multimedia Priority Service
The IMS provides a useful set of functions and resources to support Multimedia
Priority Service. 3GPP TS 24.229 [4] specifies IP multimedia session/call
control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP), which apply to Multimedia Priority Service.
IETF RFC [4412] [7], \"Communications Resource Priority for Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\" specifies the protocol and procedures for two SIP header
fields for communicating request for resource priority, namely \"Resource-
Priority\" and \"Accept-Resource- Priority\". The \"Resource-Priority\"
request header field is included in a SIP request to invoke procedures for
prioritized access to resources. The \"Accept-Resource-Priority\" response
header field is included in a SIP response to indicate the resource values
that a SIP user agent server can process.
In addition, IETF RFC [4412] [7] specifies five unique namespaces for
application of the \"Resource-Priority\" and \"Accept-Resource- Priority\"
capability, namely, \"DSN\", \"DRSN\", \"Q735\", \"ETS\" and \"WPS\". The
\"WPS\" namespace is derived from \"Wireless Priority Service\" as described
in GSM/UMTS [3GPP TR 22.952] [6] and other wireless technologies.
Based on this analysis, a gap exists in that 3GPP TS 24.229, v 7.x.y [4] does
not include support for IETF RFC [4412] [7].
IETF RFC [4412] [7] should be considered as one of the possible solutions to
support Multimedia Priority Service.
# 7 Conclusion
The objectives of this feasibility study for Multimedia Priority Service were
to:
> \- Identify high-level requirements for Multimedia Priority Service.
>
> \- Determine relevant 3GPP specifications for Multimedia Priority Service.
>
> \- Perform a Gap Analysis to assess the ability of existing 3GPP
> specifications to meet the high-level Multimedia Priority Service
> requirements.
The following high-level requirements were identified to support Multimedia
Priority Service:
> \- Priority Session Origination,
>
> \- Priority Session Establishment,
>
> \- Priority Session Progression,
>
> \- Priority Radio Resource Queuing,
>
> \- Priority Levels,
>
> \- Invocation on Demand,
>
> \- Applicability to Telecommunications Services,
>
> \- Multimedia Priority Service Code/Identifier,
>
> \- Roaming,
>
> \- Handover,
>
> \- Charging Data Record,
>
> \- Queuing Requests for Bearer Resources,
>
> \- Revision from UTRAN to RAN.
The following primary capabilities were identified to support Multimedia
Priority Service:
> \- IMS,
>
> \- IETF Resource Priority Header.
This Feasibility Study recommends that a new TS be developed to capture the
MPS stage 1 requirements.
###### ### Annex A (informative): Use Cases
**[Overview and assumptions]{.underline}**
3GPP TR 22.950 Priority Service feasibility study [8] and 3GPP TR 22.952
Priority Service Guide [6] describe Priority Service support for circuit
switched voice service. Similar service (both real time and non-real time) is
also required for the non-circuit switched service. The following use cases
are for initial discussion to begin the feasibility study on Multimedia
Priority Service (MPS).
Service Users should be able to initiate MPS in the IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) and should receive priority over other subscribers in the establishment
and completion of a voice call or a data/multimedia session. A Service User
should be able to establish/complete a voice call, initiate/complete a
data/multimedia session, or a combination of both concurrently.
Service Users shall be able to use any IMS Basic Multimedia Service (non-
priority) to which they are subscribed. Should a service disruption occur,
Priority Service voice and data services must be capable of being re-
provisioned, repaired, or restored to required service levels on a priority
basis.
The system should be able to identify Service Users and set a priority
indicator to identify or mark the priority traffic (voice calls or
data/multimedia sessions). There should be procedures and processes to handle
priority service traffic that maintains the end quality of service (QoS) to
support the communication. The types of processes required for MPS include
priority access, priority call set up or session establishment, priority
termination, and exemption from restrictive management controls.
MPS users should be given service regardless of user location or deployment
status. Means by which this may be accomplished include \"follow me\",
functional numbering, call forwarding, or functional directories.
**[User perspective (user interface)]{.underline}**
A user's main interface is a User Equipment (UE). While the UE interface may
be proprietary to the manufacturer, the interaction between the user and the
network should be uniform.
The user should be able to make a priority call and use priority data services
in the IMS, using any UE. Either the network or the UE may support the
authorization function for MPS. If the UE does the authorization, there should
be a user-involved authentication (e.g., Personal Identification Number
(PIN)). The user should not have multiple telephone numbers/Public User
Identities.
There should be a user-friend MMI or invocation mechanism to initiate and
authenticate MPS. MPS users should be able to invoke MPS either as a permanent
subscription or on a per-call/per-session basis. Access can be via the use of
a special code/dialing sequence/URL and/or a PIN.
**[Generic use cases]{.underline}**
The generic requirements for MPS are identical to the generic requirements for
Basic Voice and Multimedia Services. A user should be able to invoke priority
in all IP multimedia applications that are provisioned to support Service
Users in a network. These include, but are not limited to, email, instant
messaging, remote printing, web access, file transfer, broadcast/multicast
video, interactive video, and domain name server (DNS) lookups. Also included
is interworking with existing Priority Service and non-Priority Service voice
and data networks for both fixed (e.g., PSTN, ISDN, internet, etc.) and mobile
users.
The user should be able to make a voice call in a congested area (due to
either increased call volume or infrastructure damage).
The user should be able use data services in a congested area (due to either
increased call volume or infrastructure damage).
The user should be able to send priority and receive priority short messages.
The user should have the ability to reject or accept the message. Again, the
initiator sets the priority level of the session.
The user should be able send/receive e-mail, voice-mail, fax etc.
The user should be able to query on-line databases and make a transaction
(e.g., buy blankets, cots, water, etc).
The user should be able to take video footage of a disaster area and should be
able to transmit this video to a response centre outside the disaster area.
The user is a medical technician and should be able to transmit a digital
picture of a patient's condition to a remote hospital for advice.
**[Detailed use case scenario #1 (initiation of a Single Media
Session)]{.underline}**
As the user attempts to initiate the session, the network recognizes the user
as a Service Users requesting priority service and allocates network resources
to this user first before servicing other non-priority subscribers attempting
to initiate sessions.
If network resources are not immediately available, the network places the
Service Users in queue for the next available resource. The queue is managed
by priority level and (within each level) time of entry into the queue.
The network provides feedback to the Service Users (either tones or short
messages) on the status of their session.
**[Detailed use case scenario #2 (support of Multi-Media
Sessions)]{.underline}**
A Service User is involved in a single media session (i.e., involved in a
video-teleconference) and also needs to send an SMS to a different
destination. Bandwidth is limited in the congested area, so the Service User
lowers the QoS and bandwidth requirements on the video-teleconference so that
the SMS capability is supported. After transmission of the SMS, the QoS and
bandwidth requirements are restored to their initial settings.
**[Detailed use case scenario #3 (interworking with other
services)]{.underline}**
A Service User desires to make a voice call to a (circuit switched)
subscriber. The Service User initiates a voice session and the priority
information is used for mobile origination and is passed to the circuit-
switched domain for the session.
A (circuit-switched) Priority Service subscriber desires to make a voice call
to a Service User. The priority information of the originator is passed to the
MPS domain and the priority level is available for use, if needed, to complete
the voice call.
The same treatment is expected in the U.S., if a legacy PSTN priority call
(i.e., from a Government Emergency Telecommunications Service (GETS)
subscriber) is calling into the MPS network.
A Service User desires to make a priority international voice call (assuming
the Service User is authorized to make an International Emergency Preference
Scheme (IEPS) call and there are network operator agreements to support this).
The Service User initiates a voice session and the appropriate priority
information (e.g., IEPS calling party's category marker) is passed to the
circuit-switched domain for the session.
A MPS subscriber desires to make a priority international multimedia session
(several assumptions here: that there is a recognized International Emergency
Multimedia Service (IEMS) defined by the ITU, that the MPS subscriber is
authorized to use the IEMS service, and there are network operator agreements
to support this). The MPS subscriber initiates the requested session and the
appropriate priority information is passed across the international networks
to the terminating network for the session.
**[Detailed use case scenario #4 (termination of Multimedia
Sessions)]{.underline}**
If possible, the priority service subscriber will be available for other types
of media sessions while awaiting the completion of an initiated session. If
the UE can only handle a single session, the user needs to receive an
overriding indication of an incoming communication so the user can determine
which session with which to continue. The destination could then suspend non-
emergency communications to free resources for the incoming emergency
communication. If pre-emption were an option, non-emergency communications to
the destination could be terminated. Should the destination have
\"communication forwarding\" initiated, the network should then continue to
reroute and process the emergency communication with preferential treatment to
the new destination.
**[Detailed use case scenario #5 (Initiation of a Voice over IP (VoIP)
session)]{.underline}**
As the Service User attempts to initiate a VoIP session, the network
recognizes the user as a Priority Service subscriber requesting priority
service and allocates network resources to this user first before servicing
other non-priority subscribers attempting to initiate sessions.
If network resources are not immediately available, the network places the
VoIP session request in queue for the next available resource. The queue is
managed by priority level and (within each level) time of entry into the
queue.
The network provides feedback to the Service User (either tones or short
messages) on the status of the session request.
Priority information associated with the VoIP session is conveyed end-to-end
to be used for the mobile termination portion of the session, if applicable.
**[Detailed use case scenario #6 (Initiation of a Push to talk Over Cellular
(POC) session)]{.underline}**
As the Service User attempts to initiate a POC session, the network recognizes
the user as a Priority Service subscriber requesting priority service and
allocates network resources to this user first before servicing other non-
priority subscribers attempting to initiate sessions.
If network resources are not immediately available, the network places the POC
session request in queue for the next available resource. The queue is managed
by priority level and (within each level) time of entry into the queue.
The network provides feedback to the Service User (either tones or short
messages) on the status of the session request.
Priority information associated with the POC session is conveyed end-to-end to
be used for the Mobile Termination portion of the session, if applicable.
#