# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
During 2004 a number of discussions were held between the Commission for the
European Communities (CEC), the automotive industry, the telecommunication
industry and ETSI standards groups regarding the provisioning of in-vehicle
emergency calls. This initiative was called **_eSafety_**. As part of this
initiative, **_eCall_** was defined as a specific item in the scope of the
eSafety initiative. **_eCall_** is intended to extend the current E112
capabilities to enable the Transferring of eCall data between the Vehicle and
the Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs).
# 1 Scope
The present document examines the issues associated with the transmission of
Emergency Call Data from a vehicle to a Public Service Access Point (PSAP).
Issues associated with the content of the Emergency Call Data or the triggers
of the Emergency Calls are outside the scope of this document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.048: \"Security mechanisms for the (U)SIM application toolkit;
Stage 2\".
[3] Overview of available studies on proven or assessed benefits of e-Call
http://www.escope.info/download/socio_economic_studies/papersocioeconomicstudy.pdf
[4] A Pan European Automatic Emergency Call (eCall):
http://www.escope.info/download/related_projects/A_Pan_European_eCall__v1_1.pdf
[5] COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION of 25 July 2003 on the processing of caller
location information in electronic communication networks for the purpose of
location-enhanced emergency call services;
http://www.escope.info/download/ecall_toolbox/Location_enhanced.pdf
[6] GSME Position Paper on eCall, 18 November 2005
http://www.gsmworld.com/gsmeurope/documents/positions/2005/GSME%20Position%20paper%20on%20eCall_181105.pdf
:
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and 3GPP TR 21.905 [1]
apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACEA European Automobile Manufacturers Association
CEC Commission of the European Communities
CEPT Conference of European Telecommunications Administrations
DG Directorate-General
GSME GSM Europe
EC European Commission
ECC Electronic Communications Committee
eCall Emergency Call defined under the eSafety initiative
eCall function The functionality supporting the generation of the emergency
call with MSD
ERO European Radiocommunications Office
ERTICO-ITS A multi-sector, public/private partnership pursuing the development
and deployment of Intelligent Transport Systems and Services (ITS).
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HMI Human-Machine Interface
ITS Intelligent Transport Systems and Services
IVS In Vehicle System
MSD Minimum Set of incident Data
MSG (ETSI TC) Mobile Standards Group
PSAP Public Service Answering Point
SA1 Working Group 1 (\"Services\") of 3GPP Technical Specification Group
\"Services and System Aspects;\"
SIM Subscriber Identity Module
TC Technical Committee
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
VIN Vehicle Identity Number
Further abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 European region
During 2004 a number of discussions were held between the Commission for the
European Communities (CEC), the automotive industry, the telecommunication
industry and ETSI standards groups regarding the provisioning of in-vehicle
emergency calls. Based on initial discussions, a joint initiative of the CEC
(DG Enterp and DG InfoSoc), industry and other stakeholders was defined which
aims to accelerate the development, deployment and use of Intelligent
Integrated Safety Systems that use information and communication technologies
in intelligent solutions, in order to increase road safety and reduce the
number of accidents on Europe\'s roads. This initiative was called
**_eSafety_**.
As part of this initiative, **_eCall_** was defined as a specific item in the
scope of the eSafety initiative. It is intended to extend the current E112
capabilities to enable the Transferring of eCall data between the Vehicle and
the Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) (see ref [4] for details). This
should rely on existing GSM/UMTS infrastructure.
As a result, the CEC has published Commission Recommendation on the processing
of caller location information for the purpose of location-enhanced emergency
call services (adopted by the Commission in June 2003, ref [5]). This
recommendation includes a reference (paragraph 8) the evolution of the E112
service to include the functionality provided by eCall. At this time, there is
no directive, but this has not been ruled out.
### 4.1.1 Agencies and initiatives within Europe
The European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA), represents the 13
major car, truck and bus manufacturers in the EU.
The Electronic Communications Committee (ECC) develops a common European
position and policies on Communications matters. ECC reports to CEPT on
progress. It also maintains close cooperation and consultation with relevant
European bodies, in particular the European Commission and the European Free
Trade Association.
The European Radiocommunications Office (ERO) is the focal point for new
possibilities in the radio- and telecommunications fields and advisor to the
ECC.
The ERTICO-ITS is a multi-sector, public/private partnership pursuing the
development and deployment of Intelligent Transport Systems and Services
(ITS).
eSafety is a European initiative to accelerate the use of Intelligent
Integrated Safety Systems to reduce the number of accidents on European roads
eCall is an emergency call defined under the eSafety initiative and it extends
the E112 capabilities to transfer of data between vehicle and PSAP.
GSM Europe, an interest group representing 147 mobile operators in 50
countries/areas across Europe, has published a paper setting out GSM Europe's
position on the European Commission's eCall initiative. See Ref [6].
### 4.1.2 Requirements received from European bodies
The following requirements are identified in a Liaison Statement received from
ETSI MSG.
\- To send a fixed data block (MSD, Minimum Set of Data), which will not
exceed 140 bytes, from the vehicle to the PSAP, at the same time that the
emergency call is placed.
\- The data needs to be acknowledged, hence there shall be return channel.
\- The voice call need not be active during the transmission of the data
\- The MSD shall be delivered to the interface to the PSAP within a maximum of
4 seconds from when the MSD is available in the terminal.
\- The acknowledgement shall be done at the transport layers and not the
application layers, so that the system is compatible with a PSAP that has not
yet implemented the eCall functionality.
\- The terminal shall be dual mode GSM/GPRS and UMTS (WCDMA) in order to
ensure full European coverage during the lifetime of the car.
\- The solution shall seek minimal impact on all nodes involved in the
transfer of information, that is, in the mobile network and the fixed network
possibly used between the mobile network and the PSAP node.
\- 3GPP should aim at including any required specification changes within the
3GPP Release 7 set of specifications.
\- The solution shall work on all European 3GPP networks (pan European
solution, full roaming capability)
\- SIM/USIM shall be present owing to the fact that the SIM/USIM presence is
already mandatory is several EU countries for Emergency Calls.
\- The eCall MSD is to be provided to the PSAP in addition to the location and
other information associated with an E112 call as currently specified in 3GPP
Technical Specifications.
\- Normal E112 functionality shall be available in the event of failure of the
eCall function.
\- Supported by IP Multimedia Subsystem and UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
Network and Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
\- Solution should require minimal changes to 3GPP Technical Specifications
for a satisfactory design
\- Include facility to disable MS ISDN and/or SIM/USIM when vehicle is
deregistered or destroyed
As an additional Clarification the source of the information in the MSD will
be the vehicle, the content and the method for obtaining this information is
outside of the scope of this study. The mobile network will simply provide
means of transferring the data. Other aspects of Emergency calls are not
expected to be modified.
## 4.2 Emergency Call Data requirements from other regions
No requirements for standardisation of similar emergency call data generation
have been identified from regions outside of Europe.
It is noted that a commercial system that provides a similar service to eCall
is already operational in the USA.
# 5 Security considerations
The data transferred from the vehicle to the PSAP should be secured using 3GPP
TS 23.048 [2] security structure.
# 6 Discussion of requirements identified
The following section discusses issues arising from the requirements that SA1
has identified.
## 6.1 Issues arising from requirements from ETSI TC MSG
### 6.1.1 Response time of eCall
ETSI MSG requires that the MSD shall be available for the PSAP operator within
a maximum of 4 seconds from sending the MSD from the IVS.
**Issue:**
The start and end point of the 4second requirement requires further
definition.
An end to end response time is defined. The response time of the mobile
communication system, for which 3GPP is responsible, within the overall time
is not defined and therefore for further study.
Does the 4 seconds start before or after the eCall mobile has performed a scan
for the strongest channel? Typically this scan exceeds 4 seconds by a
significant margin. If the 4 seconds starts at the point the vehicle detects a
crash then a special mode of operation needs to be defined. Is the 4 seconds a
target or a hard limit imposed by requirements elsewhere in the system?
**Resolution:**
The time is measured from the time when transmission of the MSD from the
vehicle commences to the time when the MSD delivery to the PSAP is complete.
The 4 seconds should be regarded as a target time.
### 6.1.2 Compatibility with older PSAPs
ETSI MSG requires that the acknowledgement shall be done at the transport
layers and not the application layers, so that the system is compatible with a
PSAP that has not yet implemented the eCall functionality.
**Deduction:**
This implies that eCall should be based on Circuit Switched rather than Packet
Switched calls.
### 6.1.3 Full European coverage for lifetime of cars
ETSI MSG requires that the terminal shall be dual mode GSM/GPRS and UMTS
(WCDMA) in order to ensure full European coverage during the lifetime of the
car.
**Deduction:**
There is currently no definition for PS emergency call. Circuit switch call
advisable.
### 6.1.4 Completion timescale
ETSI MSG requires that 3GPP should aim at finishing the specification by
December 2005.
**Issue:**
3GPP work groups are structured around a 3 monthly cycle. Release 6 and
earlier standards sets are frozen for new requirements. Release 7 requirements
are about to be frozen.
**Deduction:**
eCall must be designed to require no changes to existing 3GPP standards.
**Resolution:**
LS M05-056 from ETSI TC MSG clarified that MSG requests \"Minimal changes to
3GPP Technical Specifications for a satisfactory design\" and any required
changes to be included in 3GPP Release 7 Specifications.
### 6.1.5 Roaming
ETSI MSG requires that the solution shall work on all European GSM/3G networks
(pan European solution, full roaming capability)
**Issue:**
Currently, Europe is the only region requiring this functionality. How should
an eCall mobile behave when roaming in an operator that does not support
eCall?
**Resolution:**
In the event that an eCall fails then the mobile should fall back to a normal
Enhanced Emergency Call (e.g. E112).
### 6.1.6 SIM / USIM requirement
ETSI MSG require that SIM/USIM shall be present owing to the fact that the
SIM/USIM presence is already mandatory is several EU countries for Emergency
Calls.
**Comment:**
3GPP have standardised protocols that enable emergency calls to be made with
and without a SIM/USIM. Whether or not a SIM/USIM is required for emergency
calls (and the associated commercial issues) is a matter for local
legislation/agreement.
ETSI MSG requires the ability to disable the MS ISDN and/or SIM/USIM when the
vehicle is deregistered or destroyed.
### 6.1.7 Network loading
The eCall mobile cannot be allowed to generate traffic on the network until an
emergency situation is detected.
### 6.1.8 Other considerations
#### 6.1.8.1 Choice of how to send the data
UUS, USSD, SMS, in band modem etc, are services that have been suggested for
eCall. Note that supplementary services do not currently apply to emergency
calls.
SA1 is not the appropriate forum to select the most appropriate channel for
the eCall data.
#### 6.1.8.2 Location information
**Issue;**
SA1 understand that the eCall data is intended to supplement a normal E112
emergency call. Increasingly, Operators are required to deliver location
information when delivering emergency calls. It is understood that the eCall
system will deliver location information generated by in-car systems. Does
that mean that the operator is exempt from the requirement to deliver Location
Information for eCall E112 emergency calls?
**Clarification;**
ETSI MSG have clarified that eCall MSD is to be delivered in addition to the
Location Information required to accompany an E112 emergency call. In the
event of failure of an eCall, full E112 functionality is to be provided.
#### 6.1.8.3 Call release
**Deduction:**
Once an eCall is established it can only be released by the PSAP operator.
#### 6.1.8.4 Test eCall
The requirement to easily ascertain that a vehicle eCall system is working
correctly by including the ability to initiate a test eCall to a Test PSAP has
been requested. This could be manually or automatically initiated. See use
case 7.6
**Comment;**
Requires the definition of appropriate eCall test number.
This may be difficult to achieve without a USIM present. USIM less test calls
cannot be made other than to an emergency number. Might be resolved with a
dedicated test box at every test station.
# 7 Use cases
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc217731287 .anchor}7.1 Automatic eCall, the driver is
able to speak
Within this use case the driver does not have a subscription to a SP and can
thus not obtain the benefits from making the additional data available for the
PSAPs together with the possibility for establishing language support.
### 7.1.1 Initialisation
The service starts with:
A vehicle crash occurs and a minimum of 2 critical sensors is activated which
causes the IVS unit to begin automatic an emergency sequence.
### 7.1.2 Sequence overview
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="6.540972222222222in"}
### 7.1.3 Sequence of events
> 1) Emergency service sequence initiated automatically via a minimum of 2
> critical sensors. (E.g. airbag and roll over).
>
> 2) Minimum set of data is sent via the Telecom operator to the PSAP.
>
> 3) A voice call is established between the vehicle and the PSAP.
>
> 4) An acknowledgement for receipt of the minimum set of data is sent to the
> vehicle via the Telecom operator from the PSAP system.
>
> 5) The PSAP answers the voice call.
>
> 6) The PSAP communicates with the vehicle driver.
>
> 7) The PSAP get the minimum set of data (could be before 5).
>
> 8) The PSAP visualises the minimum set of data.
>
> 9) The PSAP dispatches Emergency Assistance.
>
> 10) SP ID is not given in the minimum set of data (SP ID not given in the
> MSD as no subscription to a SP exists). No additional data is available.
>
> 11) The PSAP hangs up the voice call.
>
> 12) The IVS ends the emergency service sequence.
## 7.2 Automatic eCall, silent call.
In this case the PSAP operator cannot get in voice contact with the vehicle
driver. The nature of the emergency has to be determined based on the minimum
set of data.
### 7.2.1 Initialisation
The service starts with:
A vehicle crash occurs and a minimum of 2 critical sensors is activated which
causes the IVS unit to begin an automatic emergency sequence.
### 7.2.2 Sequence overview
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="6.597222222222222in"}
### 7.2.3 Sequence of events
> 1) Emergency service sequence initiated automatically via a minimum of 2
> critical sensors. (E.g. airbag and roll over).
>
> 2) Minimum set of data is sent via the Telecom operator to the PSAP.
>
> 3) A voice call is established between the vehicle and the PSAP.
>
> 4) An acknowledgement for the receiving of the minimum set of data is sent
> to the vehicle via the Telecom operator from the PSAP.
>
> 5) The PSAP answers the voice call.
>
> 6) The PSAP cannot hear the driver (silent call).
>
> 7) The PSAP pull or get the minimum set of GSM location data from the
> telecom operator location database.
>
> 8) The PSAP visualises the minimum set of data.
>
> 9) The PSAP dispatches Emergency Assistance, based only on the minimum set
> of data. The PSAP or EA may decide that there is no emergency.
>
> 10) SP ID is not given in the minimum set of data (SP ID not given in the
> MSD as no subscription to a SP exists). No additional data is available.
>
> 11) The PSAP hangs up the voice call.
>
> 12) The IVS ends the emergency service sequence.
## 7.3 Manual eCall, driver is able to speak
The service is activated by manually pressing the SOS button. The IVS unit
formulates a minimum set of data message to the PSAP. A voice call is
established to the PSAP allowing the PSAP representative to communicate with
the driver of the vehicle. The nature of the emergency is determined and the
PSAP representative contacts the appropriate Emergency Authority to request
timely assistance for the driver of the vehicle. The emergency service is time
and mission critical.
### 7.3.1 Initialisation
The service starts with:
The vehicle driver presses the SOS button, which causes the IVS unit to begin
an automatic emergency sequence.
### 7.3.2 Sequence overview
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="6.540972222222222in"}
### 7.3.3 Sequence of events
> 1) Emergency service initiated by the vehicle driver manually pressing the
> SOS button.
>
> 2) Minimum set of data is sent via the Telecom operator in the voice channel
> to the PSAP.
>
> 3) A voice call is established between the vehicle and the PSAP.
>
> 4) An acknowledgement for the receiving of the minimum set of data is sent
> to the vehicle via the Telecom operator from the PSAP.
>
> 5) The PSAP answers the voice call.
>
> 6) The PSAP communicates with the vehicle driver.
>
> 7) The PSAP pull or get the minimum set of GSM location data from the
> telecom location database.
>
> 8) The PSAP visualises the minimum set of data.
>
> 9) The PSAP dispatches Emergency Assistance.
>
> 10) SP ID is not given in the minimum set of data (SP ID not given in the
> MSD as no subscription to a SP exists). No additional data is available.
>
> 11) The PSAP hangs up the voice call.
>
> 12) The IVS ends the emergency service sequence.
## 7.4 Manual eCall, silent call
In this case the PSAP operator cannot get in voice contact with the Vehicle
driver. The nature of the emergency has to be determined based on the minimum
set of data.
### 7.4.1 Initialisation
The service starts with:
The vehicle driver presses the SOS button, which causes the IVS unit to begin
an automatic emergency sequence.
### 7.4.2 Sequence overview
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="6.579166666666667in"}
### 7.4.3 Sequence of events
> 1) Emergency service initiated by the vehicle driver manually pressing the
> SOS button.
>
> 2) Minimum set of data is sent via the Telecom operator in the voice channel
> to the PSAP.
>
> 3) A voice call is established between the vehicle and the PSAP.
>
> 4) An acknowledgement for the receiving of the minimum set of data is sent
> to the vehicle via the Telecom operator, from the PSAP.
>
> 5) The PSAP answers the voice call.
>
> 6) The PSAP cannot hear the driver (silent call).
>
> 7) The PSAP pull or get the minimum set of GSM location data from the
> telecom operator location database.
>
> 8) The PSAP visualises the minimum set of data.
>
> 9) The PSAP dispatches Emergency Assistance, based only on the minimum set
> of data. The PSAP or EA may decide that there is no emergency.
>
> 10) SP ID is not given in the minimum set of data (SP ID not given in the
> MSD as no subscription to a SP exists). No additional data is available.
>
> 11) The PSAP hangs up the voice call.
>
> 12) The IVS ends the emergency service sequence.
## 7.5 False eCall
This use case deals with the internal malfunction of the IVS, which triggers
an eCall where no emergency situation exists.
Malfunctions that lead to a false call is not necessarily only based on an IVS
unit malfunctioning but in addition on the possibility of a deliberate or
accidental false activation of the IVS unit by a person within the vehicle.
Note: Operators, in consultation with their national regulatory authorities,
should develop their own protocols to allow the PSAP to disconnect the call if
they are convinced that there is no emergency situation. Accidental activation
could be minimised by the utilization of effective HMI for the location of the
in-vehicle push button.
### 7.5.1 Initialisation
Critical sensors on a Vehicle create a false activation, which causes a
request to the IVS unit to begin an automatic emergency sequence.
### 7.5.2 Sequence overview
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.95625in"}
### 7.5.3 Sequence of events
> 1) Critical sensors in a Vehicle create a false activation, which causes a
> request to the IVS unit to begin an emergency sequence.
>
> 2) Minimum set of data is sent via the Telecom operator in the voice channel
> to the PSAP.
>
> 3) A voice call is established between the vehicle and the PSAP.
>
> 4) An acknowledgement for the receiving of the minimum set of data is sent
> to the vehicle via the Telecom operator, from the PSAP.
>
> 5) The PSAP answers the voice call.
>
> 6) The PSAP communicates with the vehicle driver.
>
> 7) No incident, the PSAP hangs up the voice call.
## 7.6 Test eCall
This use case deals with the testing of an eCall IVS to ensure that it is
capable of making an eCall.
A test eCall may be initiated by a vehicle tester designated under national
legislation or other competent person as required. A test eCall must always be
made to the designated Test PSAP. The purpose of the test is to confirm that
the IVS is capable of correctly sending the MSD to the Test PSAP and then,
according to the capability of the IVS, providing a voice circuit to enable
the test PSAP to talk to the Tester.
Note: It is assumed that a regional standard number will be established for
the purpose of testing eCall equipment.
### 7.6.1 Initialisation
Tester initiates a Test Call.
### 7.6.2 Sequence overview
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.95625in"}
### 7.6.3 Sequence of events
> 1) Tester initiates a Test eCall, which causes a request to the IVS unit to
> begin a test call sequence.
>
> 2) Minimum set of data (indicating it is a test) is sent via the Telecom
> operator in the voice channel to the Test PSAP.
>
> 3) A voice call is established between the vehicle and the Test PSAP.
>
> 4) An acknowledgement for the receiving of the minimum set of data is sent
> to the vehicle via the Telecom operator, from the Test PSAP.
>
> 5) The Test PSAP answers the voice call.
>
> 6) The Test PSAP communicates with the tester.
>
> 7) Test complete, the Test PSAP hangs up the voice call.
# 8 Recommendations
## 8.1 Service definition
eCall is Teleservice 12 (E112) enhanced with a means to transmit data
generated by an In Vehicle System (IVS) to the PSAP terminating the post crash
emergency call.
The length of the minimum data set to be delivered, referred to as the MSD,
will not exceed 140 bytes.
Optionally, the Full Set of Data (FSD) may be conveyed, length of the FSD is
currently undefined.
## 8\. 2 Data transmission method
The following needs to be taken into account when choosing how to transmit the
data.
\- Delay limitation.
\- Minimize impact on network
\- Minimise additional equipment needed in vehicle
\- Minimise additional equipment needed in PSAP
\- Ensure robustness of channel (low message error rate)
\- MSD delivery should be acknowledged to the IVS
\- Appropriate error handling should be provided
\- If the MSD is lost or otherwise undelivered, the emergency call should
still connect
\- Synchronisation of the MSD with the voice call
\- Delivery of the MSD to the same PSAP as the voice call
\- Avoid interruption of the voice call when sending data
\- Support the required MSD size (140 bytes) efficiently
Note: GSME are currently analysing which method should be used to send the
data from the vehicle to the PSAP. Work on any necessary standardisation
should not be commenced until GSME have reported on the outcome of this work.
## 8.3 Data transmission time
The target time for delivery of the MSD is 4 seconds. This time is measured
from the time when transmission of the MSD from the vehicle commences to the
time when the MSD delivery to the PSAP is complete.
## 8.4 Network control traffic
The eCall function may not access the network for any reason, including
registration, location update, etc., unless the IVS initiates an emergency
call for a valid reason (automatically initiated or manually initiated). The
expectation is that the IVS will be powered up and continuously monitor the
radio environment but will not connect to the network until the emergency call
is initiated.
## 8.4 USIM requirement
The Teleservice 12 requirement to make the call with or without the USIM
present applies equally to eCall.
### 8.4.1 PSAP to call back
Need to enable a PSAP to return the call to an IVS that made a USIM-less
eCall.
# 9 Considerations
## 9.1 USIM / No USIM
SA1 has chosen to standardise eCall based on Teleservice 12 which supports
emergency calls with and without a USIM present. Whether eCall should, or
should not require a USIM card is an issue that should be resolved at a
regional or national level. Issues that should be considered when determining
whether a USIM should, or should not, be required for an eCall are detailed in
this section.
### 9.1.1 No USIM
Teleservice 12 is standardised to allow an emergency call to be made without a
USIM present. If a means to transmit the MSD is provided with Teleservice 12
then an eCall can be made without a USIM present.
#### 9.1.1.1 MSD/VIN Authenticates User
The In Vehicle System is aware of the VIN which is included as part of the
MSD. The VIN might be used to uniquely identify the origin of the eCall.
#### 9.1.1.2 Roaming Issues
eCalls will only be supported where emergency USIM-less calls are supported.
### 9.1.2 UICC
The eCall UICC installed in the vehicle must meet automotive specifications.
Further consideration may be given to a semi-permanently installed eCall UICC
for the new emergency voice/data service because
\- there is no requirement for the UICC to be transferable between vehicles.
\- The origin of the call could be uniquely identified by the PSAP using the
VIN information contained in the MSD
\- It is desirable for the UICC to be difficult to be removed or replaced by
unauthorised personnel
#### 9.1.2.1 Disposal/Cancellation when vehicle is disposed of.
Appropriate arrangements need to be put in place to enable the operator to be
informed when a vehicle containing an eCall IVS is disposed of so that the
subscription can be cancelled.
## 9.2 Implementation factors
The new emergency voice/data service will be direct from vehicle to PSAP
confirmed (i.e. no intermediate service provider or agency).
The equipment and transceiver for the new emergency voice/data service is
expected to be \"embedded\" in the vehicle. A \"nomadic\" solution, whereby a
vehicle occupant's UE is connected via a short range communication link such
as Bluetooth to the IVS, will not be sufficiently reliable because
\- It relies on an occupant of the vehicle having a Bluetooth enabled UE
switched on and paired to the IVS
\- The UE may be outside Bluetooth range of the vehicle after an accident
\- Vehicle mounted antennae will provide better coverage in rural areas where
the new emergency voice/data service is most effective at saving lives.
\- Bluetooth provides an opportunity to spread viruses
## 9.3 eCall test call
The realisation of the use case given in section 7.6 represents a dilemma. By
definition, Teleservice 12 only generates emergency calls to specific, PSAP
destinations. Test calls using the emergency call procedures can only be made
to the designated emergency numbers. An eCall to a number other than the
designated emergency numbers will require a USIM and cannot use Teleservice
12. Services other than Teleservice 12 will have no method to convey the data
with the voice call defined.
In order to provide a representative test mechanism, either PSAPs must accept
some sort of eCall test sequence, otherwise the test centre must use some form
of test equipment that avoids the eCall IVS making a live call. Such decisions
are outside the scope of 3GPP.
## 9.4 National border issues
As a result of normal radio propagation effects eCall may not be routed to the
correct PSAP.
Use Case:
> In a national boundary area between country A and country B there will be
> areas in country A where the strongest signal received will be generated by
> operators of country B. This will cause eCall mobiles in this area to
> contact the PSAP in country B rather than the correct PSAP in country A.
This effect must be allowed for when the emergency services are being planned.
The roaming issue identified in the paragraph below may apply to this cross
border issue as well.
## 9.5 Roaming issue
The issue of USIM/No USIM is resolved on a national or regional basis
Use Case
> Country A does not require a USIM for an eCall while the authorities in
> Country B mandate that a USIM must be present for eCall. If a vehicle from
> Country A drives into Country B and has an accident, an eCall will not be
> accepted owing to the lack of a USIM.
Non 3GPP European Networks
> It is noted that there are some CDMA public telecommunication networks
> within Europe. These are outside the scope of 3GPP.
# 10 Conclusion
Following approval of this TR, and the availability of the report from GSME on
the Operators\' preferred method of implementation, Work Items can be
established in the appropriate working groups to complete any standardisation
work required.
###### ### Annex A: CRs and LSs associated with the eCall investigation
# A.1 Change Requests associated with this TR
* * *
**Date** **TSG Doc.** **CR** **Rev** **Subject/Comment**
* * *
# A.2 Liaison Statements associated with this eCall investigation
* * *
**Date** **From/To** **Doc.Ref** **Subject/Comment** 2005-07 **ETSI TC MSG**
S1-050786 Liaison Statement on eCall requirements 2005-11 **ETSI TC MSG**
S1-060018 Clarifications on eCall Requirements (M05-056)
* * *
#