# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In addition to reusing the IMS system as defined by 3GPP, TISPAN is defining
an IMS based Multimedia Telephony service, which is an evolution of the CS
based Telephony service provided by traditional ISDNs and PSTNs [2].
A similar service, defined by 3GPP, is needed for wireless access to IMS, in
order to be able to define services to the end-users, and to support
interoperability in multi-vendor and multi-operator environment and to provide
the user with the same experience across the different IP based accesses and
domains
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report defines the IMS Multimedia Telephony service and
associated supplementary services for IMS. It aims to take account and build
on the IMS capabilities already provided in 3GPP Release 5 and Release 6.
The objective is to define the minimum set of capabilities required in the IP
Multimedia Subsystem to secure multi-vendor and multi-operator inter-
operability for the IMS Multimedia Telephony service and related Supplementary
Services.
Close cooperation shall be sought with TISPAN. TISPAN requirements, as
captured in [2], will be taken into account, and referred to where
appropriate.
While the user experience for the IMS Multimedia Telephony service is expected
to have some similarity to existing telephony services, the richer
capabilities of IMS will be exploited.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI TS 181 002: \" Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Multimedia Telephony with
PSTN/ISDN simulation services\", version 1.1.1.
[3] ETSI TS 181 001: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Videotelephony over NGN; Stage 1
service description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TR 23.816: \"Identification of communication services in IMS\".
Note: Reference [5] is an internal report to 3GPP, available via\
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/23816.htm
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
(none)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
(none)
# 4 Service description
## 4.1 General service characteristics
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service should allow multimedia conversational
communications between two or more users. It provides real time bidirectional
conversational transfer of speech, video or optionally other types of data.
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service is point to point between terminals
communicating , or a terminal and a network entity. This communication is
usually symmetrical, but in special cases the media components present in each
direction may be different, or they may be the same but with different bit
rates and Quality of Service.
An IMS Multimedia Telephony service can start with only one type of media and
additional types of media may or may not be added by the users as the
communication progress. Therefore a particular IMS Multimedia Telephony
service may consist of only one type of media, e.g. speech.
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service is different from other IMS based
services, such as Push to Talk over Cellular (PoC).\ Its characteristics
includes the following:
\- IMS Multimedia Telephony is a service where speech, and speech combined
with other media components, is the typical usage but the service is not
limited to always include speech, it also caters for other media or
combinations of media (e.g. text and video).
\- The IMS Multimedia Telephony service includes supplementary services. The
behaviour of supplementary services is almost identical to supplementary
services for CS voice (TS 11)
Note: Most supplementary services are active in the set-up phase. Mid session
supplementary services such as session transfer and session hold exist.
\- The anticipated usage model is that of traditional telephony: one user
connecting to any other user, regardless of operator and access technology..
## 4.2 Default media handling capabilities of the IMS Multimedia Telephony
service
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service can support many different types of media
and the default set of capabilities include the following:
\- Full duplex speech
\- Real time video (simplex, full duplex), synchronized with speech if
present.
\- Text communication
\- File transfer,
\- Video clip sharing, picture sharing, audio clip sharing. Transferred files
may be displayed/replayed on receiving terminal for specified file formats.
At least one common standardized format (e.g. JPEG, AMR) shall be supported
per media type.
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service should at least support the following
handling of media
\- Adding and removing individual media to/from a IMS Multimedia Telephony
communication
# 5 Service requirements
General service requirements as specified for IMS services in [4] apply.
# 6 Quality of Service (QoS)
General QoS requirements as specified for IMS services in [4] apply.
# 7 Interworking considerations
## 7.1 Interworking with CS domain
Standardisation of interworking between the IMS domain and the CS domain for
multimedia telephony communications is provided as specified in [4].
## 7.2 Interworking with external networks
General interworking requirements with external networks as specified for IMS
services in [4] apply.
# 8 Supplementary services
## 8.1 Background
### 8.1.1 General considerations on supplementary services in IMS
With the specification of the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS see [4]) 3GPP has
created a basis for flexible deployment of a multitude of IP based services.
In contrast to GSM, which defined a set of bearer- and teleservices that were
complemented by a number of supplementary services, 3GPP did not pursue that
but rather specified \"IP multimedia sessions\" within the concept of IMS.
### 8.1.2 IMS services
An \"IP multimedia session\" could carry any combination of media (voice,
video, text ...) and the services, that make use of these IMS sessions, need
not be standardised. However, in the last years non-3GPP standardisation
bodies like the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) have created standards for several
IMS based services (e.g. PoC, \"Presence Simple\" and others)\ The user
primarily distinguishes, understands and experiences these services, not the
sessions therein. For example, PoC may set up a session, that transports voice
in just the same way as a IMS Multimedia Telephony service would, but for the
user these are two different services.
### 8.1.3 Supplementary services
The user may handle supplementary services to the examples given above
differently (e.g. he may choose to hide his identity in the PoC chat group
while still providing it in a IP Multimedia telephone call).\ In IMS
supplementary services apply to individual services. An IMS service -- at
least in this respect -- can roughly be considered as the analogoue to the
bearer- or teleservices of GSM.\ Note: To be able to apply a supplementary
service to individual IMS services these services need to be identifiable.
Currently SA2 is working on this task (see [5]).
A single supplementary service, when applied to two different IMS services,
may not only have different user-settings, as in the example above, but even
may have different service behaviour. For example when forwarding is applied
to an IMS service, that mimics a voice call, then activating the forwarding
would simply forward the call to the intended destination. But when forwarding
is applied to a different, more complex multimedia service, the user may be
able to e.g. only forward the video part to a different destination (e.g. his
PDA, that has a bigger screen or to a recording device) and keep the speech
part on his telephone.
For the reasons described above we can not hope to be able to define
supplementary services, that can \'generically\' be applied to IMS services.
### 8.1.4 \'Building blocks\' of supplementary services
The approach taken in 3GPP is that IMS provides \'building blocks\' such that
supplementary services for a particular IMS service can be constructed from
these building blocks.\ Staying with the last example we could e.g. define a
building block that forwards the speech (or video) component of a IMS service
to a different terminal. Ideally, such a building block would be (re-)usable
for any IMS service.
In the following sections it is analyzed, whether these \'building blocks\'
are sufficient for the purpose of providing the Supplementary Services, listed
in [2] and [3] to the IMS Multimedia Telephony service.
### 8.1.5 Service consistency with CS supplementary services
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service provides a telephony service and a
videotelephony service for the IMS, which can be considered the equivalent in
the IMS of the respective CS based services (Teleservice 11 and Bearerservice
30). In addition the IMS Multimedia Telephony service specifies a number of
supplementary services that provide an almost identical service experience to
the user as the respective CS based supplementary services.
Therefore with the introduction of IMS Multimedia Telephony -- unlike 22.228
-- the _same_ user may make/receive a voice (or video) service via two
different systems (CS and PS/IMS). Moreover, during an ongoing voice call,
Voice Call Continuity (VCC) may be invoked to enable a smooth transition of
the voice call between the two systems.\ In the case that VCC has turned a CS
voice call into an IMS voice call, this IMS voice call is considered an
instance of the IMS Multimedia Telephony service with a voice component.
Note, that currently, a function like VCC for video calls does not exist.
As CS voice (and video) services have been established for a long time the
user will expect the same service behaviour, whether he places a voice (or
video) call via the CS domain or via IMS. Often a user may even not know how
his call is set up. In this case a different service behaviour of the call --
one time set-up via the CS domain and at another time via IMS -- would be very
annoying.
The following figure depicts this service-interworking.
{width="6.289583333333334in" height="4.717361111111111in"}
## 8.2 Comparisons between CS supplementary services and existing IMS
capabilities
### 8.2.1 Line Identification services
#### 8.2.1.1 CLIP
The CLIP service provides presentation of the calling line identity to the
called party. In IMS this is technically provided already using the P-Asserted
Identity header.
Comparison of CS-CLIP and IMS capabilities
* * *
                    CS-Domain                                                                                       IMS
Provisioning Users only receive line identity if CLIP is provisioned All IMS
users are capable of receiving line identity Identity format E.164 number SIP
or TEL URL (Tel URL includes E.164 number) Override Override capability may be
provisioned per subscriber. Network behaviour may provide an override function
to meet local needs, but there is no standard per-subscriber provisioning of
override. Interrogation Users may interrogate using a standard procedure to
determine the state of their CLIP service No standard interrogation feature is
provided.
* * *
The IMS provides the core CLIP functionality.
#### 8.2.1.2 CLIR
The CLIR service allows the calling party to restrict the presentation of
their identity to the called party. In IMS this is technically provided using
the Privacy header.
Comparison of CS-CLIR and IMS capabilities
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | | CS-Domain | IMS | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Provisioning | Only users provisioned | All IMS users are | | | with CLIR may restrict | capable of restricting | | | their identity | their identity on a per | | | | session basis. | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Temporary mode | CLIR can be provisioned | All IMS users are | | | in temporary mode | capable of restricting | | | (users select per call | their identity on a per | | | whether to invoke CLIR) | session basis. | | | or permanent mode (CLIR | | | | is always invoked). In | Unless requested by the | | | temporary mode there | user the identity is | | | are two options: | normally made available | | | default is to present | for presentation. | | | identity, default is to | | | | restrict identity. | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Interrogation | Users may interrogate | No standard | | | using a standard | interrogation feature | | | procedure to determine | is provided. | | | the state of their CLIR | | | | service | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
As can be seen the current IMS behaviour corresponds to the CS-Domain use of
CLIR in a temporary mode.
IMS sessions are not intended to be anonymous to the originating or
terminating network operators (see [4]). Therefore, even if a user has
requested to withhold his identity both, the originating and terminating
network operators are able to identify the user (e.g. for Lawful intercept
purposes, for destination users with override category or Malicious
Communication Identification MCID).
#### 8.2.1.3 COLP
The COLP service provides the calling party with the possibility to receive
the line identity of the connected party. In IMS this is technically provided
by the P-Asserted-Identity header in response messages from the connected
party.
Comparison of CS-COLP and IMS capabilities
* * *
                    CS-Domain                                                                                       IMS
Provisioning Only users provisioned with COLP may receive the identity of the
connected party All IMS users are capable of receiving the line identity of
the connected party via response messages to requests Identity format E.164
number SIP or TEL URL (Tel URL includes E.164 number) Override Override
capability may be provisioned per subscriber. Network behaviour may provide an
override function to meet local needs, but there is no standard per-subscriber
provisioning of override. Interrogation Users may interrogate using a standard
procedure to determine the state of their COLP service No standard
interrogation feature is provided.
* * *
The COLP service can be implemented using SIP mechanisms in IMS.
#### 8.2.1.4 COLR
The COLR service enables the connected party to prevent presentation of its
line identity to the calling party. In IMS this is technically provided using
the Privacy header.
Comparison of CS-COLR and IMS capabilities
* * *
                  CS-Domain                                                                                       IMS
Provisioning Only users provisioned with COLR may restrict their identity All
IMS users are capable of restricting their identity in response messages on a
per session basis Interrogation Users may interrogate using a standard
procedure to determine the state of their COLR service No standard
interrogation feature is provided.
* * *
The IMS provides the core COLR functionality.
### 8.2.2 Call Forwarding
Four standard flavours of call forwarding are standardised for the CS-domain.
These are:
\- Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy (CFB)
\- Call forwarding on no reply (CFNRy)
\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable (CFNRc)
IMS does not provide any standard call forwarding service. However IMS
provides the ability to build applications that can redirect sessions on the
users behalf based on many different types of criteria. Many IMS users will be
provided with a \"personal agent\" service that is able to route incoming
calls based on sophisticated and personalised criteria including the
subscriber\'s call state.
CS-domain call forwarding provides a standard mechanism to allow the user to
set forwarding parameters (\"registration/activation\") using dedicated
procedures on the mobile. In contrast IMS servers may allow users to change
their personal agent\'s criteria using non-service specific technology such as
a Web or WAP interface. These Web/WAP pages may be integrated in to the
operator\'s portal.
Comparison of CS-Call Forwarding and non-standard IMS \"personal agent\"
capabilities.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | CS-Domain | IMS personal agent | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Criteria | Four standard | Four criteria | | | criteria only (CFU, | supported by | | | CFB, CFNRy, CFNRc) | CS-domain are | | | | possible along with | | | | other criteria | | | | adapted to | | | | individual | | | | requirements (time | | | | of day, identity of | | | | caller, day of week | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | Also see Call | | | | Waiting below for | | | | differences related | | | | to the definition of | | | | \"busy\" in IMS. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning | Provisioned in HLR | Provisioned in IMS | | | based on standard | application server | | | data structure. | and HSS based on | | | | data structure | | | | defined by server | | | | provider. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | User data | Activation, | Users may manipulate | | manipulation | deactivation, | data via non-service | | | registration, | specific technology | | | erasure and | such as a Web or WAP | | | interrogation are | interface. | | | possible from the | | | | mobile via dedicated | | | | service-specific | | | | procedures. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Notifications | Notifications to | Control of | | | other parties | notifications may be | | | controlled by | built in to the | | | subscription. | design of the IMS | | | | personal agent. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 8.2.3 Call Waiting and Call Hold
#### 8.2.3.1 Call Waiting
The purpose of the CS-domain call waiting service is to allow a second
incoming call to alert a user who is \"busy\" on a first call. Providing the
call waiting service changes the definition of Network Determined User Busy
(NDUB) in the CS-domain.
The concept of call waiting originates in the circuit-switched PSTN where
there is a single analogue line and signalling path between the network and
the user. These ideas were copied in to GSM which had similar restrictions on
its radio interface. In the context of IMS the hardcoded limits on ongoing
sessions do not exist. It is always possible to signal the request for a new
incoming session to the user regardless of how many ongoing sessions the user
already has. The user\'s terminal is then able to decide whether or not to
accept the call based on its physical capabilities or user preference. The
only case in which network busy conditions may exist in IMS are in case of
resource exhaustion or in response to a non-standardised behaviour introduced
by a users personal agent.
Comparison of CS call waiting and IMS capabilities.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | CS-Domain | IMS capabilities | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning | A user must be | All users are | | | provisioned with | capable of receiving | | | call waiting in | new incoming | | | order to be able to | sessions even if | | | receive a new | they have a session | | | incoming call while | ongoing. | | | there is already a | | | | call ongoing. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | User data | The user may | By default incoming | | manipulation | activate, deactivate | sessions will always | | | or interrogate call | be presented to the | | | waiting via | called user. The | | | dedicated | terminal handling of | | | service-specific | these sessions may | | | procedures | depend on | | | | non-standard data | | | | input by the user. | | | | | | | | In addition the | | | | network may provide | | | | a non-standard | | | | personal agent | | | | service (see above) | | | | which may use the | | | | existence of other | | | | IMS sessions as | | | | criteria in their | | | | call handling. Users | | | | may manipulate | | | | personal agent data | | | | via non-service | | | | specific technology | | | | such as a Web or WAP | | | | interface | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Notifications | Notification is | No special | | | provided to the | notification is | | | calling party that | given to the calling | | | the call is waiting. | party unless a | | | | personal agent | | | | service provides | | | | one. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 8.2.3.2 Call Hold
Call hold allows the user to suspend an ongoing session and stop sending
media. IMS provides a very similar function by the use of the SIP update
procedure.
The main difference between CS-domain call hold and IMS capabilities is that
in the CS-domain there are certain restrictions on the allowed combinations of
held and active calls which do not apply to IMS sessions (IMS permits more
than one active session).
None the less the treatment of call hold in the CS domain and IMS is very
similar.
### 8.2.4 Call Barring
The CS-domain outgoing call barring services limits the permitted calls to or
from specific groups of destinations. The user may activate and deactivate
call barring services under the control of a password.
IMS does not intrinsically provide call barring services. However it is
possible to bar certain types of call using a non-standard IMS call barring
application.
Comparison of CS-Outgoing Call Barring and non-standard IMS \"barring
application\" capabilities.
* * *
                           CS-Domain                                                                                                            IMS barring application
Criteria Standard criteria only Flexible choice of criteria is possible.
Provisioning Provisioned in HLR based on standard data structure. Provisioned
in IMS application server and HSS based on data structure defined by server
provider. User data manipulation Activation, deactivation and interrogation
are possible from the mobile via dedicated service-specific procedures. Users
may manipulate data via non-service specific technology such as a Web or WAP
interface.
* * *
## 8.3 Analysis of TISPAN Multimedia Telephony supplementary services
TISPAN has defined an IMS based Multimedia telephony service to be used for
fixed access. This service consists of both a basic communication service and
associated supplementary services (called simulation services in TISPAN
specifications). The basic communication and its supplementary services in
general are described in [2] while its requirements related to the video
component are described in [3]. This chapter analyzes if the TISPAN
supplementary services are applicable for mobile access and if they can be
reused by 3GPP.
The table consists of all TISPAN supplementary services as found in [2] with
its relevant subchapter in the left column below.
Each of these services has been analysed and are marked as:
**\- Access Dependency** : User experience of the service depends on if the
end user is using a mobile or fixed access.
**\- No Access Dependency** : User experience of the service does not depend
on whether the user is using a mobile or fixed access.
**\- Referable** : The TISPAN definition can be directly referred to by 3GPP.
**\- Not referable:** The TISPAN definition is not referable by 3GPP.
**\- Endorsed** : The supplementary service shall be standardized by 3GPP
according to the TISPAN definition.
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Chapter | Suppl | Comments | Ca | Result | Recomm | | in [2] | ementary | | pability | | endation | | | service | | exists | | | | | name | | in IMS | | | | | | | stage 1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.2.1 | Ori | No | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | ginating | access | | eferable | | | | Identi | dep | OIP is | | | | | fication | endency. | based on | | | | | Pres | | \"7.6.1 | | | | | entation | | Pres | | | | | (OIP) | | entation | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | iginator | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entity\" | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 22.228. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.2.2 | Ori | No | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | ginating | access | | eferable | | | | Identi | dep | OIR is | | | | | fication | endency. | based on | | | | | Res | | \"7.6.1 | | | | | triction | | Pres | | | | | (OIR) | | entation | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | iginator | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entity\" | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 22.228. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.2.3 | Ter | No | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | minating | access | | eferable | | | | Identi | dep | TIP is | | | | | fication | endency. | based on | | | | | Pres | | \"7.7.3 | | | | | entation | | Pres | | | | | (TIP) | | entation | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | identity | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | conn | | | | | | | ected-to | | | | | | | party of | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ession\" | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 22.228. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.2.4 | Ter | No | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | minating | access | | eferable | | | | Identi | dep | TIR is | | | | | fication | endency. | based on | | | | | Res | | \"7.7.3 | | | | | triction | | Pres | | | | | (TIR) | | entation | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | identity | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | conn | | | | | | | ected-to | | | | | | | party of | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ession\" | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 22.228. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.2.5 | M | No | No | Re | FFS | | | alicious | access | | ferable\ | | | | Commu | dep | | (see | | | | nication | endency. | | note 2) | | | | Identi | | | | | | | fication | No | | | | | | (MCID) | te: MCID | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | part of | | | | | | | the CS | | | | | | | suppl | | | | | | | ementary | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | in GSM. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.2.6 | A | No | No | R | FFS | | | nonymous | access | | eferable | | | | Commu | dep | | | | | | nication | endency. | | | | | | R | | | | | | | ejection | Note: | | | | | | (ACR) | ACR is | | | | | | | not part | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | CS | | | | | | | suppl | | | | | | | ementary | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | in GSM. | | | | | | | (ACR | | | | | | | could be | | | | | | | imp | | | | | | | lemented | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | erminal) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.3.1 | Commu | Commu | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | nication | nication | | eferable | | | | D | Fo | The CDIV | | | | | iversion | rwarding | services | | | | | (CDIV) | Uncon | are | | | | | | ditional | based on | | | | | | has No | \"7.4 | | | | | | Access | Red | | | | | | De | irecting | | | | | | pendency | of IP | | | | | | | Mu | | | | | | Commu | ltimedia | | | | | | nication | se | | | | | | Fo | ssions\" | | | | | | rwarding | in | | | | | | on Busy | 22.228. | | | | | | user has | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | pendency | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Commu | | | | | | | nication | | | | | | | Fo | | | | | | | rwarding | | | | | | | on no | | | | | | | Reply | | | | | | | has No | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | pendency | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Commu | | | | | | | nication | | | | | | | Fo | | | | | | | rwarding | | | | | | | on Not | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | ogged-in | | | | | | | has No | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | pendency | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Commu | | | | | | | nication | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | flection | | | | | | | has No | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | pendency | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Also, | | | | | | | one more | | | | | | | Commu | | | | | | | nication | | | | | | | Di | | | | | | | versions | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | entioned | | | | | | | in 8.6 | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | unr | | | | | | | eachable | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | ommended | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | \"busy\" | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | ondition | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | derived | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | erminal. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.3.2 | Commu | 8.2.2 is | No | Not | Not | | | nication | only | | r | co | | | Waiting | ap | | eferable | nsidered | | | (CW) | plicable | | (see | for | | | | to a | | note 1) | current | | | | network | | | 3GPP | | | | centric | | Not | release. | | | | Commu | | included | | | | | nication | | in | | | | | Waiting | | TISPAN | | | | | service. | | R1 stage | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | The | | C | | | | | Commu | | andidate | | | | | nication | | for | | | | | Waiting | | TISPAN | | | | | service | | R2. | | | | | when | | | | | | | applied | | The | | | | | as a | | service | | | | | result | | in | | | | | of the | | TISPAN | | | | | user or | | stage 1 | | | | | UE | | is not | | | | | i | | the same | | | | | ndicates | | as the | | | | | busy is | | CW | | | | | best | | service | | | | | s | | for CS | | | | | upported | | | | | | | by | | Terminal | | | | | f | | centric | | | | | unctions | | solution | | | | | in the | | can | | | | | terminal | | still be | | | | | only. | | s | | | | | T | | upported | | | | | herefore | | but do | | | | | a full | | not | | | | | terminal | | require | | | | | centric | | further | | | | | service | | standard | | | | | is | | isation. | | | | | reco | | | | | | | mmended. | | This | | | | | | | should | | | | | The | | only be | | | | | TISPAN | | done in | | | | | ex | | the | | | | | tensions | | t | | | | | rest on | | erminal. | | | | | access | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | eatures. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.3.3 | Commu | No | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | nication | Access | | eferable | | | | Hold | Dep | HOLD is | | | | | (HOLD) | endency. | based on | | | | | | | \"7.7.2 | | | | | | This | Su | | | | | | TISPAN | spending | | | | | | service | and | | | | | | is based | resuming | | | | | | on the | of an | | | | | | capa | ongoing | | | | | | bilities | s | | | | | | s | ession\" | | | | | | pecified | in | | | | | | in | 22.228. | | | | | | 22.228 | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | regard | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | suspend | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | resume | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | ongoing | | | | | | | session. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.3.4 | Commu | No | No | R | End | | | nication | Access | | eferable | orsement | | | Barring | De | | | with | | | (CB) | pendency | | The | modi | | | | | | Incoming | fication | | | | Both | | Commu | | | | | outgoing | | nication | | | | | and | | Barring | | | | | incoming | | (ICB) | | | | | calls | | service | | | | | can be | | needs to | | | | | barred. | | be | | | | | | | extended | | | | | The | | with a | | | | | service | | roaming | | | | | sh | | co | | | | | ouldn\'t | | ndition. | | | | | prevent | | The | | | | | that the | | roaming | | | | | terminal | | c | | | | | can also | | ondition | | | | | do some | | e | | | | | local | | valuates | | | | | barring | | to true | | | | | but the | | when the | | | | | network | | served | | | | | version | | user is | | | | | may have | | roaming. | | | | | more | | This is | | | | | capa | | not | | | | | bilities | | c | | | | | in terms | | urrently | | | | | of the | | s | | | | | co | | upported | | | | | nditions | | by | | | | | it can | | TISPAN | | | | | use to | | R1 | | | | | d | | | | | | | etermine | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | barring | | | | | | | is to be | | | | | | | applied. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.3.5 | Co | 8.2.5 is | No | Not | Not | | | mpletion | only | | r | co | | | of | ap | | eferable | nsidered | | | Commun | plicable | | | for | | | ications | to a | | (see | current | | | to Busy | network | | note 1) | 3GPP | | | Su | centric | | | release. | | | bscriber | CCBS | | | | | | (CCBS) | service. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | mplexity | | | | | | | is high | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | centric | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | concept | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | busy | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | valid | | | | | | | any more | | | | | | | for IP | | | | | | | Mul | | | | | | | timedia. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | herefore | | | | | | | it\'s | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | ommended | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | not be | | | | | | | stan | | | | | | | dardized | | | | | | | by 3GPP. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Not | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | TISPAN | | | | | | | R1 stage | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | andidate | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | TISPAN | | | | | | | R2. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.3.6 | Message | No | No | R | Endorsed | | | Waiting | Access | | eferable | | | | In | De | | | | | | dication | pendency | | | | | | (MWI) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.4.1 | Co | No | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | nference | Access | | eferable | | | | (CONF) | De | CONF is | | | | | | pendency | based on | | | | | | | \"7.10 | | | | | | | Handling | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | confe | | | | | | | rences\" | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 22.228. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.4.2 | Advice | No | Yes | Not | Not | | | of | Access | | r | co | | | Charge | Dep | | eferable | nsidered | | | (AOC) | endency. | | | for | | | | | | | current | | | | Note: | | | 3GPP | | | | AOC is | | | release. | | | | not | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | TISPAN | | | | | | | R1 since | | | | | | | TISPAN | | | | | | | stage 3 | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | be ready | | | | | | | in time | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | regard | | | | | | | to this | | | | | | | feature. | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | andidate | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | TISPAN | | | | | | | R2. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.4.3 | Explicit | No | Yes | R | Endorsed | | | Commu | Access | | eferable | | | | nication | Dep | ECT is | | | | | Transfer | endency. | based on | | | | | (ECT) | | \"7.4 | | | | | | | Red | | | | | | | irecting | | | | | | | of IP | | | | | | | Mu | | | | | | | ltimedia | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | ssions\" | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 22.228. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8.4.4 | Reverse | Stage 1 | No | Not | Not | | | Charging | is not | | r | co | | | | f | | eferable | nsidered | | | | inalised | | | for | | | | and is | | | current | | | | not | | | 3GPP | | | | c | | | release. | | | | urrently | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | TISPAN | | | | | | | R1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TISPAN | | | | | | | stage 3 | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | started. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Note 1: As can be seen above, the services for **Communication Waiting** (CW)
and **Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber** (CCBS) are treated
differently compared to the others. This is due to the fact that the handling
of busy is not the same in IMS as in CS.
Note 2: The regulatory framework for VoIP is still under discussion, but it
may be safe to assume that an operator, which has its own network and is
providing communications service with E.164 numbers over that network, will be
subject to the same requirement that exists today, which are for fixed
networks.
### 8.3.1 Analysis result
This analysis has come to the conclusion that the following TISPAN
supplementary services are suggested to be included into the 3GPP system.
#### 8.3.1.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
All elements of clause 8.2.1 of reference [2] apply, except for the following
clause, which does not apply:
\- 8.2.1.2.3 Communication Waiting (CW).
#### 8.3.1.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
All elements of clause 8.2.2 of reference [2] apply.
#### 8.3.1.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
All elements of clause 8.2.3 of reference [2] apply.
#### 8.3.1.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
All elements of clause 8.2.4 of reference [2] apply.
#### 8.3.1.5 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
All elements of clause 8.3.1 of reference [2] apply, except for the following
clauses, which do not apply:
\- 8.3.1.2.2 Malicious Communication Identification **(MCID)**
**\- 8.3.1.2.3** Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
\- 8.3.1.2.5 Communication Waiting (CW)
\- 8.3.1.2.7 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
\- 8.3.1.2.8 Advice of Charge (AOC).
#### 8.3.1.6 Communication Hold (HOLD)
All elements of clause 8.3.3 of reference [2] apply.
#### 8.3.1.7 Communication Barring (CB)
All elements of clause 8.3.4 of reference [2] apply with the following
addition:
The ICB service is extended with a roaming condition. The roaming condition is
set to true when the served user is roaming.
#### 8.3.1.8 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
All elements of clause 8.3.6 of reference [2] apply.
#### 8.3.1.9 Conference (CONF)
All elements of clause 8.4.1 of reference [2] apply, except for the following
clause, which does not apply:
\- Advice of charge services (AOC).
#### 8.3.1.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
All elements of clause 8.4.3 of reference [2] apply, except for the following
clause, which does not apply:
\- 8.4.3.2.4 Advice of charge services (AOC).
## 8.4 Potential supplementary service not described by TISPAN
TISPAN has not defined a Communication Diversion simulation service that is
applicable to the condition subscriber being temporary unreachable, e.g. due
to lack of radio coverage. The following text is therefore suggested:
> \"Communication Diversion: Communication Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not
> Reachable
>
> This service permits a served user to have the network redirect all incoming
> communications, or just those associated with a specific service, addressed
> to the called mobile subscriber\'s address, but which is not reachable, to
> another address. The ability of the served mobile subscriber to originate
> communication is principally unaffected, but practically it is affected if
> the mobile subscriber is de-registered, if there is radio congestion or if
> the mobile subscriber for example is being out of radio coverage. If this
> service is activated, a communication is forwarded only if the mobile
> subscriber is not reachable.
>
> The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a
> service provider option. The service provider shall define the upper limit
> of diversions. When counting the number of diversions, all types of
> diversion are included.\"
### 8.4.1 Service interactions with other supplementary services
Communication Diversion: Communication Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not
Reachable (CFNRc) shall interact with the following supplementary services in
exactly the same way as described in [2] for Communication Forwarding No Reply
(CFNR):
**Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)** \ **Originating
Identification Restriction (OIR)** \ **Terminating Identification Presentation
(TIP)** \ **Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)** \ **Communication
Diversion (CDIV); Communication Forward Unconditional\ Communication Diversion
(CDIV); Communication Deflection\ Communication Diversion (CDIV);
Communication Forward On not Logged-in\ Communication Hold (HOLD)** \
**Communication Barring (CB)** \ **Message Waiting Indication (MWI)** \
**Conference (CONF)**
CFNRc shall interact with the following services according to the following:
**Communication Diversion (CDIV); Communication Forward Busy**
If the terminating party is network determined busy, then CFB shall take
precedence over CFNRc. Otherwise, if the terminating party is not network
determined then there is no impact, i.e. neither supplementary service shall
affect the operation of the other supplementary service.
**Communication Diversion (CDIV); Communication Forward No Reply**
No interaction, i.e. neither supplementary service shall affect the operation
of the other supplementary service.
**Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)**
No interaction, i.e. neither supplementary service shall affect the operation
of the other supplementary service.
# 9 Conclusion
The conclusion from this report is to recommend 3GPP to standardise a service
with the name IMS Multimedia Telephony service.
It is also recommended that the specification work shall endorse the service
definition by TISPAN for the supplementary services that are applicable to
3GPP Systems. The analysis shows that the applicable supplementary services
are:
**Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)** as described in clause 8.2.1
of reference [2].\ **Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)** as
described in clause 8.2.2 of reference [2].\ **Terminating Identification
Presentation (TIP**) as described in clause 8.2.3 of reference [2].\
**Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)** as described in clause 8.2.4
of reference [2].\ **Communication Diversion (CDIV)** as described in clause
8.3.1 of reference [2].\ **Communication Hold (HOLD**) as described in clause
8.3.3 of reference [2].\ **Communication Barring (CB)** as described in clause
8.3.4 of reference [2] with the following addition:\ The ICB service needs is
to be extended with a roaming condition. The roaming condition is set to true
when the served user is roaming..\ **Message Waiting Indication (MWI)** as
described in clause 8.3.6 of reference [2].\ **Conference (CONF)** as
described in clause 8.4.1 of reference [2].\ **Explicit Communication Transfer
(ECT)** as described in clause 8.4.3 of reference [2].
The study has found one supplementary service not covered by TISPAN but
applicable to a 3GPP specified IMS Multimedia Telephony service and that is:
**Communication Diversion: Communication Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not
Reachable**.
#