# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the link layer used for signalling on the A-bis
interface between BSC and BTS. The use and general aspects of the A-bis
interface are described in 3GPP TS 48.051 and the interface aspects in 3GPP TS
48.052.
The Link Access Procedure on the D-channel (LAPD) specification used on the
A-bis interface in the GSM PLMN is a subset of the EN 300 125 which in turn
has less options than the CCITT Recommendation Q.921.
This description contains first the protocol definitions and second the
services provided by the layer 2 to the layer 3.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 48.051: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; General aspects\".
[3] 3GPP TS 48.052: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; Interface principles\".
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] Void.
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[18] Void.
[19] CCITT Recommendation Q.921: \"Integrated services digital network (ISDN)
user-network interface - Data link layer specification\".
[20] EN 300 125: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); User-network
interface data link layer specification Application of CCITT Recommendations
Q.920/I.440 and Q.921/I.441\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905.
# 4 General description
The following information categories are supported by the procedures of this
layer 2 Recommendation:
\- signalling (including Short Message Service (SMS) information);
\- operation and maintenance;
\- layer 2 management.
For each of these categories the BSC may have one or more layer 2 links to
every TRX and BCF.
The signalling links over the A-bis interface are addressed to the different
units by Terminal Endpoint Identifiers (TEI).
The same unit will normally have more than one functional entity. The logical
links between different functional entities are identified by functional
addresses, the Service Access Points Identifier (SAPI).
Figure 1 shows the architectural model with different layer 2 links.
A number of logical links may be multiplexed on each physical link. The same
layer 2 logical link may not be distributed over more than one physical link.
____________________
\| ________ \|
\| \| \| \|
\| \| \| __ \| __ ______
\| \| \|\| \|_______RSL________SAPI_=_0___\| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\| \|_______OML________SAPI_=_62__\| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\| \|_______L2ML_______SAPI_=_63__\| \|__\| TRX \|TEI 1
\| \| \|\| \| \| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\|__\| \|__\| \|______\|
\| \|LAYER 2\| \| __ ______
\| \| \| __ \| \| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\| \|_____\|_RSL________SAPI_=_0___\| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\| \|_______OML________SAPI_=_62__\| \|__\| TRX \|TEI 2
\| \| \|\| \|_______L2ML_______SAPI_=_63__\| \|__\| \|
\| \| T E I \|\| \| \| \| \|______\|
\| \| \|\| \|_______RSL________SAPI_=_0___\| \| ______
\| \| \|\| \|_______OML________SAPI_=_62__\| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\| \|_______L2ML_______SAPI_=_63__\| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\|__\| \| \|__\| TRX \|TEI 3
\| \| \| \| \| \|__\| \|
\| \|MANAGE-\| \| \|__\| \|______\|
\| \|MENT \| __ \| __ ______
\| \| \|\| \|_______OML________SAPI_=_62__\| \|__\| \|
\| \| \|\| \|_______L2ML_______SAPI_=_63__\| \|__\| BCF \|TEI 4
\| \| \|\|__\| \|__\| \| \|
\| \| \| __ _ \| __ \| \|
\| \| \|\| \| _ _ \| OML _ _ _ _SAPI = 62_ \| \|__\| \|TEI 65
\| \| \|\| \| _ _ \| L2ML_ _ _ _SAPI = 63_ \| \|__\| \|
\| \|_______\|\|__\| \| \|__\| \|______\|
\| \|
\|___________________\|
Figure 4.1: An example of Logical Layer 2 links supported by three permanent\
and one semipermanent links
# 5 Functional contents
The basic functional content of the layer 2 protocol is:
\- transparent layer 2 links and time fill;
\- point-to-point dedicated layer 2 links addressing both physical entities
and functional entities;
\- point-to-multipoint addressed links used for layer 2 management;
\- basic functions for TEI assignment and management;
\- basic priority functions;
\- basic supervision of links when not carrying traffic;
\- sequence control;
\- transmission error control;
\- control of errors not recoverable by retransmission.
# 6 LAPD functions
The LAPD functions as specified in EN 300 125 are applicable. However, the
exceptions and modifications specified in the remainder of the present
document shall be used.
## 6.1 Exceptions and modifications
In the following headlines from EN 300 125 are kept and references are made to
the corresponding clause of EN 300 125.
### 6.1.1 Void
### 6.1.2 Command/Response field bit (C/R)
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 3.3.2)
In GSM PLMN\'s BSC represents the network side and TRX/BCF the user side of
the interface.
### 6.1.3 Service Access Point Identifier (SAPI)
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 3.3.3)
The SAPI values for the A-bis interface are as listed in table 6.1.3.
Table 6.1.3: Allocation of SAPI values and priority classes
* * *
SAPI value Related layer 3 or layer management entity Priority 0 Radio
signalling procedures 2 1 Reserved for packet mode communications using Q.931
call control procedures (Not used in GSM PLMN) - 16 Reserved for packet
communication conforming to X.25 level 3 procedures (Not used in GSM PLMN - 62
Operation and maintenance procedure 1 63 Layer 2 management procedures 1 All
others Reserved for future standardization -
* * *
### 6.1.4 TEI for point-to-point data link connection
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 3.3.4.2).
The remaining Terminal Endpoint Identifier (TEI) values are used for the
point-to-point data link connections associated with the addressed Service
Access Point (SAP). The range of TEI values shall be allocated as shown in
table 6.1.4.
Table 6.1.4: Allocation of TEI values
* * *
TEI value User type 0-63 TEI assignment for fixed TRX and BCF addresses 64-126
TEI assignment for additional, TRX or BCF addresses
* * *
NOTE: A BCF is given a separate layer 2 link only if it is not integrated with
a TRX.
### 6.1.5 Commands and responses
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 3.6.1)
The XID command and response are not used.
### 6.1.6 Exchange identification (XID) command/response
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 3.6.12)
This functionality is not used.
### 6.1.7 MDL-XID
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 4.1.1.9)
This functionality is not used.
### 6.1.8 PH-DATA, PH DEACTIVATE and PH-ACTIVATE
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clauses 4.1.1.10 - 4.1.1.12)
This functionality is not relevant.
### 6.1.9 MPH-ACTIVATE, MPH-DEACTIVATE an MPH-INFORMATION
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clauses 4.1.1.13 - 4.1.1.15)
This functionality is not relevant.
### 6.1.10 Priority indicator
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 4.1.3.1)
The different SAPIs are given the priority classes as listed in table 1 when
contending (with priority one as the highest).
### 6.1.11 Terminal Endpoint Identifier (TEI) management procedures
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.3)
Due to the special assignment functions needed on the A-bis interface there
are modifications and additions to the assignment procedures. The rest of
clause 5.3 in EN 300 125, part 2, is kept if not stated otherwise.
#### 6.1.11.1 General
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.3.1)
TEI management for A-bis interface is based on the following procedural means:
\- a Subset of the TEI assignment procedures;
\- the TEI check procedures;
\- the TEI remove procedures;
\- an additional TEI assignment procedure.
The TEI management needs procedures to check the used TEI values and
procedures for reaction in situation where more than one TRX equipment uses
the same TEI value. In addition to the fixed values it shall be possible to
use additional TEI value to the same TRX equipment and thus increase the
signalling capacity.
#### 6.1.11.2 TEI assignment procedure
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.3.2)
The TEI assignment procedure used on the A-bis interface has some additions to
the automatic TEI assignment procedure specified in EN 300 125, part 2.
To facilitate the configuration control in the BSC each TRX will have a fixed
TEI and possibly get access to one or more additional TEIs assigning physical
channels/layer 2 links.
The layer 2 links may all be turned on and off according to the normal
automatic TEI assignment scheme but the TRX may only request identified TEI
values which is (semi-) permanently programmed or programmed by operation and
maintenance messages.
In GSM the reference number Ri is not used. It is only misoperation situations
resulting from double failures that could be prevented/solved faster by this
parameter. The marginal advantage is not supposed to motivate the application
of a random generator and the checking procedure.
The subset of the automatic assignment procedure applicable for the first
layer 2 link to a TRX shall have the following modifications to EN 300 125,
part 2:
\- the identity request shall have an Ai value in the range 0-63 identifying
the TEI value which is requested for activation;
\- on reception of the identity request message the BSC will check that the
requested TEI may be used from the configurations aspects and then perform a
normal TEI check procedure to prevent a double assignment;
\- if the TEI request is accepted an identity assigned message with the
requested TEI number is received by TRX before the expiry of timer T202;
\- a successful assignment procedure is shown in figure 6.1.11.2.a.
TRX BSC
\| \|
\| \| Identity request (Ai) \|
\| \| \|
\| \| Identity check request (Ai) \|
\| \| \| \| \| \|
\| \| Normal \| \|
\| \| \| identity \| \| \|
T202 \| \| check \| \| T201
\| \| \| procedure \| \| \|
\| \| No answer \| \|
\| \| \| \| \|
V \| Identity assigned (Ai) \| V
\| \|
If timer T201 expires the request shall be repeated once and timer T201
restarted
Figure 6.1.11.2.a: A successful assignment procedure
If timer T202 expires the assignment procedure did not succeed, and the TRX
will take further actions in accordance with the procedures as specified in EN
300 125, part 2.
If within the assignment procedure an identity check response is received,
then the requested TEI value is already in use. There shall be no answer to
the requesting TRX and an error indication shall be sent to O&M.
An example of a non-successful assignment procedure is shown in figure
6.1.11.2.b.
TRX BSC
\| \|
\| \| Identity request (Ai) \|
\| \| \|
T202 \| \| Identity check request (Ai) \|
\| \| \| \| T201
\| \| Identity check response (Ai) \| V
\| \| \|
V \| \|
\| \|
If timer T201 expires the request shall be repeated once and timer T201
restarted
Figure 6.1.11.2.b: An example of assignment in error case (TEI value already
in use)
The additional TEI assignment procedure is equivalent to the normal one with
two exceptions:
\- the TEI value is in the range: 64-126;
\- the TEI value and the identification of which physical link it shall
operate on is transmitted to the TRX from BSC in an operation and maintenance
message. This layer 3 O&M message is transferred on an already assigned layer
2 link. (See 12-series of GSM Technical Specifications).
The successful additional assignment procedure is shown in figure 6.1.11.2.c.
TRX BSC
\| \|
\| O&M command (Ai, physical address) \|
\| \| \|
\| \| Identity request (Ai) \|
\| \| \|
\| \| Identity check request (Ai) \|
\| \| \| \| \| \|
\| \| Identity check \| \|
T202 \| \| \| Procedure \| \| \| T201
\| \| with no response from \| \|
\| \| \| the TRX side \| \| \|
\| \| \| \|
V \| Identity assigned (Ai) \| V
\| \|
If timer T201 expires the request shall be repeated once and timer T201
restarted
Figure 6.1.11.2.c: The procedure for assigning an additional TEI to a TRX or
BCF
#### 6.1.11.3 TEI identity verify procedure
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.3.5)
This procedure is not used.
#### 6.1.11.4 Formats and codes.
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.3.6)
All messages except Identity verify and Identity denied are used. The Ai is
used as described in clause 6.1.11.2, the modification to EN 300 125, part 2,
clause 5.3.2. The Ri parameter is not used and will always be coded 0000 0000.
The coding of each field of the various messages is specified in table
6.1.11.4.a.
Table 6.1.11.4.a: Codes for messages concerning TEI management procedures
* * *
Message name Layer management entity identifier Reference number\ Message type
Action indicator\ Ri Ai
Identity request\ 0000 1111 Not used\ 0000 0001 Ai = 0-126 (user to network)
(code 0)
Identity assigned\ 0000 1111 Not used\ 0000 0010 Ai = 0-126\ (network to user)
(code 0) Assigned TEI value
Identity check request\ 0000 1111 Not used\ 0000 0100 Ai = 0-127\ (network to
user) (code 0) Check all TEI values
                                                                                                     Ai = 0-126\
                                                                                                     TEI value to be checked
Identity check response\ 0000 1111 Not used\ 0000 0101 Ai = 0-126\ (user to
network) (code 0) TEI value in use
Identity remove\ 0000 1111 Not used\ 0000 0110 Ai = 0-127\ (network to user)
(code 0) Request for removal of all TEI values
                                                                                                     Ai = 0-126\
                                                                                                     TEI value to be removed
* * *
### 6.1.12 Automatic negotiation of data link layer parameters
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.4 and annex IV)
The procedures are not supported.
### 6.1.13 Establishment procedures
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.5.1.2)
The timer T203 shall be implemented in the equipment on both sides of
interface A-bis.
### 6.1.14 N(S) sequence error
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.8.1 and appendix I)
As it is the case in EN 300 125, the optional procedure for retransmission as
described in Appendix I is not supported.
### 6.1.15 List of system parameters
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9)
All the default values are given in the following clauses.
#### 6.1.15.1 Timer T200
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.1)
The default value of timer T200 is 240 ms starting from the end of a
transmitted frame.
NOTE: This timer depends on the timer values used for supervising the message
flow between the Mobile Station (MS) and the network. The proper operation of
the procedure requires timer T200 to be greater than the maximum time between
transmission of command frames and the reception of their corresponding
response or acknowledgement frames and shorter than the shortest layer 3 timer
used for supervising this message flow.
#### 6.1.15.2 Maximum number of retransmissions (N200)
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.2)
The default value of (N200) is 3.
#### 6.1.15.3 Maximum number of octets in an information field (N201)
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.3)
The default and maximum value of (N201) is 260 octets for all SAPI values.
#### 6.1.15.4 Maximum number of transmission of the TEI identity request
message (N202)
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.4)
Not used (i.e. equivalent to infinity).
#### 6.1.15.5 Maximum number of outstanding frames (K)
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.5)
For the SAPI value 0 identifying radio signalling the default (K) value shall
be 2. For all other SAPIs the value shall be set to the fixed value of 1.
NOTE: The value of K for SAPI value 0 shall always be greater than the k value
for the other SAPIs.
#### 6.1.15.6 Timer T201
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.6)
Timer T201 shall have the default value 1 second.
#### 6.1.15.7 Timer T202
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.7)
The minimum time between the transmission of TEI Identity request messages is
a system parameter (T202) which shall be set to 15 seconds.
#### 6.1.15.8 Timer T203
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.9.8)
The timer T203 represents the maximum time allowed without frames being
exchanged for each TEI. The value of timer T203 shall be 10 seconds.
### 6.1.16 Data link layer monitor function
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, clause 5.10)
The supervisory function will be used in the equipment on both sides of the
A-bis interface.
### 6.1.17 Miscellaneous
(Refer to EN 300 125, part 2, appendix I-IV)
The functionalities specified in appendix I-IV of EN 300 125, part 2, is not
used.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change History