# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In order to ensure correctness and consistency of the specifications (i.e.,
technical specifications and technical reports) under responsibility of the
Technical Specification Groups (TSG) of the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP), clear, manageable and efficient mechanisms are necessary to
handle version control, change control, document updating, distribution and
management.
Also, the fact that the specifications are/will be implemented by industry
almost in parallel with the writing of them requires strict and fast
procedures for handling of changes to the specifications.
It is very important that the changes that are brought into the standard, from
the past, at present and in the future, are well documented and controlled, so
that technical consistency and backwards tracing are ensured.
The 3GPP TSGs, and their sub-groups together with the Support Team are
responsible for the technical content and consistency of the specifications
whilst the Support Team alone is responsible for the proper management of the
entire documentation, including specifications, meeting documents,
administrative information and information exchange with other bodies.
# 1 Scope
This document outlines the working methods to be used by the 3GPP Technical
Specification Groups and their Working Groups and their Sub-Groups, and by the
3GPP Support Team in relation to document management, i.e. handling of
specifications, updating procedures, Change Request procedures, version
control mechanisms, specifications status information etc. It complements the
rules and procedures defined for 3GPP. This document does not stipulate the
details of the internal working of the TSG Sub-Groups. From the Technical
Specification Group point of view, a task and responsibility is given to a
Working Group directly answering to the Technical Specification Group. In
practice, the work/task may be carried out in a subgroup of that Working
Group.
# 1A References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.801: \"Specification drafting rules\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 21.101: \"Technical Specifications and Technical Reports for a
UTRAN-based 3GPP system\".
[4] 3GPP TS 41.101: \"Technical Specifications and Technical Reports for a
GERAN-based 3GPP system\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation I.130: \"Method for the characterization of
telecommunication services supported by an ISDN and network capabilities of an
ISDN\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[7] IETF RFC 3629: \"UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646\".
# 2 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and those in
3GPP TR 21.905 [2] apply.
**building block** : sub-division of a feature, representing a coherent set of
technical functionality which would generally be expected to reside in a
single system element.
**change control:** procedure whereby proposed modifications to a
specification are presented for approval to the TSG as formal Change Requests.
**closed:** release status in which no changes of any kind to the
specification are permitted.
**Change Request (CR):** formal proposal presented on a standard form to
modify a specification which is under change control.
**draft:** specification status prior to change control, in which changes may
be made without formal Change Requests.
**early implementation:** implementation of a particular feature on a platform
of a release earlier than the release that contains the feature.
**feature** : new or substantially enhanced functionality which represents
added value to the existing system.
**frozen:** release status in which only essential corrections are permitted.
**functionality:** normative text contained in one or more Technical
Specifications, corresponding either to a feature or to some portion of a
feature.
**group:** TSG or TSG sub-group.
**major version:** For version x.y.z of a specification, x is called the major
version.
Example: For version 3.2.0 of a specification, the major version is 3.
**Mobile Competence Centre (MCC):** The permanent secretariat, or support
team, of 3GPP.
**pseudo Change Request (pCR):** similar to a Change Request but has no CR
number and is intended to propose new or revised text for inclusion in 3GPP
TSs or TRs not yet under change control (i.e. still in the drafting phase).
Known in some groups as \"text proposal\".
**specification:** generic term standing for Technical Specification and
Technical Report.
**Study Item (SI):** type of Work Item which will conduct feasibility studies
and will result in a Technical Report
**Study Item description (SID):** description of a Study Item in a standard
Work Item Description sheet.
**TSG:** Technical Specification Group.
**TSG change control:** specification status in which the Technical
Specification Group is responsible for approval of Change Requests.
**TSG sub-group** : Working Group or subgroup of a Working Group or of a Sub-
Group.
**Working Group (WG):** official subgroup of a TSG reporting to that TSG.
**WG Change Control:** specification status in which the Working Group is
responsible for agreeing Change Requests for submission to the TSG for
approval.
**version:** unique identifier in the form x.y.z for a specification at a
given point in time.
Example: version 3.12.3.
**withdrawn:** specification status in which the given version of the
specification no longer belongs to the appropriate set of valid
specifications.
**Work Item (WI):** description of an enhancement to a technical area, which
may be categorized as Study Item, Feature, Building Block or Work Task.
**Work Item description (WID):** description of a Work Item in a standard Work
Item Description sheet.
**work task** : sub-division of a building block, representing a self-
contained, well-scoped and well-scheduled item of work.
# 3 General responsibilities of the Support Team
## 3.1 Specifications, meetings and liaisons
The Support Team is responsible for the management of the work of the TSGs.
This includes editorship and management of specifications once they have been
put under TSG change control. It also includes preparation of and support for
the meetings (including meeting reports) of the TSGs and their Working Groups,
and subgroups in descending priority.
It furthermore includes liaison with other bodies and relevant groups and
institutions.
## 3.2 Registration of code points
In the course of 3GPP\'s work, it will from time to time be necessary to
register code points in protocols maintained by bodies other than 3GPP, for
example, Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) types registered with
the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA, http://www.iana.org/).
Wherever possible, registration of such code points shall be entrusted to the
3GPP Support Team rather than being performed by an individual delegate. Since
3GPP is not a legally constituted entity, the Support Team shall register such
code points in the name of one of the Organizational Partners on behalf of all
the Organizational Partners of 3GPP.
# 4 Handling of Specifications
## 4.0 Numbering scheme
The specifications shall be numbered according to the following scheme:
3GPP TS aa.bbb (for Technical Specifications); or
3GPP TR aa.bbb (for Technical Reports).
The fields aa and bbb shall be selected according to the nature of the
specification as given in tables 1 and 2. The provisions of table 1 shall be
strictly enforced, but those of table 2 should be used for guidance: it is
acceptable to deviate from these provisions for backwards compatibility or
other reasons.
Table 1: Specification number ranges aa
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Range for | Range for | Range for | Use | Remarks | | GSM up to | GSM Release | UMTS | | | | and | 4 onwards | Release | | | | including | | 1999 | | | | Release | | onwards | | | | 1999 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 01.bb | 41.bbb | 21.bbb | R | Often | | | | | equirements | transient | | | | | spe | spe | | | | | cifications | cifications | | | | | | containing | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | leading to | | | | | | other | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications; | | | | | | may become | | | | | | obsolete | | | | | | when | | | | | | technical | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | have been | | | | | | fully | | | | | | specified; | | | | | | they could | | | | | | then, e.g., | | | | | | be replaced | | | | | | by reports | | | | | | describing | | | | | | the | | | | | | performance | | | | | | of the | | | | | | system, | | | | | | they could | | | | | | be deleted | | | | | | without | | | | | | r | | | | | | eplacement, | | | | | | or be kept | | | | | | for | | | | | | historical | | | | | | reasons but | | | | | | treated as | | | | | | background | | | | | | material. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 02.bb | 42.bbb | 22.bbb | Service | Services, | | | | | aspects | service | | | | | | features, | | | | | | building | | | | | | blocks or | | | | | | platforms | | | | | | for | | | | | | services (a | | | | | | service | | | | | | feature or | | | | | | service | | | | | | building | | | | | | block may | | | | | | provide | | | | | | certain | | | | | | generic | | | | | | fu | | | | | | nctionality | | | | | | for the | | | | | | composition | | | | | | of a | | | | | | service, | | | | | | including | | | | | | the control | | | | | | by the | | | | | | user; a | | | | | | platform | | | | | | may | | | | | | comprise | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | network | | | | | | elements, | | | | | | e.g. UIM, | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | terminal, | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | system to | | | | | | the core | | | | | | network | | | | | | etc.); also | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications; | | | | | | also | | | | | | reports | | | | | | defining | | | | | | services | | | | | | which can | | | | | | be realized | | | | | | by generic | | | | | | building | | | | | | blocks etc. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 03.bb | 43.bbb | 23.bbb | Technical | Mainly | | | | | realization | stage 2 | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | (or | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | of a | | | | | | similar | | | | | | nature | | | | | | describing | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterworking | | | | | | over | | | | | | several | | | | | | interfaces, | | | | | | the | | | | | | behaviour | | | | | | in | | | | | | un | | | | | | exceptional | | | | | | cases, | | | | | | etc.). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 04.bb | 44.bbb | 24.bbb | Signalling | Detailed | | | | | protocols | and | | | | | (UE to CN) | bit-exact | | | | | | stage 3 | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | of | | | | | | protocols | | | | | | between | | | | | | MS/UE and | | | | | | the Core | | | | | | Network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 05.bb | 45.bbb | 25.bbb | Radio | 25.1bb: | | | | | access | UTRAN radio | | | | | aspects | p | | | | | | erformance\ | | | | | | 25.2bb: | | | | | | UTRA layer | | | | | | 1\ | | | | | | 25.3bb: | | | | | | UTRA layers | | | | | | 2 & 3\ | | | | | | 25.4bb: | | | | | | UTRAN Iub, | | | | | | Iur & Iu | | | | | | interfaces | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 06.bb | 46.bbb | 26.bbb | Codecs | Speech and | | | | | | other | | | | | | codecs | | | | | | (video | | | | | | etc.). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 07.bb | 47.bbb | 27.bbb | Data | Functions | | | | | | necessary | | | | | | to support | | | | | | data | | | | | | ap | | | | | | plications. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 08.bb | 48.bbb | 28.bbb | Signalling | Detailed | | | | | protocols | and | | | | | (RSS to CN) | bit-exact | | | | | | stage 3 | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | of | | | | | | protocols | | | | | | between | | | | | | radio | | | | | | subsystem | | | | | | (eg BSS) | | | | | | and | | | | | | periphery | | | | | | of CN (eg | | | | | | MSC). (Not | | | | | | used in | | | | | | Rel | | | | | | ease 1999.) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 09.bb | 49.bbb | 29.bbb | Core | Detailed | | | | | Network | and | | | | | signalling | bit-exact | | | | | protocols | stage 3 | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | of | | | | | | protocols | | | | | | within the | | | | | | Core | | | | | | Network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10.bb | 50.bbb | 30.bbb | Programme | 3^rd^ | | | | | management | Generation | | | | | | Mobile | | | | | | System, | | | | | | project | | | | | | plans / | | | | | | project | | | | | | work | | | | | | programme | | | | | | and | | | | | | stand-alone | | | | | | documents | | | | | | for major | | | | | | Work Items. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11.bb | 51.bbb | 31.bbb | SIM / UIM | Subscriber | | | | | | / User | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | Module and | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfaces | | | | | | between it | | | | | | and other | | | | | | entities. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12.bb | 52.bbb | 32.bbb | Charging | Application | | | | | and OAM&P | of TMN for | | | | | ( | the 3GPP | | | | | Operations, | 3^rd^ | | | | | Admi | Generation | | | | | nistration, | Mobile | | | | | Maintenance | System and | | | | | & | other | | | | | Pr | functions | | | | | ovisioning) | for | | | | | | operation, | | | | | | adm | | | | | | inistration | | | | | | and | | | | | | maintenance | | | | | | of a 3^rd^ | | | | | | Generation | | | | | | Mobile | | | | | | System | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | _13.bb_ | | | | _Regulatory | | | | | | test | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications. | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Transferred | | | | | | from ETSI | | | | | | TC SMG to | | | | | | ETSI TC | | | | | | MSG.)_ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 33.bbb | Security | | | | | | aspects | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 34.bbb | Test | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 55.bbb | 35.bbb | Algorithms | Spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | of | | | | | | encryption | | | | | | algorithms | | | | | | for | | | | | | conf | | | | | | identiality | | | | | | and | | | | | | auth | | | | | | entication, | | | | | | etc. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 36.bbb | Evolved | Introduced | | | | | Universal | in Release | | | | | Terrestrial | 8 for the | | | | | Radio | so-called | | | | | Access | \"Long Term | | | | | (Network) | Evolution\" | | | | | | of the | | | | | | radio | | | | | | technology. | | | | | | A similar | | | | | | subdivision | | | | | | to that | | | | | | used for | | | | | | the | | | | | | 25-series | | | | | | above is | | | | | | used. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 37.bbb | Multiple | Such as | | | | | radio | handover, | | | | | access | fallback, | | | | | technology | in | | | | | aspects | terworking. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | 38.bbb | 5G \"New | Release 14: | | | | | Radio\" | first | | | | | | studies. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | Column 1 | | | | | | refers to | | | | | | the | | | | | | original | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | sp | | | | | | ecification | | | | | | series used | | | | | | up to | | | | | | Release | | | | | | 1999. | | | | | | | | | | | | Column 2 | | | | | | refers to | | | | | | the | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | peculiar to | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementations | | | | | | for | | | | | | Release 4 | | | | | | onwards -- | | | | | | that is, | | | | | | those | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | relating | | | | | | solely to | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | radio | | | | | | access. | | | | | | | | | | | | Column 3 | | | | | | refers to | | | | | | the | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | created by | | | | | | 3GPP for | | | | | | R | | | | | | elease 1999 | | | | | | onwards | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementations | | | | | | having a | | | | | | UTRAN radio | | | | | | access. | | | | | | Many of | | | | | | these are | | | | | | common to | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | and UTRAN | | | | | | systems | | | | | | (see | | | | | | table 2). | | | | | | | | | | | | Separate | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cifications | | | | | | list the | | | | | | specs | | | | | | required to | | | | | | implement | | | | | | Releases | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | and UTRAN | | | | | | systems | | | | | | (3GPP TSs | | | | | | 21.101 | | | | | | [3], | | | | | | 01.01 / | | | | | | 41.101 | | | | | | [4]). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 2: Specification number ranges bbb
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Range | Use | Remarks | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | aa.bb | Specification | Continue to be | | | applicable to | maintained by 3GPP. | | | pre-Release-4 GSM | Not propagated beyond | | | systems. | Release 1999. | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | aa.0bb | Specifications | **aa in range 21 to | | | applicable to both 2G | 39:** | | | (GSM) and 3G systems. | | | | | For most | | | | specifications in this | | | | range for a given | | | | Release, a GSM | | | | specification numbered | | | | [aa ‑ 20].[bb] | | | | will have existed for | | | | earlier Releases. | | | | | | | | Example: 3GPP TS | | | | 28.032 replaces GSM | | | | 08.32 for Release 1999 | | | | onwards. | | | | | | | | **aa in range 41 to | | | | 59:** | | | | | | | | Direct equivalent to | | | | aa.bb GSM | | | | specification for | | | | previous Releases. | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | aa.1bb | Specification either | **aa in range 21 to | | | (a) derived from | 39:** | | | earlier 2G (GSM) | | | | specification, but | For most | | | with technical | specifications in this | | | modification; or (b) | range for a given | | | new specifications. | Release, a GSM | | | | specification numbered | | | | [a | | | | a ‑ 20].[bbb ‑ 100] | | | | will have existed for | | | | earlier Releases, and | | | | may continue to exist | | | | (in parallel) for the | | | | same Release. | | | | | | | | Example: 3GPP TS | | | | 28.133 will have been | | | | based on GSM 08.33, | | | | but both | | | | specifications exist | | | | for Release 1999 | | | | onwards. | | | | | | | | **aa in range 41 to | | | | 59:** | | | | | | | | New GSM specification | | | | for Release 4 or | | | | later. | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | aa.2bb to aa.7bb | New specifications. | Not, in general, | | | | derived from | | | | pre-Release 4 GSM | | | | predecessors. | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: See table 1 | | | | for specific | | | | allocation within | | | | 25.bbb series. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For some | | | | specification series, | | | | the stock of aa.8bb | | | | TRs has been | | | | exhausted, and in | | | | these cases, further | | | | internal TRs are | | | | allocated aa.7bb | | | | numbers. | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | aa.8bb | Technical Reports not | Working documents of | | | intended for | 3GPP Groups not | | | publication. | intended to be | | | | transposed into | | | | publications by the | | | | Partner Organizations. | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | aa.9bb | Technical Reports | As distinct from those | | | intended for | of the aa.8bb series. | | | publication. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
## 4.0A Version nomenclature
Each specification is associated with a \"version number\" in the form x.y.z
which uniquely identifies the document. The significance of the three fields
is defined in table 3.
Table 3: Version number fields
+-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Field | Use | Remarks | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | x | major | 0: draft | | | | | | | also referred to as | 1: presented to TSG for | | | \"release\" | information (specification | | | | estimated by prime | | | | responsible Group to be at | | | | least 60% stable) | | | | | | | | 2: presented to TSG for | | | | approval (specification | | | | estimated by prime | | | | responsible Group to be at | | | | least 80% stable) | | | | | | | | 3 or greater: approved by | | | | TSG and under change | | | | control; the value | | | | indicates the Release | | | | according to table 4. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | y | technical | Incremented every time a | | | | technical change is | | | | introduced into the | | | | specification. Once under | | | | change control, such | | | | changes shall only occur | | | | when the TSG approves one | | | | or more Change Requests. | | | | Reset to zero every time | | | | the \"major\" field is | | | | incremented. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | z | editorial | Incremented every time a | | | | purely editorial change is | | | | introduced into the | | | | specification. Reset to | | | | zero every time the | | | | \"technical\" field is | | | | incremented or reset to | | | | zero. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
Table 3 shows the estimated degree of stability to be used as a guideline for
determining when to raise a specification to version 1.y.z and to 2.y.z. Such
figures are obviously subjective, and the decision is ultimately at the
discretion of the responsible Group.
A TS or TR having reached at least 60% stability and presented to the TSG for
the first time shall be presented with its major version number set to 1, i.e.
as version 1.y.z..
## 4.0B Releases
Specifications are grouped into \"Releases\". A mobile system can be
constructed based on the set of all specifications which comprise a given
Release. A Release differs from the previous Release by having added
functionality introduced as a result of ongoing standardization work within
the Groups.
Specifications pertaining to a given Release shall be distinguished by the
first field of the version number (\"x\" in x.y.z) according to table 4. Table
4 also shows for comparison the equivalent significance of the GSM Releases.
For further details on Release control, see clause 4.10.
Table 4: Version numbers vs. Releases
* * *
Spec under change control for ... spec number format and version
**GSM Phase 1** aa.bb v3.y.z
**GSM Phase 2** aa.bb v4.y.z
**GSM Phase 2+ Release 1996** aa.bb v5.y.z
**GSM Phase 2+ Release 1997** aa.bb v6.y.z
**GSM Phase 2+ Release 1998** aa.bb v7.y.z
**GSM Phase 2+ Release 1999\ aa.bb v8.y.z (pure GERAN-based system)**
**pure UTRAN-based system and common UTRAN- & GERAN-based systems Release
1999** aa.bbb v3.y.z
**GERAN- & UTRAN-based systems Release 4** aa.bbb v4.y.z
**GERAN- & UTRAN-based systems Release 5** aa.bbb v5.y.z
**GERAN- & UTRAN-based systems Release 6** aa.bbb v6.y.z
**GERAN- & UTRAN-based systems Release 7** aa.bbb v7.y.z
**...** ...
NOTE: From Release 4 onwards the 3GPP format for specification numbers and
versions applies to all specifications (including those only relevant for
implementation of a stand-alone GSM system).
* * *
## 4.1 Overview
Where appropriate, the three-stage methodology defined in ITU‑T Recommendation
I.130 should be employed:
> Stage 1 is an overall service description from the user\'s standpoint.
>
> Stage 2 is an overall description of the organization of the network
> functions to map service requirements into network capabilities.
>
> Stage 3 is the definition of switching and signalling capabilities needed to
> support services defined in stage 1.
In addition, it is often appropriate to perform a feasibility study prior to
formal specification work. This is sometimes referred to as \"stage 0\".
Furthermore, it will often be appropriate to follow stage 3 with the
production of test specifications -- a stage 4.
### 4.1.1 General
A new specification shall be created in a Group. At creation, a rapporteur
shall be appointed. The rapporteur shall produce an initial draft, version
0.0.0, and subsequent revised versions (version 0.1.0, possibly 0.1.1, 0.1.2
and so on, then version 0.2.0 etc.). Details of the role of the rapporteur are
described in clause 4.1.2.
The rules for drafting specifications, and the software tools to be used are
listed in 3GPP TR 21.801 [1].
Versions 0.1.0, 0.2.0, 0.3.0 etc. should be presented to the responsible
Group. Versions 0.i.1, 0.i.2 etc. may be internal to the drafting group.
Further drafts may be produced, with appropriate increments in the
\"technical\" / \"editorial\" fields of the version number. Every new draft
with an incremented \"technical\" version field shall be presented to the
responsible Group. Although two or more Groups may have an interest in
contributing to the development of a specification, ultimate responsibility
vests in a single (responsible) Group. The responsible Group shall ensure that
all other Groups which might have an interest are given the opportunity to
participate in the drafting. The objectives intended to be provided or decided
by a working group with secondary responsibility shall be made clear in a
corresponding Work Item Description document, identifying additional
rapporteurs from such secondary group(s) if necessary.
The Support Team is responsible for allocating specification numbers. As soon
as title, scope and some other information on the specification is stable, the
Support Team shall assign a specification number according to the provisions
of clause 4.0 and shall enter the specification into the Status List of
Specifications (see clause 7). The TSG Sub-Group responsible for the
specification shall inform its parent TSG that such a new specification is
under construction.
When a specification is sufficiently stable (see table 3), it shall be
converted to version 1.0.0 (with no technical changes with respect to the
previous version 0.y.z) by the Support Team, and presented to the TSG for
information. Further drafts bearing version numbers 1.y.z may be produced
until the specification is sufficiently stable to be approved by the TSG. At
this stage, and until formal approval by the TSG, the specification is, unless
it belongs directly to a TSG, under the control of the responsible TSG Sub-
Group. The modalities governing the introduction of changes shall be decided
on a case by case basis by the WG concerned.
Once the responsible Group considers that the draft is sufficiently stable
(see table 3) that it is desirable to place it under change control, the
latest version 1.y.z shall be converted to version 2.0.0 (with no technical
changes with respect to the previous version 1.y.z) by the Support Team and
presented for approval at the TSG.
If the TSG does not approve the draft, further drafts version 2.y.z may be
produced by the responsible Group.
If the TSG does approve the draft, the approved version (with no technical
changes) shall be converted to version x.0.0 where \"x\" corresponds to the
Release identity given in table 4.
NOTE: It is thus quite normal that a 3GPP specification approved for, say,
Release 4, jumps directly from version 2.0.0 to version 4.0.0; there is no
Release 1999 document, therefore no version 3.y.z.
The specification shall now be under TSG change control. Further changes shall
be made by means of formal Change Requests, to be approved by the TSG. On
approval of a CR, the middle number shall be incremented and the right-most
number reset to 0 (e.g., from 7.2.1 to 7.3.0).
### 4.1.2 Role of the specification rapporteur
The role of the rapporteur is to:
\- Serve as Editor (following the guidance of the WG) until the specification
is placed under change control.
\- Deliver a clean specification to the MCC for editorial clean-up before
submission for TSG approval to come under change control.
and, in co-operation with MCC, to:
\- Review all CRs to the specification prior to agreement in the Working
Group. This includes identifying and resolving clashes.
\- Oversee the technical quality of the specification.
\- Explain the specification to any other group (WG, TSG, inside or outside
3GPP), where appropriate.
\- Serve as focal point for technical questions.
## 4.2 Characteristics of a specification
\- The specification has a prime responsible TSG.
\- The specification may have a prime responsible TSG WG.
\- The specification may have one or more secondary responsible TSGs and/or
TSG WGs. WIDs will express the specific objectives justifying changes to the
specification or any other action by any Group with secondary responsibility.
\- The specification may have a prime responsible TSG Sub-Group below a
Working Group as decided by the prime responsible TSG Working Group.
\- The specification shall have a rapporteur: a delegate from a member company
(or, in exceptional cases, a Support Team expert); the delegate should
participate regularly in the prime responsible TSG WG (and further TSG SG if
applicable).
\- The specification is a Technical Report or a Technical Specification
\- A specification has versions which are identified by three numbers (see
4.0A).
## 4.3 Characteristics of a major version of a specification
A major version 0 or 1 or 2 of a specification has the following
characteristics:
\- It is either a **draft** or **withdrawn**.
\- It is **TSG internal**.
A major version w > 2 of a specification has the following characteristics:
\- It is either **under TSG WG Change Control** or **under TSG Change
Control** or **closed** or **withdrawn**.
\- It is either **authorized for publication** or **TSG internal**.
A major version of a specification under TSG WG Change Control is TSG
internal.
A major version under TSG WG Change Control or TSG Change Control is called
major version under Change Control.
A major version of a specification under TSG Change Control is
\- either **not yet frozen** or **frozen**.
NOTE: In the description above, attribute values are **bold**.
## 4.4 Characteristics of a version of a specification
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 0.x.y | - draft (or withdrawn) | | | | | | - TSG internal | | | | | | - no version of the specification has | | | been presented for information to the | | | TSG yet | | | | | | - no major version of the specification | | | is under TSG change control yet | +==========================+==========================================+ | 1.0.0 | - draft (or withdrawn) | | | | | | - TSG internal | | | | | | - this version 1.0.0 is presented to | | | TSG | | | | | | - for information | | | | | | - or for information and approval | | | | | | - no major version of the specification | | | has been under TSG Change Control yet | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 1.x.y (x > 0 or y > 0) | - draft (or withdrawn) | | | | | | - earlier version 1.0.0 has been | | | presented for information to the TSG | | | | | | - no major version of the specification | | | is under TSG Change Control yet | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 2.0.0 | - draft or withdrawn | | | | | | - TSG internal | | | | | | - earlier version 1.0.0 has been | | | presented for information to the TSG | | | | | | - this version 2.0.0 is presented to | | | the TSG for approval | | | | | | - no version of the specification has | | | been approved yet | | | | | | - no major version of the specification | | | has been under TSG Change Control yet | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 2.x.y (x > 0 or y > 0) | - draft | | | | | | - TSG internal | | | | | | [- earlier version 1.0.0 has been | | | presented for information to the TSG] | | | | | | - no major version of the specification | | | is under TSG Change Control yet | | | | | | - earlier version 2.0.0 had been | | | presented to the TSG for approval but | | | had not been approved by the TSG | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | x.y.z (x ≥ 3) | - under TSG Change Control or closed | | | | | | - TSG internal or authorized for | | | publication | | | | | | [- earlier version 1.0.0 has been | | | presented for information to the TSG] | | | | | | - earlier major versions of the | | | specification, if any, shall be under | | | TSG Change Control or closed or | | | withdrawn | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | draft y.z of version x | - under TSG WG Change Control | | | | | | - TSG internal | | | | | | [- earlier version 1.0.0 has been | | | presented for information to TSG] | | | | | | - earlier major versions of the | | | specification, if any, shall be under | | | TSG Change Control or closed or | | | withdrawn | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
NOTE: In the table above, statements between square brackets are true but not
relevant. The first two lines of each row are implied by clause 4.2.
## 4.5 (void)
## 4.6 Change Request regime
### 4.6.1 Change Requests
Once a specification has been approved by the TSG and version x.0.0 (where x
>= 3, corresponding to the Release - see table 4) has been produced, it shall
be considered to be under change control. Any technical change which may be
identified for inclusion in the specification from this point on shall be
accomplished by means of a Change Request (CR).
A CR may be raised by any individual member and brought to the attention of
the responsible Group.
A Change Request shall relate to a specific version of a specification. A
unique (for that specification) reference number shall be allocated to the CR
by the 3GPP portal or the Support Team. CR details shall be entered into a CR
database maintained by the Support Team and made available on the 3GPP file
server. CR numbers shall not be re-used, even if a CR is ultimately rejected
by the TSG (see note). A CR may undergo one or more revisions before a final
decision is made on it. The database shall show all revisions of each CR.
NOTE: The CR status \"rejected\", and indeed this status for any other TDoc
type has become unacceptable in some groups, and is replaced by \"not
pursued\". Unless evident from the context, in the present document, any
reference to the status \"rejected\" applies equally to status \"not
pursued\".
The TSG WG Secretary shall collate all CRs agreed by the WG and shall send
them to the parent TSG for approval. For specifications which are directly
under the control of a TSG, the CR shall be brought directly to the attention
of the TSG.
Following approval at TSG level, the Support Team person responsible for the
specification shall edit the original specification to incorporate the changes
of all Change Requests approved by the TSG. The new version of the
specification shall then be made available on the 3GPP file server.
The TSG should approve, reject or postpone a CR in its entirety (after
revision, if necessary). That is, the modifications proposed by the CR should
either be accepted without change, or unconditionally rejected. For ease of
management, a single Change Request should therefore pertain to a single
technical topic only. Each topic can thus be cleanly accepted or rejected by
the TSG.
Where two or more CRs pertain to the same (version of a) specification, the
responsible Group shall check for potential interaction amongst those CRs to
ensure that, if all are approved by the TSG, each is implementable without
contradicting any other.
The TSG Secretary shall record the TSG\'s decisions (see table 9.2-1) on each
CR in the meeting report and those decisions shall be reflected in the CR
database and on the 3GPP portal.
### 4.6.2 Change Request forms
To ensure an appropriate and consistent way of presenting and documenting
Change Requests, there exist standardized front covers (forms) for CRs as well
as rules on how to accurately identify the modified parts of the
specification.
The purpose of the CR form itself is to provide the relevant management
information of the proposed changes, e.g. such as:
\- Target specification with its version number (i.e. the original version to
which CR is drafted),
\- Source of the CR,
\- Reason for the proposed change and consequences if not accepted,
\- Category of proposed change (i.e. correction, Change Request corresponding
to an earlier release Change Request, addition of feature, functional
modification of feature, or editorial modification),
\- Cross-phase compatibility aspects.
A CR to a major version of a specification can fall into any of the categories
quoted below.
Table 4A: Categories of Change Requests
+----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Category | Meaning | Remarks | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | A | Corresponds to a change to | Used to reflect | | | an earlier Release | functionally equivalent | | | | changes made to an earlier | | | | Release of the same | | | | Specification. | | | | | | | | NOTE: The proposed change | | | | to the later Release of | | | | the Specification need not | | | | be absolutely identical to | | | | the proposed change to the | | | | earlier Release, since it | | | | is possible that, due to | | | | earlier change requests, | | | | the affected text is not | | | | identical in each Release. | | | | Category A should be used | | | | when the functional | | | | objective of the proposed | | | | changes is equivalent in | | | | the earlier and later | | | | Releases. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | B | Addition or deletion of | The new feature is to be | | | feature | added to the Release; the | | | | reference is _not_ to the | | | | Specification itself. This | | | | will normally correspond | | | | to an identified Work | | | | Item. This category shall | | | | not be used for a frozen | | | | Release, except for | | | | alignment CRs as described | | | | in clause 4.7. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | C | Functional modification of | Any functional | | | feature | modification shall | | | | correspond to an | | | | identified Work Item. | | | | However backward | | | | compatibility shall be | | | | ensured when the issue has | | | | an impact on the UE. This | | | | category shall not be used | | | | for a frozen Release, | | | | except for alignment CRs | | | | as described in clause | | | | 4.7. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | D | Editorial modification | Editorial modifications | | | | shall have no impact on an | | | | implementation. An | | | | editorial modification CR | | | | to a frozen Release shall | | | | not be permitted. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | E | (not used) | | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | F | Correction | Used: | | | | | | | | > 1 to correct an error in | | | | > the specification (i.e. | | | | > a clear instruction in | | | | > the specification which | | | | > leads to incorrect | | | | > operation of the | | | | > system); or | | | | > | | | | > 2 to correct an | | | | > ambiguity in the | | | | > specification which | | | | > could lead to different | | | | > implementations which | | | | > cannot inter-operate; or | | | | > | | | | > 3 (void); or | | | | > | | | | > 4 to remedy the | | | | > incorrect implementation | | | | > of a previously approved | | | | > CR; or | | | | > | | | | > 5 to correct a | | | | > misalignment between the | | | | > specifications (stage 1, | | | | > stage 2 & stage 3) for a | | | | > feature or service when | | | | > not introducing a new | | | | > function or functional | | | | > change. | +----------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
Notwithstanding the provisions of table 4A, a TSG may approve a CR of category
B or C to a frozen specification if it is the consensus of the meeting that
such an exceptional action is justified; see clause 4.7.
On successful reservation of a Change Request TDoc, the 3GPP portal will push
the completed CR cover page to the user. This cover page has all the relevant
metadata already filled in, thus eliminating transcription errors on the part
of the author. **It is strongly recommended that the author make use of this
facility rather than filling in a blank CR cover from the stock template.**
Tips on how to complete the remaining fields of the CR form can be found at
http://www.3gpp.org/specifications/change-requests/85-change-requests-step-by-
step.
For reference, the CR database is available from the 3GPP file server
(http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Information/Databases/Change_Request/).
Alternatively, the CRs for a given specification or from a given meeting can
be consulted on the 3GU portal (https://portal.3gpp.org).
When a CR is presented for approval, the classification into which it falls
shall be identified. If this cannot be done then the CR shall be automatically
rejected.
The CR form bears a field to indicate the Release number to which the CR
pertains. This field shall show the Release of the intended _resulting_
specification -- that is, the Release of the specification _after_
implementation of the CR. The Release shown on the CR form is not related to
the Release of the feature to which the change relates, but to the Release of
the specification being changed.
### 4.6.3 Contents of Change Requests
Although the CR form shall indicate the details of change, each CR shall have
attached the clauses of the specification that are affected by the CR, using
the latest version of the major version. These clauses shall have the proposed
modifications clearly marked, by means of the word processor\'s \"revision
mode\".
In case there are more than one independent CR to the same part of the
specification, neither of them should contain the proposed modifications from
the other(s), however any potential interaction between the modifications
should of course be resolved before presentation.
If the CR proposes changes to stage 3 specification files which are
normatively documented in the 3GPP Forge repository according to clause 5C,
then the proposed modifications shall be documented in the 3GPP Forge
repository. In this case the cover page of the CR form shall contain a
reference to a Forge Merge-Request clearly listing the proposed modifications
in the \"_Other comments:_ \" field, and excerpts of all affected stage 3
specification files clearly showing the proposed changes shall be appended to
the cover page of the CR form.
### 4.6.4 Handling of the Change Requests
**Entry to the TSG WG:**
A proposed CR should be brought to the relevant Group primarily responsible
for the specification concerned and discussed there, before presentation to
the TSG. Comments from secondarily responsible Groups (if any) shall have been
sought and comments shall have been taken into account before presentation to
the TSG for approval.
To ease the work of the Group and of the Support Team , a proposed CR should
be presented in a form suitable for TSG WG agreement and TSG approval. If a CR
is not immediately accepted the originator shall update the CR taking into
account comments and other guidelines from the relevant groups, including
change of reference version if needed, and to re-present it to the Group.
All CRs shall be presented in electronic form.
**CR identification:**
During the course of its development, a CR may be modified, and the CR\'s
progress shall be indicated by allocation of a revision number: rev. 1, 2, and
so on. A given revision of a CR is uniquely defined by
\- the specification to which it belongs, and
\- the CR number (an alphanumeric string) and
\- the revision number (default, i.e. the value if no number is given, is
\'-\', i.e. the original, unrevised, CR).
A CR number shall be allocated by the 3GPP portal or the Support Team. For a
given Specification, CR numbers shall be unique and shall never be reused (see
clause 4.6.1). Numbers used for rejected CRs shall not be reused. If a CR is
rejected, and the responsible Group considers it useful to bring a
modification of the CR to a subsequent TSG for approval, the new CR shall be
allocated a new CR number. That is, it shall not be presented as a revision of
the same CR number previously rejected.
**Impact on other specifications:**
If the content of the CR is such that, in isolation, it makes the whole set of
approved Specifications inconsistent, corresponding CRs shall also be
considered and produced. This should be carried out by the originators of the
CR (and their colleagues in other Groups) in advance. The Support Team is co-
responsible for identifying and communicating cross-TSG and cross-TSG-WG
impacts.
If a CR (or set of CRs) causes an inconsistency with an existing/approved test
or O&M specification, the corresponding CRs should be presented together with
the core specification CR in the same TSG cycle. Otherwise they may follow in
a later TSG cycle.
**Handling of the CR in the TSG:**
When the TSG WG has agreed to a CR and comments from secondarily responsible
Groups (if any) have been taken into account, the Support Team shall ensure
that it is correctly formatted and assembled, and shall submit the CR to the
primarily responsible TSG for formal approval.
The Support Team shall collate agreed CRs in CR packs.
The Support Team shall make available to the TSG summary lists of all CRs
presented for decision. This list shall be updated to show the decision
reached for each and every CR.
**Decisions on CRs, and results:**
The TSG shall consider and conclude on each CR independently; the verdict on
each CR shall be one of the values listed in clause 9.2
Table 5: (void)
**Control and notification of CR decisions:**
At the end of each TSG meeting, the Support Team shall issue lists containing
the detailed result of the CRs presented at the meeting, including information
about the consequential new version numbers of the concerned specifications.
These lists shall form an annex to the meeting report (and hence are part of a
permanent document). These lists, being the evidence of which specifications
have changed and how, are important management tools for both TSG delegates
and the Support Team since it takes some time before the new versions of the
specifications can be compiled and released.
### 4.6.5 Updating and release of new versions of the specifications
If there is at least one Approved CR to a given specification, a new version
number of the specification shall be allocated (see clause 4.2.3), and the
Support Team shall produce and issue a new version of the specification.
### 4.6.6 Other changes to specifications
The Support Team may update a specification to correct purely editorial
deficiencies brought to its attention. In this case, only the \"editorial\"
field (third digit) of the version number shall be incremented. Such changes
should be avoided if possible: normally, they should be held over for
inclusion next time a technical change is made to the specification.
All such changes shall be clearly explained in the \"change history\" annex of
the specification.
## 4.7 \"Freezing\" of specifications
A TSG may decide that a specification is sufficiently stable that it may be
considered \"frozen\". That is, only CRs for essential corrections of errors
shall be considered except as discussed below (see clause 4.6.2 and in
particular the derogation statement below table 4A).
(At the same time, a new major version may be developed for inclusion of new
features).
Normally, all specifications of a Release will be frozen when the TSGs decide
that the functionality of the Release is stable -- i.e that all new features
to be included in the Release have been defined and that all new or modified
functionality required to implement those features has been incorporated into
the specifications. At this point, the Release as a whole shall be declared to
be \"frozen\", and its constituent specifications shall likewise be
\"frozen\".
A CR of category B or C (and any associated category A mirrors) to a frozen
version of a specification (in a given Release) shall only be an alignment of
the specification with the agreed functionality of the Release as provided for
in other specifications of that Release, or for internal consistency of an
individual specification. Such a CR may add to, remove from, or modify the
functionality of a frozen specification to ensure a consistent specification
set across a particular Release.
Correction CRs (category F and any associated category A mirrors) to a frozen
version of a specification (in a given Release) shall fit into one of the
following classifications:
\- A CR to introduce an essential correction, i.e. where a frequently
occurring case is not handled properly because there is some error or
significant ambiguity in the specification.
> NOTE: The above category are sometimes referred to as \"FASMO\" CRs:
> \"Frequent And Serious MisOperation\".
\- A CR to remedy the incorrect implementation of a previously approved CR (of
any category).
## 4.8 \"Closing\" of specifications
A TSG may decide that a specification will no longer be maintained. That is,
no further Change Requests should be considered. The specification remains
available, but no further Change Requests should be produced, even corrective
ones to align with the equivalent specification of a subsequent Release.
(At the same time, higher major versions of the specification may be under
development.)
## 4.9 \"Withdrawing\" of specifications
A TSG may decide to withdraw a specification which is obsolete if its
remaining available would confuse implementors (for example, if it contained
provisions which were contradictory to provisions of other, later,
specifications).
Before withdrawing a specification, the TSG shall ensure that no references
are made to it from any other 3GPP specification (and raise appropriate Change
Requests to eliminate any such references discovered).
A TSG shall use the procedure in clause 4.9B to withdraw specifications and
functionality.
## 4.9A \"Withdrawing\" of functionality
A TSG may decide to withdraw functionality.
Before withdrawing functionality, the TSG shall:
\- raise Change Requests to eliminate any references made to this
functionality from any 3GPP specifications; and
\- move text within specifications which were created for the functionality,
that is applicable to other functionality as well, to other appropriate
specifications.
## 4.9B Procedure for withdrawing of specifications and functionality
### 4.9B.1 (void)
### 4.9B.2 Diligent assessment
The decision whether to withdraw (a) specification(s) or whether to remove
functionality from within specifications shall only be taken once thorough
consideration has been given to the implications and applicability of the
action.
The withdrawing of a specification or functionality shall be explictly
identified as one of the objectives of a work item.
The withdrawing of a specification or functionality may be documented in:
a) a work item that defines new functionality that will obsolete the
specification or functionality; or
b) documented in a work item that is solely for the purpose of withdrawing.
Technical Enhancements and Improvement (TEI) and other similar general purpose
enhancement work items shall not be used for the withdrawing of a
specification or functionality.
The assessment of whether to withdraw functionality may extend beyond 3GPP
TSGs and their working groups. A notice shall be placed on the 3GPP site to
solicit comments from other concerned parties and shall clearly indicate which
specifications and functionality are considered for withdrawal, including
which versions of the specification would be affected, the date at which a
decision will be taken and the responsible TSG to which third parties may send
related Liaison Statements or other correspondence.
A study item may contain, as one of its objectives and/or its conclusions,
consideration of whether existing functionality should be withdrawn and the
identification of the impact of the withdrawing of functionality or
specifications.
### 4.9B.3 Changes to affected specifications
Removal of functionality shall be done using the normal change request
procedure (see sub-clause 4.6).
### 4.9B.4 Considerations for ongoing maintenance, enhancement and new Release
versions of specifications
When a specific version or all versions in a specific Release of a
specification, are withdrawn further versions of the specification in the same
Release shall not be created and the specification shall not be promoted to a
subsequent Release.
Evolution of specifications and functionality in Releases unaffected by the
withdrawal are allowed.
A Category B or Category C CR that adds to or modifies a specification or
functionality that has been withdrawn in a subsequent version shall clearly
state on the CR cover sheet in the Summary of change that the subsequent
version of the specification or functionality has been withdrawn.
Category A CRs for Releases in which the specification or functionality has
been withdrawn shall not be produced.
## 4.10 Release control
### 4.10.1 Creation of a new Release version of a specification
#### 4.10.1.0 General
The concept of Releases was introduced in clause 4.0B. A given specification
may simultaneously exist in several versions, each corresponding to a
different Release.
In principle, a Release of the specification can be identified as consisting
of all those specifications with a \"major\" version field of a given value.
#### 4.10.1.1 With no technical changes compared to the previous Release
A given Release consists of a set of specifications having a common \"major\"
version field; therefore, for the set of specifications to be complete, a new
specification needs to be produced even if its provisions are identical with
those of the previous Release\'s version. The creation of such a specification
shall be delayed until the latest possible moment - that is, until the TSG is
on the point of declaring a given Release to be complete, having determined
that no technical changes are needed in the specification compared with the
previous Release.
The creation of the new version under these circumstances shall be via the
responsible TSG\'s taking a decision to upgrade to the next Release of the
specification.
This implies that all Groups need to conduct a rigorous review of all
specifications for which they are responsible to determine which are to be
propagated to the next Release and which are not.
#### 4.10.1.2 When introducing technical changes
A new version of a specification, corresponding to a new Release, shall be
prepared when a technical change needs to be introduced to satisfy a
requirement of a feature of that new Release. This shall be accomplished by
the raising of a Change Request (see clause 4.6) in the usual way, with the
version number of the resulting specification indicating the new Release. The
CR shall bear the identity of the new Release (rather than the starting point
Release -- see clause 4.6.2).
#### 4.10.1.3 Specifications not propagated to next Release
Specifications which are not propagated from Release N-1 to Release N in one
of the above two methods shall be deemed not to form part of Release N. Under
these circumstances, the responsible Group shall undertake a review of all
other specifications of Release N to eliminate references to the specification
concerned.
### 4.10.2 Mirror Change Requests
When a Group produces a Change Request changing an early Release of a
specification, it shall check whether the same change also needs to be made to
later Releases of the specification. Changes which are corrective or
clarifying in nature will generally be applicable to such other versions.
Where it is determined that several Releases are affected, an (independently
numbered) Change Request shall be created for _each such affected version_ of
the specification. Such CRs are termed \"mirror Change Requests\". The
principal CR and its related mirror CRs should be grouped together for the
purpose of presentation to the TSG (unless some other grouping is more
logical).
The TSG shall approve (or postpone or reject) a CR to a given Release together
with the corresponding mirror CRs to later Releases. This will provide
consistency between Releases.
See also subclause 4.6.2.
### 4.10.3 Release mechanisms
It is important that the 3GPP release structure provides a sound basis for
implementations and equipment interoperation. Key principles important to
ensure this are:
\- A Release shall consist of a well-defined, stable and internally consistent
set of functions.
\- A Release shall be documented in a maintained, consistent stream of
specifications.
\- Essential corrections to a stable or frozen release shall be included in
the applicable Release.
\- New or changed functionality shall be included in a new (rather than
retrospectively in an old) Release.
These principles will ensure successful interoperability (roaming) amongst
different instantiations of 3GPP systems.
#### 4.10.3.1 Corrections to Releases
Each release should be consistent and implementable to ensure interworking.
This implies that essential corrections become normative parts of the Release
as soon as possible. If essential changes to \"old\" functionality are made to
a new release, similar corresponding changes shall be made to correct the same
error in the specifications pertaining to all previous, non-closed, Releases.
This is illustrated in figure A.
#### 4.10.3.2 New features
New functionality shall be included in the latest, non-frozen, Release. New
functionality shall not be included in previous, frozen, Releases. To do so
would cause incompatibility amongst instantiations of those Releases. This is
illustrated in figure A.
* * *
**_CR category\_ Release\ **_Release\ (see table 4A)_**1999 _4_**
                      ***v3.0.0***
**_C_** **_↓_**
                      ***v3.1.0***
**_C_** **_↓_**
                      ***v3.2.0***
**_C_** **_↓_**
                      ***v3.4.0***
**_C_** **_↓_**
                      ***v3.5.0***
**_B_** **_→_**
                                     ***v4.0.0***
**_F\_** ↓** __** \ A** _↓_**
                      ***v3.6.0***   ***v4.1.0***
**_C_** **_↓_**
                                     ***v4.2.0***
**_C_** **_↓_**
                                     ***v4.3.0***
**_F\_** ↓** __** \ A** _↓_**
                      ***3.7.0***    ***4.4.0***
* * *
Figure A: Introduction and development of new features to the latest Release;
and corrections to multiple Releases (example)
#### 4.10.3.3 Release naming
GSM phase 2+ specifications were grouped into annual Releases from 1996 to
1999. The first 3^rd^ generation specifications were grouped into an initial
Release 1999.
Subsequent Releases are not necessarily annual, and shall be referred to as
Release 4, Release 5, etc., according to the major field of the version number
(see table 4 and clause 4.3).
#### 4.10.3.4 Introduction of features into Releases
Development of the 3GPP system specifications shall be controlled by means of
a work plan covering the inclusion of new features (functionality). Target
dates for completion of Work Items (see clause 6) shall be estimated by the
responsible Groups. Milestones may be defined to monitor the progress of Work
Items. Based on the estimated completion of the desired features, a target
date for freezing of the specifications pertaining to the next Release can --
and shall -- be calculated. Feature development should be based around
_approximately_ annual Releases.
Thus the work plan shall indicate (a) the estimated freeze date of forthcoming
Releases and (b) the functional content of each such Release. The work plan
shall show all projected work, regardless of Release; this will ease long term
planning and the packaging of features into Releases. Completed Work Items
shall be removed from the plan once the Release of which they form a part has
been frozen.
3GPP technical coordination should set target dates for the freezing of each
individual stage (cf. clause 4.1) on all currently worked-upon Releases (i.e.
non-frozen).. On freezing stage 2 of Release x, TSGs should propose a target
freeze date for stages 1, 2 and 3 of Release x+1. It is possible that features
of exceptional complexity may span more than one Release (eg new core network
architecture, new radio interface).
The freezing date for a particular stage of a Release should insofar as is
possible be adhered to, even if, due to delays, it is not possible to include
all the features originally intended. Features which cannot be completed in
time should be held over to the next Release. It will normally be the case
that test specifications and O&M specifications will not necessarily be
completed until some time after the base specifications; this shall not impede
the freezing of the Release as a whole. However, if it becomes evident that,
due to delays in a number of important features, a new Release would contain
little new functionality, it may be preferable to delay the freezing of the
stage of a Release to allow more of the originally intended features to be
included.
The project plan shall clearly show the progress of each Work Item. When all
component Work Items of a feature have been completed, the TSG shall declare
the feature to be frozen. The only further development permitted from that
point onwards shall be:
\- the essential correction of errors;
\- the completion of the test and O&M specifications; and
\- unavoidable adjustments required to cater for interworking with other
features in the same Release.
See clause 6 for further information on Work Items.
#### 4.10.3.5 Early implementation of features
3GPP may identify certain features as being suitable for \"early
implementation\". The selection of \"early implementation\" features shall be
performed at the TSG level.
Additional documentation is provided for early implementation features (see
clause 6.4.4).
All documentation for early implementation features is contained in the
Release where the feature is introduced. The status or specification of older
Releases shall not be changed by the introduction of early implementation
features.
# 5 Availability and distribution of specifications
## 5.1 General
The Support Team shall make all approved versions of all specifications
available as soon as possible after their approval (or after approval of CRs
thereto) on a file server. The server shall allow anonymous access by any
interested party.
The Support Team should also endeavour to make earlier drafts available on the
server, even prior to approval, i.e. versions 0.y.z, 1.y.z and 2.y.z.
Such \"availability\" does not constitute formal \"publication\". Under the
terms of the 3GPP partnership agreement, the Organizational Partners which are
Standards Development Organizations will publish TSG-approved specifications
in the form of their own standards. The modalities of such publication
processes are specific to those individual Organizations and are beyond the
scope of the present document.
The directory structure shall differentiate amongst approved and draft
specifications, amongst versions of specifications approved at specific TSG
meetings, amongst versions of specifications pertaining to different Releases,
and between specifications relating to 2^nd^ generation (GSM) only and 3^rd^
generation (UMTS) systems.
A clear and unambiguous directory structure shall be adopted, and a guide to
that structure provided on the server. A \"status list\" shall also be
provided, showing the latest version of each Release of each specification.
## 5.2 Choice of availability and distribution of stage 3 specification files
For the availability and distribution of stage 3 specification files (e.g.
OpenAPI specification, YANG, ASN.1, XSD, etc.) there are two optional
alternatives, described in clauses 5B and 5C, and the principle of how the two
alternatives are chosen is decided by the responsible Working Group. Clause 5C
applies only for the choice when normative code parts of the stage 3
specification are normatively stored in the 3GPP Forge repository.
# 5A File naming conventions
Specifications shall be maintained in the form of computer-based files. The
file name shall be of the form
aabbb-xyz.eee
where:
aa and bbb have the same significance as in the specification number (see
tables 1 and 2);
x, y and z have the same significance as in the version number (see table 6);
eee is the de facto standard filename extension corresponding to the software
tool used to create the file (normally \"doc\" for Microsoft Word ®).
For multi-part specifications, the filename shall be extended to
aabbb-n-xyz.eee
Where:
n is the part number (see tables 6 and 6A).
To save storage space and to speed up uploading and downloading, source files
shall be saved compressed in industry standard \"Zip\" ® format. The filename
of the zipped file shall be the same as that of the contained source file, and
it shall bear the file extension \".zip\".
If a specification consists of multiple source files - for example, when a
very long document is divided into several smaller files for ease of editing
and manipulation - , each file should be named with the above convention, but
appending a file identifier in the form:
aabbb-xyz(m).eee
where:
m is the file number using characters from table 6 or 6A.
Where a specification has accompanying files - e.g. ASN.1 coding, C
programming language code, TTCN test sequences, etc. - it may not be
convenient or possible to abide by the last-mentioned rule. Under these
circumstances, the associated files shall be contained in a separate zip file,
which shall itself abide by the multiple-source-file rule. A \"readme\" text
file should be included in that zip file to explain the nature of each other
file.
EXAMPLE 1: 29341-420.zip is the compressed file of specification 29.341
version 4.2.0.
EXAMPLE 2: 31811-m-6g2.doc is the source file of specification 31.811 part 22
version 6.16.2.
EXAMPLE 3: 22354-480(1).doc and 22354-480(2).doc are the two files which make
up specification 22.354 version 4.8.0 (and which will both be compressed into
file 22354-480.zip).
EXAMPLE 4: 34101-300(1).doc and 34101-300(2).zip are the source text file and
the compressed set of TTCN files respectively which together comprise 34.101
version 3.0.0.
Draft versions of specifications may be made available in the responsible
Groups\' directories. Such versions shall be clearly distinguishable from
\"official\" versions by substituting \"d\" for the hyphen before the version
code. Thus:
aabbb**d** xyz.eee
(for example, 28033d410.zip). Such files shall never appear in the official
specification directories.
The foregoing file format using three characters for the version number is
valid as long as none of the three version elements (major, technical,
editorial) exceeds the value 35, since the characters 0..9, a..z represent a
base-36 value. If any one or more of the three version elements exceeds 35
then the file format shall be modified to use two decimal characters in the
range 00 to 99 for each element, i.e. six characters in all.
EXAMPLE 5: Version 15.35.0 of TS 29.341 would have the file name 29341-fz0.\
Version 15.36.0 of TS 29.341 would have the file name 29341-153600.\ (The file
extension is omitted for clarity.)
For specification part and sub-part numbers, one or two characters may be
used, 0..9 or 00..99. Ideally the intended number of parts and sub-parts
should be known when the first specification numbers are allocated so that the
correct number of digits can be used from the outset, ensuring that filenames
are correctly sorted when listed.
EXAMPLE 6: Permissible filenames for multi-part specifications (file
extensions omitted for clarity):\ 29341-1-5\ 29342-2-15\ 29343-13-21\
29344-08-55\ 29345-19-6
Part and sub-part numbers shall not use characters a..z, but shall always be
one- or two-digit decimal values.
Table 6: Characters used in filenames to represent numeric values -- single
character
* * *
Value Character Remarks 0 0 Only for use in version number fields. Part / sub-
part numbers and file numbers start at 0 or 1 (or 00 or 01 -- see table 6A). 1
1  
2 2  
3 3  
4 4  
5 5  
6 6  
7 7  
8 8  
9 9  
10 a  
11 b  
12 c  
13 d  
14 e  
15 f  
16 g  
17 h  
18 i  
19 j  
20 k  
21 l  
22 m  
23 n  
24 o  
25 p  
26 q  
27 r  
28 s  
29 t  
30 u  
31 v  
32 w  
33 x  
34 y  
35 z Higher values -- see table 6A.
* * *
Table 6A: Characters used in filenames to represent numeric values -- two
character
* * *
Value Character Remarks 0 00  
1 01  
2 02  
...  
9 09  
10 10  
11 11  
...  
34 34  
35 35  
36 36  
37 37  
...  
98 98  
99 99 Higher values for further study if necessary
* * *
# 5B Availability and distribution of OpenAPI specification files
As described in the clause 5.3.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], 3GPP Technical
Specifications describing an API or common data types shall include an annex
documenting the corresponding OpenAPI specification file.
For a TS agreed by the WG to be sent to TSG for approval to come under change
control, the responsible MCC officer, in preparing that version (normally
v2.0.0) shall, in conjunction with its rapporteur, check that the OpenAPI
specification file(s) is(are) syntactically correct. This exercise should be
accomplished in time to meet the deadline for submission of TDocs to the TSG
plenary meeting. If errors are detected at this stage, the rapporteur should
ask delegates to raise corrective pCR(s) to be sent directly to the TSG to
correct the draft TS. The TSG shall be requested to approve both the draft TS
and any such pCRs as a package, and if the package is approved, MCC shall
incorporate those pCRs into the TS when preparing the first under-change-
control version.
Prior to a TSG plenary meeting, the responsible MCC officer shall prepare CR
Packs for all WG-agreed CRs in the usual manner. For those CRs which change
the OpenAPI specification file(s) of the TS, the MCC officer and/or the
rapporteur shall perform a trial implementation of those CRs which affect the
OpenAPI specification file(s), and again check that the resulting
specification file(s) is(are) syntactically correct. If errors are detected at
this stage, the rapporteur should request authors of problematic CRs to
provide corrective revisions of those CRs to be sent directly to the TSG as
company contributions. The TSG shall be asked to approve all WG-agreed CRs for
which no problems were detected plus the company revision CRs addressing the
problematic ones. Ideally, not only the CR Packs containing the original WG-
agreed CRs but also the revised, company-provided, CRs should be provided in
time to meet the deadline for submission of TDocs to the TSG plenary meeting.
Before making available any new version of a TS containing an OpenAPI
specification file, the responsible MCC officer shall extract the (syntax
checked and verified) OpenAPI specification file from the annex of the TS and
make it available as a stand-alone file in UTF-8 format as specified in IETF
RFC 3629 [7]. The file name shall follow the conventions defined in 3GPP TS
29.501 [6] clause 5.3.6 unless the TS containing an OpenAPI specification file
indicates a different file name.
If a new version of a TS containing an OpenAPI specification file is approved
without any change to the contained OpenAPI specification file(s), the
responsible MCC officer shall not modify the existing UTF-8 formatted OpenAPI
specification file.
All the UTF-8 formatted OpenAPI specification files documented by TS shall be
stored by the MCC officer in the following locations:
\- https://forge.3gpp.org/rep/all/5G_APIs, and
\- in the zip file containing the Word file of the new version of the TS
(which is itself stored in the usual places).
## 5C Normative availability and distribution of stage 3 specification files
In this option, the normative code parts of the stage 3 specification shall be
normatively stored in the 3GPP Forge repository.
The TS document specifying the stage 3 definition shall indicate that the 3GPP
Forge repository is normative for the corresponding stage 3 specification
files and:
\- The TS document shall contain a link to a 3GPP Forge repository tag that
implicitly includes the versioning information about the TS, e.g.
https://forge.3gpp.org/rep/sa5/MnS/-/tree/Tag_Rel18_SA100;
\- The TS document shall contain the directory path where the files are
stored, e.g. \"yang-models\";
\- The TS document shall contain the name of the files specified by this TS;
\- The TS document shall not contain a copy of the stage 3 specification
files.
Before making available any new version of a TS specifying stage 3 files, the
responsible MCC officer shall download the specification files from 3GPP Forge
and store them in the zip file containing the new version of the TS document.
This zip file shall be published in the usual places.
All OpenAPI stage 3 specification files referenced by the TS document shall
also be stored by the MCC officer in the following location:
\- [https://forge.3gpp.org/rep/all/5G_APIs.]{.underline}
# 6 Work Items
## 6.0 Introduction
### 6.0.1 Introduction: why manage a project?
In any complex engineering venture, it is necessary to plan the project, to
monitor its progress, and to be able to determine whether it is being
completed on schedule and within budget. In many ways, the concepts and
constraints which apply to an engineering project can also be applied to
system standardization activity.
### 6.0.2 How to manage a project?
Any project needs to have its goals defined. It is then possible to analyse
the steps needed to achieve each goal, starting from the status quo.
It will often be desirable to first produce a feasibility report, which is to
be undertaken in the context of a Study Item.
**Study Item** :\ An initial study, resulting in a Technical Report, which
typically performs a feasibility study for additional functionality. If the
results of the study are positive, one or more subsequent Feature-type Work
Items may follow.
A feasibility study may include commercial as well as technical
considerations. This analysis will naturally lead to defining the new
_features_ which it is wished to add to the existing system.
**Feature** :\ New, or substantially enhanced functionality which represents
added value to the existing system.
A feature should be more or less self-contained - that is, each feature can be
viewed as an optional extra, which can be added or not as a function of market
demand. Network operators and equipment manufacturers can decide using
_commercial_ considerations whether or not to implement a feature. The
description of a feature need not be technically precise, but should represent
a concept which can be understood at a service level. It should answer the
question: what do I get for my money? **A feature should normally embody an
improved service to the customer and / or increased revenue generation
potential to the supplier**.
This being the case, most features would be the responsibility of TSG-SA WG1.
The ensemble of the features of a particular release of the system represents
the difference between that release and the previous release.
A feature can be considered as a high-level goal for project management
purposes. But most features will be quite complex, and will need to be broken
down into simpler elements or building blocks for the purpose of specifying
precise functionality.
Work on a study item or feature may be carried out by multiple working groups
spanning one or more TSGs. In the case of multi-TSG study items and features,
all such TSGs should be shown in the work plan as being responsible for the
study item or feature; this should be refined as soon as possible into an
identification of the individual working groups responsible. To allow work to
progress, the Work Item Descriptions (see clause 6.1) may be approved by one
TSG before formal contribution has been received by other involved TSGs and
WGs, which should review the Work Item Description in a timely manner, and
provide their own input as soon as possible.
**Building block** :\ A sub-division of a feature, representing a coherent set
of technical functionality which would generally be expected to reside in a
single system element.
A building block shall be defined in technical terms, and its description will
require an understanding of the architecture of the overall system. A building
block should generally be restricted to a single physical or logical entity or
a single protocol such as \"terminal\" or \"call control\". This implies a
generic or object-oriented approach. A building block should normally be the
responsibility of a single TSG.
In the case of very simple features, a single building block may suffice, in
which case the feature and its building block are synonymous.
To implement a building block it will generally be necessary further to
subdivide the functionality into smaller tasks, each representing a closely
specified and easily comprehended activity. Such work tasks may not only be
divided by technical content, but potentially by phase. So, for example, it is
necessary to define service aspects fully (one or more work tasks) before
considering functional information flows (one or more work tasks) which in
turn will be followed by detailed protocol specification (one or more work
tasks).
**Work task** :\ A sub-division of a building block, representing a self-
contained, well-scoped and well-scheduled item of work.
It is at this lowest hierarchical level of breakdown that estimations of work
content and thus time scales can be calculated. From the estimated schedules
of all work tasks which comprise a building block, and from their inter-
dependences, can be derived the overall schedule for the \"parent\" building
block. From the schedules of all component building blocks, the time-to-
completion of the parent feature can be estimated. **A work task will almost
certainly be the responsibility of a single Working Group.**
The output of a work task shall be:
\- One or more new Technical Specifications (or Reports); and / or
\- Change Requests to existing TSs / TRs.
Features, building blocks and work tasks are the three specific types of
\"Work Item\".
In the case of very simple building blocks, a single work task may suffice, in
which case the building block and its work task are synonymous.
**Work Item** :\ A generic term used to encompass study item, feature,
building block and work task.
All Work Items, whatever their class (feature, building block or work task)
require:
\- A precise definition of content (\"scope\");
\- An estimated schedule, with milestones to track progress if possible; (in
the case of building blocks and features, the schedule can be derived from
those of the component work tasks);
\- A named person to act as rapporteur (in effect, the manager of the Work
Item);
\- At least four Member Organizations supporting the Work Item and willing to
offer active participation in its realization.
## 6.0.3 Types of modification to specifications
The possible modifications of the specifications are basically of different
natures:
\- Error corrections: modifications which correct overlooked errors or
inconsistencies in the specifications.
\- Enhancements: modifications that enhance the system, e.g. by new services
or features, or by improving performance or decreasing costs.
Modifications of the correction category (i.e. Category F) are ongoing
maintenance tasks and are handled with CRs bearing the code of the Work Item
that was used to introduce the affected feature, for the original Release in
which it was introduced. Corresponding mirror CRs (i.e. Category A) may be
produced for subsequent releases as applicable, using the same Work Item code.
See also clause 6.2 covering the case where such a CR is not introduced into
the TS or TR at the Release with which that Work Item is associated.
Modifications of the enhancement category (i.e. Category B or C) are handled
within the concept of Work Items or as \"technical enhancements\". (See clause
6.2.) Note that prior approval of the WID by the TSG is needed before any
substantial work is launched. If that work can be completed within one TSG
cycle, the new WID may be approved at the same TSG meeting at which the
enhancement CRs are presented. See clause 6.1 for the creation of Work Items.
## 6.1 Creation of a Work Item
When new or enhanced functionality of the 3GPP system is considered desirable
an Individual Member of 3GPP (or group thereof) may make a proposal by
submitting a Work Item Description (WID) sheet to the relevant TSG or TSG WG:
\- For new services, features or functions, the TSG responsible for Services
and System Aspects is the relevant TSG. This TSG shall assign prime and, if
necessary, secondary responsible TSGs for the corresponding Work Items.
\- For pure performance enhancements, other TSG WGs may be responsible.
The relevant TSG WG should study and refine the WID before passing it on to
the TSG for adoption.
No substantial work shall commence in a TSG WG prior to a decision of the
responsible TSG.
The actual WIDs to be used and guidance on how to apply them shall be
distributed by the Support Team.
The TSG shall not approve a Work Item unless the WID has been properly filled
in to the extent possible.
The Support Team shall maintain a database of Work Items, and make it
available on the 3GPP file server and portal.
A Work Item normally implies the creation of new specification and Change
Requests to existing specifications.
## 6.2 Types of Work Item
Modifications of the standard could in principle be of two different types:
\- New services/features/functions that in general affect several
specifications and involve several TSGs / WGs;
\- Technical enhancements or improvements that affect one or a small number of
specifications and involve a single or a few Groups only.
Modifications of the latter type may be submitted to the Working Group(s) and
then to the TSG directly as a Change Request without prior
presentation/agreement of a WI Description sheet. Such CRs shall instead refer
to the pseudo Work Item \'Technical Enhancements and Improvements\'. The CRs
relating to this type of modification shall be tagged with the work item code
TEI\ where \ represents the Release number: e.g. for Release 16, the
code would be \"TEI16\".
TEI Work Item codes shall not be used where an appropriate Work Item code
exists.
TEI Work Item codes should not be used for the definition of new
services/features/functions (i.e. Category B CRs).
TEI Work Item codes should not be used alone for functional modification of
existing services/features/functions (i.e. Category C CRs).
Nevertheless, if a feature is functionally modified by a Category C CR using a
TEI\ Work Item code, the code(s) for the Work Item(s) which introduced that
feature shall be used, plus the appropriate TEI\ code for the first Release
in which the CR is introduced.
If
\- it is clear that the modification(s) can be completed within one TSG cycle,
and
\- the normal stage 1, 2, 3 sequence of CRs does not require one additional
meeting cycle in each affected TSG,
then a TEI code may be used. TEI codes shall not be used where the development
of modification(s) and interactions with other WGs are likely to prolong the
outcome for a period of time greater than this; in such cases, a new specific
Work Item shall be created instead.
For smaller features that are handled with Category B and/or Category C CRs
within one TSG cycle, a provisional Work Item code shall be used before the
CR(s) and the companion WID are submitted for approval to the TSG.
Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 4.10.2, TEI\ is also to be used in
a Category F and any related Category A CR(s) which add to or modify TR/TS
content introduced in a Release prior to \ and where no appropriate Release
\ Work Item exists. In this case the code(s) for the Work Item(s) which
introduced the relevant TR/TS content shall be used, plus the appropriate
TEI\ code for the first Release in which the CR is introduced. The same
TEI\ shall be used in all mirror (i.e. Category A) CRs.
Example: TR/TS content is introduced into TS 23.456 under the Release 13 Work
Item ABCD by means of a Rel-13 CR. Much later, an error is identified in the
TR/TS content introduced by that Rel-13 CR which of course appears in the
current Release 13 version of 23.456.\ According to the provisions of clause
4.10.0, a category F CR would be introduced into the current Release 13
version tagged with Work Item ABCD, together with category A (mirror) CRs to
the Release 14, 15, etc versions of 23.456, each also tagged with code ABCD.\
However, it is felt that the seriousness of the error does not warrant taking
the correction all the way back to Release 13, and so the category F CR is
instead written to the current Release 15 version of 23.456. This is tagged
with the Work Item codes ABCD and TEI15. Category A CRs are written to the
Release 16, etc versions of 23.456, and these are also tagged with Work Item
codes ABCD and TEI15.
NOTE : The order in which multiple Work Item codes appear on a CR cover sheet
is not significant. (Thus in the foregoing example, the CRs could equally well
show \"ABCD, TEI15\" or \"TEI15, ABCD\".)
The use of a TEI Work Item code alone should be avoided whenever possible, and
any use of a TEI Work Item code should be considered very carefully.
For the other types of modification, the provisions of clause 6.3 apply.
## 6.3 Start and continuation of the work and responsibilities
### 6.3.1 General
An early task when elaborating a Work Item is to identify the tasks related to
the WI and to allocate them to the TSGs and TSG Sub-Groups.
In most cases the tasks from a WI can be split immediately into the following
areas:
\- Service requirements
\- System/Architectural requirements and implications
\- Protocol specifications
**Service requirements:**
The responsibility of the service requirements can usually be allocated
immediately at the creation/adoption of the WI. Occasionally another Group may
be given responsibility for the service requirements. In any case, however, it
should be a single group and one that reports directly to the TSG.
**System/Architectural requirements and implications:**
In addition, the responsibility for system/architectural requirements should
be allocated immediately, even though the implications and requirements
normally will be seen only after the study on service/system requirements have
been initiated. The responsibility for the system/architectural requirements
shall be given to a single body to guarantee the consistency of the adopted
solution.
The choice of group should not pre-determine the technical choices and in many
cases, the responsibility for system and architectural requirement study needs
a widening of the competency and a readiness to look at a variety of technical
aspects. This can be obtained either by drawing the attraction of the suitable
experts (e.g., by setting special meetings or clear meeting dates) or by the
organization of joint meetings.
TSG SA shall maintain the overall consistency of the system architecture
despite the numerous modifications due to various Work Items. TSG SA, shall
ensure the co-ordination of the development of general architecture concepts
and their applications to individual Work Items, and should thus also draw
attention and expertise from other Groups.
**Protocol specifications:**
The responsibility for the elaboration of the protocol specifications cannot,
in most cases, be allocated at the early stages since it depends on the
technical implementation choices and hence on the results of the study of the
service/system requirements as well as on the architectural conclusions.
The identification of new protocols to be specified and/or existing protocols
to be enhanced shall be derived from the system/architectural requirements. In
general, modifications of existing protocols shall be done by the TSG WG in
charge of the protocol in question, whilst the responsibility for development
of new protocols shall be allocated by the TSG based on proposals from the TSG
WG on system/architecture. Then, whether the actual work is done in the TSG WG
itself or in an ad hoc subgroup thereof is at the discretion of that TSG WG.
### 6.3.2 Role of the work item rapporteur
Every Work Item shall have a rapporteur. The rapporteur should be selected
from regular attendees of the primary responsible Group and shall be selected
from supporting companies. The role of the rapporteur is to:
\- Monitor the progress of the work in all WGs for the WI.
\- Report to the responsible WG and produce a report to the WG plenary on
progress.
\- Provide feedback to allow the work plan to be updated.
\- Keep the WI sheet up-to-date.
\- Identify the completion of the WI.
NOTE: Updates of WI sheets require approval by the responsible WG/TSG.
## 6.4 Realization of Work Items
### 6.4.1 Planning and categorization of the deliverables (and control
thereof)
**Planning:**
An initial time plan should be set up at an early point. As a basis, the time
plan should include at least the following points:
1\. Presentation for principle agreement of the service requirements;
2\. Presentation for principle agreement of the architectural/system
implications and requirements;
3\. Presentation for information of the drafts of all needed deliverables,
4\. Presentation for approval of all needed deliverables.
The time plan shall include realistically achievable dates for each step.
The WI Status List shall also contain information about existing and planned
permanent and semi-permanent documents related to the WI, e.g. future
specifications as well as interim/temporary requirements \"specifications\",
including the responsible Group, the rapporteur, the state of the documents,
expected completion dates, etc.
**Categorization:**
Before the substantial work on a Work Item starts, the WI shall be examined in
the light of its technical and commercial dependency with respect to the
existing specifications as well as with respect to other Work Items. Aspects
that shall be considered and settled at an early stage are:
\- Required versus acceptable time scales;
\- Whether the WI has an impact on User Equipment or not;
\- Whether the WI has an architectural impact or not;
\- To which degree the WI needs to specify (and hence how much can be left
\"open\", to speed up the work);
\- Whether the WI can be technically and/or commercially combined/grouped with
other WIs;
Unless the above aspects are sorted out at the beginning of (or prior to) the
work, the risk of getting inefficient and non-optimal specifications increases
and the control of the work becomes difficult and unmanageable.
### 6.4.2 Choice of deliverables
The SI will be realized as a new Technical Report (\"feasibility study
report\").
The WI will be realized as new specifications and/or amendments to existing
specifications; the exact structure lies with the individual TSG Sub-Groups
and the TSG. Typically, a new feature may result in at least three completely
new specifications (stages 1, 2 and 3) but may also cause amendments to the
major protocol specifications.
### 6.4.3 Contents of deliverables
#### 6.4.3.1 Service requirements
This task, allocated and controlled according to the provisions above,
consists in describing in details the aim of the Work Item, as seen by those
for which a service is provided, e.g. end users, operators, service providers,
etc.
In many cases it is desirable that, prior to the actual service requirements
specification being produced, an initial combined service and
system/architectural requirements and considerations document is produced,
involving both service oriented and implementation expertise. In particular
when an ad hoc task force is charged with performing a study on a certain WI
(aspect) such a starting point document should be produced and then used as a
basis for the TSG SGs when carrying out the detailed work on service
requirements/descriptions and technical realization specifications. Such
setting-the-basis documents should generally be kept for some time after the
actual work on the detailed specifications has progressed to a mature level
(mainly for the purpose of easing the understanding and to shorten the
interaction and negotiation period between service requirements and
system/architectural and technical restrictions).
Such \'setting-the-basis\' document can also be used to describe the project
management of a Work Item (to collect all prepared but not yet approved CRs
related to the WI in question).
It may be appropriate to perform the above work in the context of a Study
Item, prior to embarking on concrete specification work.
#### 6.4.3.2 Technical realization specifications
These cover both the overall architectural and interface specific detailed
specifications. The architectural implications and requirements need to be
identified at a very early stage, for the purpose of knowing which parts of
the standard (and hence of the system) are affected by a WI, and for the
purpose of supporting the identification of cross-WI similarities (and hence
more overall efficient solutions).
The overall co-ordination of the architectural/system requirements is with a
single group as stated above, whilst the ensuing detailed protocol definitions
and specifications may be distributed over several groups (according to their
scope).
#### 6.4.3.3 Test specifications
Changes to the core specifications may have impact on the test specifications.
The corresponding changes to test specifications should be approved before
publication the new core specifications.
### 6.4.4 Early implementation
The responsible TSG may decide that a particular Work Item is a candidate for
\"early implementation\". If a feature is a candidate for early implementation
this shall be indicated in the 3GPP work plan.
Where a feature is a candidate for early implementation the deliverables shall
include an early implementation Technical Report. The Technical Report shall
give guidance on how to perform early implementation of a Work Item. This
report shall not define any new technical requirements. It is there to help
implementers identify which parts of the specifications are relevant to the
Work Item and how they should be handled when early implementation is
performed.
The early implementation Technical Report shall be identified in the list of
impacted documents in the WID. The early implementation Technical Report is
part of the same release as the feature to which is relates.
Where a single early implementation feature consists of several Work Items
then the number of different TRs should be minimised. The aim shall be for a
single report to be written for the appropriate highest level Work Item
(typically the feature level). However, flexibility should be left to take
account of different ways Work Items may be structured
Work on the early implementation Technical Report shall begin with the
identification of the requirements for early implementation.
The contents of the early implementation Technical Report shall be developed
in parallel to the overall progress on standardisation of the Work Item. The
responsible Working Groups shall keep the report up to date -- particularly
the clauses \"specification impacts\" and \"Early Implementation Status\"
which must be completed before finalisation of the WI and maintained if they
are subsequently impacted by any essential corrections.
### 6.4.5 Late completion
If a Feature cannot be completed by the freeze date for a Release, two options
are available:
1) If the functionality covered by the late-running work item is considered by
the TSG not to be vital to the overall Feature, it may be abandoned, or form
part of a later Release. It may be necessary to raise CRs to remove
modifications from specifications which have already been implemented, so as
not to leave unworking stubs of functionality and to ensure that stages 1, 2
and 3 are harmonized.
2) If the foreseen likely overrun is thought to be only a matter of a few
months -- generally no more than two TSG plenary meeting cycles -- the
responsible WG may raise an \"exception sheet\" to request a delay in
completion until the next or next-but-one TSG meeting. In this case, the
responsible WG undertakes to give high priority to completing the work within
that time frame, while recognizing that progress can only be made on the basis
of contributions to the work.
In the first case, where the delayed work is moved to a later Release, the
responsible WG shall make appropriate changes to the 3GPP work plan.
In the second case, the exception sheet should contain enough information to
enable the TSG to make a reasoned assessment of the case, and to accept or
reject the proposal.
## 6.5 Status tracking of Work Items
The status of each Work Item shall be tracked and recorded throughout its life
in the 3GPP work plan. The status may take the following values:
Table 6.5a: Status values of Work Item
**Status** **Description** **Indication in work plan**
* * *
Not TSG approved This is a draft Work Item which has not yet been approved by
a TSG The Work Item may appear in the work plan. If it is included then the
\"level of approval\" shall be blank (no approval) or set to \"WG\" for
Working Group approval. Work in Progress This Work Item has been approved by a
TSG. Work on the Work Item is in progress in the relevant Working Groups The
Work Item shall appear in the work plan. The \"level of approval\" shall be
\"TSG\". The \"%complete\" indication shall be less than 100%. Frozen This
Work Item has been approved by a TSG. Work on the Work Item has been completed
and the Work Item is frozen. Only essential changes are permitted using this
Work Item code. The Work Item shall appear in the work plan. The \"%complete\"
indication shall be \"100%\". Stopped Work on this Work Item has been stopped
without the Work Item being completed. No further changes are permitted using
this Work Item code. Existing changes approved using this Work Item code
remain in the specifications unless CRs are provided to remove them. The Work
Plan shall record the TSG meeting at which a Work Item was stopped. (Previous
practice was to delete the Work Item completely from the Work Plan.)
## 6.6 Work Item model
The model described below can be thought of as a reference model for
structuring the work. It is not the intention to rigorously enforce the usage
of the model on all ongoing work, but merely to use it as the common reference
model across the TSGs and to structure future work.
The description below uses TSG SA as an illustration; it can easily be
extended to apply to any TSG (or combination of TSGs).
TSG SA is, through SA1, responsible for defining the features and services
required in the 3GPP specifications. SA1 is responsible of producing the stage
1 descriptions (requirements) for the relevant features and passing them to
SA2. SA1 may also forward their considerations on possible architecture and
implementation to SA2, but is not responsible for this part of the work.
SA2 should then define the architecture for the features and the system, and
then divide the features into building blocks based on the architectural
decisions made in SA2. SA2 shall then forward the building blocks to the
relevant TSGs for the detailed work. These proposals shall be reviewed and
discussed in an interactive way together with TSGs/WGs, until a common
understanding of the required work is reached. During the detailed the work of
the TSGs and their Working Groups, SA2 shall be kept informed about the
progress.
The TSGs and their WGs treat the building block as one or several dedicated
work tasks. Typical output of a work task is new specification(s), updated
specification(s), technical report(s) or the conclusion that the necessary
support is already provided in the existing specifications.
SA2\'s role is in co-operation with the TSGs and their WGs to identify if
synergy can be obtained by using some of the building blocks for more than one
feature. Part of SA2\'s task is to verify that all required work for a full
system specification of the features relevant will take place within 3GPP
without overlap between groups. In order for SA2 to be successful, this has to
be done in co-operation with other TSGs/WGs.
The following guidelines are proposed for project scheduling. SA1 sets a
target, SA2 performs a first technical review and comments on the target. SA2
indicates target for time schedule together with allocation of the defined
building blocks. The TSGs and their WGs comment back on these targets. SA2
tries if necessary to align the new target amongst the involved parties. SA1
and SA are kept informed of the overall schedule.
It is the task of TSG SA, SA1 and SA2 to ensure early involvement of SA3 to
ensure that the potential security requirements, service requirements and the
architectural requirements are aligned and communicated to the TSGs and their
WGs.
In order for TSGs CT, GERAN and RAN and their subgroups to plan and perform
their horizontal tasks on conformance testing and mobile station capabilities,
SA2 should invite those TSGs to evaluate the potential impact of a new
feature. If work on horizontal tasks is required, this should be included in
the overall work plan.
{width="6.26875in" height="2.134027777777778in"}
Figure 1
# 7 Management documents and tools
This clause summarizes and lists the various permanent or semi-permanent
documents (and means of documenting).
All these documents/tools are within the responsibilities of the Support Team
and or TSG SA.
## 7.1 Status List of Specifications
This list (data base) contains information about all 3GPP specifications, in
terms of specification number, title, latest version, rapporteur and other
details. The current list shall be annexed to every TSG SA meeting report.
## 7.2 Work Item Status List
This data base contains information about all 3GPP Work Items, in terms of
identified future specifications, identified specifications to be amended,
supplementary/temporary documentation, expected/planned completion dates and
intermediary milestones, and other management information related to
specifications, responsible Groups, rapporteurs, completion dates etc.
## 7.3 Change Request data base
The Change Request data base records all CRs to specifications.
## 7.4 Membership data bases
The members data base contains information of all delegates in the 3GPP TSGs.
## 7.5 Electronic tools used/preferred
For the various types of documents and parts of documents of 3GPP, a minimum
variety of word processors etc. should be used. Those identified in 3GPP TR
21.801 [1] are permitted.
## 7.6 WEB and FTP services
The 3GPP website (https://www.3gpp.org) and portal (https://portal.3gpp.org)
provide up-to-date information on specification work, such as: meeting
calendars, meeting minutes, meeting documents and latest specifications. FTP
links to file server areas of each TSG and WG can be found via the 3GPP web
pages.
## 7.7 E‑mail reflectors
TSGs, WGs and SWGs have their own e‑mail lists. There are also several
additional lists per topic. Further information can be found on 3GPP web
pages.
# 8 E‑mail decisions
WGs may apply e‑mail decision procedures for decisions they are entitled to
take, as defined by superior bodies (e.g. on specifications, CRs, Liaison
statements, etc.). Each WG may set its rules for making e‑mail decisions,
however, it is required that:
\- the rules are clearly defined and documented;
\- a delegate having participated in plenary meetings is able to identify that
he has possibly missed an e‑mail relevant to e‑mail decision.
Clauses 8.1-8.6 describe an e‑mail decision procedure example.
## 8.1 E‑mail drafting phase
An e‑mail drafting session can be launched, either on a dedicated exploder
list as a cybermeeting or as an informal discussion between interested
delegates. Objectives can extend from debating an existing contribution, a
Liaison Statement or a Change Request to progressing the service requirements
of a specific Work Item and involving one or more Working Groups.
In case of \"cybermeeting\", the Chair of the discussions shall issue an un-
ambiguous guideline including:
1) the objectives and agenda of the meeting;
2) input document(s) to be clearly specified;
3) start date and end date of the debates;
4) afterwards, summary of results of the \"cybermeeting\".
The end-goal being to reach an \"agreement\" on the deliverable, either at the
next meeting or via an e‑mail approval procedure.
## 8.2 E‑mail decision declaration
Authority for an e‑mail decision to take place should usually be agreed at
plenary meeting. If this is not possible, there shall be a clear notification
(i.e. status report) indicating that there will be an e‑mail decision. This
notification shall be sent on the main mailing lists indicating the mailing
list where the discussion will take place (TSG, WG or SWG list). Target and
timeframe shall be clearly indicated. A permanent Chair (i.e. WG Chair or Vice
Chair) shall be nominated, who will be responsible for managing the e‑mail
decision procedure, including initiation, monitoring and announcing when it is
complete.
## 8.3 Status reporting
During the e‑mail decision period, there shall be a clear message stating what
the status of each open item is. It is recommended to have a weekly summary of
the status of all items, from the previous plenary listing:
\- the name of the open item;
\- the name of the responsible delegate;
\- time left for comments before the deadline & expiration date;
\- current work versions of documents: Tdoc number, CR number, Revision
number;
\- status (Debate ongoing, Agreed, Postponed, Rejected, ...).
## 8.4 Decision announcement
When a decision is made (Agreed, rejected, postponed, ...) a clear
notification on what has been agreed shall be sent on the main mailing lists
of the relevant groups.
## 8.5 Timing
E‑mail decision procedure should start at the latest 3 weeks before relevant
plenary:
\- the e‑mail decision period is two weeks (one status report required);
\- the procedure shall be completed one week before the relevant TSG, WG or
SWG plenary, due to practical arrangements.
## 8.6 General
\- in exceptional cases when the procedure cannot be followed a clear notice
from Chair is required;
\- e‑mails on mailing lists shall contain a subject with meaningful keywords,
e.g. SA1 Tdoc xxx on Charging and/or 22xxx‑CR012r4;
\- if there are no comments during the allowed period, agreement is granted
automatically;
\- status reports to higher level body meetings, should be e‑mailed to the
mailing list one week before the meeting. This allows delegates a final
possibility to review the progress in the last period.
# 9 Meeting contribution document types and status values
## 9.1 Terminology
Written contributions to 3GPP meetings are called \"TDocs\".
NOTE: The term \"TDoc\" is an abbreviation of \"Temporary Document\" and is a
legacy of when such documents were prepared in paper form. Temporary Documents
were not intended to be retained after the end of the meeting at which they
were discussed, contrasted with Permanent Documents which were retained after
the end of the meeting for longer term (permanent?) reference. 3GPP retains
all TDocs in electronic form and thus there is no need for a separate \"PDoc\"
class, although some working groups do retain some documents informally
referred to as \"permanent reference documents\".
Each TDoc shall be one of the following types:
Table 9.1-1: Permissible TDoc types
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | TDoc type | Remarks | +======================+==============================================+ | agenda | Meeting agendas, including those showing | | | allocation of TDocs to agenda items, also | | | timing schedules | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Work Plan | Ordered list of work items | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | LS in | Liaison Statement, received from some other | | | 3GPP group or an external body | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | LS out | Liaison Statement issued by a group and | | | directed to one or more other 3GPP groups or | | | external bodies. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | pCR | Pseudo-Change-Request: similar to a Change | | | Request but has no CR number and is intended | | | to propose new or revised text for inclusion | | | in 3GPP TSs or TRs not yet under change | | | control (i.e. still in the drafting phase). | | | Known in some groups as \"text proposal\". | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | draftCR | Similar to a Change Request, but unnumbered; | | | proposes new or revised text for a TS or TR | | | already under change control. May ultimately | | | be revised into a regular Change Request. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | CR | A formal proposal to make changes to a TS or | | | TR which is under change control -- i.e. | | | which has a version number with the first | | | field greater than 2 (see clause 4.0A). | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | CR Pack | One or more Change Requests which have been | | | agreed (or endorsed) at working group level | | | and are being presented as a package to TSG | | | for approval. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | ToR | Terms of reference for a TSG or working | | | group. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | WID new | Work item description for a new work item -- | | | i.e. one not already approved at TSG level. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | WID revised | Proposes changes to an already TSG-approved | | | Work item description. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | SID new | As \"WID new\", where the work item is of | | | type \"study\". | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | SID revised | As \"WID revised\", where the work item is | | | of type \"study\". | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | WI status report | Rapporteur\'s report (reviewed by the lead | | | WG) of the current state of completion of a | | | work item (degree of completion, target | | | date, contentious issues, ...). | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | WI exception request | Request to TSG to permit an overrun in the | | | schedule for the completion of a work item. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | TS or TR cover | Stand-alone cover sheet for a draft TS or TR | | | being presented (normally at TSG level). | | | Typically used in conjunction with a \"draft | | | TS\" or \"draft TR\" type where the actual | | | draft TS or TR and its cover are not | | | included in the same TDoc. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | draft TS | A complete TS, still in draft state, being | | | presented either for information or approval | | | at TSG level. May also be used at WG level. | | | At TSG level, normally includes a separate | | | \"TS or TR cover\" indicating the state of | | | development of that TS; if the cover sheet | | | is not included, it can be provided in a | | | separate TDoc of type \"TS or TR cover\". | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | draft TR | As \"draft TS\" but pertaining to a TR | | | rather than a TS. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | report | Any report (other than \"WI status report\", | | | see above). Typically documents the | | | proceedings of a TSG or WG, or a subgroup | | | thereof. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | discussion | A TDoc which is intended to be discussed. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | response | A TDoc which has been prepared to provide | | | support for, or a counter argument to, | | | another TDoc. | | | | | | Note: This type is pecular to one particular | | | working group (RAN3). | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | other | Any other kind of TDoc, for which none of | | | the above types is appropriate. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
## 9.2 TDoc status values
Each TDoc having a formal allocated TDoc number has an associated status
chosen from table 9.2-1 below.
Table 9.2-1: TDoc status values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status value | Meaning | Used for TDocs of | | | | type ... | +======================+======================+======================+ | - | Retained for | None | | | compatibility with | | | | legacy TDocs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reserved | TDoc number | Any | | | allocated, document | | | | not yet available. | | | | If this status | | | | remains at the end | | | | of the meeting, it | | | | will be reported in | | | | the minutes as \"not | | | | available\". | | | | | | | | Note: It is not | | | | uncommon for revised | | | | TDocs to be agreed | | | | or approved in | | | | principle prior to | | | | their becoming | | | | available, in which | | | | case the appropriate | | | | status is set | | | | against the TDoc | | | | immediately. 3GU | | | | keeps a separate | | | | field indicating | | | | whether the TDoc is, | | | | in fact, available. | | | | If a TDoc remains | | | | unavailable at the | | | | end of the meeting, | | | | or at the end of any | | | | post-meeting | | | | decision period, | | | | then the Secretary | | | | will revert its | | | | status to | | | | \"reserved\", and | | | | the meeting report | | | | will indicate it as | | | | being \"not | | | | available\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | available | TDoc available, not | Any | | | yet treated. If this | | | | status remains at | | | | the end of the | | | | meeting, it will be | | | | reported in the | | | | minutes as \"not | | | | treated\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | approved | Favourable | Any | | | conclusion; the | | | | group in question | | | | (TSG or WG) has the | | | | final say. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | agreed | Favourable | Any | | | conclusion; the | | | | decision has to be | | | | confirmed by a | | | | higher body (e.g. WG | | | | decision has to be | | | | confirmed by TSG). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | noted | TDoc has been | Any except for CRs, | | | presented, no | where interpretation | | | specific action | is ambiguous. | | | results. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | postponed | TDoc has been | Any | | | presented but no | | | | final decision could | | | | be reached; subject | | | | is likely to be | | | | raised at a | | | | subsequent meeting. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | withdrawn | Prior to discussion | Any | | | of the TDoc, its | | | | author has decided | | | | not to present it. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | treated | TDoc has been | Any, but principally | | | presented, but no | intended for CR | | | other status is | packs. | | | appropriate (for | | | | example, in the case | | | | of a CR pack, some | | | | CRs in it were | | | | revised, some | | | | postponed, and some | | | | reissued -- none was | | | | approved). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | revised | TDoc will be | Any | | | modified and | | | | presented in a new | | | | TDoc. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | partially approved | Used for CR packs | CR packs | | | only.\ | | | | One or more CRs | | | | contained in the | | | | TDoc has been | | | | approved at TSG | | | | level; other CRs may | | | | have status revised, | | | | postponed, not | | | | pursued, etc. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | endorsed | The group believes | Any, but principally | | | that the TDoc is | intended for | | | valid but has not | | | | reached a conclusion | > \- CRs where two | | | of \"agreed\" or | > or more solutions | | | \"approved\". | > are proposed, | | | | > | | | May be used as a WG | > \- WIDs belonging | | | status where | > to another group. | | | alternative | | | | solutions to a | | | | technical matter | | | | have been | | | | identified, and the | | | | choice between them | | | | is being left to the | | | | TSG. Also by a WG | | | | when asked to give | | | | an opinion on a | | | | matter (typically a | | | | WID) for which | | | | another WG is | | | | responsible. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | merged | The TDoc is combined | Any, but principally | | | with one or more | intended for pCRs, | | | others and presented | draftCRs and CRs. | | | in a new, composite | | | | TDoc. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reissued | Only used for the | CRs within CR packs | | | status of CRs in a | only. | | | CR Pack.\ | | | | Indicates that the | | | | CR appears | | | | _unchanged_ in a | | | | _different_ CR Pack | | | | created because one | | | | or more _other_ CRs | | | | in the original pack | | | | is revised or | | | | withdrawn. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | replied to | Used for incoming | LS in | | | Liaisons only.\ | | | | Indicates that an | | | | outgoing Liaison has | | | | been prepared in | | | | reply to this | | | | incoming Liaison. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | conditionally agreed | Agreed, but | Any, but principally | | | conditional on a | intended for CRs. | | | decision taken on a | | | | different TDoc, | | | | possibly in a | | | | different group. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | conditionally | Approved, but | Any, but principally | | approved | conditional on a | intended for CRs | | | decision taken on a | (typically in a CR | | | different TDoc, | pack at TSG level) | | | possibly in a | | | | different group. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | not concluded | Discussion has | Any | | | started but has not | | | | finished. Typically | | | | used as a temporary | | | | status between the | | | | end of a meeting any | | | | post-meeting review | | | | or | | | | agreement/approval | | | | (for example, by | | | | email). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | not pursued | No further action to | Any | | | be taken. | | | | | | | | Replacement for | | | | \"rejected\", | | | | without the emotive | | | | implications | | | | sometimes inferred | | | | for \"rejected\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rejected | Retained for | Any | | | compatibility with | | | | legacy TDocs. | | | | Meaning identical to | | | | \"not pursued\". | | | | | | | | May be used by | | | | groups which are not | | | | sensitive to this | | | | value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ### Annex A: Change history