# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This technical specification, specifies a mechanism, which can be used as a
platform for providing special tariffs and/or special set of service features
for certain subscribers within a regionally restricted area or areas.
The motivation for this concept is to create means for network operators to
build new service and tariff packages, which take into account subscriber
groups and their needs.
The localised service area is both an optional network feature and an optional
UE feature. Usage and implementation of the different SoLSA service features
may vary according to operator\'s service packages.
This feature is not intended to replace the existing method of cell selection,
cell indication and handover.
"Support of Localised service area (SoLSA)" is renamed Phase 2+ item "Support
of Home Area Priority"
Note: The present document covers description for GERAN support only. UTRAN
support will be added in latter releases.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TS 22.011: \" Service accessibility \".
## 2.2 Informative references
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Localised Service Area (LSA):**
A localised service area consists of a cell or a number of cells within a
PLMN.
Cells being part of different localised service areas may have overlapping
coverage areas. The cells constituting a localised service area may not
necessarily provide continuous coverage.
{width="5.11875in" height="2.204861111111111in"}
Figure 1: Localised Service Area
**Subscribed to LSA:** Set of LSAs, which the user has subscribed to.
**Valid LSA:** A LSA ,whichthe user has subscribed to and his UE can receive
service.
**Current LSA** : The LSA where a UE is receiving service.
**LSA Priority:** Priority of subscriber\'s LSAs. When the user has several
valid LSAs, the current LSA shall be selected by prioritising LSAs in case of
overlapping LSAs.
{width="5.104166666666667in" height="1.9715277777777778in"}
Figure 2: Localised Service Areas
**LSA only access:** LSA user is allowed to access PLMN within his allowed
LSAs. LSA user is not allowed to receive and/or originate a call outside LSA
area.
{width="5.021527777777778in" height="2.0395833333333333in"}
Figure 3: LSA only access
**Exclusive Access:** Access to exclusive access cells is restricted to
defined LSA subscribers.
{width="5.11875in" height="2.0743055555555556in"}
Figure 4: Exclusive Access
**Preferential Access:** LSA user shall have preferential access to resources
of LSA cells, compared to non-LSA users.
{width="5.11875in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 5: Preferential Access
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
LSA Localised Service Area
Further abbreviations may be found in TR 21.905 [2].
# 4 Description
The localised service area concept shall give the operator the basis to offer
subscribers different services (e.g. tariffs or access rights) depending on
the location of the subscriber.
## 4.1 Defining subscriber information for localised service area
A subscriber can have up to 20 LSAs per PLMN.
It shall be possible to assign localised service areas to subscribers.
Subscriber may have service, which contains several LSAs potentially belonging
to different PLMNs. There shall be means to allocate LSA priority to each
subscriber independently by operator.
Localised service areas for subscriber(s) may overlap, i.e. one cell may be
part of several LSAs belonging to that subscriber.
As an example, within a hierarchical cell structure, cells in different layers
can constitute different localised service areas. A localised service area
could be defined so that it is possible to establish flexible sized areas,
which are applicable to
\- a very small localised service area (\"home area\" covering one or several
cells dedicated e.g. to a residential subscriber or a company); or
\- a large area covering a part of the city (one or several location areas);
or
\- a combination of these.
Thus it is possible to use the various radio network configurations.
The definition of location areas and the definition of localised service areas
may be independent of each other.
## 4.2 Service Features
Following service features are building blocks for SoLSA based services. It is
up to the operator to decide which service features are required for a
specific service.
\- Localised service area indication.
\- Localised service area support in idle mode (camping).
\- Localised service area support in active mode (handover).
\- LSA only access.
\- Exclusive access.
\- Preferential access.
### 4.2.1 Localised service area indication
It shall be possible to assign a subscriber defined identifier by the operator
to each LSA (alphanumeric text up to 10 characters), which can be provided to
the user in idle and active mode. As a UE manufacturer option the user may
assign an icon or another form of indication to each LSA.
It shall be possible to indicate a change of localised service area during
idle and active mode.
The indication is a network option (activated/deactivated by the network).
### 4.2.2 Localised service area support in idle mode (camping)
The PLMN shall determine, which cells, belonging to the LSA, are to be
favoured by the UE when camping.
When camping on a cell in idle mode, the subscriber\'s mobile station shall
use the information provided by the PLMN in selecting cells belonging to his
localised service area. The mobile station shall have the ability to reselect
a cell in a different LSA with higher priority. This favouring shall not
degrade the overall service quality.
There should be no extra delay in cell selection procedure.
### 4.2.3 Localised service area support in active mode (handover)
The PLMN shall determine, which cells, belonging to the LSA, are to be
favoured during active mode.
The cells belonging to users LSAs shall be favoured at call setup and when
handovers are carried out. This favouring shall not degrade the overall
service quality.
### 4.2.4 Exclusive access
For a cell belonging to one or more service areas and where only one or more
specific subscribers shall have allowed access, other subscriber's mobile
stations shall be prevented from using the cell to obtain any service, other
than TS12 (Emergency Calls).
NOTE: This does not prevent other subscriber\'s mobile stations from camping
on the cell to perform Location Updating.
Handovers into cells belonging to localised service areas where only specific
subscribers shall have allowed access, shall be possible to be prevented for
other subscribers, if required by a SoLSA application.
### 4.2.5 LSA only access
With access allowed only within one or more localised service areas, it shall
be possible to prevent receiving and/or originating basic services from non-
LSA cells. SMS and Supplementary service operations are allowed in all areas.
It shall be possible to prevent handovers to cells not belonging to allowed
localised service areas, if required by a SoLSA application.
### 4.2.6 Preferential access
It shall be possible to allocate resources at call setup and during the active
mode to LSA users, if required by a SoLSA application.
NOTE: An example of a requirement: the last traffic channel is not allocated
to non-LSA user or in case of congestion an ongoing call of a non-LSA user is
released and replaced with a call of a LSA user.
# 5 Impact on other services
## 5.1 General
SoLSA is not limited to specific services and there are no modifications
necessary for existing services. In particular there shall be no impact to
Emergency Call (TS12).
LSA should be able to support all tele, bearer and supplementary services
.There is no interaction to supplementary services except those specified
below.
## 5.2 (Void)
### 5.3 GPRS
It shall be possible to apply SoLSA services independently to circuit switched
services and to GPRS. LSA support in idle mode shall be specified for GPRS.
The definition of routing areas and the definition of localised service areas
shall be independent of each other.
## 5.4 Call Forwarding
No interaction.
NOTE: Operators should consider using tools such as ODB and CAMEL to control
call forwarding functionality provided in conjunction with any SoLSA services.
## 5.5 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
LSA only access restrictions shall apply to CCBS recall.
# 5 Exceptional procedures
None identified.
# 6 Charging aspects
Based on the use of the feature \"Support of Localised Service Area\" it is
possible to establish local tariff applications (\"home zone applications\").
# 7 Commercial Role Model for SoLSA
SoLSA shall support LSAs which, do not belong to the HPLMN. To enable this the
following commercial role model shall be used:
Figure 6: SoLSA commercial role model
The actors of the SoLSA role model are defined below:
\- Home operator: The Home operator of a SoLSA subscriber is the owner of the
SIM for this subscriber. As such, he is responsible for transferring the
necessary SoLSA information to the subscriber SIM. He also holds the SoLSA
subscriber information (e.g. in the HLR, CAMEL server, private network node).
The Home operator has a commercial agreement with one or several SoLSA
operators. A Home operator can be commercially the same entity as a SoLSA
operator.
\- SoLSA operator: An operator is acting as a SoLSA operator for one SoLSA
subscriber if he owns at least one Localised Service Area (LSA) for that
subscriber. As such, when the user is attached to the SoLSA operator the SoLSA
operator will provide the service for the SoLSA. One SoLSA operator can own a
multiplicity of LSAs for a given SoLSA subscriber. A SoLSA operator has a
commercial agreement with one or a multiplicity of Home operators (but maximum
one per subscriber). A SoLSA operator can be commercially the same entity as
the Home operator.
\- SoLSA subscriber: A SoLSA subscriber is a subscriber who has subscribed to
one Home operator and at least one SoLSA operator (or said differently, who
has an authorisation to receive services from at least one LSA). A SoLSA
subscriber can have a subscription with a multiplicity of SoLSA operators. A
subscriber has always a Home operator, but for example if he is allowed to
have services only in LSAs, his Home operator and his SoLSA operator can be
commercially the same entity.
#