# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the configuration management documents and
protocols needed to support Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) online
configuration over the CSC-4 and CSC-5 reference points and the procedures to
support Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) offline configuration over the
CSC-11and CSC-12 reference points. Configuration management documents defined
in the present document includes:
MCPTT UE initial configuration document;
MCPTT UE configuration document;
MCPTT user profile configuration document; and
MCPTT service configuration document.
Mission critical communication services are services that require preferential
handling compared to normal telecommunication services, e.g. in support of
police or fire brigade.
The MCPTT service can be used for public safety applications and also for
general commercial applications (e.g., utility companies and railways).
The present document is applicable to an MCPTT UE supporting the configuration
management client functionality, to application server supporting the
configuration management server functionality, and to application server
supporting the MCPTT server functionality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [21] (void)
[22] 3GPP TS 24.484: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) configuration
management; Protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
(void)
# 4 to 7
(void)
# 8 Technical content
The technical content of the present TS now appears in 3GPP TS 24.484 [22].
Any references to the technical content of clauses 3 through 7, annex A or
their subclauses in the present TS correspond to the technical content of the
same clause or subclause in 3GPP TS 24.484 [22].
###### ## Annex A (informative): (void)
#