# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a number of Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT)
Management Objects (MO) that are configured for the MCPTT UE for the operation
of the MCPTT Service. The management objects are compatible with OMA Device
Management protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined
using the OMA DM Device Description Framework as described in the Enabler
Release Definition OMA OMA-ERELD_DM-V1_2 [2].
Mission critical communication services are services that require preferential
handling compared to normal telecommunication services, e.g. in support of
police or fire brigade.
The MCPTT service can be used for public safety applications and also for
general commercial applications (e.g., utility companies and railways).
The present document is applicable to an MCPTT UE supporting on-line, off-line
or both on-line and off-line configuration of the configuration management
client.
The present document is applicable to an MCPTT UE supporting off-line
configuration of the group management client.
The parameters defined by the management objects in the present document are
configured in the MCPTT UE using on-line configuration over the CSC-4
reference point and using off-line configuration over the CSC-11 and CSC-12
reference points. Other specifications define how these parameters are used in
the operation of MCPTT, and whether they are applicable to on-network
operation or off-network operation, or both:
\- 3GPP TS 24.379 [7]
\- 3GPP TS 24.380 [8]
\- 3GPP TS 24.381 [9]
\- 3GPP TS 24.382 [11]
\- 3GPP TS 24.384 [12]
The common network operation means both on-network operation and off-network
operation in the present document.
The following management objects are defined in the present document:
\- MCPTT UE configuration MO
\- MCPTT user profile MO
\- MCPTT group configuration MO
\- MCPTT service configuration MO
\- MCPTT UE initial configuration MO
The MOs listed above define repositories of data in the ME.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [14] (void)
[15] 3GPP TS 24.483: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) Management Object
(MO)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
(void)
# 4 to 8
(void)
# 9 Technical content
The technical content of the present TS now appears in 3GPP TS 24.483 [15].
Any references to the technical content of clauses 3 through 8, annexes A
through E or their subclauses in the present TS correspond to the technical
content of the same clause or subclause in 3GPP TS 24.483 [15].
###### ## Annex A (informative): (void)
###### ## Annex B to E (informative): (void)
#