# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document specifies the identity management and authentication protocols
needed to support Mission Critical Services (MCSs). Identity management
applies only to on-network operation.
MCSs are services that require preferential handling compared to normal
telecommunication services, e.g. in support of police or fire brigade.
MCSs can be used for public safety applications and also for general
commercial applications (e.g., utility companies and railways).
This document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) supporting the identity
management client functionality, and to application servers supporting the
identity management server functionality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.179: \"Security of Mission Critical Push-To-Talk (MCPTT)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE\".
[4] IETF RFC 2616: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\".
[5] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[6] \"OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1\".
[7] W3C.REC-html401-19991224: \"HTML 4.01 Specification".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.179: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
mission critical communication services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.179: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
mission critical communication services; Stage 2\".
[10] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.383: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) Management Object
(MO)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call control
Protocol specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[14] IETF RFC 6750: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token
Usage\".
[15] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network application
function interface (Ua); Protocol details\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**IdM client id:** The client_id as specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2] which is
used to identify the IdM client to the IdM server.
**Authorisation endpoint:** An identity management server protocol endpoint
used by the identity management client to obtain an authorisation grant, as
specified in IETF RFC 6749 [5].
**Token endpoint:** An identity management server protocol endpint used by the
identity management client to exchange an authorisation grant for an access
token, as specified in IETF RFC 6749 [5].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 22.179 [3] apply:
**MCPTT UE**
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.179 [8] apply:
**MCPTT group ID**
**MCPTT ID**
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.228 [13] apply:
**Public service identity**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
IdM Identity Management
LTE Long Term Evolution
MC ID Mission Critical User Identity
MCS Mission Critical Service
MCSs Mission Critical Services
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk
OIDC OpenID Connect
TLS Transport Layer Security
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Identity management
The Identity Management functional model for MCPTT is shown in figure 4.1-1
below and consists of the identity management server located in the MCPTT
common services core and the identity management client located in the MCPTT
UE. The IdM server and the IdM client in the MCPTT UE establish the foundation
for MCPTT user authentication and user authorisation.
Figure 4.1-1: Functional model for MCPTT identity management
The CSC-1 reference point, between the MCPTT IdM client in the UE and the
Identity Management server, provides the interface for user authentication.
CSC-1 supports OpenID Connect Core 1.0 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [5].
The OpenID Connect profile for MCPTT is implemented as described in 3GPP TS
33.179 [2]. The MCPTT user authentication, the MCPTT user authorisation, the
OpenID Connect Core 1.0 [6] and the OpenID Connect profile described in 3GPP
TS 33.179 [2] for MCPTT forms the basis of the MCPTT identity management
architecture.
Subclause 6.3 describes the procedures for the MCPTT user authentication. OIDC
is flexible with respect to the user authentication mechanism used. As 3GPP TS
33.179 [2] has indicated that username and password authentication is
mandatory to support, that mechanism is included in subclause 6.3, although
other mechanisms are possible.
When the MCPTT user is authenticated, the procedure will provide an id token,
an access token and a refresh token, which are all described in 3GPP TS 33.179
[2]. The access token is scoped to the services the MCPTT user is authorised
for, e.g., group management services, key management services and MCPTT
services. The access token will be utilized for MCPTT service authorisation,
the procedure which is documented in 3GPP TS 24.379 [12].
# 5 Entities
## 5.1 Identity management client
The identity management client acts as the application user agent for MC ID
transactions. It interacts with the identity management server. The identity
management client:
\- shall support identity management registration to the identity management
server;
\- shall support the MCPTT user authentication framework as specified in 3GPP
TS 33.179 [2];
\- shall support a username and password method of authentication as specified
in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2]; and
\- may support additional methods of authentication.
## 5.2 Identity management server
The identity management server is a functional entity that is capable of
authenticating the MC ID. It contains the knowledge and means to do
authentication by verifying the credentials supplied by the user. The identity
management server:
\- shall support identity management registration of the identity management
client;
\- shall support the MCPTT user authentication framework as specified in 3GPP
TS 33.179 [2];
\- shall support a username and password method of authentication as specified
in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2]; and
\- may support additional methods of authentication.
## 5.3 MCPTT client
The MCPTT client shall interact with the IdM client as specified in subclause
6.2:
\- to trigger initiation of the user authentication procedure; and
\- to receive the credentials obtained from the IdM server.
## 5.4 HTTP proxy
The HTTP proxy acts as the proxy for all hypertext transactions between the
HTTP client and the HTTP server. The HTTP proxy terminates the TLS session
with the HTTP client of the MCPTT UE in order to allow the HTTP client to
establish a single TLS session for hypertext transactions with multiple HTTP
servers as specified in 3GPP TS 23.179 [9].
NOTE: The HTTP proxy is in the same trust domain as the HTTP servers that are
located within a MCPTT service provider's network.
# 6 Authentication procedures
## 6.1 General
## 6.2 Identity management client procedures
### 6.2.1 User authentication
Upon an indication from the MCPTT client to initiate MCPTT user
authentication, the IdM client shall perform the user authentication procedure
according to 3GPP TS 33.179 [2] with the following clarifications:
1) shall establish a TLS tunnel to the authorisation endpoint of the IdM
server as specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2] using the configured URL of the
authorisation endpoint of the IdM server as specified in the
\"/\/OnNetwork/AppServerInfo/IDMSAuthEndpoint\" leaf node defined in 3GPP
TS 24.383 [11] and the clarifications in annex A;
2) shall generate an OIDC Authentication Request message as specified in the
OpenID Connect 1.0 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [5] with the following
clarifications:
a) shall generate an HTTP GET request method according to IETF RFC 2616 [4];
b) shall include the configured parameter IdM client id as the client_id
parameter specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2] in the query component of the
authorization endpoint's URI using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\"
format as specified in W3C.REC-html401-19991224 [7]; and
NOTE 1: The configuration of client_id is specified in 3GPP TS 24.383 [11].
c) shall include the remaining required parameters as specified in 3GPP TS
33.179 [2] in the query component of the authorization endpoint's URI using
the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format as specified in W3C.REC-
html401-19991224 [7]; and
3) shall send the HTTP GET request method towards the IdM server.
NOTE 2: The OpenID Connect 1.0 [6] specification allows for an alternative
mechanism for sending the OIDC Authentication request message using an HTTP
POST request method which can be used in place of steps 1, 2, and 3 above.
Upon receipt of an HTTP 200 (OK) response from the IdM server, the IdM client:
1) shall prompt the MCPTT user for their username and password;
NOTE 3: Other types of authentication are supported and are not defined by the
OIDC specifications. 3GPP TS 33.179 [2] has defined username and password as a
mandatory authentication method to be supported, hence a procedure to realize
that method is included here.
2) shall generate an HTTP POST request method containing the MCPTT user\'s
username and password; and
3) shall send the HTTP POST request method towards the IdM server.
Upon receipt of an OIDC Authentication Response message, the IdM client:
1) shall establish a TLS tunnel to the token endpoint of the IdM server as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2] using the configured URL of the token endpoint
of the IdM server as specified in the
\"/\/OnNetwork/AppServerInfo/IDMSTokenEndpoint\" leaf node defined in 3GPP
TS 24.383 [11] and the clarifications in annex A;
2) shall generate an OIDC Token Request message as specified in OpenID Connect
1.0 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [5] with the following clarifications:
a) shall generate an HTTP POST request method according to IETF RFC 2616 [4];
and
b) shall include the grant_type parameter set to a value of
\"authorization_code\" and the other required parameters in the entity body of
the HTTP POST request method using the using the \"application/x-www-form-
urlencoded\" format as specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2]; and
3) shall send the HTTP POST request method towards the IdM server.
Upon receipt of an OIDC Token Response message, the IdM client:
1) shall validate the id_token, access_token and refresh token in the received
OIDC Token Response message as specified in the OpenID Connect 1.0 [6]
specification; and
2) shall provide the id_token and access_token in the received OIDC Token
Response message to the MCPTT client.
NOTE 4: The method in which the IdM client provides the id_token and
access_token to the MCPTT client is implementation specific.
## 6.3 Identity management server procedures
### 6.3.1 User authentication
Upon receipt of an OIDC Authentication Request message as specified in the
OpenID Connect 1.0 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [5] via a secure TLS tunnel between
the identity management client and the authorisation endpoint of the IdM
server, the IdM server:
1) shall validate the received OIDC Authentication Request message as
specified in the OpenID Connect 1.0 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [5];
2) shall generate an HTTP 200 (OK) response according to IETF RFC 2616 [4]
including form data to prompt the MCPTT user for their username and password
credentials; and
NOTE 1: The username will be the MCPTT user\'s MC ID.
3) shall send the HTTP 200 (OK) response towards the IdM client.
Upon receipt of an HTTP POST request method from the IdM client containing the
MCPTT user\'s username and password, the IdM server authenticates the MCPTT
user and:
NOTE 2: Other methods of authentication can be used by the MCPTT service
provider and are not defined by the OIDC specifications. 3GPP TS 33.179 [2]
has defined username and password as a mandatory authentication method to be
supported for MCPTT, hence a procedure to realize that method is included
here.
1) shall generate an OIDC Authentication Response message as specified in
OpenID Connect 1.0 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [5] with the following
clarifications:
a) shall generate an HTTP 302 (FOUND) response according to IETF RFC 2616 [4];
and
b) shall include the required parameters including the authorization_code as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2] in the query component of the redirection URI
contained in the Location header field of the HTTP FOUND request method using
the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format as specified in W3C.REC-
html401-19991224 [7]; and
2) shall send the HTTP 302 (FOUND) response towards the IdM client.
Upon receipt of an OIDC Token Request message via a secure TLS tunnel
established between the identity management client and the token endpoint of
the IdM server, the IdM server:
1) shall validate the OIDC Token Request message and if valid shall generate
an OIDC Token Response message as specified in OpenID Connect 1.0 [6] and IETF
RFC 6749 [5] with the following clarifications:
a) shall generate an HTTP 200 (OK) response according to IETF RFC 2616 [4];
b) shall based on the received MC ID obtained from the received user
authentication credentials, determine the MCPTT ID of the MCPTT user;
c) shall include an id_token, access_token and refresh_token and MCPTT ID as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2]; and
d) shall include the other required parameters as specified in OpenID Connect
1.0 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [5]; and
2) shall send the HTTP 200 (OK) response towards the IdM client.
# 7 Inter/intra domain interface security
Inter/intra domain interface security shall be provided as specified in 3GPP
TS 33.179 [2];
###### ## Annex A (normative): HTTP entities
# A.1 Scope
This annex describes the functionality expected from the HTTP entities (i.e.
the HTTP client, the HTTP proxy and the HTTP server) defined by 3GPP TS 23.179
[9] and 3GPP TS 33.179 [2].
# A.2 Procedures
## A.2.1 HTTP client
### A.2.1.1 General
The HTTP client in the UE shall support the client role defined in IETF RFC
2616 [4].
### A.2.1.2 HTTP client in UE
The HTTP client in the UE shall support the client role defined in IETF RFC
2818 [10].
The HTTP client in the UE shall support transport layer security (TLS) as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2].
The HTTP client in the UE is configured with the following parameters:
1) a home HTTP proxy FQDN;
2) a home HTTP proxy port;
3) a TLS tunnel authentication method. The TLS tunnel authentication method
parameter is set to one of the following:
a) one-way authentication of the HTTP proxy based on the server certificate;
b) mutual authentication based on certificates; and
c) mutual authentication based on pre-shared key;
as specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2];
4) if the TLS tunnel authentication method is the mutual authentication based
on certificates:
a) TLS tunnel authentication X.509 certificate; and
5) if the TLS tunnel authentication method is the mutual authentication based
on pre-shared key;
a) TLS tunnel authentication pre-shared key.
The HTTP client in the UE shall establish a TCP connection towards the home
HTTP proxy FQDN and the home HTTP proxy port, unless the specific TCP
connection is to be used for the IdM client to IdM server procedures described
in subclause 6.2 and subclause 6.3 in the present document, in which case the
HTTP client shall establish a TCP connection towards the IdM server.
The HTTP client in the UE shall establish a TLS tunnel via the TCP connection
as specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [2]. When establishing the TLS tunnel, the HTTP
client in the UE shall act as a TLS client and the UE shall perform the TLS
tunnel authentication using the TLS authentication method indicated by the TLS
tunnel authentication method parameter according to 3GPP TS 33.179 [2]. The UE
shall use the configured TLS tunnel authentication X.509 certificate and the
configured TLS tunnel authentication pre-shared key when applicable for the
used TLS authentication method. In order to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks,
the HTTP client in the UE shall check the home HTTP proxy FQDN against the
server\'s identity as presented in the received server\'s certificate message
if the TCP connection terminates on the HTTP proxy. The HTTP client in the UE
shall not check the portion of dereferenced HTTP URL against the server\'s
identity as presented in the received server\'s certificate message if the TCP
connection terminates on the HTTP proxy, but shall do so if the TCP connection
terminates on the IdM server.
NOTE: The TLS tunnel can be terminated in the HTTP proxy (rather than in the
HTTP server providing the dereferenced HTTP URL).
The HTTP client in the UE shall send and receive all HTTP messages via the TLS
tunnel.
If the HTTP client in the UE has an access token of the \"bearer\" token type
as specified in IETF RFC 6750 [14], the HTTP client in the UE shall include an
Authorization header field with the \"Bearer\" authentication scheme as
specified in IETF RFC 6750 [14] in HTTP requests.
### A.2.1.3 HTTP client in network entity
The HTTP client in the network entity is configured with the following
parameters:
1) a home HTTP proxy FQDN; and
2) a home HTTP proxy port.
The HTTP client in the network entity shall send and receive all HTTP messages
via the home HTTP proxy.
The HTTP client in the network entity shall insert an X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity
header field as specified in 3GPP TS 24.109 [15] in the HTTP request and shall
set X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field to the identity of the HTTP client
in the network entity. The identity of the HTTP client in the network entity
can be a public service identity, an MCPTT group ID, or an MCPTT ID.
## A.2.2 HTTP proxy
### A.2.2.1 General
The HTTP proxy shall support proxy role of IETF RFC 2616 [4].
### A.2.2.2 HTTP request method from HTTP client in UE
The HTTP proxy shall support the server role of IETF RFC 2616 [4], and IETF
RFC 2818 [10].
The HTTP proxy shall support transport layer security (TLS) as specified in
3GPP TS 33.179 [2].
The HTTP proxy is configured with the following HTTP proxy parameters:
1) an FQDN of an HTTP proxy for UEs; and
2) a TCP port of an HTTP proxy for UEs.
The HTTP proxy shall support establishing TCP connections on the FQDN of HTTP
proxy for UEs and the TCP port of HTTP proxy for UEs. The HTTP proxy shall
support establishing a TLS tunnel via each such TCP connection as specified in
3GPP TS 33.179 [2]. When establishing the TLS tunnel, the HTTP proxy shall act
as TLS server.
Upon reception of an HTTP request method via a TLS tunnel:
1) if the HTTP request method contains an X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header
field as specified in 3GPP TS 24.109 [15], the HTTP proxy shall reject the
HTTP request method with an HTTP 403 (Forbidden) response and do not continue
with rest of the steps;
2) if the HTTP request method contains a Request-URI identifying a resource in
a partner\'s MCPTT provider, the HTTP proxy shall forward the HTTP request
method according to the Request-URI; and
3) if an HTTP request method contains a Request-URI identifying a resource in
own MCPTT provider, the HTTP proxy shall act as reverse proxy for the HTTP
request method and shall forward the HTTP request method according to the
MCPTT provider policy.
### A.2.2.3 HTTP request method from HTTP client in network entity within
trust domain
The HTTP proxy is configured with the following parameters:
1) a FQDN of an HTTP proxy for trusted entities; and
2) a TCP port of an HTTP proxy for trusted entities.
Upon receiving an HTTP request method via a TCP connection established on the
FQDN of HTTP proxy for UEs and the TCP port of HTTP proxy for UEs, if the TCP
connection is between network elements within trusted domain as specified in
3GPP TS 33.179 [2]:
1) if the HTTP request method contains a Request-URI identifying a resource in
a partner\'s MCPTT provider, the HTTP proxy shall forward the HTTP request
method according to the Request-URI; and
2) if an HTTP request method contains Request-URI identifying a resource in
own MCPTT provider, the HTTP proxy shall act as reverse proxy for the HTTP
request method and shall forward the HTTP request method according to MCPTT
provider policy.
## A.2.3 HTTP server
The HTTP server shall support the server role of IETF RFC 2616 [4].
Upon reception of an HTTP request:
1) if the received HTTP request does not contain an Authorization header field
with the \"Bearer\" authentication scheme and a bearer access token as
specified in IETF RFC 6750 [14] and the received HTTP request does not contain
an X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field as specified in 3GPP TS 24.109 [15],
the HTTP server shall reject the request with HTTP 403 (Forbidden) response;
2) if the received HTTP request contains an Authorization header field with
the \"Bearer\" authentication scheme and a bearer access token as specified in
IETF RFC 6750 [14];
a) the HTTP server shall validate the bearer access token as specified in IETF
RFC 6750 [14]; and
b) the HTTP server shall consider the MCPTT ID derived from the bearer access
token as the identity of the sender of the HTTP request; and
3) if the received HTTP request does not contain an Authorization header field
with the \"Bearer\" authentication scheme and a bearer access token as
specified in IETF RFC 6750 [14] and the received HTTP request contains an
X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header field as specified in 3GPP TS 24.109 [15], the
HTTP server shall consider the URI in the X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity header
field as the identity of the sender of the HTTP request.
#