# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 011 [19].
It was transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in January
2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three, Protocol Description of the
Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Communication Barring (CB)
supplementary service, based on stage one and two of the ISDN supplementary
service Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR), Incoming Communication Barring (ICB)
and Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB). It provides the protocol details in
the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem based on the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Session Description Protocol (SDP).
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and Application
Servers (AS) which are intended to support the ACR and CB supplementary
services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services, Stage 1\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.607: \"Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[4] ETSI TS 183 038: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN Simulation Services;
Extensible Markup Language (XML) Document Management; Protocol Specification
(Endorsement of\ OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1-0-20051103-C and OMA-TS-XDM-
Shared-V1-0-20051006-C)\".
[5] IETF RFC 4566: \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.623: \" Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
Services\".
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 24.604: \"Communication Diversion (CDIV); using IP Multimedia
(IM)Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.628: \"Common Basic Communication procedures using IP
Multimedia (IM)Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[11] Void.
[12] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[13] IETF RFC 3325: \"Private Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) for Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks\".
[14] IETF RFC 3323: \"A privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)\".
[15] IETF RFC 7315: \"Private Header (P-Header) Extensions to the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) for the 3GPP\".
[16] IETF RFC 4745: \"Common Policy: A Document Format for Expressing Privacy
Preferences\".
[17] OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1-0: \"XML Document Management (XDM) Specification\",\
Version 1.0. OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1-0-1-20061128-A.pdf.
[18] IETF RFC 5079 (2007): \"Rejecting Anonymous Requests in the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[19] ETSI TS 183 011 V1.3.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation
services: Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Communication Barring
(CB); Protocol specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
configuration; stage 3\".
[21] IETF RFC 7090 (April 2014): \"Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP)
Callback\".
[22] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[23] IETF RFC 5031 (January 2008): \"A Uniform Resource Name (URN) for
Emergency and Other Well-Known Services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.173 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACR **Anonymous Communication Rejection**
AP **Authentication Proxy**
AS Application Server
CB Communication Barring
CDIV Communication DIVersion services
CONF CONFerence calling
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD communication session HOLD
ICB **Incoming Communication Barring**
IFC **Initial Filter Criteria**
IP Internet Protocol
MCID Malicious Call IDentification
OCB **Outgoing Communication Barring**
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
S-CSCF Server - Call Session Control Function
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UE User Equipment
XCAP eXtended Camel Application Part
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Communication Barring (CB)
## 4.1 Introduction
The **Communication Barring (CB)** service offers the following services:
\- The Incoming Communication Barring (ICB) is a service that rejects incoming
communications that fulfil certain provisioned or configured conditions on
behalf of the terminating user.
\- The Anonymous Communication Rejection **(ACR)** is a particular case of the
ICB service, that allows barring of incoming communications from an anonymous
originator on behalf of the terminating user.
\- The **Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB)** is a service that rejects
outgoing communications that fulfil certain provisioned or configured
conditions on behalf of the originating user.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The Incoming Communication Barring (ICB**)** service makes it possible for a
user to have barring of certain categories of incoming communications
according to a provisioned or user configured barring program and is valid for
all incoming communications. A barring program is expressed as a set of rules
in which the rules have a conditional part and an action part. Examples of
conditions are whether the asserted originating public user identity matches a
specific public user identity or whether the originating public user identity
is restricted (anonymous). The action part could specify for a rule that
contains a matching condition that the specific incoming communication is
barred. The complete set of conditions and actions that apply to this service
and their semantics is described in subclause 4.9.
The Inhibition of Incoming Forwarded Calls is a special case of the ICB and
allows the served user to reject incoming communications from users or
subscribers who have diverted the communication towards the served user. The
communication history information will be used to trigger the service as
described in subclause 4.9.
The Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) service allows the served user to
reject incoming communications on which the asserted public user identity of
the originating user is restricted. In case the asserted public user identity
of the originating user is not provided then the communication is allowed by
the ACR service.
An example where the originating user restricts presentation of the asserted
public user identity is when he activated the OIR service 3GPP TS 24.607 [3].
The originating user is given an appropriate indication that the communication
has been rejected due to the application of the ACR service.
The Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) service is a special case of the
ICB service, which is highlighted here because it is a regulatory service in
many countries. The ACR service can be activated for a specific subscriber by
configuring an ICB service barring rule where the conditional part contains
the \"Condition=anonymous\" and the action part \"allow=false\".
The Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB) service makes it possible for a user
to have barring of certain categories of outgoing communications according to
a provisioned or user configured barring program and is valid for all outgoing
communications. A barring program is expressed as a set of rules in which the
rules have a conditional part and an action part. An example condition is
whether the request uri matches a specific public user identity. The action
part can specify for a rule that contains a matching condition that the
specific outgoing communication it to be barred. The complete set of
conditions and actions that apply to this service and their semantics is
described in subclause 4.9.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The ACR/CB service shall be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider.
The ACR/CB service shall be withdrawn at the served user\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
NOTE: Annex B includes an example of an IFC that can be used to invoke the OCB
service.
### 4.3.3 Requirements in the network
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.4 Requirements on the terminating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
NOTE: Annex B includes an example of an IFC that can be used to invoke the
ACR/ICB service.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
### 4.4.1 ICB coding requirements
No specific requirements have been identified.
To indicate the dynamic ICB the terminating UE shall send either:
\- a 603 (Decline) response including a Reason header field containing 603
Decline; or
\- a BYE request including a Reason header field containing 603 Decline; or
\- an initial INVITE request including a SSC command.
### 4.4.2 ACR coding requirements
The Privacy header field and the P-Asserted-Identity header fields as defined
within 3GPP TS 24.229 [2], are used to trigger the service. The response code
433 (Anonymity Disallowed) defined by IETF RFC 5079 [18] is used in support of
ACR service.
### 4.4.3 OCB coding requirements
No specific requirements have been identified.
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.0 General
Configuration of supplementary services by the user should:
\- take place over the Ut interface using XCAP as enabling protocol as
described in 3GPP TS 24.623 [6]; or
\- use SIP based user configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 [20].
NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope of the
present document, but are not precluded
The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface are described
in subclause 4.9.
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The services ICB, OCB and ACR are individually activated at provisioning or at
the subscribers request by using the mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0.
The services ICB, OCB and ACR are individually deactivated at withdrawal or at
the subscribers request by using the mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0.
#### 4.5.1A Registration/erasure
For registration of information for the services ICB, OCB and ACR, the
mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0 should be used. The detailed
information for the services ICB, OCB and ACR can individually be registered
at the subscribers request by using the mechanisms specified in subclause
4.5.0.
For erasure of information for the services ICB, OCB and ACR, the mechanisms
specified in subclause 4.5.0 should be used. The detailed information for the
services ICB, OCB and ACR can individually be erased at the subscribers
request by using the mechanisms specified in subclause 4.5.0.
#### 4.5.1B Interrogation
For interrogation of the services ICB, OCB and ACR, the mechanisms specified
in subclause 4.5.0 should be used.
For interrogation of the supported conditions and actions that can be used in
the network the Ut interface should be used.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UE
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.2 Void
#### 4.5.2.3 Void
#### 4.5.2.4 Actions at the originating AS
##### 4.5.2.4.1 Actions for OCB at the originating AS
The AS providing the OCB service shall operate as either an AS acting as a SIP
proxy as specified in subclause 5.7.4 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] or an AS providing
3rd party call control, and specifically as a routeing B2BUA, as specified in
subclause 5.7.5 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]. An AS providing the OCB service and
rejecting the request shall operate as a terminating UA, as specified in
subclause 5.7.2 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
NOTE: For the case when the session is not subject to OCB according the
requirements in this document, and is the only service being applied by the
AS, then the AS only needs to act as a SIP proxy. If additional services are
applied, then the AS might need to act as a routeing B2BUA.
The AS providing the OCB service shall reject outgoing communications when the
evaluation of the served users outgoing communication barring rules according
to the algorithm as specified in subclause 4.9.1.2 evaluates to
(allow=\"false\"),.Outgoing communications towards emergency services are
always allowed irrespective of what barring settings the user has defined. To
allow emergency calls to go through, the operator creates a white list, as
described in subclause 4.9.1.3, including emergency numbers in any useful
format including emergency service URNs specified in RFC 5031[23]. For the
purpose of OCB, the AS shall evaluate the \"cp:identity\" and \"ocp:external-
list\" conditions against the called party identity taken from Request-URI or
additionally taken from the To header field.
When the AS providing the OCB service rejects a communication, the AS shall
send an indication to the calling user by sending a 603 (Decline) response
Additionally, before terminating the communication the AS can provide an
announcement to the originating user. The procedure of invoking an
announcement is described within 3GPP TS 24.628 [10].
#### 4.5.2.5 Void
#### 4.5.2.6 Actions at the terminating AS
##### 4.5.2.6.1 Actions for ICB at the terminating AS
The AS providing the ICB service shall operate as either an AS acting as a SIP
proxy as specified in subclause 5.7.4 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] or an AS providing
3rd party call control, and specifically as a routeing B2BUA, as specified in
subclause 5.7.5 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]. An AS providing the ICB service and
rejecting the request shall operate as a terminating UA, as specified in
subclause 5.7.2 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
NOTE 1: For the case when the session is not subject to ICB according the
requirements in this document, and is the only service being applied by the
AS, then the AS only needs to act as a SIP proxy. If additional services are
applied, then the AS might need to act as a routeing B2BUA.
The AS shall based on local policy on how to handle PSAP callbacks suppress
ICB when the received initial INVITE request towards the served user is
identified as a PSAP callback.
The mechanism to identify an INVITE request as a PSAP callback depends on
local policy and can be based on the PSAP callback indicator specified in IETF
RFC 7090 [21].
The AS providing the ICB service shall reject initial incoming requests when
the evaluation of the served users incoming communication barring rules
according to the algorithm as specified in subclause 4.9.1.2 evaluates to
(allow=\"false\"). For the purpose of ICB, the AS shall evaluate the
\"cp:identity\" and \"ocp:external-list\" conditions against the calling party
identity taken from the P-Asserted-Identity header field or additionally taken
from the From header field or the Referred-By header field.
NOTE 2: The procedures give the flexibility for OPTIONS requests to be treated
differently to the equivalent INVITE requests. Unless this capability is
specifically required, care is needed in the design of the rules to treat
these identically. Rejecting an incoming OPTIONS request can cause the
originator not to attempt to place a call to the intended recipient of the
OPTIONS.
The dynamic ICB is a network option to extend the ICB functionality:
To bar an incoming request, the AS providing the dynamic ICB service receives
from the terminating UE:
\- a 603 (Decline) response including a Reason header field containing 603
Declinefor a dialog initiating request
\- a BYE request including a Reason header field containing 603 Decline or
\- an initial INVITE request including a SSC command.
The AS providing the dynamic ICB service shall store the following
information:
**-** Actual identity of caller: Network asserted identity of the calling user
which is stored in the network and additionally the identity included within
the From header (defined in IETF RFC 3261 [22]). If the received identity is a
restricted identity (a Privacy header field with the values \"user\",
\"header\" or \"id\") then the actual identity of the caller shall never be
presented or be accessable (e.g. via the blacklist maintenance) to the served
user.
NOTE 3: If the barred caller has requested privacy (e.g. by subscribing to ORI
service) the served user may just see \"Anonymous\" or \"Unknown\". However
the served user can invoke dynamic ICB since the network knows the true
identity of the caller. To facilitate the management of the list of barred
callers, the served user may use the reason field to identify the barred
caller.
\- Start and end date for barring: Define the duration of barring. If not
provided, it implies that the caller should be barred permanently or for a
maximum lifetime which is set by the network operator preferences.
Depending on operator policy, the following information may be additionally
provided by the user at the time of barring and shall be associated by the AS
with the actual identity:
\- Reason: The reason for barring (e.g. \"Telemarketer\"), and
\- Published identity of caller: This consists of the actual identity of the
caller; \"a valid SIP URI\", or \"private user identity\", or \"anonymous\" if
the caller has opted for privacy. This identity is conveyed by P-Asserted
Identity or as an option by the From header (defined in IETF RFC 3261 [22]).
The ACR service is a special case of the ICB service and is expressed as the
following rule:
\- Condition: =anonymous, Action: allow=false.
For any rule set that evaluates to (allow=\"false\") and where one of the
matching rules contained the anonymous condition, the AS shall execute the
procedures as specified in subclause 4.5.2.6.2.
When the AS providing the ICB service rejects a communication, the AS shall
send an indication to the calling user by sending a 603 (Decline) response
Additionally, if the barred communication is a voice or video call, before
terminating the communication the AS can provide an announcement to the
originating user. The procedure of invoking an announcement is described
within 3GPP TS 24.628 [10].
##### 4.5.2.6.2 Action for ACR at the terminating AS
The AS providing the ACR service shall operate as either an AS acting as a SIP
proxy as specified in subclause 5.7.4 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] or an AS providing
3rd party call control, and specifically as a routeing B2BUA, as specified in
subclause 5.7.5 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]. An AS providing the ACR service and
rejecting the request shall operate as a terminating UA, as specified in
subclause 5.7.2 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
NOTE: For the case when the session or transaction is not subject to ACR
according the requirements in this document, and is the only service being
applied by the AS, then the AS only needs to act as a SIP proxy. If additional
services are applied, then the AS might need to act as a routeing B2BUA.
The AS providing the ACR service shall reject all incoming communications
where the incoming SIP request:
1) includes the P-Asserted-Identity header field AND includes the Privacy
header field indicating \"id\" as specified in IETF RFC 3325 [13]; or
2) includes the P-Asserted-Identity header field AND includes the Privacy
header field indicating \"header\" as specified in IETF RFC 3323 [14]; or
3) includes the P-Asserted-Identity header field AND includes the Privacy
header field indicating \"user\" as specified in IETF RFC 3323 [14].
NOTE: In all other cases the communication proceeds normally.
When the AS providing the ACR service rejects a communication, the AS shall
send an indication to the calling user by sending a 433 (Anonymity Disallowed)
response. Additionally, if the barred communication is a voice or video call,
before terminating the communication the AS can provide an announcement to the
originating user. The procedure of invoking an announcement is described
within 3GPP TS 24.628 [10].
If the barred communication is a voice or video call, as a service option the
AS providing the ACR service can forward the communication to a voice message
service instead of rejecting the communication with a 433 (Anonymity
Disallowed) final response.
#### 4.5.2.7 Void
#### 4.5.2.8 Void
#### 4.5.2.9 Void
#### 4.5.2.10 Void
#### 4.5.2.11 Void
#### 4.5.2.12 Void
#### 4.5.2.13 Actions at the destination UE
Procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] shall apply.
To indicate the barring, a destination UE which supports dynamic ICB shall
send:
\- a 603 (Decline) response including a Reason header field containing 603
Decline when the communication status is in early dialog; or
\- a BYE request including a Reason header field containing 603 Decline when
the communication status is in confirmed status; or
\- an initial INVITE request including an SSC command after the session is
released.
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
If the called user has subscribed to the override category according to the
OIP service 3GPP TS 24.607 [3], then the AS providing ACR service shall not
apply the requirements of this document.
Within the network execution of ICB and ACR services shall precede the OIP
service.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
If the called user has activated the ACR service, then incoming communications
of originating user that have activated the OIR service -3GPP TS 24.607 [3]
are rejected as a consequence of the procedure in subclause 4.5.2.6.2.
### 4.6.6 CONFerence Calling (CONF)
If the conference creator activated the OCB service then, the AS providing the
CB service shall reject REFER requests with a refer-to target that is barred
by the conference creator\'s Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB) rules.
If the conference creator activated the OCB service then, the AS providing the
CB service shall remove the URI that is barred by the conference creator\'s
Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB) rules from the list of URIs in the
\"recipient-list\" body of INVITE request.
### 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)
If the served user has activated the ACR or ICB service, then the ACR or ICB
service shall take precedence over the Communication Diversion service for the
served user.
If the served user activated the OCB service then, the OCB service shall take
precedence on the outgoing communication towards the targeted-to user.
### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.9 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
## 4.7 Interworking with other networks
### 4.7.1 Void
### 4.7.2 Void
### 4.7.3 Void
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
No Timers for ACR/CB defined.
## 4.9 Service configuration
### 4.9.1 Structure of the XML Document
#### 4.9.1.0 Definitions
Communication Barring documents are sub-trees of the _simservs_ XML document
specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [6]. As such, Communication Barring documents use
the XCAP application usage in 3GPP TS 24.623 [6].
**Data semantics:** The semantics of the communication barring XML
configuration document is specified in subclause 4.9.1. \"_Structure of the
XML Document_ \".
**XML schema:** Implementations in compliance with the present document shall
implement the XML schema that minimally includes the XML Schema defined in
clause 4.9.2 \"_Communication Barring Rules_ \" and the _simservs_ XML schema
specified in subclause 6.3 of 3GPP TS 24.623 [6].
#### 4.9.1.1 General
In addition to the considerations and constraints defined by the _simservs_
XML document 3GPP TS 24.623 [6], the following additional constraints and
considerations for the Communication Barring sub-tree are defined.
An instance of the simulation services configuration containing a
communication barring configuration document.
\
\
\
_rule set_
\
\
_rule set_
\
\
The communication barring service contains a rule set, which specifies how the
communication barring services react to external stimuli.
#### 4.9.1.2 Communication Barring elements
The communication barring configuration contains two communication barring
elements, one for incoming-communication-barring and one for outgoing-
communication-barring. Each barring element contains a rule set. The rule set
reuses the syntax as specified by the common policy draft (see IETF RFC 4745
[16]).
Incoming-communication-barring element has the following form:
\
\
_rule1_
_rule2_
\
\
Outgoing-communication-barring element has the following form:
\
\
r _ule3_
_rule4_
\
\
For evaluating a rule set the AS shall use the algorithm as specified in
common policy draft (see IETF RFC 4745 [16], subclause 10.2).
In subclause 4.9.1.3 all allowed conditions are specified, communication
barring rules are always evaluated at communication setup time.
The shown \"active\" attribute is inherited from the simservType from 3GPP TS
24.623 [6], its meaning is also specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [6].
#### 4.9.1.3 Communication Barring rules
The Communication Barring service is configured with an ordered set of
forwarding rules. The XML Schema reuses the rule syntax as specified by common
policy draft (see IETF RFC 4745 [16]). The rules take the following form:
\
\
_condition1_
_condition2_
\
\
\false\
\
\
When the AS providing the service processes a set of rules, the AS shall start
executing the first rule. If:
\- the rule has no \ element;
\- the rule has an empty \ element; or
\- conditions are present and they all evaluate to true;
then the rule matches and the specified action is executed.
Applied to the fragment above which shows the case where conditions are
present this means that only if the expression (_condition1_ AND _condition2_)
evaluates to true then the _rule66_ matches call is executed, if there are
more matching rules then the resulting actions shall be combined according to
the procedure specified in the common policy draft (see IETF RFC 4745 [16]).
If one of the matching rules evaluates to allow=true then the resulting value
shall be allow=true and the call continues normally, otherwise the result
shall be allow=false and the call will be barred. If there are no matching
rules then the result shall be allow=true.
To create a white list of identities towards which outgoing communications are
always allowed, rules where the action is allow=true can be created. User or
operator provided white lists may be built. Operator defined rules shall not
be exposed over the Ut interface.
NOTE: Operator provided white lists are provisioned over a proprietary
interface.
The \"id\" attribute value of a rule shall uniquely identify the rule within a
rule set. This can be used in XCAP usage to address one specific rule.
#### 4.9.1.4 Communication Barring rule conditions
The following conditions are allowed by the XML Schema for the communication
barring service.
**presence-status:** This condition evaluates to true when the called user\'s
current presence activity status is equal to the value set for this condition.
In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**cp:identity:** This condition evaluates to true when a provided user\'s
identity matches with the value of the identity element. The interpretation of
all the elements of this condition is described in the common policy draft\
(see IETF RFC 4745 [16]). In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**anonymous:** To comply with the requirements as set for simulation of the
ACR service, the _anonymous_ element only evaluate to true when the conditions
as set out in subclause 4.5.2.6.2 for asserted originating public user
identity apply.
**request-name:** This condition evaluates to true when the incoming SIP
request name matches whith the value of the request-name element.
NOTE 1: The absence of this condition means that the barring rules apply to
all initial incoming requests.
**cp:sphere:** Not applicable in the context of the Communication Barring
service.
**cp:validity:** Specifies a period. The condition evaluates to true when the
current time is within the validity period expressed by the value of this
condition. In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**media:** This condition evaluates to true when the value of this condition
matches the media field in one of the \"m=\" lines in IETF RFC 4566 [5]
offered in an INVITE request. It allows for barring of specific media.
**communication-diverted:** This condition evaluates to true when the incoming
communication has been previously diverted.
NOTE 2: Diverted communication can be recognized by the presence of the
History-Info header field, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.604 [9].
**roaming:** This condition evaluates to true when the served user is
registered from an access network other then the served users home network.
NOTE 3: Whether the served user is registered from another network then the
served users home network can be determined from the P-Visited-Network-ID
header field specified in IETF RFC 7315 [15] and the P-Access-Network-Info
header field specified in IETF RFC 7315 [15] both are provided during the
registration process, see 3GPP TS 24.229 [2], subclause 5.7.1.3.
**rule-deactivated:** This condition always evaluates to false. This can be
used to deactivate a rule, without loosing information. By removing this
condition the rule can be activated again.
**ocp:external-list:** This condition evaluates to true when a provided users
identity is contained in an external URI list stored in a OMA-TS-XDM_Shared
[17] to which the value of external-list refers. The exact interpretation of
this element is specified in OMA-TS-XDM_Core [17].
**ocp:other-identity:** If present in any rule, the \"other-identity\"
element, which is empty, matches all identities that are not referenced in any
rule. It allows for specifying a default policy. The exact interpretation of
this condition is specified in OMA-TS-XDM_Core [17].
**international:** This condition evaluates to true when the request URI of
the outgoing SIP request:
\- corresponds to a telephone number, i.e. a SIP URI with a \"user\" URI
parameter set to \"phone\" or a tel URI; and
\- does not point to a destination served by a network within the country
where the originating user is located when initiating the communication.
**international-exHC:** This condition for international barring, excluding
the home country, evaluates to true when the request URI of the outgoing SIP
request:
\- corresponds to a telephone number, i.e. a SIP URI with a \"user\" URI
parameter set to \"phone\" or a tel URI;
\- does not point to a destination served by a network within the country
where the originating user is located when initiating the communication; and
\- does not point to a destination served within the served users home
network.
NOTE 4: In case of international and international-exHC, called users
subscribed to a network in the country in which the served user roams, can be
called irrespective where they roam. Subscribers, subscribed to any network in
another country than the one in which the served user is located cannot be
called even if they roam in the same network area as the served users or in
the served user\'s home network.
The condition elements that are not taken from the common policy draft (see
IETF RFC 4745 [16]) or OMA common policy schema ETSI TS 183 038 [4] are
defined in the simservs document schema specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [6].
Information of which of the above mentioned conditions the user is allowed to
use can be obtained from the network by using the schema defined in subclause
4.9.3.
The \"serv-cap-media\" element lists the elements that can be used in the
\"media\" rule condition.
#### 4.9.1.5 Communication Barring rule actions
The action supported by the communication barring service is (un)conditional
barring of communications. For this the allow action has been defined. The
allow action takes a Boolean argument when the value is true the communication
are allowed to continue, when it is false the communication is barred.
#### 4.9.1.6 Supported Conditions for Communication Barring
The supported conditions for communication barring are configured with a list
of condition capability elements. These capability elements are read only and
indicate which capabilities related to communication barring the network has
provisioned for a user. There is one rule capability element per each rule
condition.
EXAMPLE: An instance of the simulation services configuration containing a
service capabilities document for communication barring is shown in the
following example. In this example, the same capabilities as in Call Barring
in a CS network are supported.
\
\
xmlns=\"http://uri.etsi.org/ngn/params/xml/simservs/xcap\"
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\audio\
\video\
\
\\
\\
\\
\\\ \\
\\
\\
\
\
\
### 4.9.2 XML Schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This is the incoming communication barring configuration
document.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This is the outgoing communication barring configuration
document.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### 4.9.3 XML schema for indication of supported conditions and actions
\
\
\
\This schema defines elements that are used
to inform the UE which conditions and actions the network
support.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
The following signalling flows show examples of the configuration and the use
of the ACR and CB services. These flows are not implying that other scenarios
are not valid.
# A.1 ACR termination towards UE-B
{width="4.871527777777778in" height="3.4451388888888888in"}
Figure A.1.1: ACR termination towards UE-B
**1 to 2. INVITE request (UE to S-CSCF) - see example in figure A.1.1.**
The incoming INVITE request is sent to the S-CSCF serving UE-B. The INVITE
request includes a Privacy header field set to one of the following values:
\"id\" or \"header\" or \"user\".
**3\. Evaluation of initial filter criteria.**
The initial Filter criteria indicates that the called user is subscribed to
the ACR service. Therefore the S-CSCF forwards the INVITE request to the ACR
AS.
**4 to 5. INVITE request (S-CSCF to AS) - see example in figure A.1.1.**
INVITE is sent to the AS.
**6 to 8. 433 (Anonymity Disallowed) response. (AS to UE) - see example in
figure A.1.1.**
AS has identified that the call is anonymous and answers with a 433 (Anonymity
Disallowed) response.
**9 to 10. The originating party acknowledges the final response with ACK.**
# A.2 Service configuration
Figure A.2.1: Service configuration example
**1\. HTTP GET request (UE to AP) - see example in table A.2-1**
The UE wants to retrieve the supported conditions for communication barring
from the AS.
Table A.2-1: HTTP GET request (UE to AP)
> GET
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> barring-serv-cap HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:33 GMT
>
> X-3GPP-Intended-Identity: \"sip:user1\@home1.net\"
**2\. HTTP 401 (Unathorized) response (AP to UE) - see example in table
A.2-2**
Upon receiving an unauthorized HTTP GET request the AP authenticates the UE.
Table A.2-2: HTTP 401 (Unathorized) request (AP to UE)
> HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:34 GMT
>
> WWW-Authenticate: Digest
> realm=\"xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org\",
> nonce=\"47364c23432d2e131a5fb210812c\", qop=auth-int
>
> Content-Length: 0
**3\. HTTP GET request (UE to AP) - see example in table A.2-3**
The UE repeats the HTTP GET request including the Authorization header.
Table A.2-3: HTTP GET request (UE to AP)
> GET
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> barring-serv-cap HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:36 GMT
>
> Authorization: Digest realm=\"xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org\",
> nonce=\"47364c23432d2e131a5fb210812c\", username=\"sip:user1\@home1.net\",
> qop=auth-int,\
> uri=\"/simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> barring-serv-cap\", response=\"2c8ee200cec7f6e966c932a9242554e4\",
> cnonce=\"dcd99agsfgfsa8b7102dd2f0e8b1\", nc=00000001
>
> X-3GPP-Intended-Identity: \"sip:user1\@home1.net\"
**4\. HTTP GET request (AP to AS) - see example in table A.2-4**
The AP forwards the HTTP GET request to the AS.
Table A.2-4: HTTP GET request (AP to AS)
> GET
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/communication-
> barring-serv-cap HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:38 GMT
>
> X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity: \"sip:user1\@home1.net\"
**5\. HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP) - see example in table A.2-5**
The AS returns the supported conditions for communication barring. The \ child element of the \ element describes that
audio and video media are allowed to be used as Communication Barring rule
conditions. The other child elements of the \ element
list the conditions that are not provisioned for the user. If a service
capability for a condition is not listed from the list of conditions specified
in subclause 4.9.1.4 then the condition is provisioned for the user. The
following conditions are provisioned: roaming, international, international-
exHC.
Table A.2-5: HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:40 GMT
>
> Etag: \"eti87\"
>
> Content-Type: application/xcap-el+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \\
>
> \\ communication-diverted>
>
> \\
>
> \\
>
> \
>
> \audio\
>
> \video\
>
> \
>
> \\
>
> \\ status>
>
> \\ deactivated>\ \\ validity>
>
> \
>
> \
**6\. HTTP 200 (OK) response (AP to UE) - see example in table A.2-6**
The AP routes the HTTP 200 (OK) response to the UE.
Table A.2-6: HTTP 200 (OK) response (AP to UE)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:50:42 GMT
>
> Authentication-Info: nextnonce=\"e966c32a924255e42c8ee20ce7f6\"
>
> Etag: \"eti87\"
>
> Content-Type: application/simservs+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> (...)
**7\. HTTP PUT request (UE to AP) - see example in table A.2-7**
The UE creates a new rule to activate the ICB service without conditions. If a
rule with id=\"rule1\" previously existed then the new rule replaces that
rule. The rule has an empty \ element.
Table A.2-7: HTTP PUT request (UE to AP)
> PUT
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/incoming-
> communication-barring/ruleset/rule%5b\@id=%22rule1%22%5d HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:33 GMT
>
> Authorization: Digest realm=\"xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org\",
> nonce=\"e966c32a924255e42c8ee20ce7f6\", username=\"sip:user1\@home1.net\",
> qop=auth-int,\
> uri=\"/simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/incoming-
> communication-barring/ruleset\",
> response=\"adq3283hww88whhjw98822333ddd32\",
> cnonce=\"wqesatt874873j3gg3kk39944hhhee\", nc=00000001
>
> X-3GPP-Intended-Identity: sip:user1\@home1.net
>
> Content-Type: application/xcap-el+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \false\
>
> \
>
> \
**8\. HTTP PUT request (AP to AS) - see example in table A.2-8**
The AP forwards the HTTP PUT request to the AS.
Table A.2-8: HTTP PUT request (AP to AS)
> PUT
> /simservs.ngn.etsi.org/users/sip:user1\@home1.net/simservs.xml/\~\~/simservs/incoming-
> communication-barring/ruleset/rule%5b\@id=%22rule1%22%5d HTTP/1.1
>
> Host: xcap.mnc012.mcc345.ipxuni.3gppnetwork.org
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:35 GMT
>
> X-3GPP-Asserted-Identity: sip:user1\@home1.net
>
> Content-Type: application/xcap-el+xml; charset=\"utf-8\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> (...)
**9\. HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP) - see example in table A.2-9**
The AS acknowledges the addition of the new ICB rule with a HTTP 200 (OK)
response.
Table A.2-9: HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:37 GMT
>
> Etag: \"efefefef\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
**10\. HTTP 200 (OK) response (AP to UE) - see example in table A.2-10**
The AP routes the HTTP 200 (OK) response to the UE.
Table A.2-10: HTTP 200 (OK) response (AS to AP)
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
>
> Via: HTTP/1.1 ap.home1.net
>
> Date: Thu, 16 Jun 2011 10:52:38 GMT
>
> Authentication-Info: nextnonce=\"737jkjssj733hjjk3hjk3999ss3kj\"
>
> Etag: \"efefefef\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
When the initial request matches the conditions of the next unexecuted IFC
rule for the served user which points to the ACR service and the P-Asserted-
Identity header is set to \"id\", \"header\" or \"user\" or \"critical\", the
communication is forwarded to the AS.
An example of an Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) Trigger Point configurations
under the assumption that the ACR service is a standalone service that can be
invoked by a very specific triggerpoint active at the destination S-CSCF:
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"id\"]); or
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"header\"]); or
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"user\"]); or
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"critical\"]).
NOTE 1: The coding of the Initial Filter Criteria is described in 3GPP TS
29.228 [12].
NOTE 2: In this case there is a one to one relationship with the conditions
that express the rejection cases for the ACR service as specified in subclause
4.5.2.6.1 \"Action for ACR at the terminating AS\".
NOTE 3: In practice it is more likely that all INVITE requests are forwarded
to the AS, because there is more services to execute then ACR alone. This is
already apparent when the combined service ACR/ICB is deployed.
If the AS cannot suppress ICB for for a call identified as a PSAP callback, an
IFC bypassing the ICB AS can be used. An example IFC using the PSAP callback
indicator specified in IETF RFC 7090 [21] is:
  * Method: \"INVITE\" and not Priority header field with a \"psap-callback\" header field value.
#