# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage one description of the Voice
Broadcast Service (VBS) which allows the distribution of speech (or other
signals which can be transmitted via the speech codec), generated by a service
subscriber, into a predefined geographical area to all or a group of service
subscribers located in this area.
The Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) is applicable to all mobile stations in a
certain network and area which have the technical capability and the
respective subscription to receive a VBS call.
NOTE: It is not considered as requirement that normal GSM Phase 2 mobile
stations will be able to be used for this service.
The service is described from the service subscriber\'s and user\'s point of
view; in particular:
\- the procedure for normal operation with successful outcome;
\- the action to be taken in exceptional circumstances;
\- the interaction with other GSM services and features.
The present document does not deal with the Man-Machine Interface (MMI)
requirements, but makes reference to the appropriate Global System for Mobile
communications (GSM) specifications.
The present document defines a teleservice of the digital cellular
telecommunication system GSM. Any interaction with other services and/or
networks not dealt within clauses 8 or 9 are outside the scope of the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.005: \"Telecommunications management; Charging management; 3G
call and event data for the Circuit Switched (CS) domain\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Network operator:** Entity which provides the network operating elements and
resources for the execution of the VBS.
**Service provider:** Entity which offers the VBS for subscription. The
network operator may be the service provider.
**Service subscriber:** Mobile subscriber which subscribes to the VBS.
**Voice broadcast call:** An instance of the VBS initiated by a VBS
subscriber. This term is used synonymously with the term \"VBS call\".
**Group identification (group ID):** A numerical classification. The maximum
number of group Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on the maximum
number of group call areas defined in this PLMN. The maximum number of group
Ids and group call areas shall be 108, Service subscriber shall be provided
with one or up to 50 group Ids.
**Dispatcher:** Particular fixed line or mobile users are identified within
the network as dispatchers. Dispatchers shall receive all voice broadcast
calls to a certain group ID in a group call area (this shall be done
automatically by the network). In addition they can initiate voice broadcast
calls to a group ID in a group call area.
Dispatchers shall be connected to a voice broadcast call by means of standard
links via radio or via an ISDN. They shall be called by their MSISDN or ISDN
number, respectively. When dispatchers initiate voice broadcast calls, they
shall call a particular MSISDN number which is related to a group ID and group
call area. Dispatchers using the GSM network can be located outside of this
group call area.
The identities of the dispatchers are exclusively predefined in the network by
the service provider. There may be none, one or more dispatchers involved in a
particular voice broadcast call.
As a mandatory network requirement, configuration of up to 5 dispatchers shall
be supported. Optionally, up to a maximum of 20 dispatchers may be configured
for a particular group call reference.
**Destination service subscriber:** Service subscriber to which the VBS call
is directed.
**Calling service subscriber:** Service subscriber which originates the VBS
call.
**Calling dispatcher** : Dispatcher which originates the VBS call.
**Destination dispatcher** : Pre-registered dispatcher to which the VBS call
is directed.
**Destination subscriber** : Destination dispatcher(s) and/ or destination
service subscriber(s) to which the VGCS call is directed.
**Group call area:** Predefined area composed of one or a cluster of cells, to
which a particular VBS call is distributed. The maximum number of group call
area Ids which can be defined in one PLMN depends on the maximum number of
group Ids defined in this PLMN. The maximum number of group Ids and group call
areas combined shall be 108, The composition of a group call area is
predefined in the network by the service provider. Changing of cell
allocations in the network due to operational reasons will need an adaptation
of the group call area definition. The group call area may include cells of
more then one MSC area and cells of more than one PLMN.
**Originator-to-dispatcher information** : Information sent by the service
subscriber originating a voice group call to the network during call setup for
distribution to the dispatchers to be attached to the group call during call
setup.
**Listener:** see Listening service subscriber
**Listening service subscriber:** Service subscriber who is listening to an
ongoing voice group call.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Description
The VBS is defined in the following. Figure 1 gives an explanation of the
logical concept of the VBS.
a) The VBS enables a calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher to send
speech unidirectional and simultaneously to all entitled dispatchers and to
destination service subscribers belonging to a predefined group call area who
have a subscription to the applicable group ID.
b) The calling service subscriber may be any service subscriber which has
subscribed to the related group ID and is entitled to establish a voice
broadcast call by his subscription. The calling dispatcher may be any
dispatcher who is entitled to originate VBS calls to the related call
reference.
The destination subscriber may be any service subscriber which has subscribed
to the related group ID or any dispatcher who is entitled for it by his
identity which is registered in the network.
c) The broadcast call shall be established in a group call area which is
comprised of one or a cluster of cells. Group call areas shall be predefined
in the network by the service provider, co-ordinated by the network operator.
In case of a calling service subscriber initiating a VBS call, the group call
area is uniquely identified by the actual cell in which the service subscriber
resides at the moment of VBS call initialization and by the called group ID.
A calling dispatcher initiating a VBS call will be connected to a related
predefined group call area. The entitlement of the dispatcher is checked by
the network element responsible for the voice broadcast call management by
verification of the calling identity. Since a dispatcher may be registered to
more than one group call area and group ID an indication of the wanted group
call area and group ID has to be given in form of a dedicated address called
by the dispatcher.
d) Destination subscribers are all destination service subscribers or a group
of destination service subscribers identified by the called group ID which
have their present location in the group call area, and preregistered
destination dispatchers. Destination service subscribers shall be notified
with the group ID, not by paging the service subscriber individually.
Destination dispatchers shall be called individually with their identity.
Service subscribers which leave the group call area during an on going VBS
call cease to be destination subscribers. Service subscribers which enter the
group call area during an on going VBS call shall become destination
subscribers within 500 ms after reception of the first notification message
related to the VBS call.
e) The calling service subscriber shall remain within the voice broadcast call
until she terminates the call, loses contact with the network or leaves the
group call area. The VBS call shall be terminated by the network as soon as
the network has determined that the calling service subscriber has left the
VBS call area.
f) A voice group call will be considered established as soon as the
originating cell in case of a service subscriber originated voice group call,
or any one cell within the group call area in case of a dispatcher originated
voice group call has been included.\ \ The calling service subscriber or
calling dispatcher shall be informed by the network with a suitable indication
about the successful establishment of the voice broadcast call so that he can
start to speak.\ \ The network shall then continue to try to include all
remaining voice group call downlink channels and alert related dispatchers not
yet alerted.
g) Authentication is mandatory at GSM call set up. To allow fast call set up
in VBS authentication of the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher
at invocation may optionally be delayed.
> Authentication of the destination subscriber, who has no uplink connection,
> is not required.
Confidentiality on the radio path is optional.
h) Different levels of priority and pre-emption shall be applied as defined in
the corresponding stage 1 description on the enhanced Multi-Level Precedence
and Pre-emption service (eMLPP), 3GPP TS 22.067.
i) A number of voice broadcast calls may exist simultaneously intended for
different groups of destination subscribers in the same group call area.
Parallel voice broadcast calls are possible to the same group of destination
subscribers in different, possibly overlapping group call areas.
j) VBS shall also be provided in case of roaming. For this, certain group Ids
shall be defined as supra-PLMN group Ids which have to be co-ordinated between
the network operators and which shall be known in the networks and in the SIM.
A service subscriber which is entitled by his subscription to establish voice
broadcast calls while roaming shall only be able to use supra-PLMN group Ids
in case of roaming.
k) For certain levels of priorities an acknowledgement of receipt of a voice
broadcast call can be required as an application option (e.g. for railway
emergency calls) from all or from nominated destination service subscribers
(the nomination is recorded on the SIM). The acknowledgement itself shall be
performed at the end of the voice broadcast call. The acknowledgement shall
indicate the time the reception started and the time the reception terminated.
The acknowledgement has to be given to a predefined recipient.
l) It shall be possible for a service subscriber to activate or deactivate the
voice broadcast reception for different group Ids. The selection list is
stored on the SIM corresponding to the subscribed group Ids. It shall be
possible to prohibit the deactivation of group Ids used for high priority
voice broadcast calls.
Mobile users that are configured as dispatchers and which are registered in
the network for a certain voice broadcast call and which have also a
subscription for VBS with the same group ID as the voice broadcast call for
which they are dispatcher shall deactivate this group ID when they are located
in the corresponding group call area in order to avoid conflicts between
paging for the dispatcher and notifications for the group ID.
m) The calling service subscriber may specify, at call setup, information to
be presented at call setup to the dispatchers. This information is sent as
originator-to-dispatcher information to the network, and sent as UUS1 by the
network to the dispatchers in the message for call setup. For normal call
setup, the information is subject to the same constraints as UUS1 information
in the setup of a point-to-point call. For fast setup, the information is
restricted to 12 digits (with leading zeros); inclusion of originator-to-
dispatcher information at fast setup is only possible if the mobile station
has a valid TMSI. It is a network option to support originator-to-dispatcher
information, or to ignore it. The inclusion of originator-to-dispatcher
information in the VBS call setup is not subject to provision or withdrawal.
{width="4.479861111111111in" height="5.495833333333334in"}
NOTE: VBS1, VBS2, VBS3 = particular voice broadcast calls with the attributes
preregistered in the network.
A, B, C, D = service subscriber with group ID a, b, c or d, respectively.
I. II, III, IV = group call areas.
w, x, y, z = dispatchers connected via normal GSM links or external networks.
Figure 1: Logical concept of the VBS
# 5 Normal operation with successful outcome
## 5.1 Provision
The VBS is provided to be used by a service subscriber after prior
arrangements with the service provider. The provision includes the assignment
of group IDs to the service subscriber. A subscription shall not provide more
than 50 group IDs to the service subscriber.
The service can be offered with two subscription options:
* * *
**Subscription option** **Value** \- subscriber has the capability of
initiating voice broadcast calls No Yes; \- subscriber has the capability to
initiate voice broadcast calls in case of roaming No Yes.
* * *
## 5.2 Withdrawal
The VBS is withdrawn at the service provider\'s request or for administrative
reasons.
## 5.3 Network related service configuration
The network related service configuration defines the attributes of a
particular voice broadcast call which shall be pre-registered in the network
by the service provider. This is not related to one specific service
subscriber.
The attributes of a particular broadcast call are group ID, group call area
composition, a list of dispatcher identities to be connected to this area, a
list of dispatchers allowed to initiate voice broadcast calls to this area,
the broadcast call reference identity which shall be used in case of COLP (see
subclause 7.3) and recipient identities to which an optional acknowledgement
can be routed. Changes to the group call area composition shall be co-
ordinated with the network operator.
## 5.4 Normal operation for voice broadcast call establishment
The VBS service shall be automatically initiated by the network when a calling
service subscriber or calling dispatcher dials a particular short code or
address at call set-up.
On successful initiation of the VBS, the voice broadcast call shall be
established between the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher and
the destination subscribers. The destination subscribers are:
\- all destination service subscribers at any time during the voice broadcast
call with the corresponding active group ID when located in the group call
area, where the group call area is uniquely defined by:
\- the location (radio cell) of the calling service subscriber at invocation
and group ID if the call is originated by a calling subscriber is a service
subscriber;
\- the addressed group call area if the call is originated by a calling
dispatcher;
\- the preregistered destination dispatchers related to that group call area
and group ID.
The calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher shall be informed by the
network with a suitable indication about the successful establishment of the
voice broadcast call so that the user can start to speak.
The call can be released by the calling service subscriber or by the calling
dispatcher or by the network (e.g. in case of a higher priority call) or by an
entitled dispatcher predefined in the network.
Destination subscribers leaving the voice broadcast call for any reason shall
not release the on going voice broadcast call.
## 5.5 Charging requirements
Normal event data according to 3GPP TS 32.005 shall be recorded as a network
option related to calling subscriber or related to all VBS calls to one group
ID in a specific group call area. . In addition data to be passed to the
anchor MSC for charging purposes is the resources (i.e. cell identities) used
during a call.
## 5.6 Security requirements
VBS shall be able to support over-the-air ciphering in order to provide
confidentiality protection to group calls.
VBS ciphering is an operator's option.
VBS shall provide means such that only a legitimate service subscriber is able
to participate in a ciphered VBS call when the operator requires
confidentiality protection for the group call. To include a subscriber into a
ciphered voice group the required group data shall be stored on the USIM.
Storing these group data on the USIM may be done e.g. during the USIM
personalisation process or via OTA (over-the-air) provisioning.
A pre- Rel-6 VBS capable mobile shall be able to participate in an un-ciphered
group call, if it is part of that group.
# 6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If a service subscriber wants to establish a voice broadcast call while not
subscribed to the service or the network cannot provide the service for some
reason, an indication shall be provided to the calling service subscriber to
notify him with the reason of failure.
If a dispatcher wants to establish a voice broadcast call while not entitled
to do it or the network cannot provide the service for some reason, the call
shall be rejected. The network shall give an appropriate indication to calling
dispatchers who are GSM subscribers.
A voice group call shall be considered established as soon as the originated
cell in case of a service subscriber originated broadcast call or any one cell
within the group call area in case of a dispatcher originated broadcast call
has been included. If this cannot be achieved within a specified time the call
will be released.
If a cell is excluded from the group call area because of pre-emption, the
voice broadcast call is maintained as long as the calling subscriber is not
pre-empted.
# 7 Interaction with GSM services and features
## 7.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
If CLIP is applied, the broadcast call reference -- including the group call
area ID and the group ID -- shall be presented to the destination dispatchers.
In addition the subaddress field of the calling party may be used to identify
the calling service subscriber or calling dispatcher to the destination
dispatchers.
The receiving mobile stations of the destination subscribers shall display the
paged group ID regardless the destination subscribers have a subscription to
CLIP.
## 7.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
CLIR shall be supported.
The network shall have the possibility to override CLIR or reject the request
to establish a voice broadcast call for a calling service subscriber or
calling dispatcher who has CLIR actived.
## 7.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
If COLP is applied, the broadcast call reference - including the group call
area ID and the group ID - shall be presented to the calling dispatcher. No
destination subscriber identities will be presented.
Calling service subscribers receive the broadcast call reference via standard
broadcast call setup messaging. COLP therefore does not apply to service
subscribers.
## 7.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
COLR is not applicable to voice broadcast calls.
## 7.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
CFU is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers when
activate and operative, i.e. CFU shall be ignored.
CFU is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice broadcast calls are forwarded by
CFU.
## 7.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
CFB is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers with CFB
active and operative.
CFB is applicable for dispatchers if the voice broadcast call does not have a
higher priority than the present call.
## 7.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
CFNRy is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers with
CFNRy active and operative.
CFNRy is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice broadcast calls are forwarded
by CFNRy.
## 7.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
CFNRc is not applicable to voice broadcast calls of service subscribers with
CFNRc active and operative.
CFNRc is applicable for dispatchers, i.e. voice broadcast calls are forwarded
by CFNRc.
## 7.9 Call Waiting (CW)
CW is not applicable for service subscriber. Instead, as a network option, a
notification of paging for other calls shall be given to the service
subscribers involved in the voice broadcast call.
CW is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.10 Call Hold (HOLD)
Call hold is not applicable for service subscribers. For handling of parallel
voice broadcast calls to the same destination subscriber see item i) of clause
4.
A calling service subscriber cannot leave the voice broadcast call without
releasing the call.
The acceptance of a voice broadcast call by a service subscriber while being
in a point-to-point call shall release the point-to-point call. The release
will be invoked by the mobile station.
If a voice broadcast call is requested by a service subscriber while being in
a point-to-point call, the point‑to‑point call shall be released. The release
will be invoked by the mobile station.
Call hold is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.11 Multi-party Service (MPTY)
MPTY is not applicable for service subscribers.
MPTY is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the UE and
the serving network.
## 7.12 Closed User Group (CUG)
CUG is not applicable for service subscribers. Consequently, being a member of
a CUG has no impact on receiving voice broadcast calls.
CUG is applicable for dispatchers. Therefore a dispatcher who is a member of a
CUG may be excluded from originating, joining and receiving broadcast calls
subject to the capabilities of the UE and the serving network.
## 7.13 Advice of Charge (AoC)
AoC can be provided to the calling subscriber as network option.
## 7.14 Barring of All Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
BAOC is applicable, if subscribed to, with the possible exception of high
priority voice broadcast calls.
## 7.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
BOIC is not applicable for voice broadcast calls of service subscribers.
BOIC is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the
Home PLMN country (BOIC-exHC)
BOIC-exHC is not applicable for voice broadcast calls of service subscriber.
BOIC-exHC is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
BAIC is not applicable for voice broadcast calls to service subscribers.
BAIC is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming outside the home PLMN country
(BIC-Roam)
BIC-Roam is not applicable for voice broadcast calls to service subscribers.
BIC-Roam is applicable for dispatchers.
## 7.19 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
ECT is not applicable for service subscribers.
ECT is applicable for dispatchers, subject to the capabilities of the UE and
the serving network.
## 7.20 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service (eMLPP)
Different priorities with corresponding set-up procedures are applicable as
defined in the stage 1 description on eMLPP in 3GPP TS 22.067.
## 7.21 Short Message Service (SMS)
Sending and reception of short messages is not possible for destination
service subscribers.
## 7.22 Operator Determined Barring (ODB)
Same as for subscriber controlled barring.
## 7.23 Completion of Calls to Busy Subscribers (CCBS)
The CCBS supplementary service is only applicable for dispatchers and not for
VBS service subscribers.
If a new terminating p-t-p call is set up to a dispatcher who is busy because
of an active VBS call, it shall be possible to allow the calling party to
apply the CCBS service. If the dispatcher initiates a VBS call and the called
broadcast ID has been active, then the dispatcher shall be connected to the
ongoing VBS call..
## 7.24 GPRS
Depending on the capabilities of the UE it shall be possible for the mobile
dispatcher, for the calling service subscriber as well as for the listening
service subscribers to use GPRS in parallel to the VBS, subject to the
capabilities of the serving network.
# 8 Interworking considerations
No specific requirements are identified.
#