# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Service Data Adaptation Protocol (SDAP) for
a UE with connection to the 5G-CN or for a UE in NR sidelink communication.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NG Radio Access Network; Overall description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.587: \"Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services in 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule** : a mapping rule determining on which
SL-DRB packets of a PC5 QoS flow shall be carried.
**QoS flow to DRB mapping rule** : a mapping rule determining on which DRB
packets of a QoS flow shall be carried.
**Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping** : a QoS flow to DRB mapping scheme
where a UE monitors the QoS flow to DRB mapping rule in the DL, and applies it
to in the UL.
**NR sidelink communication** : AS functionality enabling at least V2X
communication as defined in TS 23.287 [5], between two or more nearby UEs,
using NR technology but not traversing any network node.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
PQFI PC5 QoS Flow ID
QFI QoS Flow ID
RDI Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping Indication
RQI Reflective QoS Indication
SDAP Service Data Adaptation Protocol
SL Sidelink
SL-DRB Sidelink Data Radio Bearer
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The objective is to describe the SDAP architecture and the SDAP entity from a
functional point of view. The specified functionality only applies to UE with
connection to the 5G-CN and UE in NR sidelink communication.
## 4.2 SDAP architecture
### 4.2.1 SDAP structure
Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates one possible structure for the SDAP sublayer; it
should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the radio interface
protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300 [2].
Figure 4.2.1-1: SDAP sublayer, structure view
The SDAP sublayer is configured by RRC (TS 38.331 [3]). The SDAP sublayer maps
QoS flows to DRBs. One or more QoS flows may be mapped onto one DRB. One QoS
flow is mapped onto only one DRB at a time in the UL.
In NR sidelink communication, the SDAP sublayer maps PC5 QoS flows to SL-DRBs.
One or more PC5 QoS flows may be mapped onto one SL-DRB. One PC5 QoS flow is
mapped onto only one SL-DRB at a time in the NR sidelink for transmission.
### 4.2.2 SDAP entities
The SDAP entities are located in the SDAP sublayer. Several SDAP entities may
be defined for a UE. There is an SDAP entity configured for each individual
PDU session for NR Uu. For NR sidelink, SDAP entity is configured per
Destination Layer-2 ID and cast type in the UE.
An SDAP entity receives/delivers SDAP SDUs from/to upper layers and
submits/receives SDAP data PDUs to/from its peer SDAP entity via lower layers.
\- At the transmitting side, when an SDAP entity receives an SDAP SDU from
upper layers, it constructs the corresponding SDAP data PDU and submits it to
lower layers;
\- At the receiving side, when an SDAP entity receives an SDAP data PDU from
lower layers, it retrieves the corresponding SDAP SDU and delivers it to upper
layers.
Figure 4.2.2-1 illustrates the functional view of the SDAP entity for the SDAP
sublayer; it should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the
radio interface protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300 [2].
Figure 4.2.2-1: SDAP layer, functional view
Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping is performed at UE, as specified in the
clause 5.3.2, if DL SDAP header is configured.
For NR sidelink communication, reflective PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping is
not supported.
## 4.3 Services
### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers
The SDAP sublayer provides its service to the user plane upper layers. The
following services are provided by SDAP to upper layers:
\- transfer of user plane data.
### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers
An SDAP entity expects the following services from lower layers:
\- user plane data transfer service;
\- in-order delivery except when out of order delivery is configured by RRC
(TS 38.331 [3]).
## 4.4 Functions
The SDAP sublayer supports the following functions:
\- transfer of user plane data;
\- mapping between a QoS flow and a DRB for both DL and UL;
\- mapping between a PC5 QoS flow and a SL-DRB for NR sidelink communication;
\- marking QoS flow ID in both DL and UL packets;
\- marking PC5 QoS flow ID in unicast of NR sidelink communication packets;
\- reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping for the UL SDAP data PDUs.
# 5 SDAP procedures
## 5.1 SDAP entity handling
### 5.1.1 SDAP entity establishment
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) requests an SDAP entity establishment, the UE shall:
\- establish an SDAP entity;
\- follow the procedures in clause 5.2.1 and 5.2.2.
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) requests establishment of an SDAP entity for unicast,
groupcast or broadcast of NR sidelink communication, the UE shall:
\- establish an SDAP entity;
\- follow the procedures in clauses 5.2.3 and 5.2.4.
### 5.1.2 SDAP entity release
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) requests an SDAP entity release, the UE shall:
\- release the SDAP entity.
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) requests release of an SDAP entity for unicast,
groupcast or broadcast of NR sidelink communication, the UE shall:
\- release the SDAP entity.
## 5.2 Data transfer
### 5.2.1 Uplink
At the reception of an SDAP SDU from upper layer for a QoS flow, the
transmitting SDAP entity shall:
\- if there is no stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow as
specified in the clause 5.3:
\- map the SDAP SDU to the default DRB;
\- else:
\- map the SDAP SDU to the DRB according to the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping
rule;
\- if the DRB to which the SDAP SDU is mapped is configured by RRC (TS 38.331
[3]) with the presence of SDAP header,
\- construct the UL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.3;
\- else:
\- construct the UL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.1;
\- submit the constructed UL SDAP data PDU to the lower layers.
NOTE 1: UE behaviour is not defined if there is neither a default DRB nor a
stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow.
NOTE 2: Default DRB is always configured with UL SDAP header (TS 38.331 [3]).
### 5.2.2 Downlink
At the reception of an SDAP data PDU from lower layers for a QoS flow, the
receiving SDAP entity shall:
\- if the DRB from which this SDAP data PDU is received is configured by RRC
(TS 38.331 [3]) with the presence of SDAP header:
\- perform reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping as specified in the clause
5.3.2;
\- perform RQI handling as specified in the clause 5.4;
\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the DL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause
6.2.2.2.
\- else:
\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the DL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause
6.2.2.1;
\- deliver the retrieved SDAP SDU to the upper layer.
### 5.2.3 SL transmission
At the reception of an SDAP SDU from upper layer for a PC5 QoS flow, the
transmitting SDAP entity shall:
\- if there is no stored PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5 QoS
flow as specified in the clause 5.5:
\- map the SDAP SDU to the default SL-DRB;
\- else:
\- map the SDAP SDU to the SL-DRB according to the stored PC5 QoS flow to SL-
DRB mapping rule;
\- if the SL-DRB to which the SDAP SDU is mapped is configured by RRC (TS
38.331 [3]) with the presence of SDAP header:
\- construct the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.4;
\- else:
\- construct the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause 6.2.2.1;
\- submit the constructed SL SDAP data PDU to the lower layers.
### 5.2.4 SL reception
At the reception of an SDAP data PDU from lower layers for a PC5 QoS flow, the
receiving SDAP entity shall:
\- if the SL-DRB from which this SDAP data PDU is received is configured by
RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) with the presence of SDAP header:
\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause
6.2.2.4;
\- else:
\- retrieve the SDAP SDU from the SL SDAP data PDU as specified in the clause
6.2.2.1;
\- deliver the retrieved SDAP SDU to the upper layer.
## 5.3 QoS flow to DRB mapping
### 5.3.1 Configuration
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) configures an UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for a
QoS flow, the SDAP entity shall:
\- if the SDAP entity has already been established and there is no stored QoS
flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow and a default DRB is configured:
\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause 6.2.3, for
the QoS flow;
\- map the end-marker control PDU to the default DRB;
\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers.
\- if the stored UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule is different from the
configured QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow and the DRB according
to the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule is configured by RRC (TS 38.331
[3]) with the presence of UL SDAP header:
\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause 6.2.3, for
the QoS flow;
\- map the end-marker control PDU to the DRB according to the stored QoS flow
to DRB mapping rule;
\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers.
\- store the configured UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow.
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) releases an UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for a QoS
flow, the SDAP entity shall:
\- remove the UL QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow.
### 5.3.2 Reflective mapping
For each received DL SDAP data PDU with RDI set to 1, the SDAP entity shall:
\- process the QFI field in the SDAP header and determine the QoS flow;
\- if there is no stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow and a
default DRB is configured:
\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause 6.2.3, for
the QoS flow;
\- map the end-marker control PDU to the default DRB;
\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;
\- if the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule for the QoS flow is different
from the QoS flow to DRB mapping of the DL SDAP data PDU and the DRB according
to the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rule is configured by RRC (TS 38.331
[3]) with the presence of UL SDAP header:
\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause 6.2.3, for
the QoS flow;
\- map the end-marker control PDU to the DRB according to the stored QoS flow
to DRB mapping rule;
\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;
\- store the QoS flow to DRB mapping of the DL SDAP data PDU as the QoS flow
to DRB mapping rule for the UL.
### 5.3.3 DRB release
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) indicates that a DRB is released, the SDAP entity
shall:
\- remove all QoS flow to DRB mappings associated with the released DRB based
on the clauses 5.3.1 and 5.3.2.
## 5.4 RQI handling
For each received DL SDAP data PDU with RQI set to 1, the SDAP entity shall:
\- inform the NAS layer of the RQI and QFI.
## 5.5 PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping
### 5.5.1 Configuration
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) configures a PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for
a PC5 QoS flow, the SDAP entity shall:
\- for unicast of NR sidelink communication, if the SDAP entity has already
been established and there is no stored SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5 QoS
flow and a default SL-DRB is configured:
\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause 6.2.3, for
the PC5 QoS flow;
\- map the end-marker control PDU to the default SL-DRB;
\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;
\- for unicast of NR sidelink communication, if the stored PC5 QoS flow to SL-
DRB mapping rule is different from the configured PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB
mapping rule for the PC5 QoS flow and the SL-DRB according to the stored PC5
QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule is configured by RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) with the
presence of SL SDAP header:
\- construct an end-marker control PDU, as specified in the clause 6.2.3, for
the PC5 QoS flow;
\- map the end-marker control PDU to the SL-DRB according to the stored PC5
QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule;
\- submit the end-marker control PDU to the lower layers;
\- store the configured PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5 QoS
flow.
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) releases a PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for a
PC5 QoS flow, the SDAP entity shall:
\- remove the PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mapping rule for the PC5 QoS flow.
### 5.5.2 SL-DRB release
When RRC (TS 38.331 [3]) indicates that an SL-DRB is released, the SDAP entity
shall:
\- remove all PC5 QoS flow to SL-DRB mappings associated with the released SL-
DRB based on the clause 5.5.1.
# 6 Protocol data units, formats, and parameters
## 6.1 Protocol data units
### 6.1.1 Data PDU
The SDAP Data PDU is used to convey one or more of followings:
\- SDAP header;
\- user plane data.
### 6.1.2 Control PDU
a) End-Marker Control PDU
End-Marker control PDU is used by the SDAP entity at UE to indicate that it
stops the mapping of the SDAP SDU of the QoS flow indicated by the QFI/PQFI to
the DRB/SL-DRB on which the End-Marker control PDU is transmitted.
## 6.2 Formats
### 6.2.1 General
A SDAP PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. In the figures in clause 6.2, bit strings are represented by tables in
which the first and most significant bit is the left most bit of the first
line of the table, the last and least significant bit is the rightmost bit of
the last line of the table, and more generally the bit string is to be read
from left to right and then in the reading order of the lines.
SDAP SDUs are bit strings that are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. An SDAP SDU is included into a SDAP PDU from the first bit onward.
For groupcast and broadcast of NR sidelink communication, only SDAP data PDU
without SDAP header is supported.
### 6.2.2 Data PDU
#### 6.2.2.1 Data PDU without SDAP header
An SDAP PDU consists only of a data field and does not consist of any SDAP
header, as described in Figure 6.2.2.1-1.
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: SDAP Data PDU format without SDAP header
#### 6.2.2.2 DL Data PDU with SDAP header
Figure 6.2.2.2 -- 1 shows the format of SDAP Data PDU of DL with SDAP header
being configured.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: DL SDAP Data PDU format with SDAP header
#### 6.2.2.3 UL Data PDU with SDAP header
Figure 6.2.2.3 -- 1 shows the format of SDAP Data PDU of UL with SDAP header
being configured.
Figure 6.2.2.3-1: UL SDAP Data PDU format with SDAP header
#### 6.2.2.4 SL Data PDU with SDAP header for unicast of NR sidelink
communication
Figure 6.2.2.4--1 shows the format of SDAP Data PDU for unicast of NR sidelink
communication with SDAP header being configured.
Figure 6.2.2.4-1: SL SDAP Data PDU format with SDAP header for unicast of NR
sidelink communication
### 6.2.3 End-Marker Control PDU
Figure 6.2.3-1 shows the format of End-Marker Control PDU.
Figure 6.2.3-1: End-Marker Control PDU
## 6.3 Parameters
### 6.3.1 General
If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field, then the bits in
the parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left most bit is the first
and most significant bit and the right most bit is the last and least
significant bit.
Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary encoding
for unsigned integers. In all cases the bits appear ordered from MSB to LSB
when read in the PDU.
### 6.3.2 Data
Length: Variable
This field includes the SDAP SDU.
### 6.3.3 D/C
Length: 1 bit,
The D/C bit indicates whether the SDAP PDU is an SDAP Data PDU or an SDAP
Control PDU.
Table 6.3.3-1: D/C field
* * *
Bit Description 0 Control PDU 1 Data PDU
* * *
### 6.3.4 QFI
Length: 6 bits
The QFI field indicates the ID of the QoS flow (TS 23.501 [4]) to which the
SDAP PDU belongs.
### 6.3.5 R
Length: 1 bit
Reserved. In this version of the specification reserved bits shall be set to
0. Reserved bits shall be ignored by the receiver.
### 6.3.6 RQI
Length: 1 bit,
The RQI bit indicates whether NAS should be informed of the updated of SDF to
QoS flow mapping rules (TS 23.501 [4]).
Table 6.3.6-1: RQI field
* * *
Bit Description 0 No action 1 To inform NAS that RQI bit is set to 1.
* * *
### 6.3.7 RDI
Length: 1 bit,
The RDI bit indicates whether QoS flow to DRB mapping rule should be updated.
Table 6.3.7-1: RDI field
* * *
Bit Description 0 No action 1 To store QoS flow to DRB mapping rule.
* * *
### 6.3.8 PQFI
Length: 6 bits
The PQFI field indicates the ID of the PC5 QoS flow (as specified in TS
24.587[6]) to which the SDAP PDU belongs.
#