# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for SA NR Supplementary uplink
(SUL), NSA NR SUL and NSA NR SUL with UL sharing from the UE perspective
(ULSUP) under Rel-16 time frame. The purpose is to gather the relevant
background information and studies in order to address NR SUL for the Rel-16
bands/band combinations in Table 1-1 to Table 1-4.
Table 1-1: Release 16 SUL bands
**Band number** **UL** **DL** **Duplex mode**
* * *
n89 824 -- 849 MHz N/A SUL n95 2010 -- 2015 MHz N/A SUL
Table 1-2: Release 16 SA SUL band combinations
**SA SUL band combination** **REL independent from**
* * *
SUL_n79-n84 Rel-15 SUL_n41-n80 Rel-15 SUL_n41-n81 Rel-15 SUL_n41-n95 Rel-15
SUL_n77_n80 Rel-15 SUL_n77_n84 Rel-15 SUL_n79-n95 Rel-15
Table 1-3: Release 16 NSA SUL band combinations
**NSA SUL band combination** **REL independent from**
* * *
DC_1_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15 DC_7_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15 DC_20_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15
DC_8_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15 DC_1_SUL_n77-n80 Rel-15 DC_3_SUL_n77-n84 Rel-15
DC_3_SUL_n78-n84 Rel-15
Table 1-4: Release 16 NSA SUL with ULSUP band combinations
**NSA SUL with ULSUP band combination** **REL independent from**
* * *
DC_1_SUL_n79-n84 Rel-15 DC_3_SUL_n41-n80 Rel-15 DC_8_SUL_n41-n81 Rel-15
DC_3_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15 DC_1-3_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15 DC_3-7_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15
DC_3-8_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15 DC_3_20_SUL_n78-n80 Rel-15 DC_3_SUL_n77-n80 Rel-15
DC_1_SUL_n77-n84 Rel-15
This TR contains a general part and specific band combination part. The actual
requirements are added to the corresponding technical specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-180967, "New WID on Band combinations for SA NR Supplementary uplink
(SUL), NSA NR SUL, NSA NR SUL with UL sharing from the UE perspective
(ULSUP)", RAN #80.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
inter-band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
BCS Bandwidth Combination Set
CA Carrier Aggregation
CC Component Carriers
DC Dual Connectivity
DL Downlink
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
MPR Allowed maximum power reduction
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Degradation
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
SCS Subcarrier spacing
SUL Supplementary uplink
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
ULSUP UL sharing from the UE perspective
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for SA NR SUL, NSA NR SUL and NSA
NR SUL with UL sharing from ULSUP under Rel-15 time frame. It covers both the
UE and BS side. The document is divided in different parts:
\- Specific SA NR SUL part: this part covers each band combination and its
specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is defined
per band combination)
\- Specific NSA NR SUL part: this part covers each band combination and its
specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is defined
per band combination)
\- Specific NSA NR SUL with UL sharing from ULSUP part: this part covers each
band combination and its specific issues independently from each other (i.e.
one subclause is defined per band combination)
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band/band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the
band/band combination have been implemented.
# 5 SA NR SUL band combination: Specific Band Combination Part
## 5.1 SUL_ n79A-n84A
### 5.1.1 Operating bands
**Table 5.1.1-1: SUL band combination**
+-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NR Band combination for SUL | NR Band | | | | | | (Table 5.2-1) | +=====================================================+===============+ | SUL_n79-n84^2^ | n79, n84 | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE is configured with both NR UL and | | | NR SUL carriers in a cell, the switching time | | | between NR UL carrier and NR SUL carrier is 0 us. | | | | | | NOTE 2: For UE supporting SUL band combination | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx capability is mandatory. | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
**Table 5.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per SUL band combination**
**SUL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **Subcarrier spacing** **[kHz]** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25** **MHz** | **30** **MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_ n79A-n84A | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes  
|  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes  
| n84 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 5.1.3 Maximum output power
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
### 5.1.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable _._
### 5.1.5 MSD
For SUL operation, the reference receive sensitivity (REFSENS) requirement for
downlink bands shall be met for an supplementary uplink transmission bandwidth
less than or equal to that in Table 5.1.5-1.
Table 5.1.5-1: Supplementary Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
DL band/ UL band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / NRB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
DL band | UL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n79 | n84 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  | 100  
For SUL_n79-n84, there is no harmonic or harmonic mixing product generated by
Band n84 that may fall into the RX band of Band n79. Therefore, MSD due to
harmonic or harmonic mixing is not needed.
### 5.1.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For SUL_n79-n84, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
**Table 5.1.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n79-n84 n79 0 n84 0
* * *
**Table 5.1.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n79-n84 n79 0 n84 0
* * *
## 5.2 SUL_n41-n80
### 5.2.1 Operating bands
**Table 5.2.1-1: SUL band combination**
+-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NR Band combination for SUL | NR Band | | | | | | (Table 5.2-1) | +=====================================================+===============+ | SUL_n41-n80 | n41, n80 | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE is configured with both NR UL and | | | NR SUL carriers in a cell, the switching time | | | between NR UL carrier and NR SUL carrier is 0 us. | | | | | | NOTE 2: For UE supporting SUL band combination | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx capability is mandatory. | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+
### 5.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
**Table 5.2.2-1: Supported bandwidths per SUL band combination**
**SUL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **Subcarrier spacing** **[kHz]** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25** **MHz** | **30** **MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_n41A-n80A | n41 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
|  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
| n80 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 5.2.3 Maximum output power
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
### 5.2.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable _._
### 5.2.5 MSD
For SUL operation, the reference receive sensitivity (REFSENS) requirement for
downlink bands shall be met for an supplementary uplink transmission bandwidth
less than or equal to that in Table 5.2.5-1.
Table 5.2.5-1: Supplementary Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
DL band/ UL band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / NRB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
DL band | UL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n41 | n80 | 15 |  | 50 | 75 | 100 |  |  | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |   
For SUL_n41-n80, there is no harmonic or harmonic mixing product generated by
Band n80 that may fall into the RX band of Band n41. Therefore, MSD due to
harmonic or harmonic mixing is not needed.
However, since n41 is very close to Wi-Fi spectrum so the filter needs to
provide enough rejection to Wi-Fi. This would impact the filter rejection to
n80, so cross band isolation issue needs to be considered for this band
combination. Following DC_3_n41 requirement, reference sensitivity exception
requirements are defined in Table 5.2.5-2 with uplink configuration in Table
5.2.5-3.
**Table 5.2.5-2: Reference sensitivity exceptions due to cross band
isolation**
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dBm) | 10 MHz (dBm) | 15 MHz (dBm) | 20 MHz (dBm) | 25 MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz (dBm) | 60 MHz (dBm) | 80 MHz (dBm) | 90 MHz (dBm) | 100 MHz (dBm)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n80 | n41 |  | [4.3] | [4.0] | [3.9] |  | [3.9] | [3.5] | [3.3] | [3.2] | [3.1] | [3.0]  
> NOTE 1: The B41 requirements are modified by -0.5dB when carrier frequency
> of the assigned E-UTRA channel bandwidth is within 2515-2690 MHz.
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Table 5.2.5-3: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to cross band isolation**
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dBm) | 10 MHz (dBm) | 15 MHz (dBm) | 20 MHz (dBm) | 25 MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz (dBm) | 60 MHz (dBm) | 80 MHz (dBm) | 90 MHz (dBm) | 100 MHz (dBm)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n80 | n41 |  | 50 | 50 | 50 |  | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50  
NOTE 1: 15 kHz SCS is assumed for UL band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 5.2.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For SUL_n41-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
**Table 5.2.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | SUL Band combination | NR Band | ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | SUL_n41-n80 | n41 | 0.3^1^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 0.8^2^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n80 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2515-2690MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2515MHz. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
**Table 5.2.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | SUL Band combination | NR Band | ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | SUL_n41-n80 | n41 | 0^1^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 0.5^2^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n80 | 0 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2515-2690MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2515MHz. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
## 5.3 SUL_n41-n81
### 5.3.1 Operating bands
**Table 5.3.1-1: SUL band combination**
+-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NR Band combination for SUL | NR Band | | | | | | (Table 5.2-1) | +=====================================================+===============+ | SUL_n41-n81 | n41, n81 | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE is configured with both NR UL and | | | NR SUL carriers in a cell, the switching time | | | between NR UL carrier and NR SUL carrier is 0 us. | | | | | | NOTE 2: For UE supporting SUL band combination | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx capability is mandatory. | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+
### 5.3.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
**Table 5.3.2-1: Supported bandwidths per SUL band combination**
**SUL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **Subcarrier spacing** **[kHz]** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25** **MHz** | **30** **MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_n41A-n81A | n41 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
|  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
| n81 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 5.3.3 Maximum output power
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
### 5.3.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
### 5.3.5 MSD
For SUL operation, the reference receive sensitivity (REFSENS) requirement for
downlink bands shall be met for an supplementary uplink transmission bandwidth
less than or equal to that in Table 5.3.5-1.
Table 5.3.5-1: Supplementary Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
DL band/ UL band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / NRB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
DL band | UL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n41 | n81 | 15 |  | 50 | 75 | 100 |  |  | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |   
For SUL_n41-n81, there is 3rd harmonic product generated by Band n81 that may
fall into the RX band of Band n41. Therefore, MSD due to harmonic is needed
and the specific value can be the same as the MSD for DC_8_n41.
.
### 5.3.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For SUL_n41-n81, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
**Table 5.3.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n41-n81 n41 0.3 n81 0.3
* * *
**Table 5.3.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n41-n81 n41 0 n81 0
* * *
5.4 SUL_n77-n80
5.4.1 Operating bands
**Table 5.4.1-1: SUL band combination**
+-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NR Band combination for SUL | NR Band | | | | | | (Table 5.2-1) | +=====================================================+===============+ | SUL_n77-n80^2^ | n77, n80 | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE is configured with both NR UL and | | | NR SUL carriers in a cell, the switching time | | | between NR UL carrier and NR SUL carrier is 0 us. | | | | | | NOTE 2: For UE supporting SUL band combination | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx capability is mandatory. | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+
5.4.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
**Table 5.4.2-1: Supported bandwidths per SUL band combination**
**SUL configuration** | **NR Band** | **Subcarrier spacing** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | 90 MHz | **100 MHz** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_n77A-n80A | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
| n80 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.4.3 Maximum output power
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
5.4.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable _._
5.4.5 MSD
For SUL operation, the reference receive sensitivity (REFSENS) requirement for
downlink bands shall be met for an supplementary uplink transmission bandwidth
less than or equal to that in Table 5.4.5-1.
Table 5.4.5-1: Supplementary Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
DL band/ UL band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / NRB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
DL band | UL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n77 | n80 | 15 |  | 50 | 75 | 100 |  |  | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |   
For SUL_n77-n80, there is 3rd harmonic product generated by Band n80 that may
fall into the RX band of Band n77. Following DC_3-n77 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 5.4.5-2 with uplink
configuration in Table 5.4.5-3.
**Table 5.4.5-2: Reference sensitivity exceptions due to harmonic issue**
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the high band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | **5 MHz** | **10 MHz** | **15 MHz** | **20 MHz** | **25 MHz** | 30 MHz | **40 MHz** | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
|  | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB  
n80 | n771,2 |  | 23.9 | 22.1 | 20.9 |  |  | 17.9 | 16.8 | 16.0 | 14.8 | 14.3 | 13.8  
| n773 |  | 1.1 | 0.8 | 0.3 |  |  | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0  
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 2nd transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 2: The requirements should be verified for UL EARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. NOTE 3: The requirements are only applicable to channel bandwidths with a carrier frequency at MHz offset from in the victim (higher band) with , whereandare the channel bandwidths configured in the aggressor (lower) and victim (higher) bands in MHz, respectively. NOTE 4: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 4th transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 5: The requirements should be verified for UL EARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. NOTE 6: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 5th transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 7: The requirements should be verified for UL NR-ARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Table 5.4.5-3: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to harmonic issue**
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the high band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (NRB) | 10 MHz (NRB) | 15 MHz (NRB) | 20 MHz (NRB) | 25 MHz (NRB) | 30 MHz (NRB) | 40 MHz (NRB) | 50 MHz (NRB) | 60 MHz (NRB) | 80 MHz (NRB) | 90 MHz (NRB) | 100 MHz (NRB)  
n80 | n77 |  | 25 | 36 | 50 |  |  | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50  
NOTE 1: 15 kHz SCS is assumed for UL band. NOTE 2: The UL configuration applies regardless of the channel bandwidth of the low band unless the UL resource blocks exceed that specified in Table 7.3.2-3 for the uplink bandwidth in which case the allocation according to Table 7.3.2-3 applies. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.4.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For SUL_n77-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
**Table 5.4.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n77-n80 n77 0.8 n80 0.6
* * *
**Table 5.4.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n77-n80 n77 0.5
* * *
5.5 SUL_n77-n84
5.5.1 Operating bands
**Table 5.5.1-1: SUL band combination**
+-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NR Band combination for SUL | NR Band | | | | | | (Table 5.2-1) | +=====================================================+===============+ | SUL_n77-n84^2^ | n77, n84 | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE is configured with both NR UL and | | | NR SUL carriers in a cell, the switching time | | | between NR UL carrier and NR SUL carrier is 0 us. | | | | | | NOTE 2: For UE supporting SUL band combination | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx capability is mandatory. | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+
5.5.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
**Table 5.5.2-1: Supported bandwidths per SUL band combination**
**SUL configuration** | **NR Band** | **Subcarrier spacing** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | 90 MHz | **100 MHz** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_n77A-n84A | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
| n84 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.5.3 Maximum output power
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
5.5.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable _._
5.5.5 MSD
For SUL operation, the reference receive sensitivity (REFSENS) requirement for
downlink bands shall be met for an supplementary uplink transmission bandwidth
less than or equal to that in Table 5.5.5-1.
Table 5.5.5-1: Supplementary Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
DL band/ UL band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / NRB |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
DL band | UL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
n77 | n84 | 15 |  | 50 | 75 | 100 |  |  | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |   
For SUL_n77-n84, there is 3rd harmonic product generated by Band n84 that may
fall into the RX band of Band n77. Following DC_1-n77 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 5.5.5-2 with uplink
configuration in Table 5.5.5-3.
**Table 5.5.5-2: Reference sensitivity exceptions due to harmonic issue**
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the high band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | **5 MHz** | **10 MHz** | **15 MHz** | **20 MHz** | **25 MHz** | 30 MHz | **40 MHz** | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
|  | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB  
n84 | n771,2 |  | 23.9 | 22.1 | 20.9 |  |  | 17.9 | 16.8 | 16.0 | 14.8 | 14.3 | 13.8  
| n773 |  | 1.1 | 0.8 | 0.3 |  |  | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0  
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 2nd transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 2: The requirements should be verified for UL EARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. NOTE 3: The requirements are only applicable to channel bandwidths with a carrier frequency at MHz offset from in the victim (higher band) with , whereandare the channel bandwidths configured in the aggressor (lower) and victim (higher) bands in MHz, respectively. NOTE 4: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 4th transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 5: The requirements should be verified for UL EARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. NOTE 6: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 5th transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 7: The requirements should be verified for UL NR-ARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Table 5.5.5-3: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to harmonic issue**
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the high band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (NRB) | 10 MHz (NRB) | 15 MHz (NRB) | 20 MHz (NRB) | 25 MHz (NRB) | 30 MHz (NRB) | 40 MHz (NRB) | 50 MHz (NRB) | 60 MHz (NRB) | 80 MHz (NRB) | 90 MHz (NRB) | 100 MHz (NRB)  
n84 | n77 |  | 25 | 36 | 50 |  |  | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100  
NOTE 1: 15 kHz SCS is assumed for UL band. NOTE 2: The UL configuration applies regardless of the channel bandwidth of the low band unless the UL resource blocks exceed that specified in Table 7.3.2-3 for the uplink bandwidth in which case the allocation according to Table 7.3.2-3 applies. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.5.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For SUL_n77-n84, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
**Table 5.5.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n77-n84 n77 0.8 n84 0.6
* * *
**Table 5.5.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] SUL_n77-n84 n77 0.5
* * *
5.6 SUL_ n79A-n95A
5.6.1 Operating bands
**Table 5.6.1-1: SUL band combination**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | **SUL Band |** NR Band**|** Uplink | **Downlink |** Duplex**| | co | | (UL) band** | (DL) band**| | | mbination** | | | | **mode** | +=============+=============+=============+=============+============+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | receive / | transmit / | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | transmit**| receive** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | * | * | | | | | _F~UL_low~ |_ F~DL_low~ | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | F~ | F~ | | | | | UL_high~**| DL_high~** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | SUL_ | n79 | 4400 MHz -- | 4400 MHz -- | TDD | | n79A-n95A | | 5000 MHz | 5000 MHz | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | n95 | 2010 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | | 2025 MHz | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
5.6.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
**Table 5.6.2-1: Supported bandwidths per SUL band combination**
**SUL configuration** | **NR Band** | **Subcarrier spacing** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_n79A-n95A | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |   
|  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |   
| n95 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.6.3 Maximum output power
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
5.6.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable _._
5.6.5 MSD
For SUL_n79-n95, there is no harmonic or harmonic mixing product generated by
Band n95 that may fall into the RX band of Band n79. Therefore, MSD due to
harmonic or harmonic mixing is not needed.
5.6.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For SUL_n79-n95, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
**Table 5.6.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
SUL_n79-n95 n79 0 n95 0
**Table 5.6.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
SUL_n79-n95 n79 0
5.7 SUL_n41A-n95A
5.7.1 Operating bands
**Table 5.7.1-1: SUL band combination**
+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | NR Band combination for SUL | NR Band | | | | | | (Table 5.2-1 from 38.101-1) | +=======================================+=============================+ | SUL_n41-n95 | n41, n95 | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE is configured with | | | both NR UL and NR SUL carriers in a | | | cell, the switching time between NR | | | UL carrier and NR SUL carrier is 0 | | | us. | | | | | | NOTE 2: For UE supporting SUL band | | | combination simultaneous Rx/Tx | | | capability is mandatory. | | | | | | NOTE 3: For UE supporting SUL band | | | combination, UL MIMO is not | | | configured on SUL carrier | | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+
5.7.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
**Table 5.7.2-1: Supported bandwidths per SUL band combination**
**SUL configuration** | **NR Band** | **Subcarrier spacing** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
SUL_n41A-n95A | n41 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
| n95 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.7.3 Maximum output power
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable.
5.7.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
There is only single UL in uplink so this requirement is not applicable _._
5.7.5 MSD
For SUL_n41-n95, there is no harmonic or harmonic mixing product generated by
Band n95 that may fall into the RX band of Band n41. Therefore, MSD due to
harmonic or harmonic mixing is not needed.
Based on the cross band isolation analysis in R4-2008370, the MSD exception
for SUL_n41-n95 are specified below.
Table 5.7.5-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions due to cross band isolation
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dBm) | 10 MHz (dBm) | 15 MHz (dBm) | 20 MHz (dBm) | 25 MHz (dBm) | 30MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz (dBm) | 60 MHz (dBm) | 80 MHz (dBm) | 90 MHz (dBm) | 100 MHz (dBm) |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n95 | n41 |  | 6.1 | 6.1 | 6.1 |  | 6.1 | 6.1 | 6.1 | 6.1 | 6.1 | 6.1 | 6.1 |   
NOTE 1: The B41 requirements are modified by -0.5dB when carrier frequency of the assigned E-UTRA channel bandwidth is within 2515 – 2690 MHz. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.7.5-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to cross band isolation
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dBm) | 10 MHz (dBm) | 15 MHz (dBm) | 20 MHz (dBm) | 25 MHz (dBm) | 30MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz (dBm) | 60 MHz (dBm) | 80 MHz (dBm) | 90 MHz (dBm) | 100 MHz (dBm)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n95 | n41 |  | 75 | 75 | 75 |  | 75 | 75 | 75 | 75 | 75 | 75 | 75  
NOTE: 15 kHz SCS is assumed for UL band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.7.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For SUL_n41-n95, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
**Table 5.7.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
SUL_n41-n95 n41 0 n95 0
**Table 5.7.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
SUL_n41-n95 n41 0.2
## 5.X SUL_nX-nY
### 5.X.1 Operating bands
### 5.X.2 Configuration
### 5.X.3 Maximum output power
_\ _
### 5.X.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
_\ _
### 5.X.5 MSD
### 5.X.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
# 6 NSA NR SUL band combination: Specific Band Combination Part
## 6.1 DC_1_SUL_n78-n80
### 6.1.1 Operating bands
**Table 6.1.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_1_ | 1 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | No | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.1.2 Configuration
Table 6.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA configuration | NR configuration | | | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +========================+===============+======================+==================+ | DC_1A_SUL_n78A-n80A | DC_1A_n78A | 1A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | | | DC_1A_n80A | | | +------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+
### 6.1.3 Maximum output power
DC_1A_n78A is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.1.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +==================+===============+===========+ | DC_1A_n80A | 23 | +2/-3 | +------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 6.1.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
DC_1_n78 is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.1.4-1: Spurious emissions for inter-band EN-DC
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | ** | **Spu | | | | | | | | EN-DC | rious | | | | | | | | Confi | emiss | | | | | | | | gurat | ion** | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | * | * |** Ma | **MBW |** N | | | | | _Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE**| | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)** | | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and**| (M | Bm)** | | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | DC_1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | _n80 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 3,74, | | | | | | | | | 75, | | | | | | | | | 76, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 13 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+
### 6.1.5 MSD
There is IMD3 product produced by Band 1 and n80 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 1 and IMD4 product produced by Band 1 and n80 that impact
the reference sensitivity of Band n78. Following LTE CA_1-3-42 requirement,
reference sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 6.1.5-3.
**Table 6.1.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC | 1 | 1950 | 5 | 25 | 2140 | 23 | FDD | IMD3 | | _1A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n80 | 1760 | 5 | 25 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | 1 | 5 | 25 | 2 | N/A | FDD | N/A | | | | 922.5 | | | 112.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n80 | 1 | 5 | 25 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | | | | 782.5 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3425 | 10 | 50 | 3425 | 13.0 | TDD | IMD4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 6.1.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_1_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to CA_1-3-42
and given in the tables below.
**Table 6.1.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1_SUL_n78-n80 1 0.6 n80 0.6 n78
0.8
* * *
**Table 6.1.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1_SUL_n78-n80 1 0.2 n78 0.5
* * *
## 6.2 DC_7_SUL_n78-n80
### 6.2.1 Operating bands
**Table 6.2.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_7_ | 7 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | No | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.2.2 Configuration
Table 6.2.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA configuration | NR configuration | | | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +========================+===============+======================+==================+ | DC_7A_SUL_n78A-n80A | DC_7A_n78A | 7A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | | | DC_7A_n80A | | | +------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+
### 6.2.3 Maximum output power
DC_7A_n78A is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.2.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +==================+===============+===========+ | DC_7A_n80A | 23 | +2/-3 | +------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 6.2.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
DC_7_n78 is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.2.4-1: Spurious emissions for inter-band EN-DC
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | ** | **Spu | | | | | | | | EN-DC | rious | | | | | | | | Confi | emiss | | | | | | | | gurat | ion** | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | * | * |** Ma | **MBW |** N | | | | | _Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE**| | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)** | | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and**| (M | Bm)** | | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | DC_7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | _n80 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 75, | | | | | | | | | 76. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 5, 6, | | | uency | | | | | | 7 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 5, 6, | | | uency | | | | | | 7 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 5, 6 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
### 6.2.5 MSD
There is IMD4 product produced by Band 7 and n80 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 7. Following DC_3_n7 requirement, reference sensitivity
exception requirements are defined in Table 6.2.5-3.
**Table 6.2.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC | n80 | 1730 | 5 | 25 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | | _7A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | 7 | 2535 | 10 | 50 | 2655 | 13 | FDD | IMD4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 6.2.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_7_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to DC_3-7-n78
and given in the tables below.
**Table 6.2.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_7_SUL_n78-n80 7 0.6 n80 0.6 n78
0.8
* * *
**Table 6.2.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_7_SUL_n78-n80 7 0.2 n78 0.5
* * *
## 6.3 DC_20_SUL_n78-n80
### 6.3.1 Operating bands
**Table 6.3.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_20_ | 20 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | No | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.3.2 Configuration
Table 6.3.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+-------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA configuration | NR configuration | | | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +=========================+===============+======================+==================+ | DC_20A_SUL_n78A-n80A | DC_20A_n78A | 20A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | | | DC_20A_n80A | | | +-------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+
### 6.3.3 Maximum output power
DC_20A_n78A is already specified in current specification so no new
requirement is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.3.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +==================+===============+===========+ | DC_20A_n80A | 23 | +2/-3 | +------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 6.3.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
DC_20_n78 is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.3.4-1: Spurious emissions for inter-band EN-DC
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | * | **Sp | | | | | | | | *EN-DC | urious | | | | | | | | Con | emis | | | | | | | | figura | sion** | | | | | | | | tion**| | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | |** Pro | **Fre |** M | **MBW | ** | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | ( | NOTE** | | | | | band**| range | Level | MHz)** | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | | | MHz)**| dBm)** | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | DC_2 | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | 0_n80 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 75, | | | | | | | | | 76. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 3, 20 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
### 6.3.5 MSD
There are IMD4 product produced by Band 20 and n80 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 20. Following CA_3_20 requirement, reference sensitivity
exception requirements are defined in Table 6.3.5-3.
**Table 6.3.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC\ | 20 | 847 | 5 | 25 | 806 | 9 | FDD | IMD4 | | _20A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n80 | 1735 | 5 | 25 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 6.3.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_20_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to
DC_3-20-n78 and given in the tables below.
**Table 6.3.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_20_SUL_n78-n80 20 0.3 n80 0.5
n78 0.8
* * *
**Table 6.3.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_20_SUL_n78-n80 n78 0.5
* * *
## 6.4 DC_8_SUL_n78-n80
### 6.4.1 Operating bands
**Table 6.4.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_8_ | 8 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | No | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.4.2 Configuration
Table 6.4.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA configuration | NR configuration | | | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +========================+===============+======================+==================+ | DC_8A_SUL_n78A-n80A | DC_8A_n78A | 8A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | | | DC_8A_n80A | | | +------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+
### 6.4.3 Maximum output power
DC_8A_n78A is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.4.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +==================+===============+===========+ | DC_8A_n80A | 23 | +2/-3 | +------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 6.4.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
DC_8_n78 is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.4.4-1: Spurious emissions for inter-band EN-DC
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | ** | **Spu | | | | | | | | EN-DC | rious | | | | | | | | Confi | emiss | | | | | | | | gurat | ion** | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | * | * |** Ma | **MBW |** N | | | | | _Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE**| | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)** | | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and**| (M | Bm)** | | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | DC_8 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | _n80 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 73, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 75, | | | | | | | | | 76 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 7, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 52 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 13 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 3 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+----+
### 6.4.5 MSD
There is IMD4 product produced by Band 8 and n80 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 8. Following CA_3-8 requirement, reference sensitivity
exception requirements are defined in Table 6.4.5-3. There are also IMD3 and
IMD5 product produced by Band 8 and n80 that impact the reference sensitivity
of Band 78. Refereeing to CA_1-28-42 requirement and based on further
evaluation, reference sensitivity exception requirements due to IMD3 are
defined in Table 6.4.5-3 and MSD due to IMD5 is not specified because the
degradation is too little and can be overlooked.
**Table 6.4.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC | n80 | 1755 | 10 | 50 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | | _8A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 900 | 5 | 25 | 945 | 8 | FDD | IMD4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n80 | 1750 | 10 | 50 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 900 | 5 | 25 | 945 | N/A | FDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3550 | 10 | 50 | 3550 | 8 | TDD | IM | | | | | | | | | | D3^3^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | | .7^4^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 6.4.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_8_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to DC_3-8_n78
and given in the tables below.
**Table 6.4.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_8_SUL_n78-n80 8 0.6 n80 0.6 n78
0.8
* * *
**Table 6.4.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_8_SUL_n78-n80 8 0.2 n78 0.5
* * *
## 6.5 DC_1_SUL_n77-n80
### 6.5.1 Operating bands
**Table 6.5.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_1_ | 1 | SUL_n77-n80^1^ | DC_1_n77 | | SUL_n77-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.5.2 Configuration
Table 6.5.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA configuration | NR configuration | | | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +========================+===============+======================+==================+ | DC_1A_SUL_n77A-n80A | DC_1A_n77A | 1A | SUL_n77A-n80A | | | | | | | | DC_1A_n80A | | | +------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+
### 6.5.3 Maximum output power
DC_1A_n77A and DC_1A_n80A are already specified in current specification so no
new requirement is needed for these uplink configuration.
### 6.5.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
DC_1A_n77A and DC_1A_n80A are already specified in current specification so no
new requirement is needed for these uplink configuration.
### 6.5.5 MSD
There is IMD3 product produced by Band 1 and n80 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 1 and IMD4 product produced by Band 1 and n80 that impact
the reference sensitivity of Band n77. Following LTE CA_1-3-42 requirement,
reference sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 6.5.5-1.
**Table 6.5.5-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | D | 1 | 1950 | 5 | 25 | 2140 | 23 | FDD | IMD3 | | C_1A | | | | | | | | | | -SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n80 | 1760 | 5 | 25 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | 1 | 5 | 25 | 2 | N/A | FDD | N/A | | | | 922.5 | | | 112.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n80 | 1 | 5 | 25 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | | | | 782.5 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3425 | 10 | 50 | 3425 | 13.0 | TDD | IMD4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 6.5.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_1_SUL_n77-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to DC_1-n77
and given in the tables below.
**Table 6.5.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1_SUL_n77-n80 1 0.6 n80 0.6 n77
0.8
* * *
**Table 6.5.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1_SUL_n77-n80 1 0.2 n77 0.5
* * *
## 6.6 DC_3_SUL_n77-n84
### 6.6.1 Operating bands
**Table 6.6.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_3_ | 3 | SUL_n77-n84^1^ | DC_3_n77 | | SUL_n77-n84^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.6.2 Configuration
Table 6.6.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA configuration | NR configuration | | | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +========================+===============+======================+==================+ | DC_3A_SUL_n77A-n84A | DC_3A_n77A | 3A | SUL_n77A-n84A | | | | | | | | DC_3A_n84A | | | +------------------------+---------------+----------------------+------------------+
### 6.6.3 Maximum output power
DC_3A_n77A is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.6.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+---------------------+---------------+-----------+ | EN-DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +---------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC_3A_n84A | 23 | +2/-3 | +---------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 6.6.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
DC_3A_n77A is already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this uplink configuration.
Table 6.6.4-1: Spurious emissions for inter-band EN-DC
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | * | **Sp | | | | | | | | *EN-DC | urious | | | | | | | | Con | emis | | | | | | | | figura | sion** | | | | | | | | tion**| | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | |** Pro | **Fre |** M | **MBW | ** | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | ( | NOTE** | | | | | band**| range | Level | MHz)** | | | | | | | ( | ( | | | | | | | | MHz)**| dBm)** | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | DC_ | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | 3_n84 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 73,74, | | | | | | | | | 75, 76 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | Band 3 | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+ | | NR | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+---+
### 6.6.5 MSD
There is IMD4 product produced by Band 3 and n84 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band n77. Following LTE CA_1-3-42 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 6.6.5-1.
**Table 6.6.5-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC_ | 3 | 1 | 5 | 25 | 1 | N/A | FDD | N/A | | 3_SU | | 782.5 | | | 877.5 | | | | | L_n7 | | | | | | | | | | 7-n84 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n84 | 1 | 5 | 25 | | N/A | SUL | N/A | | | | 922.5 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3425 | 10 | 50 | 3425 | 13.0 | TDD | IMD4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
In addition, there is also sensitivity degradation for DC_3_SUL_n77-n84
impacted by close proximity of UL of band n84 and DL of band 3. Reference
sensitivity exceptions are specified in Table 6.6.5-2 with uplink
configuration specified in Table 6.6.5-3.
Table 6.6.5-2: Reference sensitivity exceptions due to close proximity of
bands for EN-DC
E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dB) | 10 MHz (dB) | 15 MHz (dB) | 20 MHz (dB) | 25 MHz (dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n841 | 3 | 3 | 2.3 | 2 | 1.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when the uplink is active in Band n84 and the separation between the lower edge of the uplink channel in Band n84 and the upper edge of the downlink channel in Band 3 is  NOTE 1: The B41 requirements are modified by -0.5dB when carrier frequency
> of the assigned E-UTRA channel bandwidth is within 2515-2690 MHz.
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Table 7.2.5-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to cross band isolation**
UL band | DL band | SCS of UL band (kHz) | 5 MHz (dBm) | 10 MHz (dBm) | 15 MHz (dBm) | 20 MHz (dBm) | 25 MHz (dBm) | 30 MHz (dBm) | 40 MHz (dBm) | 50 MHz (dBm) | 60 MHz (dBm) | 80 MHz (dBm) | 90 MHz (dBm) | 100 MHz (dBm)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
3 | n41 | 15 | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50 | 50 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n41 | 3 | 30 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 |  |  |  |  |  |   
There are also IMD4 product produced by Band 3 and n41 that impact the
reference sensitivity of Band 3. Following LTE CA_3-41 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 7.2.5-3.
**Table 7.2.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC\ | 3 | 1740 | 5 | 25 | 1835 | 8.2 | FDD | IMD4 | | _3A_ | | | | | | | | | | SUL_ | | | | | | | | | | n41A- | | | | | | | | | | n80A, | | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | | _3C\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n41A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n41 | 2 | 10 | 50 | 2 | N/A | TDD | N/A | | | | 657.5 | | | 657.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 7.2.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_3_SUL_n41-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables
below.
**Table 7.2.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | SUL Band combination | NR Band | ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | DC_3_SUL_n41-n80 | 3 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n41 | 0.3^1^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 0.8^2^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n80 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2515-2690MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2515MHz. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
**Table 7.2.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | SUL Band combination | NR Band | ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | DC_3_SUL_n41-n80 | 3 | 0 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n41 | 0^1^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 0.5^2^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n80 | 0 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2515-2690MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2515MHz. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
## 7.3 DC_8_SUL_n41-n81
### 7.3.1 Operating bands
**Table 7.3.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +==================+=============+==============+==================+ | DC\ | 8 | SUL_n41-n81 | No | | _8_SUL_n41-n81 | | | | +------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation with | | | | | mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+
### 7.3.2 Configuration
Table 7.3.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_8A_ | DC_8A_41A, | 8A | SUL_n41A-n81A | | SUL_n41A-n81A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_8A_n81A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n41A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.3.3 Maximum output power
Table 7.3.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+-------------------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +===============================+===============+===========+ | DC_8A_41A, | 23 | +2/-3 | | | | | | DC_8A_n81A_ULSUP-TDM_n41A | | | +-------------------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 7.3.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Table 7.3.4-1: Spurious emissions for inter-band EN-DC
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | ** | **Spu | | | | | | | | EN-DC | rious | | | | | | | | Confi | emiss | | | | | | | | gurat | ion** | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | * | * |** Ma | **MBW |** N | | | | | _Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE**| | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)** | | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and**| (M | Bm)** | | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | DC | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | _8A\ | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | _41A, | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | DC_ | 28, | | | | | | | | 8A_n | 34, | | | | | | | | 81A_ | 39, | | | | | | | | ULSUP | 40, | | | | | | | | -TDM\ | 45, | | | | | | | | _n41A | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 73, | | | | | | | | | 74 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | 8 | | | high~ | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 30 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
### 7.3.5 MSD
For DC_8_SUL_n41-n81, there is 3rd harmonic product generated by Band n81 or
Band 8 that may fall into the RX band of Band n41. Therefore, MSD due to
harmonic is needed and the specific value can be the same as the MSD for
DC_8_n41.
There are IMD3 product produced by Band 8 and n41 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 8. Following LTE CA_8-41 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 7.3.5-1.
**Table 7.3.5-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC | 8 | 882.5 | 5 | 25 | 927.5 | 12.1 | FDD | IM | | _8A\ | | | | | | | | D3^1^ | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n41A | | | | | | | | | | -n81A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n41 | 2685 | 10 | 50 | 2685 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | bject | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | MSD | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | speci | | | | | | | | | | fied. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 7.3.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_8_SUL_n41-n81, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are given in the tables
below.
**Table 7.3.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_8_SUL_n41-n81 8 0.3 n41 0.3 n81
0.3
* * *
**Table 7.3.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_8_SUL_n41-n81 8 0 n41 0 n81 0
* * *
## 7.4 DC_3_SUL_n78-n80
### 7.4.1 Operating bands
Operating bands for DC_3_SUL_n78-n80 is already specified in current
specification.
### 7.4.2 Configuration
Table 7.4.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_3C_ | DC_3A_n78A\ | 3C | SUL_n78A-n80A | | SUL_n78A-n80A | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n78A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.4.3 Maximum output power
Maximum output power requirements for uplink configurations listed in table
7.4.2-1 are already specified in current specification so no new requirement
is needed for this band combination.
### 7.4.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Spurious emission band UE co-existence requirements for uplink configurations
listed in table 7.4.2-1 are already specified in current specification so no
new requirement is needed for this band combination.
### 7.4.5 MSD
MSD requirement for DC_3C_SUL_n78A-n80A can reuse the same requirement for
DC_3A_SUL_n78A-n80A.
### 7.4.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_3_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are already specified in
current specification.
## 7.5 DC_1-3_SUL_n78-n80
### 7.5.1 Operating bands
**Table 7.5.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_1-3_ | CA_1-3 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | DC_3_n78 | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 7.5.2 Configuration
Table 7.5.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_1A-3A_ | DC_1A_n78A | CA_1A-3A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | DC_1A_n80A | | | | | | | | | | DC_3A_n78A | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n78A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.5.3 Maximum output power
Maximum output power requirements for uplink configurations listed in table
7.5.2-1 are either already specified in current specification or defined in
section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new requirement is
needed here.
### 7.5.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Spurious emission band UE co-existence requirements for uplink configurations
listed in table 7.5.2-1 are either already specified in current specification
or defined in section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new
requirement is needed here.
### 7.5.5 MSD
There is no new MSD requirement for this band combination.
### 7.5.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_1-3_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to
DC_1_SUL_n78-n80 and given in the tables below.
**Table 7.5.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1-3_SUL_n78-n80 1 0.6 3, n80 0.6
n78 0.8
* * *
**Table 7.5.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1-3_SUL_n78-n80 1 0.2 3 0.2 n78
0.5
* * *
## 7.6 DC_3-7_SUL_n78-n80
### 7.6.1 Operating bands
**Table 7.6.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_3-7_ | CA_3-7 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | DC_3_n78 | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 7.6.2 Configuration
Table 7.6.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_3A-7A_ | DC_3A_n78A | CA_3A-7A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_7A_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_7A_n80A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DC_3C-7A_ | DC_3A_n78A | CA_3C-7A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_7A_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_7A_n80A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.6.3 Maximum output power
Maximum output power requirements for uplink configurations listed in table
7.6.2-1 are either already specified in current specification or defined in
section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new requirement is
needed here.
### 7.6.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Spurious emission band UE co-existence requirements for uplink configurations
listed in table 7.6.2-1 are either already specified in current specification
or defined in section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new
requirement is needed here.
### 7.6.5 MSD
There are IMD3 and IMD4 product produced by Band 7 and n78 that impact the
reference sensitivity of Band 3. Following DC_3-7_n78 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 7.6.5-3.
**Table 7.6.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC_3 | 3 | 1725 | 5 | 25 | 1820 | 17.6 | FDD | IMD3 | | A-7A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC_3 | | | | | | | | | | C-7A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | 7 | 2565 | 5 | 25 | 2685 | N/A | FDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3310 | 10 | 50 | 3310 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | 3 | 1725 | 5 | 25 | 1820 | 8.6 | FDD | IMD4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | 7 | 2565 | 5 | 25 | 2685 | N/A | FDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3475 | 10 | 50 | 3475 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 7.6.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_3-7_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to
DC_7_SUL_n78-n80 and given in the tables below.
**Table 7.6.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3-7_SUL_n78-n80 7 0.6 3, n80 0.6
n78 0.8
* * *
**Table 7.6.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3-7_SUL_n78-n80 7 0.2 3 0.2 n78
0.5
* * *
## 7.7 DC_3-8_SUL_n78-n80
### 7.7.1 Operating bands
**Table 7.7.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_3-8_ | CA_3-8 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | DC_3_n78 | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 7.7.2 Configuration
Table 7.7.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_3A-8A_ | DC_3A_n78A | CA_3A-8A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_8A_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_8A_n80A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.7.3 Maximum output power
Maximum output power requirements for uplink configurations listed in table
7.7.2-1 are either already specified in current specification or defined in
section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new requirement is
needed here.
### 7.7.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Spurious emission band UE co-existence requirements for uplink configurations
listed in table 7.7.2-1 are either already specified in current specification
or defined in section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new
requirement is needed here.
### 7.7.5 MSD
There is no new MSD requirement for this band combination referring to
DC_3-8_n78.
### 7.7.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_3-8_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to
DC_3-8_n78 and given in the tables below.
**Table 7.7.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3-8_SUL_n78-n80 3, n80 0.6 8 0.6
n78 0.8
* * *
**Table 7.7.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3-8_SUL_n78-n80 3 0.2 8 0.2 n78
0.5
* * *
## 7.8 DC_3_20_SUL_n78-n80
### 7.8.1 Operating bands
**Table 7.8.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | DC_3_20_ | CA_3_20 | SUL_n78-n80^1^ | DC_3_n78 | | SUL_n78-n80^2^ | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation | | | | | with mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 7.8.2 Configuration
Table 7.8.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_3A_20A_ | DC_3A_n78A | CA_3A_20A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_20A_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_20A_n80A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DC_3C_20A_ | DC_3A_n78A | CA_3C_20A | SUL_n78A-n80A | | SUL_n78A-n80A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_20A_n78A | | | | | | | | | | DC_20A_n80A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.8.3 Maximum output power
Maximum output power requirements for uplink configurations listed in table
7.8.2-1 are either already specified in current specification or defined in
section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new requirement is
needed here.
### 7.8.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Spurious emission band UE co-existence requirements for uplink configurations
listed in table 7.8.2-1 are either already specified in current specification
or defined in section for fallback mode of this band combination so no new
requirement is needed here.
### 7.8.5 MSD
There are IMD3 and IMD4 product produced by Band 7 and n78 that impact the
reference sensitivity of Band 3. Following DC_3-7_n78 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 7.8.5-3.
**Table 7.8.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | DC | 3 | 1725 | 5 | 25 | 1820 | 17.3 | FDD | IMD3 | | _3A\ | | | | | | | | | | _20A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | | _3C\ | | | | | | | | | | _20A\ | | | | | | | | | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | 20 | 845 | 5 | 25 | 804 | N/A | FDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3510 | 10 | 50 | 3510 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
### 7.8.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_3_20_SUL_n78-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to
DC_3_20_n78 and given in the tables below.
**Table 7.8.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3_20_SUL_n78-n80 3, n80 0.5 20
0.3 n78 0.8
* * *
**Table 7.8.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3_20_SUL_n78-n80 3 0.2 n78 0.5
* * *
## 7.9 DC_3_SUL_n77-n80
### 7.9.1 Operating bands
**Table 7.9.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +==================+=============+==============+==================+ | DC_3\ | 3 | SUL_n77-n80 | DC_3_n77 | | _SUL_n77-n80^2^ | | | | +------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation with | | | | | mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+
### 7.9.2 Configuration
Table 7.9.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_3A_ | DC_3A_n77A | 3A | SUL_n77A-n80A | | SUL_n77A-n80A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_3A_n80A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n77A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.9.3 Maximum output power
Table 7.9.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+-------------------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +===============================+===============+===========+ | DC_3A_n77A | 23 | +2/-3 | | | | | | DC_3A_n80A_ULSUP-TDM_n77A | | | +-------------------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 7.9.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Table 7.9.4-1: Spurious emission band UE co-existence for inter-band EN-DC
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | EN-DC | Sp | | | | | | | | C | urious | | | | | | | | onfigu | em | | | | | | | | ration | ission | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+========+======+=====+===+ | | Pro | Fre | M | MBW | NOTE | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | DC_ | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | 3_n77 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | DC | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | _3_n | 8, 11, | | | | | | | | 80_UL | 18, | | | | | | | | SUP-TD | 19, | | | | | | | | M_n77 | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, 65 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 1884.5 | - | 1915.7 | -41 | 0.3 | 3 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+
### 7.9.5 MSD
There is IMD2 product produced by Band 3 and n77 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 3 and IMD4 product produced by Band 3 and n77 that impact
the reference sensitivity of Band n77. Following DC_3-n77 requirement,
reference sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 7.9.5-3.
**Table 7.9.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual uplink
operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC | 3 | 1740 | 5 | 25 | 1835 | 26 | FDD | IM | | _3A\ | | | | | | | | D2^3^ | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | | | | .7^4^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3575 | 10 | 50 | 3575 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | D | 3 | 1765 | 5 | 25 | 1860 | 8.0 | FDD | IM | | C_3A | | | | | | | | D4^3^ | | -SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | -n80A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | | .7^4^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3435 | 10 | 50 | 3435 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 7.9.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_3_SUL_n77-n80, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to DC_3-n77
and given in the tables below.
**Table 7.9.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3_SUL_n77-n80 3 0.6 n80 0.6 n77
0.8
* * *
**Table 7.9.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_3_SUL_n77-n80 3 0.2 n77 0.5
* * *
## 7.10 DC_1_SUL_n77-n84
### 7.10.1 Operating bands
**Table 7.10.1-1: EN-DC band combination**
+------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+ | EN-DC Band | E-UTRA Band | NR Band | Single UL | | | | | allowed | +==================+=============+==============+==================+ | DC_1\ | 1 | SUL_n77-n84 | DC_1_n77 | | _SUL_n77-n84^2^ | | | | +------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: If a UE | | | | | is configured | | | | | with both NR UL | | | | | and NR SUL | | | | | carriers in a | | | | | cell, the | | | | | switching time | | | | | between NR UL | | | | | carrier and NR | | | | | SUL carrier can | | | | | be up to 140us | | | | | and placed in | | | | | SUL resources. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Applicable for | | | | | UE supporting | | | | | inter-band | | | | | carrier | | | | | aggregation with | | | | | mandatory | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | Rx/Tx | | | | | capability. | | | | +------------------+-------------+--------------+------------------+
### 7.10.2 Configuration
Table 7.10.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | E-UTRA | NR | | | | configuration | configuration | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +================+================+================+================+ | DC_1A_ | DC_1A_n77A | 1A | SUL_n77A-n84A | | SUL_n77A-n84A | | | | | | D | | | | | C_1A_n84A_U | | | | | LSUP-TDM_n77A | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.10.3 Maximum output power
Table 7.10.3-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC
+-------------------------------+---------------+-----------+ | DC configuration | Power class 3 | Tolerance | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | +===============================+===============+===========+ | DC_1A_n77A | 23 | +2/-3 | | | | | | DC_1A_n84A_ULSUP-TDM_n77A | | | +-------------------------------+---------------+-----------+
### 7.10.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Table 7.10.4-1: Spurious emission band UE co-existence for inter-band EN-DC
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | EN-DC | Spu | | | | | | | | Con | rious | | | | | | | | figur | emi | | | | | | | | ation | ssion | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+===+=======+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | DC_1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | _n77 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | D | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | C_1\ | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | _n84\ | 8, | | | | | | | | _ULSU | 11, | | | | | | | | P-TDM | 18, | | | | | | | | _n77 | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | - | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 5, 8 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | - | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 5, 7, | | | uency | | | | | | 8 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | - | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 5, 7, | | | uency | | | | | | 8 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
### 7.10.5 MSD
There is IMD2 product produced by Band 1 and n77 that impact the reference
sensitivity of Band 1 and IMD4 product produced by Band 1 and n77 that impact
the reference sensitivity of Band 1. Following DC_1-n77 requirement, reference
sensitivity exception requirements are defined in Table 7.10.5-3.
**Table 7.10.5-3: Reference sensitivity exceptions for PCell due to dual
uplink operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC | 1 | 1950 | 5 | 25 | 2140 | 29.8 | FDD | IM | | _1A\ | | | | | | | | D2^3^ | | _SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | -n84A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 32 | | | | | | | | | | .5^4^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 4090 | 10 | 50 | 4090 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | D | 1 | 1950 | 5 | 25 | 2140 | 8.0 | FDD | IM | | C_1A | | | | | | | | D4^3^ | | -SUL\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | -n84A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | | .7^4^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3710 | 10 | 50 | 3710 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 7.10.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_1_SUL_n77-n84, the T~IB,c~ and R~IB~ values are referred to DC_1-n77
and given in the tables below.
**Table 7.10.6-1: ΔT~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1_SUL_n77-n84 1 0.6 n84 0.6 n77
0.8
* * *
**Table 7.10.6-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
* * *
SUL Band combination NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] DC_1_SUL_n77-n84 1 0.2
* * *
## 7.X DC_X_SUL_nY-nZ
### 7.X.1 Operating bands
### 7.X.2 Configuration
### 7.X.3 Maximum output power
### 7.X.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
### 7.X.5 MSD
### 7.X.6 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
# Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | 3GPP | R4-18 | | | | In | 0.0.1 | | 018-8 | RAN | 09929 | | | | itial | | | | 4#88 | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-18 | | | | I | 0.1.0 | | 18-10 | R | 13417 | | | | mplem | | | | AN4# | | | | | ented | | | | 88bis | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #88: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-181 | | | | | | | | | 0441, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | scope | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | SUL | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | binat | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-18 | | | | I | 0.2.0 | | 18-11 | RAN | 14906 | | | | mplem | | | | 4#89 | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #8 | | | | | | | | | 8bis: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-18 | | | | | | | | | 12288 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | 716-0 | | | | | | | | | 0-00: | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | | | SUL | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | binat | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-18 | | | | | | | | | 13772 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | 716-0 | | | | | | | | | 0-00: | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _1A- | | | | | | | | | SUL_ | | | | | | | | | n79A- | | | | | | | | | n84A, | | | | | | | | | KDDI | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-18 | | | | | | | | | 13824 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | 716-0 | | | | | | | | | 0-00: | | | | | | | | | SUL_ | | | | | | | | | n79A- | | | | | | | | | n84A, | | | | | | | | | KDDI | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-19 | | | | I | 0.3.0 | | 19-03 | RAN | 03153 | | | | mplem | | | | 4#90 | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #90: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 00647 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_3 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 00653 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SUL | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02197 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_1 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02198 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_7 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02199 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | C_20 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02200 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _1-3 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02201 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _3-7 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02202 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_8 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02203 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _3-8 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 02204 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _3-20 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-19 | | | | I | 0.4.0 | | 19-05 | RAN | 05411 | | | | mplem | | | | 4#91 | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #9 | | | | | | | | | 0bis: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03157 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SUL | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03158 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SUL | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | _n84 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03159 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_3 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03160 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_1 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | _n84 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03161 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_1 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | _n80 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03162 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_3 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | _n84 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03163 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_3 | | | | | | | | | _SUL | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | | | | | | | | _n84 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 03164 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SUL | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-20 | | | | I | 0.5.0 | | 20-04 | RAN | 04136 | | | | mplem | | | | 4#94 | | | | | ented | | | | bis-e | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #92: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-19 | | | | | | | | | 08945 | | | | | | | | | up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | 716-0 | | | | | | | | | 0-00, | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-20 | | | | I | 0.6.0 | | 20-04 | RAN | 04137 | | | | mplem | | | | 4#94 | | | | | ented | | | | bis-e | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #94 | | | | | | | | | bis-e | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-20 | | | | | | | | | 04139 | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | 716-0 | | | | | | | | | 0-00: | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | clean | | | | | | | | | up, | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-20 | | | | | | | | | 04962 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SUL_ | | | | | | | | | n79A- | | | | | | | | | n95A, | | | | | | | | | CMCC, | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-20 | | | | I | 0.7.0 | | 20-05 | RAN4\ | 08067 | | | | mplem | | | | #95-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | #95-e | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-20 | | | | | | | | | 08370 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | SUL_ | | | | | | | | | n41A- | | | | | | | | | n95A, | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | RP-2 | | | | TR | 1.0.0 | | 20-06 | RAN\ | 0xxxx | | | | 37 | | | | #88-e | | | | | .716- | | | | | | | | | 00-00 | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | 1.0.0 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+