# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for high power UE(power class 2)
for EN-DC(1 LTE FDD band + 1 NR TDD FDD). The purpose is to study how to
introduce the new power class 2 (1 LTE FDD band + 1 NR TDD band) for EN-DC
bands in Rel-16.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-182895: \" Study on high power UE (power class 2) for EN-DC (1 LTE FDD
band + 1 NR TDD band)\", China Unicom.
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"E-UTRAN; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
In 3GPP, many operators and vendors have realized the significant benefit for
increasing the UE transmits power. Now the HPUE for many bands in LTE, e.g.,
Band 38, Band 40, Band 41 and Band 42 have been completed. This results in
significant improvement in UL coverage for these high bands.
Meanwhile, the study of high power UE (HPUE) operation, i.e. power class 2,
for NR Band n41, n77, n78 and n79 have been almost completed, motivated by
significant benefits in cell coverage and cell edge user throughput that are
needed for and can be achieved for NR related networks. Considering E-UTRA and
NR need sharing the transmit power in the EN-DC mode, that means the EN-DC UL
coverage will be less than NR Standalone and LTE only. This WID will focus on
introduce high power UE for EN-DC (1 LTE FDD band + 1 NR TDD band) to the UL
coverage of EN-DC networks.
Many issues related to HPUE are common across different combinations.
Following the similar approach adopted for LTE TDD HPUE in RAN4, this study
item is to study how to introduce power class 2 for EN-DC for 1 LTE FDD band +
1 NR TDD band in Rel-16.
## 4.2 Objective
The objectives of the SI are as follows:
  * Study how to introduce the new power class 2 (1 LTE FDD band + 1 NR TDD band) for EN-DC bands in Rel-16
    * Study and define the power class for EN-DC under different power > combination such as 23dBm LTE FDD+23dBm NR, 23dBm LTE > FDD+26dBm NR in table 4.2-1.
```{=html}
``` \- Table 4.2-1: Example of power class definition
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Case number | EN-DC total | LTE maximum | NR maximum | | | power | power | power | +================+================+================+================+ | Case 1 | 26dBm | 23dBm | 23dBm | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Case 2 | 26dBm | 23dBm | 26dBm | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE1: for | | | | | case 1 and | | | | | case 2, the | | | | | duty cycles of | | | | | NR TDD can be | | | | | different. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2: RAN4 | | | | | study starts | | | | | from case 1, | | | | | but case 2 is | | | | | not precluded. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
  * Study and define applicable scheme (UE Tx duty cycle) to prevent > exceeding local regulatory limits such as SAR
```{=html}
``` \- The example band combination for this study is DC_3A_n78n.
# 5 Power class definition for EN-DC
## 5.1 Power class
For EN-DC with 1 LTE FDD band and 1 NR TDD band, UE maximum output power shall
be measured over all component carriers from different bands. If each band has
separate antenna connectors, maximum output power is measured as the sum of
maximum output power at each UE antenna connector. The period of measurement
shall be at least one sub frame (1ms). For the example band combination
DC_3A_n78A, the maximum output power can be specified as in Table 5.1-1.
  * Table 5.1-1: Maximum output power for EN-DC
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **DC |** Power | ** | **Power | ** | | conf | class 2** | Tolerance**| class 3** | Tolerance**| | iguration** | | | | | | | **(dBm)** | **(dB)** | **(dBm)** | **(dB)** | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | D | 26 | +2/-3^1^ | 23 | +2/-3^1^ | | C_3A_n78A | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | refers to | | | | | | the | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidths | | | | | | confined | | | | | | within | | | | | | F~UL_low~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | F~UL_low~ | | | | | | + 4 MHz or | | | | | | F~UL_high~ | | | | | | -- 4 MHz | | | | | | and | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~UL_high~, | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | output | | | | | | power | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is relaxed | | | | | | by reducing | | | | | | the lower | | | | | | tolerance | | | | | | limit by | | | | | | 1.5 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | P~PowerCl | | | | | | ass_EN-DC~ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | maximum UE | | | | | | power | | | | | | specified | | | | | | without | | | | | | taking into | | | | | | account the | | | | | | tolerance | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | inter-band | | | | | | EN-DC the | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | power | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | should | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the total | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | power over | | | | | | all | | | | | | component | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | (per UE). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.2 Power combination of the power class
As stated in clause 4.2, two power combinations are studied i.e.
Case1: LTE FDD power class 3 (23dBm), NR TDD power class 3 (23dBm) and EN-DC
power class 2 (26dBm)
Case2: LTE FDD power class 3 (23dBm), NR TDD power class 2 (26dBm) and EN-DC
power class 2 (26dBm)
Unless otherwise stated, requirements written in TS 36.101-1 [5] and TS
38.101-1 [3] apply for LTE and NR transmitters respectively.
# 6 Solutions for SAR Compliance
## 6.1 General
To accommodate the SAR limits of the PC2 FDD-TDD High Power UE, a combined UE-
based and network-based solution is considered in the study phase. In the
network-based solution, there will be a threshold based on the duty cycle and
power settings of LTE and NR, the PC2 UE is assumed to be capable of
maintaining the PC2 power if the network setting or scheduling does not exceed
the threshold. In addition to the network based solution, a UE based solution
based on the autonomous UE maximum power back off mechanism, i.e., P-MPR, can
further allow the UE to ensure SAR compliance. For the network-based solution
following different schemes were discussed in the SI.
## 6.2 Case1 of power class 2
### 6.2.1 Scheme 1
The following equation is applied between the LTE UL duty cycle, NR UL duty
cycle and the overall duty threshold.
  * **Duty~LTE~ *( P~LTE~/ P~26~) + Duty~NR~ *(P~NR~/ P~26~) ≤ _Duty threshold ..._(1)**
P~LTE~, P~NR~, P~26~ represent the maximum linear power (mW) of LTE, NR, and
EN-DC power class 2 respectively; Duty~LTE~, Duty~NR~ represent the maximum
uplink percentage of LTE, NR respectively. Duty threshold represents the
maximum UL duty cycle that can maintain the PC2 power class for FDD+TDD EN-DC
HPUE.
In the case 1 of power class 2 FDD-TDD EN-DC UE, the maximum uplink power of
LTE and NR are both 23dBm.By setting the P~LTE~, P~NR~ to be 23dBm, equation
(1) can be simplified to the following equation.
  * **0.5*Duty~LTE~ + 0.5*Duty~NR~ ≤ _Duty threshold ..._(2)**
Duty~NR~, the uplink percentage of the NR TDD part is determined by
scheduling. Duty~LTE~, the maximum uplink percentage of the LTE FDD, can be
set up by TDM pattern or determined by scheduling. The maximum uplink
percentage of LTE FDD might be adjusted in order to keep the PC2 power.
The PC2 case 1 UE is allowed to fallback to PC3 if the LTE uplink scheduling
or the TDM pattern setting of the LTE UL, together with the scheduled NR
uplink duty cycle exceeds the duty threshold based on the equation (2).
### 6.2.2 Scheme 2
Specific LTE reference configurations are defined for FDD-TDD EN-DC HPUE duty
cycle capability reporting. The reported capability is maximal NR UL duty
which can fulfil SAR limits when assuming LTE FDD side being configured as the
defined reference configurations with the maximum UL power.
For case 1, the LTE reference configuration can be Duty~LTE~=70%. The default
value of NR UL duty capability can be 30% i.e. \"Duty~LTE~=70% and
P~LTE~=23dBm\", corresponding to default Duty~NR~=30%, P~NR~=23dBm.
Higher Duty~NR~ value can be reported as the UE capability e.g. maxNRDuty. If
the scheduled traffic fulfils DutyLTE\ 38.306 and that is the total maxUplinkDutyCycle of LTE FDD and NR > TDD uplink. Note in LTE TDD + NR TDD, the value is only for NR TDD > uplink.
  * UplinkDutyCycle~LTE~ is the percentage of LTE FDD uplink symbols > transmitted in a cetain evaluation period;
  * UplinkDutyCycle~NR~ is the percentage of NR TDD uplink symbols > transmitted in a cetain evaluation period;
  * P~PowerClass,\ EN-DC~ is defined in clause 6.2B.1.3 for inter-band > EN-DC. p~PowerClass,\ EN-DC~ is the linear value of > P~PowerClass,\ EN-DC~;
\- P~LTE~ is the value given by the field _p-maxEUTRA-r15_ of the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration-v1510_ IE as defined in TS 38.331. p~LTE~ is the
linear value of P~LTE~;
\- P~NR~ is the value given by the field _p-NR-FR1_ of the
_PhysicalCellGroupConfig_ IE as defined in TS 38.331. p~NR~ is the linear
value of P~NR~;
\- Ratio~effect~ is to be defined in TS 38.306 as coefficient taking into
account electromagnetic energy absorption effect ratio of the LTE FDD band and
the NR TDD band;
The above equations of would be able to consider the important aspects which
should be considered while both are mutually exclusive relationships.
The above equations of would be able to consider the important aspects which
should be considered while both are mutually exclusive relationships.
From the performance aspect, it is better to introduce Ratio~effect~ in the
equation to utilize the UE\'s ability. For example, it is assumed that a UE
has imbalance of SAR effect such as Ratio~effect~ =2, that is SAR effect of NR
band is 2 times as large as that of LTE band. In this case, if we do not
capture Ratio~effect~ factor in the equation, UE is forced to report lower EN-
DC total duty cycle than what it really has. That is, assuming one of boundary
condition is such that DutyLTE=100% for LTE alone transmission and DutyNR=50%
for NR alone transmission, and if we does not introduce Ratio~effect~, UE are
forced to report EN-DC total duty cycle as 50% to consider the worst case
scenario although the UE has ability to transmit higher than 50% UL EN-DC duty
cycle.
On the other hands, the scheme 3 becomes meaningful only when Ratio~effect~ is
within reasonable range. If the value in the equation is set to 20, which was
mentioned by a certain company, LTE FDD uplink is almost not allowed. Given
that maxUplinkDutyCycle-EN-DC = 100% while LTE FDD (23dBm) + NR TDD (23dBm)
are assumed. If NR TDD uplink duty cycle is 50% for instance, the LTE FDD
uplink duty cycle is 2.5%. Even if NR TDD uplink duty cycle is 30%, still LTE
FDD duty cycle is 3.5%. The impact on LTE TDD uplink duty cycle depends on the
total maxuplink duty cycle. Hence, the range of Ratio~effect~ together with
the total maxuplinkdutycycle for EN-DC if that is introduced should be
discussed.
## 6.3 Case2 of power class 2
### 6.3.1 Scheme 1
The following equation is applied between the LTE UL duty cycle, NR UL duty
cycle and the overall duty threshold.
  * **Duty~LTE~ *( P~LTE~/ P~26~) + Duty~NR~ *(P~NR~/ P~26~) ≤ _Duty threshold ..._(1)**
P~LTE~, P~NR~, P~26~ represent the maximum linear power (mW) of LTE, NR, and
EN-DC power class 2 respectively; Duty~LTE~, Duty~NR~ represent the maximum
uplink percentage of LTE, NR respectively. Duty threshold represents the
maximum UL duty cycle that can maintain the PC2 power class for FDD+TDD EN-DC
HPUE.
In the case 2 of power class 2 FDD-TDD EN-DC UE, the maximum uplink power of
LTE and NR are 23dBm and 26dBm respectively. By setting the P~LTE~, P~NR~ to
be 23dBm and 26dBm, equation (1) can be simplified to the following equation.
But note that in case 2 PC2 UE, the total maximum power of LTE and NR cannot
exceed 26dBm when transmitting both LTE UL and NR UL at the same time.
  * **0.5*Duty~LTE~ + Duty~NR~ ≤ _Duty threshold..._(2)**
As same as the scheme in clause 6.2.1, Duty~NR~ is determined by scheduling.
Duty~LTE~ can be set up by TDM pattern or determined by scheduling.
The PC2 case 2 UE is allowed to fallback to PC3 if the LTE uplink scheduling
or the TDM pattern setting of the LTE UL, together with the scheduled NR
uplink duty cycle exceeds the duty threshold based on the equation (2).
### 6.3.2 Scheme 2
Specific LTE reference configurations are defined for FDD-TDD EN-DC HPUE duty
cycle capability reporting. The reported capability is maximal NR UL duty
which can fulfil SAR limits when assuming LTE FDD side being configured as the
defined reference configuration with the maximum UL power.
For case 2, the LTE reference configuration can be Duty~LTE~=40%. The default
value of NR UL duty capability can be 30% i.e. \"Duty~LTE~=40% and
P~LTE~=23dBm\", corresponding to default Duty~NR~=30%, P~NR~=26dBm.
Higher Duty~NR~ value can be reported as the UE capability e.g. maxNRDuty. If
the scheduled traffic fulfils Duty~LTE~\<40% and Duty~NR~\< maxNRDuty, UE can
maintain PC2 power.
For better flexibility, two LTE configurations are supported. Based on the two
LTE configurations {Duty~LTE~1, Duty~LTE~2}, UE optimizes its SAR compliance
capability and reports two _Duty~NR~_ separately, e.g. {_maxNRDuty1,
maxNRDuty2_}.
### 6.3.3 Scheme 3
The equation is same as that described in clause 6.2.3 while P~LTE~ and P~NR~
is set according to Case2 in Table 4.2-1.
# 7 Rx sensitivity degradation (if applicable)
# 8 specification impacts
## 8.1 Impacts on RAN4 specifications
Required changes in UE RF specification TS 38.101-3 are shown in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1-1: Required changes in TS 38.101-3
+------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | Clause | Requirement | Required changes in TS | | | | 38.101-3 compared to the | | | | same band combination for | | | | power class 3 | +============+===========================+===========================+ | 6.2B.1 | UE maximum output power | Add power class 2 for | | | for EN-DC | inter-band EN-DC. The | | | | additional details of | | | | power class for LTE and | | | | NR may be also needed | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 6.2B.4.1.3 | Configured output power | It shall be verified | | | for inter-band EN-DC | whether the existing | | | within FR1 | Pcmax for inter-band | | | | EN-DC can be applied to | | | | HP UE. Some changes shall | | | | be needed to address SAR | | | | issue. | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.3B.2.3.1 | Reference sensitivity | No changes for case 1 | | | exceptions due to UL | | | | harmonic interference for | No changes for case 2 | | | EN-DC in NR FR1 | considering the harmonic | | | | product of TDD band (high | | | | band) would not be | | | | possible to affect the | | | | lower FDD band. | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.3B.2.3.2 | MSD due to receiver | No changes for case 1 | | | harmonic mixing for EN-DC | | | | in NR FR1 | MSD value may need to be | | | | re-evaluated for case 2 | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.3B.2.3.3 | Reference sensitivity | No changes for case 1 | | | exceptions due to close | | | | proximity of bands for | MSD value may need to be | | | EN-DC in NR FR1 | re-evaluated for case 2 | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.3B.2.3.4 | Reference sensitivity | No changes for case 1 | | | exceptions due to cross | | | | band isolation for EN-DC | MSD value may need to be | | | in NR FR1 | re-evaluated for case 2 | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+ | 7.3B.2.3.5 | Reference sensitivity | MSD value may need to be | | | exceptions for | re-evaluated for case 1 | | | intermodulation | and case 2 | | | interference due to dual | | | | uplink operation for | | | | EN-DC in NR FR1 | | +------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
## 8.2 Impacts on specifications for the other WGs (if applicable)
# 9 Summary
In this study item, different solutions which could facilitate Power Class 2
FDD-TDD EN-DC High Power UE to comply with applicable SAR requirement has been
throughout studied, with considering the fact that two kinds of UE
implementations could exist, i.e., UE implementation case 1 with power class 3
capability for both LTE and NR, and case 2 with power class 3 capability for
LTE and power class 2 capability for NR.
The scheme 1, 2, 3 provided in Clause 6 are UE capability reporting based
solutions for SAR limitation compliance designed for PC2 FDD-TDD EN-DC HPUE.
Particularly, the scheme 2 introduces the UE capability reporting containing
the upper limit(s) for the configurable UL duty cycle for NR TDD carrier under
the certain pre-defined LTE configuration(s) with upper limit(s) on the ratio
of accumulated time allowed for UE maximum power transmission scheduling over
the entire evaluation period. By comparing proposed schemes, RAN4 conclude
that with introducing the mechanism in scheme 2, network can be indicated with
the proper information to facilitate corresponding network configuration for
PC2 FDD-TDD EN-DC HPUE with the applicable SAR limit compliance.
During the study item, RAN4 identified that the scheme 2 shall be introduced
for specific FDD+TDD EN-DC band combination(s), and RAN4 observed that
detailed signalling design to enable scheme 2 shall have RAN2 specification
impact.
Meanwhile, RAN4 identified that network-configuration-based scheme in which
the HPUE set its total EN-DC power based on higher-layer signalling could also
provide the alternative methodology for PC2 FDD-TDD EN-DC HPUE SAR requirement
compliance without explicit 3GPP specification impact and without need for
signalling and cell-group coordination, while some concern raised for the
resultant LTE coverage reduction, and for the applicable SAR limit
compliance..
#