# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The 3GPP platform was first expanded to the automotive industry by the
introduction of support for V2V and V2X services in Release 14. This support
forms Phase 1 of 3GPP\'s ongoing project relating to V2X, and was intended to
support a set of requirements sufficient for basic road safety services.
Vehicles containing UEs with these features can use the uplink, downlink and
sidelink to exchange information on their own status, such as position, speed,
and heading with other nearby vehicles, infrastructure nodes, and pedestrians.
Phase 2 of the V2X project was standardised in Release 15, and adds a number
of new features to the sidelink intended to enhance efficiency and exploit
developments in UE and network designs. These enhancements include sidelink
carrier aggregation, higher-order modulation, and reduced latency.
Phase 3 of V2X, in Release 16, adds support to NR (and also 5GC, not addressed
in this TR) for advanced V2X use cases, and includes introduction of the NR
sidelink. The use-cases are broadly grouped to enable vehicular platooning,
exchange of extended sensor information, advanced driving, and remote driving.
Phase 3 also allows either RAT\'s sidelink to be operated under control of the
other RAT\'s Uu interface, as well as permitting connection to EPC or 5GC, to
enable usage in the main MR-DC deployment scenarios.
In the following clauses, LTE-V2X is described first, then NR-V2X, and finally
certain aspects which have a degree of commonality to both RATs.
Although this TR deals with RAN aspects, note that the core network
architectures also have many adaptations to support V2X in both EPC and 5GC.
These are referred to only as needed for other explanations in this TR, and
details can be found in the relevant specifications.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides an overall description of the features
introduced by 3GPP to LTE and NR in support of V2X services, starting from
Rel-14. The purpose of this TR is to give an overview across the RAN
specifications of how the features have been designed, and how they operate
together. This document addresses LTE V2X and NR V2X via both sidelink, i.e.
the PC5 interfaces, and via the cellular uplink/downlink, i.e. the Uu
interfaces. It covers V2V, V2I/N, and V2P, as well as the eNB/gNB, UE, and RSU
nodes. The intention is to provide descriptions at approximately the Stage 2
level of detail, and thus references are provided to RAN specifications for
the reader to obtain precise details.
The document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 36.885: \"Study on LTE-based V2X Services\".
[3] ETSI EN 302 637-2: \"Specification of Cooperative Awareness Basic
Service\".
[4] SAE J2735: \"Dedicated Short Range Communications (DSRC) Message Set
Dictionary\".
[5] ETSI EN 302 637-3 \"Specifications of Decentralized Environmental
Notification Basic Service\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Multiplexing and channel coding\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Measurements\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\".
[17] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\".
[19] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
NR; Multi-connectivity; Stage 2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
> [21] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
> specification\".
[22] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
Where the same abbreviation is used for LTE V2X and NR V2X, which is meant can
be derived from the clause within which it appears, unless otherwise stated.
5GC Fifth Generation core network
AGC Automatic gain control
AMBR Aggregate maximum bit rate
BSM Basic safety message
BWP Bandwidth part
CA Carrier aggregation
CAM Cooperative awareness message
CBR Channel busy ratio
CR Channel usage ratio
DENM Decentralized environmental notification message
DMRS Demodulation reference signal
EPC Evolved packet core
MBSFN Multicast-broadcast single-frequency network
MNO Mobile network operator
PPPP ProSe per-packet priority
PPPR ProSe per-packet reliability
PSBCH Physical sidelink broadcast channel
PSCCH Physical sidelink control channel
PSSCH Physical sidelink shared channel
PSSS, S-PSS Primary sidelink synchronization signal (LTE), sidelink primary
synchronization signal (NR)
PT-RS Phase-tracking reference signal
P-UE Pedestrian UE
RSU Roadside unit
SA Scheduling assignment
SCI Sidelink control information
SC-PTM Single-cell point-to-multipoint
SL-BCH Sidelink broadcast channel
SLSS Sidelink synchronization signal
S-RSSI Sidelink received signal strength indicator
S-SSB Sidelink synchronization signal block
SSSS, S-SSS Secondary sidelink synchronization signal (LTE), sidelink
secondary synchronization signal (NR)
V2I Vehicle-to-infrastructure
V2P Vehicle-to-pedestrian
V2V Vehicle-to-vehicle
V2X Vehicle-to-everything
# 4 Services and requirements
LTE-V2X is designed with BSM, CAM, and DENM particularly in mind. BSMs and
CAMs have the characteristic of generating periodic messages at intervals,
whereas DENMs are event-triggered. As an illustration of the different message
types, in TR 36.885 [2], BSM/CAM were modelled, for evaluation purposes, as
periodically occurring sets of one 300-byte message followed by four 190-byte
messages. These types of message regularly broadcast information such as the
vehicle\'s heading, speed, latitude/longitude, etc. ETSI EN 302 637-2 [3], SAE
J2735 [4]. In TR 36.885 [2], DENMs were modelled, for evaluation purposes, as
Poisson distributed initiations of six 800-byte messages spaced by 100 ms.
DENMs can contain various different messages depending on the cause for their
transmission, such as imminent collision, sudden braking, or detection of a
traffic jam, amongst others ETSI EN 302 637-3 [5]. The requirements relating
to traffic size and pattern for LTE-V2X set in TS 22.185 [6] can be summarized
as follows, although they do not limit the usage of LTE-V2X. Other
requirements relating to general system function are also included in TS
22.185 [6].
\- Support for periodic broadcast messages with payloads of 50-300 bytes.
\- Support for event-triggered messages with payloads of up to 1200 bytes.
\- Up to 10 messages per second transmitted by a UE.
\- V2V and V2P latency of maximum 100 ms, or for V2V pre-crash sensing,
maximum 20 ms.
\- V2I latency, i.e. between a UE and RSU, of maximum 100 ms.
\- V2N latency, i.e. when transferring messages via the cellular network, of
maximum 1000 ms.
\- Maximum relative velocity between two vehicles of 500 km/h, and maximum
absolute velocity of 250 km/h for V2V and V2P UEs, and of a UE communicating
with an RSU.
\- Requirements relating to security, integrity, authorization, and privacy.
NR V2X is designed with a broader set of more advanced V2X use cases in mind.
These were specified in TS 22.18 [7], and are broadly arranged into four use
case groups: vehicular platooning, extended sensors, advanced driving, and
remote driving.
1) Vehicles Platooning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a platoon
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon obtain information from
the leading vehicle to manage this platoon. These information allow the
vehicles to drive closer than normal in a coordinated manner, going to the
same direction and travelling together.
2) Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video images among vehicles, road site units,
devices of pedestrian and V2X application servers. The vehicles can increase
the perception of their environment beyond of what their own sensors can
detect and have a more broad and holistic view of the local situation. High
data rate is one of the key characteristics.
3) Advanced Driving enables semi-automated or full-automated driving. Each
vehicle and/or RSU shares its own perception data obtained from its local
sensors with vehicles in proximity and that allows vehicles to synchronize and
coordinate their trajectories or manoeuvres. Each vehicle shares its driving
intention with vehicles in proximity too.
4) Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive by themselves or remote
vehicles located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. High reliability and low latency are the
main requirements.
The most demanding requirements set in TS 22.186 [7] are for a maximum
sidelink range of 1000 m, a maximum throughput of 1 Gbps, a shortest latency
of 3 ms, a maximum reliability of 99.999%, and a maximum transmission rate of
100 messages/second. However, there is not a use case which, on its own,
demands all of these bounding requirements. The communication scenarios
described in TS 22.186 [7] include a mixture of periodic and aperiodic
services. Similar to LTE-V2X, there are also requirements relating to
security, integrity, authorization, and privacy.
# 5 LTE V2X
## 5.1 V2X sidelink physical layer
The LTE V2X sidelink supports broadcast transmission of messages in the
physical layer, since this is a suitable approach for delivery BSM, CAM, DENM
and similar traffic. In the MAC layer, a broadcast address can be mapped to a
single UE or a group of UEs by implementation. Such implementation techniques
have no particular specification support in LTE, and are transparent to the
physical layer.
### 5.1.1 Physical sidelink channels and signals
The LTE V2X sidelink uses the following physical channels and signals:
\- Physical sidelink broadcast channel (PSBCH), specified in TS 36.211 [8,
clause 9.6]
\- Physical sidelink control channel (PSCCH), specified in TS 36.211 [8,
clause 9.4]
\- Physical sidelink shared channel (PSSCH), specified in TS 36.211 [8, clause
9.3]
\- Primary and secondary sidelink synchronization signals (PSSS and SSSS)
specified in TS 36.211 [8, clause 9.7]. These can be referred to jointly as
the sidelink synchronization signal (SLSS).
\- A demodulation reference signal (DMRS) associated with each of the three
physical channels, specified in TS 36.211 [8, clause 9.8]
LTE-V2X sidelink physical channels are transmitted using SC-FDMA.
PSBCH transmits the SL-BCH transport channel, which carries the sidelink V2X
Master Information Block (MIB-V2X) from the RRC layer. When in use, PSBCH
transmits MIB-V2X every 160 ms in the central 72 subcarriers of the SL
bandwidth. DMRS associated with PSBCH are transmitted in the 5th, 7th, and
10th symbols of the subframe.
PSSS and SSSS are transmitted to allow other UEs to achieve sidelink
synchronization when they do not have another source of synchronization
available. They jointly convey the SLSS ID selected by the UE. For further
details of SLSS and synchronization, refer to Clause 5.1.2. PSSS/SSSS also
allow UEs to detect the sidelink subframe boundary, with subframe number and
frame number signalled in MIB-V2X.
PSSCH transmits the SL-SCH transport channel, which carries the TBs of data
for transmission over SL. The resources in which PSSCH is transmitted can
either be scheduled by an eNB and granted to the UE by a DCI (termed resource
allocation mode 3, see Clause 5.2.2.1) or determined through a sensing
procedure conducted autonomously by the transmitting UE (termed resource
allocation mode 4, see Clause 5.2.2.2). A given TB can be transmitted once or
twice, with a second transmission occurring a time gap after the first which
is indicated in the scheduling SCI.
PSCCH transmits physical layer sidelink control information (SCI), also known
as a scheduling assignment (SA). For V2X, PSCCH is transmitted in two
frequency-adjacent PRBs, and always carries SCI format 1, defined in TS 36.212
[9, clause 5.4.3.1.2]. To receive PSCCH, a UE has to monitor each defined pair
of PRBs to determine whether PSCCH has been transmitted in them. PSCCH is
transmitted in the same subframe(s) as the associated PSSCH, and can be
transmitted in PRBs that are either frequency adjacent or frequency non-
adjacent to the PSSCH.
DMRS associated with PSSCH and PSCCH are transmitted in the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and
12th symbols of a subframe.
### 5.1.2 Sidelink synchronization
#### 5.1.2.1 Synchronization references and priorities
There are four basic sources, or references, from which a V2X UE can derive
its own synchronization: GNSS, its serving eNB, another UE transmitting SLSS
(a SyncRef UE), or its own internal clock. In general, GNSS or eNB are
regarded as the highest-quality sources. SyncRef UEs are distinguished between
those which are directly synchronized to GNSS or an eNB, those which are 1
further step away, and those which are ≥ 2 further steps away from GNSS/eNB.
As a last resort, a UE unable to find any other synchronization reference will
use its own internal clock to transmit SLSS. The V2X synchronization procedure
defines a hierarchy or set of priorities among such synchronization references
and requires all UEs to continuously search the hierarchy to get to the
highest-quality one they can find. The general preference order is as follows,
with details specified in TS 36.331 [10, clause 5.10.8]:
Level 1. Either GNSS or eNB, according to (pre-)configuration.
Level 2. A SyncRef UE directly synchronized to a Level 1 source.
Level 3. A SyncRef UE synchronized to a Level 2 source, i.e. indirectly
synchronized to a Level 1 source.
\- When the Level 1 preference is (pre-)configured as GNSS, in Level 2 and 3,
SyncRef UEs in hierarchies derived from GNSS and eNB are of equal preference
as a synchronization source.
Level 4. Any other SyncRef UE.
Level 5. UE\'s internal clock.
Within a Level 2, or 3, or 4 set of SyncRef UEs, the one with the highest
S-RSRP is selected. The hierarchy also allows fallback between eNB-derived and
GNSS-derived chains should the Level 1 type chosen by (pre-)configuration be
unsuitable.
#### 5.1.2.2 SLSS
The transmission and reception of SLSS (and PSBCH) is an optional V2X UE
capability, and they can be transmitted on one or multiple synchronization
carriers.
A UE which is deriving its own synchronization from eNB or GNSS can be
configured by the network to transmit SLSS on a synchronization carrier, or
the network can permit it to do so if the RSRP of a reference cell falls below
a threshold. If the network is not available, and the UE is synchronized to
GNSS, it will transmit SLSS if permitted by its pre-configuration. When such a
UE does not have GNSS synchronization, it will transmit SLSS, if permitted by
its pre-configuration, while it cannot find a SyncRef UE with sufficiently
high S-RSRP. Full details of the conditions for SLSS transmission are
specified in TS 36.331 [10, clause 5.10.7.2].
In a V2X system, there can be a variety of UEs which are deriving
synchronization from different sources, and since a UE can transmit SLSS on
multiple carriers, it can have different synchronization sources among them.
SLSS is therefore transmitted in different subframes depending on what
synchronization source the UE is using. The system can be configured with
either two or three different offsets with respect to the start of the 160 ms
PSBCH period can be defined, which can allow different subframes for
transmission according to whether the UE is synchronized to GNSS, eNB, or
another SyncRef UE.
PSSS and SSSS use the same sequences as PSS and SSS, respectively, with
different root indices. When in use, both sequences are transmitted in the
central 62 subcarriers of the SL bandwidth, in the same subframe as PSBCH,
i.e. every 160 ms. PSSS is in the 2nd and 3rd symbols of the subframe, and
SSSS in the 12th and 13th symbols. The two symbols of each signal are the
same, which allows detectors to benefit from phase tracking between the two
symbols. Figure 5.1.2.1-1 shows the relevant contents of a subframe which
contain PSBCH, PSSS, and SSSS.
{width="3.348611111111111in" height="0.9881944444444445in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Contents of an LTE-V2X synchronization subframe.
##### 5.1.2.2.1 SLSSID
The SLSSID itself conveys information about the synchronization source of the
transmitting UE. In general, the further a UE is away from a high-quality
source of GNSS or eNB, the lower quality will be its own synchronization and
thus the quality of an SLSS it transmits. There are a series of association
rules among SLSS IDs, designed to allow the identification, and propagation
through the system of, high-quality synchronization sources. Thus, for
example, a UE which is in-coverage and directly synchronized to an eNB (a
Level 2 SyncRef UE) uses an SLSSID which is configured by the network from
1-167, allowing SLSSID planning, and a UE using such a UE as a SyncRef UE (a
Level 3 SyncRef UE) uses the same SLSSID, but indicates in V2X MIB that it is
not directly eNB-synchronized. Subsequent UEs in this example hierarchy (Level
4 SyncRef UEs) use the SLSSID+168 to indicate their source is not directly
synchronized to an eNB. A similar propagation hierarchy is used starting with
a UE which is directly synchronized to GNSS, whose SLSSID is always 0,
resulting in any UE which is more than one further step from GNSS using SLSSID
168 (or, in some cases, 169) so that a synchronization hierarchy based on GNSS
can always be identified. Finally, a UE which cannot find GNSS, eNB, nor a
SyncRef UE, selects an SLSSID randomly from 170-335, and UEs which synchronize
to it propagate the same SLSSID.
### 5.1.3 Concurrent operation and carrier aggregation
V2X operation is defined in band 47 in TS 36.101 [11, clause 5.5G], which
supports single-carrier and multi-carrier operation:
Table 5.1.3-1: V2X operating band
* * *
**E‑UTRA Operating Band** **E-UTRA V2X Operating Band** **V2X UE transmit**
**V2X UE receive** **Duplex Mode** **Interface**  
**F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~** **F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~**  
47 47 5855 MHz 5925 MHz 5855 MHz 5925 MHz HD PC5
* * *
The V2X sidelink in band 47 can be operated concurrently with Uu FDD bands 3,
5, 7, 8, 20, 28, and Uu TDD bands 34, 39, 41, and 71.
Sidelink CA is defined for resource allocation modes 3 and 4. When operating
in CA, a given (sidelink) MAC PDU is transmitted, and if necessary re-
transmitted, on a single sidelink carrier, and multiple MAC PDUs can be
transmitted in parallel on different carriers. This provides a throughput gain
in a similar way as for Uu CA.
Sidelink CA in resource allocation mode 3 using a dynamic grant is similar to
on the Uu interface, by including a carrier indication field (CIF) in the DCI
from the eNB. This indicates which among the up to 8 configured sidelink
carriers the allocation in the DCI applies to.
Sidelink CA in resource allocation mode 4 uses the sensing procedure described
in Clause 5.2.2.2 to select resources independently on each involved carrier.
The same carrier is used for all MAC PDUs of the same sidelink process at
least until the process triggers resource re-selection. Procedures to avoid
unexpected UE behaviour when the demands of CA become high are also specified,
which allow a UE to drop a transmission which uses an unmanageable amount of
resources or transmit chains, or to reject and re-select resources for which
it cannot meet the RF requirements under CA.
Sidelink synchronization can also operate on multiple carriers, as mentioned
in Clause 5.1.2. In addition, in sidelink CA operation, a SyncRef UE uses a
single synchronization reference for all aggregated carriers, and may transmit
SLSS/PSBCH on one or multiple of them according to capability. A receiving UE
likewise uses the same synchronization reference (not necessarily a SyncRef
UE) for all its aggregated carriers, and it uses the highest priority
synchronization reference present among the available synchronization
carriers.
Another form of CA is PDCP duplication, where the same PDCP packet is
transmitted in parallel on multiple sidelink carriers, to increase
reliability. See Clause 5.4.7 for more discussion.
## 5.2 V2X sidelink resource allocation
### 5.2.1 Resource pools
PSCCH and PSSCH resources are defined within resource pools for the respective
channels. This concept is used because in general PSCCH/PSSCH cannot be
transmitted (and thus are not expected to be received) in all PRBs and
subframes in the system bandwidth, nor within a given frequency span
configured for V2X sidelink. The notion of a resource pool also reflects, in
resource allocation mode 4, that a UE will make its resource selections based
on sensing within the (PSSCH) pool.
For PSSCH, a resource pool is divided into sub-channels in the frequency
domain, which are consecutively non-overlapping sets of ≥4 PRBs in a subframe,
the size depending on (pre-)configuration. Resource allocation, sensing, and
resource selection are performed in units of a sub-channel, although it is
possible that a small number of PRBs within a sub-channel are not used for
transmission.
For PSCCH, the resource pool definition depends on whether adjacent or non-
adjacent transmission of PSCCH and PSSCH has been (pre-)configured for the
resource pool. Adjacent transmission is achieved by defining the lowest pair
of PRBs in each subchannel as candidates to contain PSCCH, and PSSCH is
transmitted in the contiguous PRBs above them for the allocated number of
subchannels. Non-adjacent transmission is achieved by defining sequential
pairs of PRBs starting at the lowest frequency of the resource pool for PSCCH,
and associating the n^th^ pair to PSSCH transmission occupying from the n^th^
PSSCH sub-channel for the allocated number of subchannels. Figure 5.2.1-1
shows examples of adjacent and non-adjacent transmission. To receive PSCCH, a
UE has to monitor each defined pair of PRBs to determine whether PSCCH has
been transmitted in them.
{width="5.058333333333334in" height="3.2090277777777776in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1a: Illustration of adjacent allocations of PSCCH and associated
PSSCH.
{width="4.767361111111111in" height="3.186111111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1b: Illustration of non-adjacent allocations of PSCCH and
associated PSSCH.
Resource pools are (pre-)configured to a UE separately from the transmission
perspective (TX pools) and the reception perspective (RX pools). This allows a
UE to monitor for PSCCH, and hence receive PSSCH transmissions, in resource
pools other than those in which it transmits, so that it can attempt to
receive transmissions made by other UEs in those RX pools.
In addition, there are exceptional resource pools configured to a UE, in its
serving cell\'s SIB21 or in dedicated signalling. These can be used e.g.
during RLF, handover, transition from RRC IDLE to RRC CONNECTED, or during
change of dedicated V2X sidelink resource pools within a cell. In these cases,
a UE may not have a stable configuration of TX resource pools but nevertheless
should not be removed from the V2X system, so it can randomly select resources
in the exceptional pool provided in its serving cell\'s SIB21 or in dedicated
signalling, and use them temporarily. Likewise, UEs need to monitor the
exceptional pools for PSCCH transmissions.
### 5.2.2 Resource allocation modes
LTE sidelink defines four resource allocation modes: 1, 2, 3, and 4. Modes 1
and 2 apply to D2D, while modes 3 and 4 apply to LTE V2X.
#### 5.2.2.1 Resource allocation mode 3
Mode 3 is for resource allocation scheduled by eNB. As described in Clause 4,
among the primary use cases for LTE-V2X is transmission of periodically-
occurring messages, and for this reason there is particular support for
sidelink SPS. However, dynamic sidelink grants are equally supported.
The eNB scheduling activity is driven by the UE needing to send data on
sidelink performing a sidelink BSR procedure similar to that on Uu to request
a sidelink resource allocation from eNB. Depending on the type of traffic the
UE has, eNB can provide a dynamic sidelink grant, or an activation of a SPS
sidelink grant.
A dynamic sidelink grant DCI provides, amongst other details TS 36.212 [9,
clause 5.3.3.1.9A], the resources for up to two transmissions of the same TB.
This is to allow higher reliability to be achieved without a feedback-based
HARQ procedure, since LTE-V2X physical layer supports only broadcast
transmission. Unlike Uu UL grants, the MCS information can optionally be
provided by RRC signalling instead of the traditional DCI. For the case where
RRC does not provide the MCS, the transmitting UE is left to select an
appropriate MCS/TBS itself based on the knowledge it has of the TB to be
transmitted and, potentially, the sidelink radio conditions. The transmitting
UE populates its SCI with the information from eNB and other fields related to
sidelink operation TS 36.212 [9, clause 5.4.3.1.2], and then transmits it and
the associated PSSCH.
The UE can be configured by eNB with up to 8 sidelink SPS configurations. Each
configuration has an identifying index, and provides a different periodicity
of sidelink transmission resource. A sidelink SPS configuration is not used by
the UE until the eNB sends the UE a DCI which indicates it is now active. The
activating DCI also provides all the same fields as a dynamic sidelink
scheduling DCI described above, allowing the precise resource allocation for
SPS to be determined by eNB at the time it is needed. A transmitting UE can
use the thus activated sidelink SPS resources, at the configured periodicity,
until they are released (i.e. de-activated) by the eNB transmitting a special
DCI. Note that each time the UE uses the resources, it either uses the RRC
configured MCS/TBS or selects one itself, i.e. the same way as dynamic
operation.
#### 5.2.2.2 Resource allocation mode 4
Mode 4 is for UE autonomous resource selection. Its basic structure is of a UE
sensing, within a (pre-)configured resource pool, which resources are not in
use by other UEs with higher-priority traffic, and choosing an appropriate
amount of such resources for its own PSCCH/PSSCH transmission. Having selected
such resources, the UE can transmit in them on a periodic (i.e. SPS) basis for
a certain number of times, or until a cause of resource reselection is
triggered.
As described in Clause 5.2.2.1, the SCIs transmitted by UEs on PSCCH indicate
the time-frequency resources in which the UE will transmit a PSSCH. The same
SCI contents is used in mode 4, and also indicates the periodicity with which
the UE will use the same resources. These SCI transmissions are used by
sensing UEs to maintain a moving sensing window in the immediate past of which
resources have been reserved by other UEs. This window is 1000 ms long for FDD
systems. A sensing UE also measures the PSSCH-RSRP in the subframes of the
sensing window, which implies the level of interference which would be caused
and experienced if the sensing UE were to transmit in them.
The sensing UE then selects resources for its first transmission from within a
resource selection window. This window begins ≤4 ms after the trigger for
transmission, and is bounded by the latency requirement of the traffic, up to
100 ms (see Clause 4). The sensing UE assumes the same resources will be used
by other UEs in the future as have been found reserved during the sensing
window, according to the indicated periodicities and durations. Reserved
resources in the selection window with PSSCH-RSRP above a threshold are
excluded from being candidates by the sensing UE, with the threshold set
according to the priorities (PPPP) of the traffic of the sensing and
transmitting UE. Thus, a higher priority transmission from a sensing UE can
occupy resources which are reserved by a transmitting UE with sufficiently low
PSSCH-RSRP and sufficiently lower-priority traffic.
From the set of resources in the selection window which have not been
excluded, the sensing UE identifies those containing the lowest total received
energy as a way to account for transmissions which were not found during
decoding of PSCCHs, and identifies resources totalling 20% of the available
resources within the traffic\'s latency bound, including gradual relaxation of
the PSSCH-RSRP exclusion thresholds in 3 dB steps if necessary. The UE then
selects a resource at random from the identified 20% and uses this resource
semi-persistently for its transmissions.
There are a number of triggers for resource re-selection. They are designed to
support high mobility, and ensure that a UE cannot assume occupation of a
resource for an excessive period, nor when the selected resource is either
insufficient or excessive for what is needed by the UE\'s traffic, amongst
other causes.
{width="4.267361111111111in" height="5.209027777777778in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: Summary of sensing and resource (re-)selection procedures.
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Zones
Cellular networks are designed to support resource re-use over a given
geographical area, to manage interference and improve area spectral
efficiency. A similar concept is available in LTE-V2X. LTE-V2X can optionally
divide the world into zones, which have a (pre-)configurable width and height.
Nearby zones are assigned different resource pools, with spatially-periodic
re-use over a distance controlled by the zone width and height. A UE performs
transmission within the resource pool(s) associated with its current zone, for
mode 4. Figure 5.2.3-1 shows an example of the configuration of zones, where
those with the same zone_id use the same transmission resource pools.
{width="3.9305555555555554in" height="2.08125in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1: Illustration of zones. _x\'_ = ceil(_x_ /_L_) mod _N_ ~x~; _y_
\' = ceil(_y_ /_W_) mod _N_ ~y~; zone_id= _y_ \'× _N_ ~x~+_x_ \'; where _x_
and _y_ are the longitude and latitude of the UE\'s location, _L_ , _W_ are
the length and width of each zone, respectively, and _N_ ~x~, _N_ ~y~ are the
number of zones in length and width respectively.
#### 5.2.2.3 Modes 3 and 4 resource pool sharing
Resource pools for mode 3 and mode 4 are (pre-)configured separately from one
another. In Rel-14, a receiving UE whether operating in mode 3 or mode 4 does
not know in any particular way that a transmission in mode 3 has SPS
characteristics, since the mode 3 SCI always indicates that its PSSCH
transmission is single-shot. Thus, a mode 4 UE will not exclude the occupied
resources during its resource selection procedure. In Rel-15, resource pool
sharing is enabled by the mode 3 SCI also indicating a SPS reservation period,
and mode 4 UEs of both releases are therefore able to account for such
transmissions in the resource (re-)selection procedure.
It is also possible for a UE operating in mode 3 to perform the mode 4 sensing
procedure in order to report to eNB regarding the occupancy of resources in
the mode 4 pools. This provides information which the eNB can use in
determining its scheduling behaviour for mode 3.
## 5.3 Sidelink congestion control
Each sidelink packet is associated with a PPPP and PPPR passed down ultimately
to the physical layer from upper layers, which determine the values based on
the QoS requirements of the message. PPPR allows management of reliability,
for example see Clause 5.4.7. The PPPP of a packet is indicated dynamically in
the SCI which schedules the PSSCH for the packet. A physical measurement of
CBR is also defined in each subframe TS 36.214 [12, clause 5.1.30], which
measures the portion of the resource in a resource pool which has a high
received signal energy (S-RSSI) in the most recent 100 subframes. CBR is a
measurement of the congestion present recently in the resource pool. Another
measurement, CR defined in TS 36.214 [12, clause 5.1.31], counts the total
number of subchannels a UE has and will transmit in during a window of up to
1000 ms including the current subframe. CR is thus a measurement of how much
resource a UE has recently, and will soon, claim.
A UE can be (pre-)configured with a set of CBR ranges to each of which is
linked a CR-limit. When a UE finds its CR exceeds the CR-limit for the CBR
range it currently measures, it must reduce its CR to not exceed the limit.
How this is done is up to UE implementation, and can include increasing MCS to
reduce resource occupation, dropping (re-)transmissions, etc. PPPP can also be
(pre-)configured with a mapping to the UE\'s maximum permitted transmit power,
the limitation on which acts to reduce the CBR measured by sufficiently
distant UEs.
PPPP is used as described in Clause 5.2.2 to aid distributed sidelink
congestion control based on the relative priorities of traffic from UEs that
consider occupying a given resource. PPPP and CBR can each also be
(pre-)configured with mappings to ranges of values of transmission parameters,
e.g. a range of MCS values, and/or a range of numbers of subchannels, etc. In
this case, the UE has to choose its transmission parameters from within the
range corresponding to the prevailing PPPP and/or CBR.
## 5.4 V2X sidelink higher-layer protocols
### 5.4.1 General
Figure 5.4.1-1 shows the user plane protocol stack for V2X sidelink
communication. The Access Stratum protocol stack for user plane in the PC5
interface consists of PDCP, RLC, MAC and PHY as shown below in Figure 5.4.1-1.
The detailed functions performed by PDCP, RLC and MAC sublayers are listed in
TS 36.300 [13, clause 6], and some other details specific to V2X sidelink are
described in TS 36.300 [13, clauses 23.10.2.1 and 23.14.1.1]. The PHY layer
performs the functions described in Clause 5.1.
{width="2.5118055555555556in" height="1.5118055555555556in"}
Figure 5.4.1-1: User-Plane protocol stack for V2X sidelink communication
Figure 5.4.1-2 shows the control plane protocol stack for V2X sidelink
communication. The Access Stratum protocol stack for control plane in the PC5
interface consists of RRC, RLC, MAC and PHY as shown below in Figure 5.4.1-2.
The control plane protocol for V2X sidelink communication is mainly used for
the transmission of sidelink broadcast control channel (SBCCH), and its
functions are detailed in TS 36.300 [13, clause 23.10.2.2].
{width="2.5in" height="1.5118055555555556in"}
Figure 5.4.1-2: Control-Plane protocol stack for V2X sidelink communication
### 5.4.2 Resource pool configuration
When the UE is in network coverage, it may use the resource configurations
provided by the eNB via dedicated signalling or system information. When the
UE is out of coverage, it may use pre-configured resource pools for V2X
sidelink communication. Details of how the resource pools are (pre)configured
and how the UE uses them for V2X sidelink communication transmission and
reception are specified in TS 36.300 [17, clauses 5.10.12 and 5.10.13].
### 5.4.3 Measurement and reporting
Some measurement and reporting mechanisms are supported specifically for V2X
sidelink communication, including CBR measurement and reporting, reporting of
its sensing results and geo-location reporting. Details of above listed
measurement and reporting mechanism specific for V2X sidelink communication
are specified in TS 36.331 [10, clause 5.5].
### 5.4.4 Mobility management
UE can perform V2X sidelink transmission and reception during handover and
cell reselection. Related details are specified in TS 36.331 [10, clause
5.10.13.1].
### 5.4.5 Assistance information for SL SPS configuration
The UE can report UE assistance information to the eNB to facilitate the
configuration of sidelink SPS described in Clause 5.2.2.1. Details of the UE
assistance information for sidelink SPS configuration are specified in TS
36.331 [10, clause 5.6.10].
### 5.4.6 Transmission carrier selection
For V2X sidelink communication, the UE is allowed to transmit and receive on
multiple sidelink carriers (pre)configured by the network, and the UE selects
specific sidelink carriers among them for transmission. The (pre)configured
sidelink carriers can be provided by the network as specified in TS 36.331
[10, clause 5.10.13.1]. Details of transmission carrier selection are
specified in TS 36.321 [14, clause 5.14.1.5].
### 5.4.7 SL packet duplication
To improve the reliability of V2X sidelink communication, a sidelink PDCP
duplication mechanism is supported, where a PDCP PDU is duplicated into two
instances and transmitted on two different sidelink carriers. Details of
sidelink PDCP duplication are specified in TS 36.323 [15, clause 5.1.3 and
5.1.4] as well as TS 36.321 [14, clause 5.14.1.3.1].
### 5.4.8 Coordination between UL and V2X SL transmission
There is the possibility that the UE needs to perform UL transmission and V2X
sidelink transmission overlapped in time domain, but the UE cannot transmit
both. In this case, the UE will prioritize between the two transmissions.
Details of the prioritization between UL transmission and V2X sidelink
transmission are specified in TS 36.321 [14, clauses 5.4.2.2 and 5.14.1.2.2].
### 5.4.9 Multi-PLMN operation
To support multi-PLMN operation for V2X sidelink communication, the UE may
receive the V2X sidelink communication of other PLMNs. However, V2X sidelink
transmission in other PLMNs is not allowed. The same sidelink resource pool
may be configured to the eNBs within a PLMN. Details of multi-PLMN operation
for V2X sidelink communication are specified in TS 36.331 [10, clause
23.14.1.1].
## 5.5 V2X via the Uu interface
LTE-V2X, as mentioned above, is focused on transmission of a few types of
periodic traffic, which can have different periodicities. Apart from using the
sidelink, it is possible to transfer V2X data via the cellular network UL/DL,
taking advantage of its centrally-scheduled operation, predictable latency
bounds, and inter-cell communications.
An extended form of UL SPS for V2X is supported, to allow firstly that V2X UL
SPS and normal UL SPS can be used together, and also that multiple V2X UL SPS
configurations can be defined to account for the different periodic V2X
traffic types. Whereas in Rel-8 UL SPS a single SPS configuration can be
provided by RRC, for LTE-V2X, up to 8 UL SPS configurations can be provided,
similar to on the sidelink, which the eNB is assisted in the configuration of
by information on traffic characteristics, etc., reported provided by the UE.
A specialised version of DCI format 0 is then used to activate/release UL V2X
SPS configurations as needed, and separately from the normal UL SPS
configuration.
LTE supports multicast/broadcast operation via SC-PTM and MBSFN transmission.
These transmission types can also be used for V2X messages, and some
adaptations for LTE-V2X are included to allow scheduling more frequent
transmissions of data and service (re-)configuration information.
## 5.6 Network aspects
### 5.6.1 V2X service authorization
Considering the different UE types based on subscription information in the
HSS, the eNB receives the authorization status of the UE provided by a MME or
a neighbour eNB, to know whether the UE is authorized as a Vehicle UE and/or a
Pedestrian UE.
Only authorized UEs can perform V2X sidelink communication. Sidelink radio
resources are provided to UEs in different ways according to the different
services supported.
### 5.6.2 Sidelink AMBR
UE sidelink AMBR is provided to the eNB by a MME or a neighbour eNB, and used
for the UE\'s sidelink communication in mode 3. The sidelink AMBR is based on
subscription information from the HSS and the operator\'s policy, which is
used to cap the PC5 transmission from a particular UE.
{width="3.395138888888889in" height="3.08125in"}
Figure 5.6-1 Network Infrastructure for LTE V2X.
# 6 NR V2X
## 6.1 Sidelink unicast, groupcast, and broadcast
Whereas LTE-V2X supports broadcast transmission in the physical layer and any
finer-grained addressing is handled according to MAC layer ID implementation,
NR V2X has physical layer support for broadcast, unicast, and groupcast
sidelink operation. The addition of unicast and groupcast is linked with the
introduction of sidelink HARQ feedback (clause 6.2.4), high order modulation,
sidelink CSI, and PC5-RRC (clause 6.5.7), amongst other points.
## 6.2 V2X sidelink physical layer
### 6.2.1 Physical sidelink channels and signals
The NR V2X sidelink uses the following physical channels and signals:
\- Physical sidelink broadcast channel (PSBCH) and its DMRS, specified in TS
38.211 [16, clauses 8.3.3 and 8.4.1.4]
\- Physical sidelink control channel (PSCCH) and its DMRS, specified in TS
38.211 [16, clauses 8.3.2 and 8.4.1.3]
\- Physical sidelink shared channel (PSSCH) and its DMRS, specified in TS
38.211 [16, clauses 8.3.1 and 8.4.1.1]
\- Physical sidelink feedback channel (PSFCH), specified in TS 38.211 [16,
clause 8.3.4]
\- Sidelink primary and secondary synchronization signals (S-PSS and S-SSS)
specified in TS 38.211 [16, clause 8.4.2], which are organized into the
sidelink synchronization signal block (S-SSB) together with PSBCH. S-PSS and
S-SSS can be referred to jointly as the sidelink synchronization signal
(SLSS).
\- Phase-tracking reference signal (PT-RS) in FR2, specified in TS 38.211 [16,
clause 8.4.1.2].
\- Channel state information reference signal (CSI-RS), specified in TS 38.211
[16, clause 8.4.1.5]. See clause 6.2.3 for CSI.
NR-V2X sidelink supports subcarrier spacings of 15, 30, 60 and 120 kHz. Their
associations to CPs and frequency ranges are as for NR UL/DL, but using only
the CP-OFDM waveform. The modulation schemes available are QPSK, 16-QAM,
64-QAM, and 256-QAM.
PSBCH transmits the SL-BCH transport channel, which carries the sidelink V2X
Master Information Block (MIB-V2X) from the RRC layer. When in use, PSBCH
transmits MIB-V2X every 160 ms in 11 RBs of the SL bandwidth, with possible
repetitions in the period. DMRS associated with PSBCH are transmitted in every
symbol of the S-SSB slot. S-PSS and S-SSS are transmitted together with PSBCH
in the S-SSB. They jointly convey the SLSS ID used by the UE _._ For further
details of S-SSB, SLSS, and synchronization, refer to Clause 6.2.2.
Sidelink control information (SCI) in NR V2X is transmitted in two stages. The
first-stage SCI is carried on PSCCH and contains information to enable sensing
operations, as well as information about the resource allocation of the PSSCH.
PSSCH transmits the second-stage SCI and the SL-SCH transport channel. The
second-stage SCI carries information needed to identify and decode the
associated SL-SCH, as well as control for HARQ procedures, and triggers for
CSI feedback, etc. SL-SCH carries the TB of data for transmission over SL.
The resources in which PSSCH is transmitted can be scheduled or configured by
a gNB (termed resource allocation mode 1, see Clause 6.3.2.1) or determined
through a sensing procedure conducted autonomously by the transmitting UE
(termed resource allocation mode 2, see Clause 6.3.2.2). A given TB can be
transmitted multiple times, as described in Clauses 6.2.4 and 6.3.2. DMRS
associated with rank-1 or rank-2 PSSCH can be transmitted in 2, 3, or 4
sidelink symbols distributed through a sidelink slot.
Multiplexing between PSCCH and PSSCH is in time and frequency within a slot,
illustrated in two examples in Figure 6.2.1-1.
{width="3.1102362204724407in" height="1.2440944881889764in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1(a): Example slot format of 2-symbol PSCCH, 2-symbol PSSCH-DMRS,
and no PSFCH.
Figure 6.2.1-1(b): Example slot format of 3-symbol PSCCH, 3-symbol PSSCH-DMRS,
and PSFCH.
PSFCH carries HARQ feedback over the sidelink from a UE which is an intended
recipient of a PSSCH transmission (henceforth an Rx UE) to the UE which
performed the transmission (henceforth a Tx UE). Sidelink HARQ feedback may be
in the form of conventional ACK/NACK, or NACK-only with nothing transmitted in
case of successful decoding; for more information refer to clause 6.2.4. PSFCH
transmits a Zadoff-Chu sequence in one PRB repeated over two OFDM symbols, the
first of which can be used for AGC, near the end of the sidelink resource in a
slot. The time resources for PSFCH are (pre-)configured to occur once in every
1, 2, or 4 slots. Frequency/code resources are derived implicitly from those
used by the associated PSSCH transmission, together with the L1 identity of
the UE transmitting PSSCH and, when groupcast with ACK/NACK feedback is used,
the identity within the group of the UE transmitting PSFCH.
### 6.2.2 Sidelink synchronization
#### 6.2.2.1 Synchronization references and priorities
There are four basic sources, or references, from which a V2X UE can derive
its own synchronization: GNSS, a gNB/eNB, another UE transmitting SLSS (here
termed a SyncRef UE), or its own internal clock. In general, GNSS or eNB/gNB
are regarded as the highest-quality sources. SyncRef UEs are distinguished
between those which are directly synchronized to GNSS or a gNB/eNB, those
which are 1 further step away, and those which are ≥2 further steps away from
GNSS or gNB/eNB. As a last resort, a UE unable to find any other
synchronization reference will use its own internal clock to transmit S-SSB.
The V2X synchronization procedure defines a hierarchy or set of priorities
among such synchronization references and requires all UEs to continuously
search the hierarchy to get to the highest-quality one they can find. The
general preference order is as follows, with details specified in TS 38.331
[17, clause 5.8.6]:
Level 1. Either GNSS or eNB/gNB, according to (pre-)configuration.
Level 2. A SyncRef UE directly synchronized to a Level 1 source.
Level 3. A SyncRef UE synchronized to a Level 2 source, i.e. indirectly
synchronized to a Level 1 source.
Level 4. Whichever of GNSS or eNB/gNB was not (pre-)configured as the Level 1
source.
Level 5. A SyncRef UE directly synchronized to a Level 4 source.
Level 6. A SyncRef UE synchronized to a Level 5 source, i.e. indirectly
synchronized to a Level 4 source.
Level 7. Any other SyncRef UE.
Level 8. UE\'s internal clock.
The NR V2X scheme is intended to allow the merging of otherwise-separate
hierarchies derived from GNSS and gNB/eNB, so that a UE is able to move
between nearby such hierarchies without loss of sidelink service. However,
since it is possible that a gNB/eNB does not itself have synchronization to
GNSS, use of Levels 4-6 can be disabled when GNSS is used as Level 1, so that
there is no deviation from the hierarchy being derived from GNSS.
#### 6.2.2.2 S-SSB and SLSS
S-PSS and S-SSS use the same types of sequence as NR PSS and SSS respectively,
i.e. an _M_ -sequence and a Gold sequence. When in use, both sequences are
transmitted in 127 subcarriers of the S-SSB bandwidth, in the same slots as
PSBCH. S-PSS is in the 2nd and 3rd symbols of the slot, S-SSS is in the 4th
and 5th symbols, and PSBCH and its DMRS in each of the remaining symbols. The
two symbols of each synchronization signal are the same, which allows
detectors to benefit from phase tracking between the two symbols. Figure
6.2.2.2-1 shows the contents of a slot containing S-SSB, the frequency
location of which is (pre-)configured.
{width="5.31496062992126in" height="1.889763779527559in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: Contents of a slot containing S-SSB for normal CP. Each
PSBCH symbol contains DMRS.
The MIB-V2X is transmitted on PSBCH every 160 ms, and thus S-SSB occurs on the
same period. Within a period, there can be multiple transmissions of S-SSB,
with the number depending on subcarrier spacing and frequency range. For
details refer to TS 38.213 [18, clause 16.1].
##### 6.2.2.2.1 SLSSID
The SLSSID itself conveys information about the synchronization source of the
transmitting UE. In general, the further a UE is away from a high-quality
source of GNSS or gNB/eNB, the lower quality will be its own synchronization
and thus the quality of an SLSS it transmits. There are a series of
association rules among SLSS IDs, designed to allow the identification, and
propagation through the system of, high-quality synchronization sources. The
operation of this procedure is essentially the same as LTE-V2X, described in
Clause 5.1.2.2.1, with the main difference that there are 672 SLSS IDs in
NR-V2X, divided into 0, 1, ..., 335 for in-coverage indication and 336, ...,
671 for out-of-coverage indication. The special SLSS IDs of 0, 336, and 337 in
NR-V2X are used equivalently to 0, 168, and 169 respectively in LTE-V2X.
### 6.2.3 Sidelink CSI
To provide the Tx UE with information it can use for sidelink link adaptation
and rank adaptation in unicast transmissions, the Tx UE can configure
aperiodic sidelink CSI reporting from the Rx UE. CQI and RI are reported via
MAC layer signalling, in a PSSCH transmission. Calculation of the reported
values is performed on sidelink CSI-RS from the Tx UE, which are a simplified
subset of the Uu CSI-RS design, suitable for 1 or 2 antenna ports. The CSI
report is transmitted by the Rx UE within a latency bound that is configured
via PC5-RRC by the Tx UE, to ensure the report is timely with respect to the
latency characteristic of the Tx UE\'s data traffic. The Tx UE must wait to
trigger the next CSI report from a given Rx UE until the preceding report has
been received, or its latency bound has expired.
### 6.2.4 Sidelink HARQ
NR-V2X supports HARQ based on transmission of ACK/NACK (or DTX) for sidelink
unicast and groupcast services, as well as a NACK-only HARQ scheme particular
to groupcast services. In addition, it supports blind re-transmission schemes,
which are described in clauses 6.3.2.1 and 6.3.2.2 on resource allocation
modes 1 and 2, respectively.
When ACK/NACK (or DTX) operation is used, the sidelink HARQ procedure is
similar to the Uu scheme for non-codeblock group feedback, i.e. the HARQ
feedback is transmitted based on the success or failure of the whole transport
block.
NACK-only operation is defined for groupcast to allow a potentially lower
sidelink resource demand to be created when a larger number of Rx UEs need to
send feedback to the same Tx UE. A typical use case is an extended sensors
scenario where UEs within a given radius all receive the same sensor
information from the Tx UE, and re-transmission will occur if any UE fails to
decode successfully. Since such information may only be relevant within a
given radius around the Tx UE (e.g. a few tens or hundreds of meters around a
road junction), the transmission of NACK-only feedback can be restricted to
UEs within such a radius, and any UE beyond it does not provide any HARQ
feedback. The minimum range requirement of a service is provided together with
the associated QoS parameters from service layers.
One bit of sidelink HARQ feedback is carried on PSFCH from an Rx UE to its Tx
UE. In addition, when under the control of a gNB in resource allocation mode
1, the Tx UE informs the gNB via PUCCH or PUSCH of the status of the sidelink
HARQ feedback it has computed related to a particular dynamic or configured
grant to assist the scheduling of re-transmissions and allocation of sidelink
resources.
### 6.2.5 In-device coexistence between LTE-V2X and NR-V2X sidelinks
It is envisaged that there will exist devices that support both LTE-V2X and
NR-V2X, and which will be operating in both systems concurrently. If the two
RATs are widely spaced in frequency, e.g. being in different bands, then there
need be no particular issues to consider since it is assumed that a separate
RF chain will be provided for each band.
If, however, a sufficiently close frequency spacing is deployed, then it is
desirable to enable a single RF chain to be used in the implementation, and
also to adhere to the sidelink half-duplex principle established in LTE-V2X,
i.e. that the UE is not required to simultaneously transmit and receive on
sidelink. The former constraint means that interference between the two RATs\'
receptions can occur in the device if they are placed sufficiently close
together in the frequency domain, and that simultaneous transmission on both
RATs is prevented by the UE\'s single power budget. The latter constraint
implies that one RAT cannot be received/transmitted while the other RAT is
doing the opposite.
It is possible to (pre)-configure the resource pools for the two sidelinks
such that overlapping is avoided entirely. When this is not arranged, the
general rule is that (at least) one of the RATs may be dropped at times when
both occur simultaneously, but that in some cases where the priority of the
V2X service on both RATs is known, the higher priority one is automatically
selected:
\- Receive/receive overlap handling is always left to UE implementation
decision.
\- Transmit/transmit overlap handling and transmit/receive overlap handling
will automatically select the RAT with the highest priority service if both
priorities are known. If the priorities are equal or not both known, the
handling is left to UE implementation to decide.
In the above rules, the priority of transmission and reception of sidelink
synchronization signals/channels is set by (pre-)configuration and that of
PSFCH is the same as the corresponding PSSCH.
### 6.2.6 Concurrent operation
NR-V2X operation is defined in bands n38 and n47 in TS 38.101-1 [22, clause
5.2E], which support single-carrier operation:
Table 6.2.6-1: NR-V2X operating bands
* * *
V2X Operating Band Sidelink (SL) Transmission operating band Sidelink (SL)
Reception operating band Duplex Mode Interface  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
n38^1^ 2570 MHz - 2620 MHz 2570 MHz - 2620 MHz HD PC5 n47 5855 MHz - 5925 MHz
5855 MHz - 5925 MHz HD PC5 Note 1: When this band is used for V2X SL service,
the band is exclusively used for NR V2X in particular regions.
* * *
The NR-V2X sidelink in band n47 can be operated concurrently with Uu band n71.
## 6.3 V2X sidelink resource allocation
### 6.3.1 Sidelink bandwidth parts and resource pools
#### 6.3.1.1 Sidelink bandwidth parts
BWPs are defined for the sidelink in a similar way as for UL/DL, to provide a
convenient way to specify aspects relating to a UEs RF hardware chain
implementation. A UE is configured with one active sidelink BWP when in
connected mode to a gNB, which is the same as the single sidelink BWP used for
idle mode or out-of-coverage operation.
The subcarrier spacing used on sidelink is provided in the sidelink BWP
(pre-)configuration, from the same set of values and associations to frequency
ranges as for the Uu interface (i.e. 15, 30, or 60 kHz for FR1; and 60 or 120
kHz for FR2). Sidelink transmission and reception for a UE are thus contained
within a sidelink BWP, and the same sidelink BWP is used for both transmitting
and receiving. This means that resource pools, S-SSB, etc. must also be
contained within an appropriate sidelink BWP from the UE\'s perspective.
#### 6.3.1.2 Resource pools
PSCCH and PSSCH resources are defined within resource pools for the respective
channels. This concept is used because in general PSCCH/PSSCH cannot be
transmitted (and thus are not expected to be received) in all RBs and slots in
the NR system bandwidth, nor within the frequency span configured for V2X
sidelink. The notion of a resource pool also reflects, in resource allocation
mode 2, that a UE will make its resource selections based on sensing within
the pool.
A resource pool is divided into sub-channels in the frequency domain, which
are consecutively non-overlapping sets of ≥10 PRBs in a slot, the size
depending on (pre-)configuration. Resource allocation, sensing, and resource
selection are performed in units of a sub-channel. The UE\'s PSCCH occupies a
(pre-)configurable number of PRBs within one sub-channel, starting from the
lowest PRB of the PSSCH it schedules.
Within the slots that can be used for PSSCH transmission, there can be from 7
to 14 of the symbols reserved for sidelink operation, of which PSSCH can be
transmitted in 5 to 12 symbols. The remaining sidelink symbols transmit some
or all of PSCCH, PSFCH, AGC symbol(s), guard symbol(s). Refer to Figure
6.2.1-1 for examples of slot formats.
Resource pools are (pre-)configured to a UE separately from the transmission
perspective (TX pools) and the reception perspective (RX pools). This allows a
UE to monitor for PSCCH, and hence receive PSSCH transmissions, in resource
pools other than those in which it transmits, so that it can attempt to
receive transmissions made by other UEs in those RX pools.
In addition, there are exceptional resource pools configured to a UE, in its
serving cell\'s broadcast or in dedicated signalling. These can be used e.g.
during RLF in some cases, handover, transition from RRC IDLE to RRC CONNECTED,
or during change of dedicated V2X sidelink resource pools within a cell. In
these cases, a UE may not have a stable configuration of TX resource pools but
nevertheless should not be removed from the V2X system, and so it can randomly
select resources in the exceptional pool, and use them temporarily. Likewise,
UEs need to monitor the exceptional TX pools for PSCCH transmissions.
#### 6.3.2 Resource allocation modes
#### 6.3.2.1 Mode 1
Mode 1 is for resource allocation by gNB. As described in Clause 4, the use
cases intended for NR V2X can generate a diverse array of periodic and
aperiodic message types. Therefore, resource allocation mode 1 provides
dynamic grants of sidelink resources from a gNB, as well as grants of periodic
sidelink resources configured semi-statically by RRC, termed sidelink
configured grants.
A dynamic sidelink grant DCI can provide resources for one or multiple
transmissions of a transport block, in order to allow control of reliability.
The transmission(s) can be subject to the sidelink HARQ procedure, if that
operation is enabled.
A sidelink configured grant can be such that it is configured once and can be
used by the UE immediately, until it is released by RRC signalling (known as
Type 1). A UE is allowed to continue using this type of sidelink configured
grant when beam failure or physical layer problems occur in NR Uu until an RLF
detection timer expires, before falling back to an exception resource pool.
The other type of sidelink configured grant, known as Type 2, is configured
once but cannot be used until the gNB sends the UE a DCI indicating it is now
active, and only until another DCI indicates de-activation. The resources in
both types are a set of sidelink resources recurring with a periodicity which
a gNB will desire to match to the characteristics of the V2X traffic. Multiple
configured grants can be configured, to allow provision for different
services, traffic types, etc.
MCS information for dynamic and configured grants can optionally be provided
or constrained by RRC signalling instead of the traditional DCI. RRC can
configure the exact MCS the Tx UE uses, or a range of MCS. It may also be left
unconfigured. For the cases where RRC does not provide the exact MCS, the
transmitting UE is left to select an appropriate MCS itself based on the
knowledge it has of the TB to be transmitted and, potentially, the sidelink
radio conditions.
The gNB scheduling activity is driven by the UE reporting its sidelink traffic
characteristics to the gNB, or by performing a sidelink BSR procedure similar
to that on Uu to request a sidelink resource allocation from gNB.
#### 6.3.2.2 Mode 2
Mode 2 is for UE autonomous resource selection. Its basic structure is of a UE
sensing, within a (pre-)configured resource pool, which resources are not in
use by other UEs with higher-priority traffic, and choosing an appropriate
amount of such resources for its own transmissions. Having selected such
resources, the UE can transmit and re-transmit in them a certain number of
times, or until a cause of resource reselection is triggered.
The mode 2 sensing procedure can select and then reserve resources for a
variety of purposes reflecting that NR V2X introduces sidelink HARQ in support
of unicast and groupcast in the physical layer. It may reserve resources to be
used for a number of blind (re-)transmissions or HARQ-feedback-based
(re-)transmissions of a transport block, in which case the resources are
indicated in the SCI(s) scheduling the transport block. Alternatively, it may
select resources to be used for the initial transmission of a later transport
block, in which case the resources are indicated in an SCI scheduling a
current transport block, in a manner similar to the LTE-V2X scheme (clause
5.2.2.2). Finally, an initial transmission of a transport block can be
performed after sensing and resource selection, but without a reservation.
The first-stage SCIs transmitted by UEs on PSCCH indicate the time-frequency
resources in which the UE will transmit a PSSCH. These SCI transmissions are
used by sensing UEs to maintain a record of which resources have been reserved
by other UEs in the recent past. When a resource selection is triggered (e.g.
by traffic arrival or a re-selection trigger), the UE considers a sensing
window which starts a (pre-)configured time in the past and finishes shortly
before the trigger time. The window can be either 1100 ms or 100 ms wide, with
the intention that the 100 ms option is particularly useful for aperiodic
traffic, and 1100 ms particularly for periodic traffic. A sensing UE also
measures the SL-RSRP in the slots of the sensing window, which implies the
level of interference which would be caused and experienced if the sensing UE
were to transmit in them. In NR-V2X, SL-RSRP is a (pre-)configurable
measurement of either PSSCH-RSRP or PSCCH-RSRP.
The sensing UE then selects resources for its (re-)transmission(s) from within
a resource selection window. The window starts shortly after the trigger for
(re-)selection of resources, and cannot be longer than the remaining latency
budget of the packet due to be transmitted. Reserved resources in the
selection window with SL-RSRP above a threshold are excluded from being
candidates by the sensing UE, with the threshold set according to the
priorities of the traffic of the sensing and transmitting UEs. Thus, a higher
priority transmission from a sensing UE can occupy resources which are
reserved by a transmitting UE with sufficiently low SL-RSRP and sufficiently
lower-priority traffic.
If the set of resources in the selection window which have not been excluded
is less than a certain proportion of the available resources within the
window, the SL-RSRP exclusion threshold is relaxed in 3 dB steps. The
proportion is set by (pre-)configuration to 20%, 35%, or 50% for each traffic
priority. The UE selects an appropriate amount of resources randomly from this
non-excluded set. The resources selected are not in general periodic. Up to
three resources can be indicated in each SCI transmission, which can each be
independently located in time and frequency. When the indicated resources are
for semi-persistent transmission of another transport block, the range of
supported periodicities is expanded compared to LTE-V2X, in order to cover the
broader set of envisioned use cases in NR-V2X.
Shortly before transmitting in a reserved resource, a sensing UE re-evaluates
the set of resources from which it can select, to check whether its intended
transmission is still suitable, taking account of late-arriving SCIs due,
typically, to an aperiodic higher-priority service starting to transmit after
the end of the original sensing window. If the reserved resources would not be
part of the set for selection at this time (_T_ 3), then new resources are
selected from the updated resource selection window. The cut-off time _T_ 3 is
long enough before transmission to allow the UE to perform the calculations
relating to resource re-selection.
The timeline of the sensing and resource (re-)selection windows with respect
to the time of trigger _n_ , are shown in Figure 6.3.2.2-2(a), and the effect
of the possibility of re-evaluation before first use of the reservation in
Figure 6.3.2.2-2(b).
There are a number of triggers for resource re-selection, several of which are
similar to LTE-V2X in Clause 5.2.2.2. In addition, there is the possibility to
configure a resource pool with a pre-emption function designed to help
accommodate aperiodic sidelink traffic, so that a UE reselects all the
resources it has already reserved in a particular slot if another nearby UE
with higher priority indicates it will transmit in any of them, implying a
high-priority aperiodic traffic arrival at the other UE, and the SL-RSRP is
above the exclusion threshold. The application of pre-emption can apply
between all priorities of data traffic, or only when the priority of the pre-
empting traffic is higher than a threshold and higher than that of the pre-
empted traffic. A UE does not need to consider the possibility of pre-emption
later than time _T_ 3 before the particular slot containing the reserved
resources.
{width="2.9305555555555554in" height="6.165277777777778in"}
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Summary of sensing and resource (re-)selection procedures
{width="5.905511811023622in" height="1.8385826771653544in"}
Figure 6.3.2.2-2(a): Timeline of sensing and resource (re-)selection procedure
triggered at time _n_ , without re-evaluation before (_m_ -_T_ 3). Its first
reserved resource is at time _m_.
{width="5.905511811023622in" height="1.295275590551181in"}
Figure 6.3.2.2-2(b): Timeline of sensing and resource (re-)selection procedure
originally triggered at time _n_ , which has a first reserved resource at time
_m,_ when re-evaluation occurring at _m_ -_T_ 3 determines the resources are
no longer selectable. The new re-evaluation cut-off becomes (_m_ \'-_T_ 3).
## 6.4 Sidelink congestion control
Congestion control for NR-V2X is similar to that described in Clause 5.3 for
LTE-V2X, and it likewise is used in resource allocation mode 2 in NR. The main
differences are that each packet is associated with a single \'priority\'
value, passed down to the physical layer from upper layers, which is
comparable to PPPP in LTE-V2X. The priority value is transmitted in the first-
stage SCI associated with each transport block. Broadly equivalent
measurements of CBR and CR, together with CR-limits are defined, which can be
used similarly to constrain the ranges of transmission parameters. NR V2X sets
a shorter time of 1 ms or 2 ms in which the UE must calculate the CR and CBR
than LTE-V2X\'s 4 ms, with the aim of adapting to faster fluctuations in
congestion due to aperiodic traffic.
## 6.5 V2X sidelink higher-layer protocols
### 6.5.1 General
Figure 6.5.1-1 shows the user plane protocol stack for NR sidelink
communication. The AS protocol stack of user plane in the PC5 interface
consists of SDAP, PDCP, RLC, MAC, and the physical layer as shown below in
Figure 6.5.1-1, from TS 38.300 [20, Clause 16.9.2.1].
Figure 6.5.1-1: Uuser plane protocol stack for STCH.
Figure 6.5.1-2 shows the control plane protocol stack for SCCH for RRC for NR
sidelink communication. The AS protocol stack of the control plane for SCCH
for RRC in the PC5 interface consists of RRC, PDCP, RLC, MAC and the physical
layer as shown below in Figure 6.5.1-2, from TS 38.300 [20, Clause 16.9.2.1].
Figure 6.5.1-2: Control plane (PC5-C) protocol stack for SCCH for RRC.
Figure 6.5.1-3 shows the control plane protocol stack for PC-S. PC5-S is
located on top of PDCP, RLC and MAC sublayers, and the physical layer for the
control plane in the PC5 interface as shown in Figure 6.5.1-3, from TS 38.300
[20, Clause 16.9.2.1].
Figure 6.5.1-3: Control plane (PC5-C) protocol stack for SCCH for PC5-S.
The AS protocol stack for SBCCH in the PC5 interface consists of RRC, RLC, MAC
sublayers, and the physical layer as shown below in Figure 6.5.1-4, from TS
38.300 [20, Clause 16.9.2.1].
Figure 6.5.1-4: Control plane protocol stack for SBCCH.
### 6.5.2 Measurement and reporting related to NR sidelink communication
Some measurement and reporting mechanisms are supported specifically for NR
sidelink communication, including CBR measurement and reporting to NG-RAN,
reporting of location information to NG-RAN, and L3-filtered RSRP measurement
and reporting in PC5 interface.
To provide some information to assist network\'s scheduling and/or
transmission parameter adjustment, CBR measurement and reporting is performed
for the RRC_CONNECTED UEs.
To provide the Tx UE with information it can use for open loop power control
in unicast transmissions, the Rx UE can perform RSRP measurement based on DMRS
and report the L3-filtered RSRP to the Tx UE.
Details of the measurement and reporting mechanism specific for NR sidelink
communication are specified in TS 38.331 [17, clause 5.5].
### 6.5.3 Mobility management for NR SL transmission/reception
UE can perform NR sidelink transmission and reception during handover and cell
reselection. During handover, sidelink transmission and reception are
performed based on configuration of the exceptional transmission resource pool
or configured sidelink grant Type 1 and reception resource pool of the target
cell as provided in the handover command.
Related details are specified in TS 38.331 [17, clause 5.8.8].
### 6.5.4 Assistance information and SL configured grant configuration
NG-RAN can allocate sidelink resources to UE with two types of configured
sidelink grants (Type 1 and Type 2). For the UE performing NR sidelink
communication, there can be more than one configured sidelink grant activated
at a time on the carrier configured for sidelink transmission.
To provide assistant information for the configuration of configured grant, UE
assistance information on traffic pattern can be reported to the network. The
periodicity, time offset, message size, QoS info and destination can be
included in the reporting message.
### 6.5.5 Coordination between UL and NR SL transmission
NR-UL/NR-SL prioritization is performed when the following scenarios occur:
\- when UL TX overlaps in time domain with SL TX in the shared/same carrier
frequency;
\- when UL TX and SL TX (in different carrier frequency) share TX chains and
power budget;
To support NR-UL/NR-SL prioritization, a separate LCH priority threshold is
configured for both NR-UL and NR-SL. For SL data and UL data/SRB, the SL
transmission is prioritized if the highest priority value of UL LCH(s) with
available data is larger than the UL priority threshold and the highest
priority value of SL LCH(s) with available data is lower than the SL priority
threshold, otherwise the UL transmission is prioritized. Details of the
prioritization between UL transmission and NR sidelink transmission are
specified in TS 38.321 [21, clause 5.22.1.3].
The physical layer also provides prioritization and multiplexing rules between
NR UL and NR SL when their transmissions would overlap, using rules similar to
those from the Uu interface and relying on the priorities of the respective
transmissions.
### 6.5.6 QoS mechanism
For NR sidelink communication, per flow based QoS model is used for sidelink
unicast, groupcast and broadcast.
For RRC_CONNECTED UEs, the UE may report the QoS information of the PC5 QoS
flow via RRC dedicated signalling for transmission of a new PC5 QoS flow, and
the network may provide SLRB configurations and configure the mapping of PC5
QoS flow to SLRB via RRC dedicated signalling, based on the QoS information
reported by the UE.
For RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE UEs, the network may provide SLRB configurations and
configure the PC5 QoS profile to SLRB mapping via V2X-specific SIB.
For out of coverage UEs, SLRB configurations and the mapping of PC5 QoS
profile to SLRB are pre-configured._._
### 6.5.7 Sidelink RRC
For unicast NR sidelink communication, the PC5-RRC connection is a logical
connection between a pair of source and destination L2 IDs.
The AS layer configuration including the parameters which need to be aligned
between Tx UE and Rx UE can be conveyed via PC5 RRC signalling. In case AS
layer configuration fails, both explicit failure message and timer based
indication can be considered to be used to indicate the failure to the peer
UE.
UE capability can be interacted between pair UEs via PC5 RRC. A UE can send
Capability Enquiry message to request peer UE\'s capability along with its own
capability information. When to include its own capabilities is up to UE
implementation.
Moreover, SL RLM/RLF is supported for unicast NR sidelink communication. Upon
RL RLF declaration, the UE releases the PC5 RRC connection immediately and
sends an indication to upper layer. For RRC_CONNECTED UEs, the UE also informs
the network via sidelink UE information upon RLF is detected.
Details of the sidelink RRC procedures for NR sidelink communication are
specified in TS 38.331 [17, clause 5.8.9].
## 6.6 V2X via the Uu interface
Some advanced V2X services are provided by an application server residing in
the Internet which processes information received from the UE and issues
instructions back to control the vehicle. Such applications can allow a remote
driver or a V2X application to operate a remote vehicle for those passengers
who cannot drive themselves. Other services, termed advanced driving, can
incorporate video sharing among vehicles via an application server. In such
applications, the communication is UE to/from the server via a cellular
network\'s NR Uu interface.
Therefore, the Uu interface can activate multiple PUSCH configured grants
(which are periodical resource grants configured by RRC, similar to LTE SPS in
clause 5.5) simultaneously so that traffic sources with different requirements
on latency, reliability, etc. can be handled at the same time. It is also
possible for a PUSCH configured grant to send more than one PUSCH repetition
in a slot or across a slot boundary, for the purpose of reducing UL latency.
## 6.7 Network aspects
### 6.7.1 V2X service authorization
Similarly as LTE V2X, the NG-RAN node receives the authorization status of the
UE provided by a Core Network or a neighbour NG-RAN node, to know whether the
UE is authorized as a Vehicle UE and/or a Pedestrian UE. Only the authorized
UEs can perform V2X sidelink communication. Sidelink radio resources are
provided to UEs in different ways according to the different services
supported.
### 6.7.2 Alternative QoS Profiles
A list of alternative QoS parameter sets may be provided additionally for a
GBR QoS Flow with Notification control enabled by the SMF to the NG-RAN node,
or by the source NG-RAN node to the target NG-RAN node during handover.
The NG-RAN node, or the target NG-RAN node during handover, checks the
requested QoS profile and the list of alternative QoS parameter sets. If one
of the alternative QoS parameter sets can be fulfilled, it then indicates a
reference to the fulfilled alternative QoS parameters set to the SMF and/or
the source NG-RAN node.
# 7 Multi-RAT V2X
## 7.1 Cross-RAT operation
It is envisaged that NR-V2X and LTE-V2X will be at least initially deployed in
similar timeframes, and also during a time when MNOs may have either or both
of NR and LTE cellular networks available. An optional UE design response to
this is supported where a device has both an LTE-V2X RAT and an NR-V2X RAT
which are able to inter-communicate. This would enable the UE to perform
sidelink communications with other UEs which implement only one of the
sidelinks, and to do so whether they are in a cellular network of LTE or NR.
Hence, for example, an LTE cellular network can be involved in controlling the
NR sidelink via such dual-mode UEs, and an NR cellular network can similarly
be involved in controlling LTE sidelink UEs.
LTE Uu can control NR resource allocation mode 1 by providing configured grant
Type 1 configurations via LTE RRC signalling. This allows provision of
periodically occurring sets of NR resources for the NR sidelink -- see Clause
6.3.2.1. Control of NR resource allocation mode 2 is by LTE Uu RRC providing
the semi-static configurations relevant to resource pools, sensing, etc.
within which the NR-V2X RAT autonomously selects resources for sidelink
transmission.
NR Uu can control LTE resource allocation mode 3 by transmitting an NR DCI
which contains the information needed to dynamically control the LTE sidelink.
The UE transfers this information internally to its LTE RAT, for which a
certain amount of processing time is allowed, and then follows normal LTE
sidelink procedures. Control of LTE resource allocation mode 4 is by NR Uu RRC
providing the necessary semi-static configurations within which the LTE-V2X
RAT autonomously selects resources for sidelink transmission.
Two separate sets of information for V2X services authorization can be
signalled, i.e., the NR V2X Services Authorized IE, and the LTE V2X Services
Authorized IE. These can be provided over the NG, S1, Xn, X2, and F1
interfaces, from the Core Network to the RAN node, between RAN nodes, and from
gNB-CU to gNB-DU.
## 7.2 MR-DC
The scenarios for LTE V2X sidelink communication and NR sidelink communication
are captured in the following figures. The scenarios can be categorized into
standalone and MR-DC scenarios, according to TS 37.340 [19], regarding the
architecture.
Figure 7.2-1, Figure 7.2-2 and Figure 7.2-3 illustrate the standalone
scenarios to support LTE V2X sidelink communication and NR sidelink
communication. Particularly:
1) In scenario 1, a gNB provides control/configuration for a UE\'s V2X
communication in both LTE SL and NR SL;
2) In scenario 2, an ng-eNB provides control/configuration for a UE\'s V2X
communication in both LTE SL and NR SL;
3) In scenario 3, an eNB provides control/configuration for a UE\'s V2X
communication in both LTE SL and NR SL.
{width="1.8256944444444445in" height="1.9305555555555556in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Scenario 1
{width="1.8256944444444445in" height="1.9416666666666667in"}
Figure 7.2-2: Scenario 2
{width="1.8256944444444445in" height="1.9416666666666667in"}
Figure 7.2-3: Scenario 3
Figure 7.2-4, Figure 7.2-5 and Figure 7.2-6 illustrate the MR-DC scenarios to
support LTE V2X sidelink communication and NR sidelink communication. For the
MR-DC scenario, MN controlling/configuring both NR SL and LTE SL in Scenarios
4, 5 and 6 is covered by Scenarios 1, 2 and 3 respectively. Particularly:
1) In scenario 4, a UE\'s V2X communication in LTE SL and NR SL is
controlled/configured by Uu while the UE is configured with NE-DC;
2) In scenario 5, a UE\'s V2X communication in LTE SL and NR SL is
controlled/configured by Uu while the UE is configured in NGEN-DC;
3) In scenario 6, a UE\'s V2X communication in LTE SL and NR SL is
controlled/configured by Uu while the UE is configured in EN-DC.
{width="1.9881944444444444in" height="1.9416666666666667in"}
Figure 7.2-4: Scenario 4
{width="1.9881944444444444in" height="1.9416666666666667in"}
Figure 7.2-5: Scenario 5
{width="1.8256944444444445in" height="1.9416666666666667in"}
Figure 7.2-6: Scenario 6
# 8 Transmission profiles
LTE-V2X was developed over the course of two 3GPP Releases, Rel-14 and Rel-15.
In Rel-15, non-backward compatible changes to physical transmission formats
were introduced, primarily to support the use of 64-QAM on PSSCH compared to
the maximum of 16-QAM in Rel-14. Such transmissions cannot be decoded by
Rel-14 UEs. However, on sidelink, a transmitting UE cannot know the Release of
specifications supported by the UEs which will receive the PSSCH transmission,
since the transmission is broadcast in the physical layer. Therefore, the
concept of transmission profiles was introduced, which associates to each
transmission by a Rel-15 UE a (pre-)configuration of which Release\'s
transmission format to use. A transmitting UE performs transmission format
selection based on the profile indicated by higher layer of the 3GPP protocol
stack. If a Rel-14 format is indicated, then the transmission can be decoded
by both Releases of UE, whereas if Rel-15 format is indicated, it can be
decoded only by Rel-15 UEs. When a UE has traffic from different application
sources to transmit at the same time, the transmission profile associated with
the highest-priority traffic is applied. The association of transmission
profiles to traffic sources (specifically, logical channels) is provided by
3GPP protocol layers outside of RAN.
In the present Release of this TR, transmission profiles are not defined in
NR-V2X.
# 9 Pedestrian UE
As discussed in Clause 4, LTE-V2X includes communications between Pedestrian
LTE UEs and Vehicular LTE UEs, i.e. V2P. Whereas a vehicular LTE UE is assumed
to be attached the vehicle\'s power supply, and thus to have no particular
battery life concerns, the situation is different for a P-UE. A P-UE could be,
e.g. a conventional smartphone running suitable applications, or a specialised
device attached to a pedestrians clothing, etc. In either case, battery life
has to be considered so that the device will provide the LTE-V2P services for
a reasonable length of time without need of re-charging, and without imposing
such battery drain that LTE-V2P applications could become unattractive.
As described in Clause 5.2.2.2, a LTE-V2X UE performs sensing continuously in
a 1000 ms historical window, implying an amount of ongoing power consumption
due to the sensing procedure. It is allowed for a LTE P-UE to not support
sidelink reception, so that it is only broadcasting packets relating to its
own location and direction. This type of P-UE is allowed to select
transmission resources randomly, with no sensing procedure. For a LTE P-UE
which does support sidelink reception, it can be (pre-)configured to perform
partial sensing. In partial sensing, only a subset of the subframes in the
typically 1000 ms sensing window have to be monitored. The LTE UE
implementation can choose how few subframes it wishes to monitor, by trading
off the reliability of its transmissions with the power saving, subject to
monitoring a (pre-)configured minimum number. (Pre-)configuration can also set
how far into the past the sensing window extends, and can require that the UE
performs partial sensing in a number of these truncated sensing windows.
In the present Release of this TR, functions particular to Pedestrian UEs are
not defined in NR-V2X.
# 10 Roadside unit
The development of LTE and NR V2X contemplates three entities in the network:
base stations, i.e. eNBs and gNBs; UEs; and RSUs. An RSU is defined in TS
22.185 [6], TS 22.186 [7] as a stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X
applications that can exchange messages with other entities supporting V2X
applications. Note that RSU is a term frequently used in existing ITS
specifications, and the reason for introducing the term in the 3GPP
specifications is to make the documents easier to read for the ITS industry.
RSU is a logical entity that supports V2X application logic using the
functionality provided by either a 3GPP network (referred to as an eNB/gNB-
type RSU) or a UE (referred to as UE-type RSU).
Since an RSU is essentially only different from a eNB/gNB or UE in terms of
its deployment nature, e.g. it may be deployed by a national roads authority
instead of an MNO, there is no specification of features particular to RSUs.
They operate simply according to sidelink or UL/DL specifications as
appropriate.
#