# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document provides a mechanism giving reliable transfer of
signalling messages between the Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) and the data
base of a Visitors Location Register (VLR) for co-ordination between GSM
circuit switched services and GSM packet data services within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# Introduction
The present document specifies or references the necessary information to
provide a reliable transfer of signalling messages between the Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) and the Visitors Location Register (VLR). This reliable
transfer of messages is provided by the Network Service Part (NSP) of the
Signalling System No 7 (SS7). This documents specifies or references the
subset of MTP and SCCP to be used in the Gs interface.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies or references the subset of MTP and SCCP which
is used for the reliable transport of BSSAP+ messages in the Gs interface. The
present document references the 3GPP TS 29.202 which specifies alternative
transport layers that can be applied instead of the MTP. The present document
also specifies the SCCP addressing capabilities to be provided in the Gs
interface.
The present document is divided into two main parts, clause 5 dealing with the
use of MTP and clauses 6 and 7 dealing with the use of SCCP.
Clause 5 of the present document deals with the subset of the MTP that is
required between an SGSN and a VLR. It is intended that this implementation of
MTP is compatible with a full MTP implementation. Clause 4 references the 3GPP
TS 29.202 which specifies alternatives to the MTP.
The SCCP is used to provide message routing between the SGSN and the VLR. The
SCCP routing principles specified in the present document allow to connect one
SGSN to several VLR. No segmentation at SCCP level is needed on the Gs
interface. Only SCCP class 0 is used on the Gs interface. Clauses 6 and 7
identify the SCCP subset that should be used between an SGSN and an VLR.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] Void.
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 43.022: \"Functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode
and group receive mode\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC)
interface\".
[7] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile-services Switching Centre - Base Station System
(MSC - BSS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Base Station System
(BSS) - Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN); BSS GPRS Protocol (BSSGP)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 49.008: \"Application of the Base Station System Application Part
(BSSAP) on the E-interface\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.018: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) - Visitors Location Register (VLR); Gs interface Layer 3
specification\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation Q.711: \"Functional description of the signalling
connection control part\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation Q.712: \"Definition and function of signalling
connection control part messages\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713: \"Signalling connection control part formats
and codes\".
[16] ITU-T Recommendation Q.714: \"Signalling connection control part
procedures\".
[17] ITU-T Recommendation Q.702: \"Signalling data link\".
[18] ITU-T Recommendation Q.703: \"Signalling link\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation Q.704: \"Signalling network functions and
messages\".
[20] ITU-T Recommendation Q.707: \"Testing and maintenance\".
[21] ANSI T1.111 (1996):\"Signalling System No. 7 (SS7); Message Transfer
Part\".
[22] ANSI T1.112 (1996): \"Signalling System No. 7 (SS7); Signalling
Connection Control Part Functional Description\".
[41] 3GPP TS 29.202: \"Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) signalling transport in
core network; Stage 3\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[23] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of telecommunication services supported by a
GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[24] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[26] Void.
[27] Void.
[28] 3GPP TS 43.064: \"Overall description of the GPRS Radio interface; Stage
2\".
[29] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM - UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
[30] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[31] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[32] 3GPP TS 44.065: \"Mobile Station (MS) - Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN);
Subnetwork Dependent Convergence Protocol (SNDCP)\".
[33] 3GPP TS 48.060: \"Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) and full rate traffic channels.\"
[34] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp Interface\".
[35] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting Packet Based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[36] Void.
[37] Void.
[38] Void.
[39] Void.
[40] Void.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Unless listed below, the definitions, symbols and abbreviations are listed in
3GPP TR 21.905 and 3GPP TS 23.060.
# 4 Configuration of the Gs interface
The Gs interface connects the Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) to the Visitors
Location Register (VLR). This interface is defined in the 64 kbit/s for E1
interface and for 64 kbit/s or 56 kbit/s for T1 interface boundary of an SGSN
to a VLR or of a VLR to an SGSN. The configuration of the Gs interface shall
not impose any restriction on the number of VLRs or SGSNs to be connected by
the Gs interface. The Gs interface definition shall support an early
implementation of GPRS when one SGSN may be connected to several VLRs or a
more mature implementation when several SGSNs may be connected to one VLR.
Therefore the interface shall support the use of an STP.
The level of resilience in the Gs interface is determined by the operator,
however it is recommended that the operator considers the use of more than one
multiplex system between the SGSN and the VLR. Each multiplex system should be
used to carry one signalling link and routing diversity should be provided
among the signalling links to increase the resilience of the system.
## 4.1 Use of Protocol Stacks
BSSAP+ shall be transported over SCCP and the transport layers specified in
3GPP TS 29.202. The protocol stack is shown in figure 4.1.
When MTP is used to transport BSSAP+ then the conformance rules specified in
clause 5 shall apply.
+----------------------------------+ | BSSAP+ | +----------------------------------+ | SCCP | +----------------------------------+ | Transport layers as specified in | | | | 3GPP TS 29.202 | +----------------------------------+
Figure 4.1: Protocol stack for the transportation of BSSAP+
# 5 Conformance to message transfer part (MTP)
## 5.1 General
The MTP functions as specified in ITU-T Recommendations Q.702, Q.703, Q.704
and Q.707 for E1 interface and ANSI T1.111 Recommendations for the T1
interface are applicable. However, the following subclauses provide a minimum
set of MTP requirements that shall be implemented at a SGSN or VLR to support
the functionality required by the BSSAP+ protocol in the Gs interface. The set
of exceptions and modifications to those recommendations maintain
compatibility with the implementation of a full specification of the MTP. The
ITU-T recommendations for E1 interface and ANSI recommendation for T1
interface concerning the MTP shall be taken as requirements unless covered by
a statement in the present document.
## 5.2 MTP Level 1
The MTP level 1 exceptions and modifications to ITU-T Recommendation Q.702 and
ANSI T1.111 Recommendation can be found in 3GPP TS 48.006 subclause 3.2.
## 5.3 MTP Level 2
### 5.3.1 MTP Level 2 for E1 Interface
The MTP level 2 exceptions and modifications to ITU-T Recommendation Q.703 are
listed below.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.703, subclause 1.4:
\- Only the basic error correction protocol is required.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.703, clause 6:
\- Not applicable, only basic error correction is required.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.703, clause 7:
\- Both the SGSN and the VLR may apply the emergency proving period or the
normal proving period in the initial alignment procedure. If all the
signalling links between the two entities are unavailable then the SGSN or the
VLR shall apply the emergency proving period until one signalling link becomes
available.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.703, clause 8:
\- The processor outage status indicator shall be recognised at the SGSN and
the VLR and the procedures defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.703 clause 8
supported. The SGSN and the VLR should support the generation of the processor
outage indication towards the peer entity if this is appropriate.
### 5.3.2 MTP Level 2 for T1 Interface
The MTP level 2 exceptions and modifications to ANSI T1.111.3 are listed
below.
\- ANSI T1.111.3, subclause 1.4:
\- Only the basic error correction protocol is required (subclause 1.4.3 is
not required).
\- ANSI T1.111.3, clause 6:
\- Not applicable, only basic error correction is required.
\- ANSI T1.111.3, clause 7:
\- Both the SGSN and the VLR may apply the emergency proving period or the
normal proving period in the initial alignment procedure. If all the
signalling links between the two entities are unavailable the SGSN or the VLR
shall apply the emergency proving period until one signalling link becomes
available.
\- ANSI T1.111.3, clause 8:
\- The processor outage status indicator shall be recognised at the SGSN and
the procedures defined in ANSI T1.111.3 clause 8 supported. The SGSN and the
VLR shall support the generation of the processor outage indication towards
the peer entity if this is appropriate.
## 5.4 MTP Level 3
### 5.4.1 MTP Level 3 for E1 Interface
The Gs interface may be configured as a point to point interface or may use an
intermediate SS7 network. In this last case an SGSN or a VLR may act always as
end points of the Gs interface (SP functionality) or may be configured to act
as an transfer point between a VLR and an SGSN (SP and STP functionality). The
MTP level 3 exceptions and modifications to ITU-T Recommendation Q.704 are
listed regarding whether the SGSN and the VLR are connected by a point to
point link or are configured to act as SPs in an SS7 network or if they
support STP functionality.
Subclause 5.4.1.1 applies to all configurations of the Gs interface. In
subclause 5.4.1.2 the exceptions and modifications to ITU-T Recommendation
Q.704 are listed depending upon the configuration of the Gs interface, whether
it is a point to point interface or the SGSN and VLR act as an SP only or as
SP and STP. Subclause 5.4.1.3 provides points of clarification about the ITU-T
Recommendation Q.704.
#### 5.4.1.1 General clauses
The MTP level 3 exceptions and modifications to ITU-T Recommendation Q.704
regardless of whether the SGSN supports STP functionality are listed below.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 2.3.5:
\- Either of the two methods of congestion control is acceptable. The most
appropriate method is dependent on national ITU-T No. 7 implementations.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 2.4:
\- The signalling point code for an SGSN may be included in the national
signalling point code scheme or in a separate signalling network.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.8.2:
\- There are two acceptable methods of congestion control defined in ITU-T
Recommendation Q.704, in subclauses 3.8.2.1 a) and b). The most appropriate
method is dependent on national ITU-T No. 7 implementations. Each
administration should specify its congestion threshold setting algorithm and
nodal congestion abatement procedures at system procurement.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 12:
\- Only basic link management procedures are required.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 14.2.1:
\- Since all messages are passed using the SCCP, the service indicator for Gs
interface operation will be:
bits D C B A
0 0 1 1
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 14.2.2:
\- The sub service field for Gs interface operation will always be set to one
of the following values:
bits D C
1 0 national network
1 1 local network
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 15:
\- The formats and codes listed are only relevant to the messages that are
required, i.e. those not excluded in the rest of this recommendation.
#### 5.4.1.2 Configuration dependent clauses
The MTP level 3 exceptions and modifications to ITU-T Recommendation Q.704 are
permitted if the SGSN or the VLR does not support STP functionality are listed
below.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 1.1.2:
\- If the Gs interface is configured as a point to point interface, then there
will be no signalling network management features which need to be considered.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 2:
\- If STP functionality is not required the discrimination function of the MTP
used for GPRS application can be significantly simplified.
NOTE: If the implementation of this interface is for point to point
application the routing function within the MTP will be present to select the
point code appropriate to the parent VLR.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 2.3:
\- If the implementation of the Gs interface is point to point, load sharing
between linksets is not required since there will only be one linkset between
SGSN and VLR.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 2.4:
\- At an SGSN or VLR that does not implement STP functionality, only messages
with a correctly checking DPC will be accepted. Others will be discarded. It
is recommended that discarding a message because of an incorrectly set point
code causes an incident report to be generated.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.1.3 c):
\- In a point to point configuration there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.3.2.3:
\- In a point to point configuration there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.3.3.3:
\- In a point to point configuration there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.3.4.3:
\- In a point to point configuration there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.4.3:
\- Not applicable if no STP functionality is implemented by the SGSN or the
VLR.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.5.3:
\- Not applicable if no STP functionality is implemented by the SGSN or the
VLR.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.8.5.2:
\- The signalling-route-set-congestion-test procedure is not required.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 4.1.2:
\- In a point to point configuration signalling routes are not applicable.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 4.2:
\- The normal routing situation in a point to point configuration will be that
there are 1 or more signalling links available between a SGSN and VLR, these
will constitute a link set. They will be run in a load sharing mode and
changeover, changeback procedures will be supported between these signalling
links.
\- The normal routing situation if more than one route is available between
the SGSN and the VLR will be that the load sharing, changeover and changeback
procedures would be provided between signalling links within the same
signalling linkset and between signalling linksets.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 4.3.3:
\- There will be no alternative linkset in a point to point configuration of
the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 4.4.3:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 4.5:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 4.6:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 4.7:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 5:
\- Changeover between link sets is not applicable in a point to point
configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 6:
\- Changeback between link sets is not applicable in a point to point
configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 7:
\- Forced re-routing is not applicable if there is only one signalling route
existing between SGSN and VLR in a point to point configuration of the Gs
interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 8:
\- Not applicable if there is only one signalling route existing between SGSN
and VLR in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 13.2:
\- The transfer prohibited function is not applicable if the SGSN or the VLR
does not support STP functionality. At the reception of a TFP message, the
SGSN or VLR acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 13.3:
\- The transfer allowed function is not applicable if the SGSN or the VLR does
not support STP functionality. At the reception of a TFA-message, the SGSN or
VLR acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 13.4:
\- The transfer restricted function is not applicable if the SGSN or the VLR
does not support STP functionality. At the reception of the TFR message, the
SGSN or VLR acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 13.5:
\- The signalling-route-set-test procedure is not applicable.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclauses 13.6, 13.7 and 13.8:
\- The transfer controlled function is not applicable if the SGSN or the VLR
does not support STP functionality. At the reception of TFC message, the SGSN
or VLR acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 13.9:
\- The signalling route-set-congestion-test function is not required.
\- At the reception of signalling-route-set-congestion-test message no action
is required by the receiving entity.
#### 5.4.1.3 Informative clauses
A list of clarifications to ITU-T Recommendation Q.704 are listed below.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 2.3.4:
\- The load sharing procedures shall allow any value of the SLC field in the
MTP3 network management messages that are not related to a specific signalling
link. This allows compatibility between blue book implementations where only
the 0000 value is used and white book implementations where load sharing may
be applicable to network management messages
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.4.1:
\- It should be noted that for point to point working, the signalling route
will become unavailable when the associated link set fails.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.4.2:
\- It should be noted that for point to point working, the signalling route
will become available when the associated link set is restored.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.5.1:
\- It should be noted that for point to point working the procedures used in
connection with signalling route unavailability will be those specified for
signalling route set unavailability in ITU-T Recommendation Q.704 subclause
11.2.1.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, subclause 3.5.2:
\- It should be noted that for point to point interworking the procedures used
in connection with signalling route availability will be those specified for
signalling route set availability in ITU-T Recommendation Q.704 subclause
11.2.2.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 9:
\- The SGSN and the MSC/VLR shall implement the restart procedures specified
in ITU‑T Recommendation Q.704 (03/1993) MTP3. The restart procedure specified
in ITU‑T Recommendation Q.704 (11/1988) MTP3 shall not be used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.704, clause 11:
\- It should be noted that for point to point working the signalling route set
will consist of one associated signalling route only.
### 5.4.2 MTP Level 3 for T1 Interface
The Gs interface may be configured as a point to point interface or may use an
intermediate SS7 network. In this last case an SGSN or a VLR may act always as
end points of the Gs interface (SP functionality) or may be configured to act
as an transfer point between a VLR and an SGSN (SP and STP functionality). The
MTP level 3 exceptions and modifications to ANSI T1.111.4 are listed regarding
whether the SGSN and the VLR are connected by a point to point link or are
configured to act as SPs in an SS7 network or if they support STP
functionality.
Subclause 5.4.2.1 applies to all configurations of the Gs interface. In
subclause 5.4.2.2 the exceptions and modifications to ANSI T1.111.4 are listed
depending upon the configuration of the Gs interface, whether it is a point to
point interface or the SGSN and VLR act as an SP only or SP and STP. Subclause
5.4.2.3 provides points of clarification about the ANSI T1.111.4.
#### 5.4.2.1 General clauses
The MTP level 3 exceptions and modifications to ANSI T1.111.4 regardless of
whether the SGSN supports STP functionality are listed below.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 2.3.5:
\- Support of ANSI specific Signalling Link Congestion Control as specified in
this subclause is required.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 2.4:
\- The signalling point code for an SGSN may be included in the national
signalling point code scheme or in a separate signalling network.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.8.2:
\- Support of ANSI specific Network Congestion as defined in this subclause is
required.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 12:
\- Only basic link management procedures are required.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 14.2.1:
\- Since all messages are passed using the SCCP, the service indicator for Gs
interface operation will be:
bits D C B A
0 0 1 1
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 14.2.2:
\- The sub service field for Gs interface operation will always be set to one
of the following values:
bits D C
1 0 national network
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 15:
\- The formats and codes listed are only relevant to the messages that are
required.
#### 5.4.2.2 Configuration dependent clauses
The MTP level 3 exceptions and modifications to ANSI T1.111.4 are permitted if
the SGSN or the VLR does not support STP functionality are listed below.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 1.1.2:
\- If the Gs interface is configured as point to point interface, i.e., it
does not support STP function, then the signalling transfer point network
management features are not required.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 2:
\- If STP function is not required, then the discrimination functions of the
MTP used for GPRS application can be significantly simplified.
NOTE: If the implementation of this interface is for point to point
application the routing function within the MTP will be present to select the
point code appropriate to the parent VLR.
\- ANSI T1.1114, subclause 2.3:
\- If the implementation of the Gs interface is point to point, load sharing
between linksets is not required since there will only be one linkset between
SGSN and VLR.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 2.4:
\- At the SGSN or VLR that does not implement STP functionality, only messages
with a correctly checking DPC will be accepted. Other messages will be
discarded. It is recommended that when messages are discarded because of an
incorrectly set point code, an incident report should be generated.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.1.3 (3):
\- In a point to point configuration, there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.3.2.3:
\- In a point to point configuration, there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.3.3.3:
\- In a point to point configuration, there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.3.4.3:
\- In a point to point configuration, there is no requirement for signalling
route management.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.4.3:
\- Not applicable if no STP functionality is implemented in SGSN or VLR.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.5.3:
\- Not applicable if no STP functionality is implemented in SGSN or VLR.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.8.5.2:
\- The signalling-route-set-congestion-test procedure is not required.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 4.1.2:
\- In a point to point configuration signalling routes are not applicable.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 4.2:
\- The normal routing situation in a point to point configuration will be that
there are 1 or more signalling links available between a SGSN and VLR, these
will constitute a link set. They will run in a load sharing mode and
changeover, changeback procedures will be supported between these signalling
links.
\- The normal routing situation if more then one route is available between
the SGSN and the VLR will be that the load sharing, changeover and changeback
procedures would be provided between signalling links within the same
signalling linkset and between signalling linksets.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 4.3.3:
\- There will be no alternative linkset in a point to point configuration of
the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 4.4.3:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 4.5:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 4.6:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 4.7:
\- Not applicable in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 5:
\- Changeover between link sets is not applicable in a point to point
configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 6:
\- Changeback between link sets is not applicable in a point to point
configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 7:
\- Forced re-routing is not applicable since there is only one signalling
route existing between SGSN and VLR in a point to point configuration of the
Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4 ,clause 8:
\- Not applicable since there is only one signalling route existing between
SGSN and VLR in a point to point configuration of the Gs interface.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 13.2:
\- The transfer prohibited function is not applicable if the SGSN does not
support STP functionality. At the reception of a TFP message, the SGSN or VLR
acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 13.3:
\- The transfer allowed function is not applicable if the SGSN does not
support STP functionality. At the reception of a TFA-message, the SGSN or VLR
acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 13.4:
\- The transfer restricted function is not applicable if the SGSN does not
support STP functionality. At the reception of the TFR message the SGSN or VLR
acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 13.5:
\- The signalling-route-set-test procedure is not applicable.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclauses 13.6, 13.7 and 13.8:
\- The transfer controlled function is not applicable if the SGSN does not
support STP functionality. At the reception of TFC message, the SGSN or VLR
acting as SP shall process the message.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 13.9:
\- The signalling route-set-congestion-test function is not applicable. At the
reception of signalling-route-set-congestion-test message no action is taken
by the receiving entity.
#### 5.4.2.3 Informative clauses
A list of clarifications to ANSI Recommendation T1.111.4 are listed below.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 2.3.4:
\- The load sharing procedures shall allow any value of the SLS field in the
MTP3 network management messages that are not related to a specific signalling
link or a default value of 00000000 should be used.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.4.1:
\- For point to point working, the signalling route will become unavailable
when the associated link set fails.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.4.2:
\- For point to point working, the signalling route will become available when
the associated link set is restored.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.5.1:
\- For point to point working, the procedures used in connection with
signalling route unavailability will be those specified for signalling route
set unavailability in ANSI Recommendation T1.111.4 subclause 11.2.1.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, subclause 3.5.2:
\- For point to point working, the procedures used in connection with
signalling route availability will be those specified for signalling route set
availability in ANSI Recommendation T1.111.4 subclause 11.2.2.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 9:
\- The SGSN and the MSC/VLR shall implement the restart procedures specified
in ANSI T1.111.4.
\- ANSI T1.111.4, clause 11:
\- For point to point working, the signalling route set will consist of one
associated signalling route only.
# 6 Conformance to SCCP
## 6.1 Overview
The purpose of this clause is to identify the subset of the SCCP functions
which are necessary to provide addressing, error detection and segmentation
facilities in the Gs interface. If this subset of SCCP functions is
implemented, compatibility with a full ITU-T or ANSI SCCP shall be maintained.
Only the needs of the user of SCCP (refer to 3GPP TS 29.018) are taken into
account in this clause: the operations and maintenance requirements about SCCP
functions are outside the scope of the present document.
No SCCP translation function is required in the VLR or the SGSN between the
national and the local MTP. The Destination Point Code and Subsystem Number
would allow direct routing by the local SCCP and MTP. Global Title addressing
is supported on the Gs interface to provide flexibility in the addressing
scheme implementation (note that the SGSN is assigned a global title in order
to communicate with an HLR across an inter PLMN boundary).
Only connectionless class 0 SCCP services are used on the Gs interface. These
simplifications are applicable to the signalling between an SGSN and a VLR in
GSM PLMNs.
The minimum set of SCCP functions which apply are specified in the ITU-T
Recommendations Q.711, Q.712, Q.713 and Q.714, for E1 interface and ANSI
T1.112 for T1 interface with the qualifications specified in this
Recommendation.
## 6.2 SCCP Primitives
### 6.2.1 SCCP Primitives for E1 Interface (ITU Recommendation Q.711)
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.711, clause 1:
\- No SCCP connection-oriented services are used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.711, clause 2:
\- No SCCP connection-oriented services are used. Only connectionless class 0
is used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.711, subclause 2.1:
\- Not applicable.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.711, subclause 4.1:
\- Connection-oriented functions are not applicable
### 6.2.2 SCCP Primitives for T1 Interface (ANSI Standards T1.112.1)
\- ANSI T1.112.1, clause 1:
\- No SCCP connection-oriented services are used.
\- ANSI T1.112.1, clause 2:
\- No SCCP connection-oriented services are used. Only connectionless class 0.
\- ANSI T1.112.1, subclause 2.1:
\- Not applicable.
\- ANSI T1.112.1, subclause 4.1:
\- Connection-oriented functions are not applicable.
## 6.3 SCCP messages
### 6.3.1 SCCP messages for E1 Interface (ITU Recommendation Q.712)
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.712, subclauses 1.1 to 1.14:
\- Messages not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.712, subclause 1.16:
\- The Subsystem-Out-Of-Service-Grant (SOG) message is not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.712, subclause 1.17:
\- The Subsystem-Out-Of-Service-Request (SOR) message is not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.712, subclauses 2.4, 2.6, 2.7, 2.9, 2.11, 2.12,
2.13, 2.14, 2.16 and 2.17:
\- Parameters not used.
### 6.3.2 SCCP messages for T1 Interface (ANSI Standards T1.112.2)
\- ANSI T1.112.2, subclauses 2.1 to 2.14:
\- Messages not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.2, subclause 3.4:
\- The Subsystem-Out-Of-Service-Request (SOR) message is not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.2, subclause 3.5:
\- The Subsystem-Out-Of-Service-Grant (SOG) message is not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.2, subclause 3.6:
\- The Subsystem-Backup Routing (SBR) (Optional) message is not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.2, subclause 3.7:
\- The Subsystem-Normal Routing (SNR) (Optional) message is not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.2, subclause 3.8:
\- The Subsystem-Routing Status Test (SRT) (Optional) message is not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.2, subclauses 4.2, 4.4, 4.6, 4.7, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 4.15,
4.16, 4.17, 4.18 and 4.19:
\- Parameters not used.
## 6.4 SCCP formats and codes
### 6.4.1 SCCP format and codes for E1 Interface (ITU Recommendation Q.713)
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.713, subclause 3.4:
\- The called party address shall include the appropriate sub system number.
All other aspects of SCCP addressing are network specific.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.713, subclause 3.4.2.2:
\- SSN value:
\- This is a national network concern. Different SSN values can be allocated
for SGSN and VLR.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.713, subclause 3.5:
\- The calling party address shall include the appropriate sub system number.
All other aspects of SCCP addressing are network specific.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.713, subclause 3.6:
\- Protocol class: the classes 1, 2 and 3 are not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.713, subclauses 3.7 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.13, 3.14
and 3.15:
\- Parameters not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.713, subclauses 4.2 to 4.9 and 4.12 to 4.17:
\- Messages not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.713, subclause 5.1.1:
\- SOR and SOG not needed.
### 6.4.2 SCCP format and codes for T1 Interface (ANSI Standards T1.112.3)
\- ANSI T1.112.3, subclause 3.4:
\- The called party address shall include the appropriate sub system number.
All other aspects of SCCP addressing are network specific.
\- ANSI T1.112.3, subclause 3.4.2.1:
\- The SSN values are a national network concern. Different SSN values can be
allocated for SGSN and VLR.
\- ANSI T1.112.3, subclause 3.5:
\- The calling party address shall include the appropriate sub-system number.
All other aspects of SCCP addressing are network specific.
\- ANSI T1.112.3, subclause 3.6:
\- Protocol class: the classes 2 and 3 are not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.3, subclauses 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.13, 3.14 and 3.15:
\- Parameters not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.3, subclauses 4.2 to 4.9 and 4.12 to 4.17:
\- Messages not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.3, subclause 5.1.1:
\- SOR, SNR, SRT, SBR, and SOG not needed.
## 6.5 SCCP procedures
### 6.5.1 SCCP procedures for E1 Interface (ITU Recommendation Q.714)
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, subclauses 1.1.2 and 1.1.3:
\- Protocol classes 2 and 3 not used.
\- Connection-oriented services are not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, subclause 1.2:
\- Connection-oriented services are not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, subclause 1.3:
\- Protocol class 1 not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, subclause 2.1:
\- The two basic categories of addresses for conectionless messages are used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, subclause 2.2 and 2.3:
\- No connection-oriented message is used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, clause 3:
\- Connection-oriented procedures are not used.
\- ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, clause 5:
\- Only those messages and procedures relating to non-replicated subystems or
nodes are required.
### 6.5.2 SCCP procedures for T1 Interface (ANSI Standards T1.112.4)
\- ANSI T1.112.4, subclauses 1.1.2 and 1.1.3:
\- Protocol classes 2 and 3 not used.
\- Connection-oriented services are not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.4, subclause 1.2:
\- Connection-oriented services are not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.4, subclause 1.3:
\- Protocol class 1 is not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.4, subclause 2.1:
\- The two basic categories of addresses for connectionless messages are used.
\- ANSI T1.112.4, subclause 2.2 and 2.3:
\- No connection-oriented message is used.
\- ANSI T1.112.4, clause 3:
\- Connection-oriented procedures not used.
\- ANSI T1.112.4, clause 5:
\- Only those messages and procedures relating to non-replicated subsystems or
nodes are required.
# 7 Use of the SCCP (E1/T1 Interface)
The underlying transport stack and the SCCP are used to support signalling
messages between the SGSN and the MSC. The BSSAP+ protocol specified in 3GPP
TS 29.018 is the user of the SCCP. 3GPP TS 29.018 only uses the services of
the class 0 of the SCCP.
The Gs interface connects an SGSN to a VLR within the same PLMN. The use of
point codes or global titles is allowed for routing of SCCP messages.
The format and coding of address parameters carried by the SCCP for routing
purpose shall comply with ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 for E1 interface and ANSI
T1.112.3 T1 interface with the following restrictions:
\- The called party address shall include:
\- an SSN (see subclause 6.4.1 E1 interface and subclause 6.4.2 for T1
interface);
\- all other aspects of the SCCP signalling are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
\- The calling party address shall include:
\- an SSN (see subclause 6.4.1 E1 interface and subclause 6.4.2 for T1
interface);
\- all other aspects of the SCCP signalling are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
When an SCCP message is sent, the Called Party Address is derived from the
Called Address of the N-UNITDATA-REQUEST primitive issued by the local SCCP
user.
When an SCCP message is received, the Calling Address within the N-UNITDATA-
INDICATION primitive is derived from the Calling Party Address of the SCCP
UNITDATA message received.
Only address information belonging to the E.164 numbering plan is allowed to
be included as Global Title in the Called and Calling Party Address. The SGSN
and the VLR store the address of the other entity using the format received in
the Calling Party Address field or the address information received in the
application part of the message.
#