# Foreword {#foreword .TT}
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present stage 3 specification defines the Diameter based implementation
for bootstrapping Zh interface (BSF-HSS) and Dz interface (BSF-SLF) for HSS
resolution for the BSF, the MAP based implementation for bootstrapping Zh\'
interface (BSF-HLR) and GAA Application Zn interface (BSF-NAF) in Generic
Authentication Architecture (GAA). This specification also defines the Web
Services based implementation for GAA Application Zn reference point (BSF-
NAF). The definition contains procedures, message contents and coding. The
procedures for bootstrapping and usage of bootstrapped security association
are defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5].
The present document also specifies the Diameter and Web Services based
implementation for the GAA Application Push Function Zpn reference point (BSF-
NAF). The procedures for bootstrapping are defined in 3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
This specification is a part of the Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA)
specification series.
The diameter based implementation for the Zh interface is based on re-usage of
Cx interface Multimedia-Auth-Request/Answer messages originally between CSCF
and HSS. These messages are defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3]. The 3GPP IMS
mobility management uses the same definitions between CSCF and HSS. The
present document defines how the defined messages are used with the
bootstrapping and GAA application procedures (e.g. subscriber certificates)
and the application logic that is needed in GAA network elements (BSF, HSS,
and NAF).
Figure 1.1 depicts the relationships of these specifications to the other
specifications for the Diameter based implementations.
Figure 1.1: Relationships to other specifications
Figure 1.2 provides an informal overall quick introduction to the whole
signalling procedures in GAA system. The important identifiers are marked bold
and optional data items are italicised. The Ub and Ua interfaces, not defined
in this TS, are simplified.
NOTE: The Zh\' interface (BSF-HLR) is not represented in this figure.
Figure 1.2: The whole signalling procedure in GAA system
Figure 1.3 provides an informal overall quick introduction to the whole
signalling procedures in GAA Push Function. The important identifiers are
marked bold and optional data items are italicised. The Ua and Upa interfaces,
not defined in this TS, are simplified.
Figure 1.3: Signalling procedure in GAA Bootstrapping Push Function
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
> [2] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
> Signalling flows and message contents\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol\".
> [4] 3GPP TR 33.919 \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); System
> Description\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 33.220 \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
> Bootstrapping Architecture\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 33.221 \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Support for
> Subscriber Certificates\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and Network application
function interface (Ua);Protocol details\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.230: \"Diameter applications; 3GPP specific codes and
identifiers\"
> [9] IETF RFC 3589: \"Diameter Command Codes for Third Generation Partnership
> Project (3GPP)\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organisation of subscriber data\"
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
> network application functions using secure hypertext transfer protocol
> (HTTPS)\".
>
> [12] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\"
[13] W3C: \"Web Services Activity\", http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/.
[14] W3C: \"Web Services Description Language (WSDL) Version 2.0 Part 0:
Primer\", http://www.w3.org/TR/2005/WD-wsdl20-primer-20050803/.
[15] 3GPP TR 33.980: \"Liberty Alliance and 3GPP Security Interworking;
Interworking of Liberty Alliance ID-FF, ID-WSF and Generic Authentication
Architecture\".
[16] Liberty Alliance Project: \"Liberty ID-FF Authentication Context
Specification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 33.110: \"Key establishment between a Universal Integrated
Circuit Card (UICC) and a terminal\"
[18] 3GPP TS 33.259: \"Key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device\"
[19] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) Specification\"
[20] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security
architecture\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[22] OASIS Standard: \"Authentication Context for the OASIS Security Assertion
Markup Language (SAML) V2.0 OASIS Standard, 15 March 2005, saml-authn-
context-2.0-os\".
> [23] 3GPP TS 33.223 \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
> Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA) Push Function\".
>
> [24] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
> aspects of non-3GPP accesses\".
>
> [25] Void
>
> [26] 3GPP TS 26.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) based Packet Switched
> Streaming (PSS) Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Services (MBMS); User
> Service; Protocols\".
>
> [27] Void
>
> [28] Void
>
> [29] 3GPP TR 33.924: \"Identity Management and 3GPP Security Interworking;
> Identity Management and Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA)
> Interworking\".
>
> [30] 3GPP TS 33.224: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
> Push Layer\".
>
> [31] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Access security for IP-based services\".
>
> [32] 3GPP TS 29.329: \" Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol;
> Protocol details\".
>
> [33] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 23.008 [10], 3GPP TR 33.919 [4], 3GPP TS 33.220 [5] apply with
following additions.
**Bootstrapping information** (Bootstrapped data) in a BSF consists of a
bootstrapping transaction identifier (B-TID), a key material (Ks), the key
lifetime (expiry time), the boostrapinfo creation time, the IMPI and the GUSS
(if received from HSS) with BSF control information. Each bootstrapping
procedure creates a bootstrapped data entity with B-TID as retrieval key..
**GAA application is** an application that uses the security association
created by GBA Bootstrapping procedure.
**GAA service** is an operator specific end user service that uses the
security association created by GAA Bootstrapping procedure. GAA services are
identified by **GAA Service Identifiers**. A GAA service is implemented using
some standardised or propriatary GAA application defined by GAA application
type.
**NAF specific Bootstrapping information** transferred from a BSF to a NAF
contains NAF and its service specific parts from bootstrapped data and needed
key information derived from the bootstrapped data.
**Service/Application.** The term service is used here in its common meaning.
A service is something that a MNO offers to subscribers. GAA Services are
identified by GAA Service Identifier (GSID). In stage 2 documents ([4], [5],
[6] and [11]) the term application is used in the same meaning i.e. MNOs offer
applications to subscribers. There is a reason to avoid the usage of the term
application here. The application is an already reserved term in Diameter. In
Diameter applications are identified by Application Identifiers.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 23.008 [10].
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AK Anonymity Key
AKA Authentication and Key Agreement
AUTN Authentication token
AV Authentication Vector. 3GPP AV=[RAND,AUTN,XRES,CK,IK].
> AVP Attribute-Value-Pair in Diameter messages.
>
> BIA BootstrappingInfo-Answer message
>
> BIR BootstrappingInfo-Request message
BS BootStrapping Procedure
BSF Bootstrapping server functionality\ BSF is hosted in a network element
under the control of an MNO.
B-TID Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
CA Certificate Authority
CK Confidential Key
FQDN Full Qualified Domain Name in URI (e.g. http://FQDN:80)
GAA Generic Authentication Architecture
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GPI GBA Push Information
> GSID GAA Service Identifier
GUSS GBA User Security Settings
HSS Home Subscriber System
IK Integrity Key
IMPI IP Multimedia Private Identity
IMPU IP Multimedia Public Identity
Ks Key Material
Ks_ext_NAF MEbased key for a specific NAF
Ks_int_NAF UICC based key for a specific NAF
ME Mobile Equipment
MNO Mobile network operator
NAF Operator-controlled network application function functionality.\ NAF is
hosted in a network element under the control of an MNO.
P-TID Push Temporary Identifier
RAND Random challenge in authentication
REQ In Diameter header indicates that the message is a Request.
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SLF Subscription Location Function
SSC Subscriber Certificate Procedure
Ua UE-NAF interface for GAA applications
Ub UE-BSF interface for bootstrapping
UE User Equipment
USS User Security Settings (a part of GUSS)
XRES Expected response in authentication
Zh BSF-HSS interface for bootstrapping procedure
Zh\' BSF-HLR interface for bootstrapping procedure
Zn BSF-NAF interface for GAA applications
Zpn BSF-NAF interface for GBA push.
# 4 GBA Bootstrapping Zh interface and Zh\' interface
## 4.1 Generic bootstrapping network architecture
The network architecture of the Diameter based implementation for
Bootstrapping procedure is presented in Figure 4.1-1. The interface Ub
(bootstrapping) is defined in 3GPP TS 24.109 [7] and the interface Zh in this
specification.
Figure 4.1-1: Network architecture of bootstrapping procedure
The generic boostrapping network architecture for Bootstrapping Push
procedures is presented in Figure 4.1-2. The interface Zpn is also defined in
this specification.
Figure 4.1-2: Network architecture of bootstrapping push procedure
The protocol stack of the Zh interface in Bootstrapping procedure is presented
in Figure 4.2. The Diameter Base protocol is defined in IETF RFC 6733 [33] and
the Diameter application in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3]. The requirements for Zh
interface are defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5] and 3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
Figure 4.2: Protocol stack of Zh interface
The MAP based Bootstrapping Zh\' interface is defined in the section 4.3.
## 4.2 Protocol Zh between BSF and HSS
The requirements for Zh interface are defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5] and 3GPP
TS 33.223 [23].
The Bootstrapping Zh interface performs the retrieval of an authentication
vector and possibly GBA User Security Settings from the HSS.
The overall Bootstrapping procedure is depicted in Figure 4.3. The basic
procedure is:
A) A UE starts the bootstrapping procedure by protocol Ub with a BSF giving
the IMPI of the user (see 3GPP TS 24.109 [7]).
B) The BSF starts protocol Zh with user's HSS
\- The BSF requests user's authentication vector and GBA User Security
Settings (GUSS) corresponding to the IMPI. If the authentication scheme is to
use SIP Digest credentials, the BSF shall indicate this in the request.
\- The HSS supplies to the BSF the requested authentication vector and GUSS
(if applicable, cf. 3GPP TS 33.220 [5]). The HSS supplies the requested
authentication vector relating to SIP Digest only if explicitely indicated in
the request.
NOTE 1: If there is more than one HSS deployed within the network, the BSF may
have to contact the SLF using the Dz interface prior to sending the request
for information to the HSS (see section 6.4).
C) The BSF continues the protocol Ub with the UE (see 3GPP TS 24.109 [7]).
Figure 4.3: The GBA bootstrapping procedure
The overall Bootstrapping Push procedure is depicted in Figure 4.4. The Push
procedure shall not apply with an authentication scheme using SIP Digest
credentials. The Push procedure is:
A) A NAF sends a bootstrapping push request to the BSF via Zpn interface
including the IMPI or IMPU of the user (see section 5).
B) The BSF starts protocol Zh with user's HSS
\- The BSF requests user's authentication vector and GBA User Security
Settings (GUSS) corresponding to the IMPI or IMPU.
\- The HSS supplies to the BSF the requested authentication vector and GUSS
(if any).
NOTE 2: If there is more than one HSS deployed within the network, the BSF may
have to contact the SLF using the Dz interface prior to sending the request
for information to the HSS (see section 6.4).
C) The BSF continues the protocol Zpn with the NAF (see section 5).
D) The NAF starts protocol Upa with the UE, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.109
[7].
Figure 4.4: The GBA bootstrapping Push procedure
The steps of the bootstrapping procedure over Zh reference point in Figure 4.3
and Figure 4.4 are:
**Step 1**
The BSF shall send the following Bootstrapping-Request to the HSS in the
format of Multimedia-Auth-Request (MAR) message. The content of the message is
given below in the same format as in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3]. The curly brackets
indicate mandatory AVPs. The square brackets indicate optional AVPs. The
\"address of\" refers to the Fully Qualified Host Name (FQDN).
> \ ::=\\
> \\ { Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }\ { Auth-Session-State }
> ; NO_STATE_MAINTAINED\ { Origin-Host } ; Address of BSF\ { Origin-Realm } ;
> Realm of BSF\ { Destination-Realm } ; Realm of HSS\ [ Destination-Host ] ;
> Address of the HSS\ [ User-Name ] ; IMPI from UE
>
> [ Public-Identity ] ; IMPU from UE
>
> [ SIP-Auth-Data-Item ] ; Authentication Scheme,
>
> Synchronization Failure
>
> [ GUSS-Timestamp ] ; Timestamp of GUSS in BSF\ *[ AVP ]\ *[ Proxy-Info ]\ *[
> Route-Record ]
The content of mandatory Vendor-Specific-Application-ID according IETF RFC
6733 [33] is:
> \::=\\ 1* [Vendor-Id] ;
> 3GPP is 10415\ 0*1 {Auth-Application-Id} ; 16777221\ 0*1 {Acct-Application-
> Id} ; Omitted
When determining the value of Destination-Host AVP the BSF can use redirector
function (SLF) to resolve the address of the HSS if needed (see 3GPP TS 29.229
[3]). The BSF shall set the Auth-Session-State AVP to NO_STATE_MAINTAINED to
inform that the HSS does not need to maintain any status information for this
session according 3GPP TS 29.229 [3].
The User-name is the IMS Private User Identity (IMPI) as defined in 3GPP TS
29.228 [2]. In bootstrapping push procedures, either the Public-Identity AVP
or the User-Name AVP shall be present in the request, depending on the user
identity provided by the NAF. For all other bootstrapping procedures, only the
User-Name AVP shall be present. If the identity received from the NAF is an
MSISDN, the BSF shall include this MSISDN in the form of a tel URI in the
Public-Identity AVP (see 3GPP TS 29.229 [2]).
If the BSF supports the GUSS timestamp mechanism and has local copy of the
GUSS, which has a timestamp, the BSF may include the GUSS-Timestamp AVP. In
this case the GUSS-Timestamp AVP shall contain the timestamp from
subscriber\'s GUSS. Otherwise the GUSS-Timestamp AVP shall not be present.
The SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP, when present, shall indicate the authentication
scheme chosen, i.e SIP Digest when applicable. By default, when the SIP-Auth-
Data-Item AVP is not present, the authentication scheme is Digest-AKAv1-MD5.
The SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP should not be present to indicate the
authentication scheme is Digest-AKAv1-MD5.
NOTE 3: A pre-Rel-11 HSS only received SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP in Zh MAR in
case of synchronization failure for IMS-AKA. Apart from that, when SIP-Auth-
Data-Item AVP was not present, it implied that the authentication scheme was
Digest-AKAv1-MD5. Therefore, if SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP is not present, it
means that the authentication scheme is Digest-AKAv1-MD5, like before Rel-11.
Moreover, in order to avoid interoperability problems between a pre-Rel-11 HSS
and a Rel-11 (or later) BSF, the BSF should not include the SIP-Auth-Data-Item
AVP to indicate the authentication scheme is Digest-AKAv1-MD5.
If the Authentication Request is triggered by a synchronization failure (see
3GPP TS 24.109 [7]), the BSF shall include the SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP within
the MAR message according to 3GPP TS 29.228 [2].
**Step 2**
When the HSS receives the MAR message, the HSS shall derive the user
Authentication Vector (AV) information according the IMPI and, if present, the
authentication scheme and populates it into SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP as defined
for IMS-AKA or SIP Digest authentication schemes in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3]. Only
one AV shall be provided.
If the Public User Identity is received, the HSS shall resolve to the
corresponding IMPI/IMSI associated to such IMPU/ MSISDN before deriving the AV
information. If Public to Private identity resolution is not possible i.e. due
to the IMPU is shared with multiple IMPIs, the HSS shall set the Experimental-
Result-Code to DIAMETER_ERROR_OPERATION_NOT_ALLOWED (see 3GPP TS 29.329 [32]).
If the request indicates that there is a synchronization failure, the HSS
shall process AUTS as described in 3GPP TS 33.203 [31] and return the
requested authentication information. The Result-Code shall be set to
DIAMETER_SUCCESS.
If GUSS exists for the IMPI, the HSS shall do one of the following:
1) If the HSS supports the GUSS timestamp mechanism and received the GUSS-
Timestamp AVP in MAR message then it shall compare the timestamp of the GUSS
in the HSS with the received timestamp.
\- If timestamps are equal, then it shall populate the GBA-UserSecSettings AVP
with static string \"GUSS TIMESTAMP EQUAL\".
> \- If the GUSS-Timestamp AVP was not received, or timestamps are not equal,
> then it shall populate the GBA-UserSecSettings AVP with the GUSS.
2\. If the HSS does not support GUSS timestamp mechanism, it shall populate
the GBA-UserSecSettings AVP with the GUSS.
The MAR/MAA sequence in the Zh interface must not change possible status
information of the possible simultaneously ongoing IMS MM application sessions
in the HSS.
If the User-Name (IMPI) or Public-Identity (IMPU) from the BSF is totally
unknown to the HSS, the error situation 5401 is raised.
Exceptions to the cases specified here shall be treated by HSS as error
situations. The Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY and no
authentication or GUSS information shall be returned.
**Step 3**
The HSS shall send the following Bootstrapping-Answer message in the format of
Multimedia-Auth-Answer (MAA) message back to the BSF.
> \ ::= \\ **\
> \ **{ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }\ [ Result-Code ]\ [
> Experimental-Result]\ { Auth-Session-State } ; NO_STATE_MAINTAINED\ {
> Origin-Host } ; Address of HSS\ { Origin-Realm } ; Realm of HSS\ [ User-Name
> ] ; IMPI
>
> [ Public-Identity ] ; IMPU\ [ SIP-Auth-Data-Item ]\ [ GBA-UserSecSettings ]
> ; GUSS\ *[ AVP ]\ *[ Proxy-Info ]\ *[ Route-Record ]
The HSS shall set the mandatory Auth-Session-State AVP to NO_STATE_MAINTAINED
because the HSS does not maintain any state information about this session and
the BSF does not need to send any session termination request 3GPP TS 29.229
[3].
If the Public-Identity was present in the request, both Public-Identity and
User-Name AVPs shall be present in the response. Otherwise, the User-name AVP
(IMPI) may be sent back for checking.
The required authentication vector data is sent in the SIP-Auth-Data-Items AVP
as defined for IMS-AKA or SIP Digest authentication schemes according to 3GPP
TS 29.228 [2]. The security settings of user's all GAA applications are sent
in GBA-UserSecSettings AVP.
If the 2G GBA option (see 3GPP TS 33.220, Annex I [5]) is applied for the user
the SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP shall be filled as follows: The SIP-Authentication-
Scheme AVP is set to \"Digest-AKAv1-MD5-2G-GBA\" to indicate a 2G GBA vector
for GBA. The SIP-Authenticate AVP contains only RAND. The SIP-Authorization
AVP contains RES. The Confidentiality-Key AVP contains Kc. The Integrity-Key
AVP shall not be present. If a 2G Authentication Vector is requested for the
user but the 2G GBA option is not supported by the HSS, the HSS shall set the
Experimental-Result-Code to DIAMETER_AUTHENTICATION_SCHEME_NOT_SUPPORTED (see
3GPP TS 29.228 [2]).
**Step 4**
When the BSF receives the MAA message, the BSF shall check the value of the
SIP-Authentication-Scheme AVP. If the BSF does not support the authentication-
scheme the BSF shall stop processing the message and should indicate an error
via the O&M subsystem.
The BSF generates the needed key material (Ks) as described in 3GPP TS 33.220
[5] and stores temporarily the tuple \ for
further use in GAA applications. The rest of the bootstrapping procedure in Ub
interface will later add also the Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier (B-TID)
to that tuple as key and the key lifetime (expiry time).
If the BSF sent the GUSS-Timestamp AVP in step 1, and if the GBA-
UserSecSettings AVP contains a static string \"GUSS TIMESTAMP EQUAL\", then
the local copy of the GUSS in the BSF shall be preserved. If the GBA-
UserSecSettings AVP was not present in the MAA message, the local copy of the
GUSS shall be deleted. If the GBA-UserSecSettings AVP contains a new GUSS, the
local copy of the GUSS shall be deleted, and the new GUSS shall be stored in
the BSF.
In GBA Bootstrapping Push procedures, the BSF generates the requested NAF-
key(s) according to provided NAF_Id and the GBA Push Information (GPI). The
BSF completes the rest of the bootstrapping push procedure sending its
response to the NAF over Zpn interface, and deleting the Ks used as defined in
section 5.
## 4.3 Protocol Zh\' between BSF and HLR
The requirements for Zh\' reference point are the same with the one for the Zh
reference point defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5], except that the GBA User
Security Settings (GUSS) are not supported.
The Bootstrapping Zh\' interface performs the retrieval of an authentication
vector. The basic procedure is:
A) A UE starts the bootstrapping procedure by protocol Ub with a BSF giving
the IMPI of the user (see 3GPP TS 24.109 [7]). In bootstrapping push
procedures a NAF initiates a GBA Push Information Request by protocol Zpn with
the BSF giving the user identity (see section 5). The BSF derives the IMSI
from the IMPI. In bootstrapping push procedures when only the Public Identity
of the user is made available to the BSF, the BSF shall perform public to
private identity resolution as defined in section 4.3.1.
B) The BSF starts protocol Zh\' with user's HLR
\- The BSF requests user's authentication vector corresponding to the IMSI.
\- The HLR supplies to the BSF the requested authentication vector.
C) The BSF continues the protocol Ub with the UE (see 3GPP TS 24.109 [7]).
The BSF shall use the following Bootstrapping-Request to the HLR in the format
of a MAP_SEND_AUTHENTICATION_INFO. The content of the request, result and
error messages is given below in the same format as in 3GPP TS 29.002 [19].
The parameter usage is as follows:
[IMSI]{.underline}
See 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] section 7.6.2 for the use of this parameter.
[Number of requested vectors]{.underline}
The BSF shall only request one authentication vector at a time.
[Requesting node type]{.underline}
BSF
[Re-synchronisation Info]{.underline}
For definition and use of this parameter see 3GPP TS 33.102 [20].
[Segmentation prohibited indicator]{.underline}
This parameter is not applicable and should not be sent by the BSF.
[Immediate response preferred indicator]{.underline}
This parameter indicates that one of the requested authentication vectors is
requested for immediate use in the BSF.
[Requesting PLMN ID]{.underline}
The PLMN-ID of the requesting node. See 3GPP TS 23.003 [21].
[AuthenticationSetList]{.underline}
One authentication vector is transferred from the HLR to the BSF, if the
outcome of the service was successful.
[User error]{.underline}
One of the following error causes defined in 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] shall be sent
by the user in case of unsuccessful outcome of the service, depending on the
respective failure reason:
\- unknown subscriber;
\- unexpected data value;
\- system failure;
\- data missing.
[Provider error]{.underline}
See 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] for the use of this parameter.
When the BSF receives the response of the MAP_SEND_AUTHENTICATION_INFO
service, then it shall generate the needed key material (Ks) from confidential
key (CK) and integrity key (IK) as described in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5],
respecively from Kc as decribed in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5] and stores temporarily
the tuple \ for further use in GAA/GBA applications. The rest of the
bootstrapping procedure in Ub interface will later add also the Bootstrapping
Transaction Identifier (B-TID) to that tuple as key and the key lifetime
(expiry time).
### 4.3.1 Public to Private Identity Resolution over Zh between BSF and HLR
> When the UE identity used by the NAF in a GPI Request towards the BSF is an
> MSISDN, the BSF shall resolve the corresponding private user identity (IMSI)
> for the user.
When Zh interface between BSF and HLR is used, the BSF shall resolve the
private user identity with the HLR in the format of a MAP_SEND_IMSI or a
MAP_SEND_ROUTING_INFO_FOR_SM.
The content of the request, result and error messages is given below in the
same format as in 3GPP TS 29.002 [19]. The parameter usage when the
MAP_SEND_IMSI operation is used is as follows:
[MSISDN]{.underline}
See 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] section 7.6.2 for the use of this parameter.
[IMSI]{.underline}
See 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] section 7.6.2 for the use of this parameter. The
presence of this parameter is mandatory in a successful case.
[User error]{.underline}
Only one of the following values is applicable:
\- Unknown subscriber;
\- Unexpected data value;
\- Data missing.
The parameter usage when the MAP_SEND_ROUTING_INFO_FOR_SM operation is used is
as follows:
[MSISDN]{.underline}
See 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] section 7.6.2 for the use of this parameter.
[SM-RP-PRI]{.underline}
BSF shall set this parameter to indicate that delivery of the short message
shall NOT be attempted when a service centre address is already contained in
the Message Waiting Data file.
[Service Centre Address]{.underline}
BSF shall include the BSF address within this parameter.
[SM-RP-MTI]{.underline}
[SM-RP-SMEA]{.underline}
[GPRS Support Indicator]{.underline}
BSF shall not use these parameters in the public to private identity
resolution request.
[SM-Delivery Not Intended]{.underline}
BSF shall set this parameter to indicate that delivery of a short message is
not intended and that only IMSI is requested.
[IMSI]{.underline}
See 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] section 7.6.2 for the use of this parameter. The
presence of this parameter is mandatory in a successful case.
[Network Node Number]{.underline}
[LMSI]{.underline}
[GPRS Node Indicator]{.underline}
[Additional Number]{.underline}
BSF ignores these parameters if present in the public to private identity
resolution response.
[User error]{.underline}
One of the following error causes defined in 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] shall be sent
by the user in case of unsuccessful outcome of the service, depending on the
respective failure reason:
\- Unknown subscriber;
\- Call Barred;
\- Teleservice Not Provisioned;
\- Absent Subscriber_SM;
\- Facility Not Supported;
\- System failure;
\- Unexpected Data Value;
\- Data missing.
[Provider error]{.underline}
See 3GPP TS 29.002 [19] for the use of this parameter.
When the HLR is able to resolve the private identity of the user, the BSF
continues with the boostrapping procedures over Zh and requests a user's
authentication vector corresponding to the IMSI as defined above. Otherwise
the BSF provides the corresponding error to the NAF over Zpn as defined in
section 5.
# 5 GAA Application Zn and Zpn interfaces
## 5.1 Applications' network architecture
The network architecture of the GAA applications procedure using Zn is
presented in Figure 5.1-1. The 3GPP GAA applications are listed in annex B.
Different GAA applications may implement the Ua interface in different way.
The Zn interface is defined in this specification.
Figure 5.1-1: Network architecture of GAA application using Zn
The network architecture of GBA push procedure using Zpn is presented in
Figure 5.1-2. The Zpn interface is also defined in this specification.
Figure 5.1-2: Network architecture of GBA push procedure using Zpn
Two options are specified for the protocol stack to be used on the Zn and Zpn
interface:
The protocol stack of the DIAMETER based Zn interface,
the protocol stack of the Web Services based Zn interface.
The BSF shall support both options whereas the NAF shall support one or both
of these options.
The protocol stack of the Diameter based implementation of the Zn interface
for GAA applications and Zpn interface for GBA push procedure is presented in
Figure 5.2-1. The Zn interface is specified in clause 5.2. The Zpn interface
is specified in clause 5.4. The Diameter base protocol is defined in IETF RFC
6733 [33] and the Diameter application in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3]. The requirements
for Zn interface are defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5]. The requirements for Zpn
interface are defined in 3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
Figure 5.2-1: Protocol stack of Diameter based Zn and Zpn interfaces
The protocol stack of the Web Services based Zn interface for GAA applications
and Zpn interface for GBA push procedure is presented in Figure 5.2-2. The Zn
interface is specified in clause 5.3. The Zpn interface is specified in clause
5.5.
Figure 5.2-2: Protocol stack of Web Services based Zn interface
## 5.2 Protocol Zn between NAF and BSF based on Diameter
The requirements for Zn interface are defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5].
The protocol Zn retrieves the key material and possibly user security settings
data by NAF from BSF. After UE is authenticated with the BSF, every time the
UE wants to interact with an NAF the following steps are executed as depicted
in Figure 5.3. The basic procedure is:
A) The UE starts protocol Ua (see 3GPP TS 33.220 [5])
\- In general, the UE and the NAF will not yet share the key(s) required to
protect protocol Ua. If they already do, there is no need for the NAF to
invoke protocol Zn.
\- It is assumed that UE supplies sufficient information to NAF, i.e. the
Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier (B-TID), to allow the NAF to retrieve
specific key material (e.g. Ks_NAF in the case of GBA_ME, and Ks_ext_NAF or
Ks_int_NAF or both in the case of GBA_U) from BSF.
\- The UE derives the keys required to protect protocol Ua from the key
material.
B) The NAF starts protocol Zn with BSF
\- The NAF requests NAF specific key material corresponding to the information
supplied by the UE to the NAF (i.e. the bootstrapping transaction identifier)
in the start of protocol Ua.
\- The BSF generates and supplies to the NAF the requested NAF specific key
material, the expiry time, the bootstrapinfo creation time, and the
appropriate User Security Settings defined for received application
identifiers.
C) The NAF continues protocol Ua with the UE (see 3GPP TS 33.221 [6])
Once the run of protocol Ua is completed the purpose of bootstrapping is
fulfilled as it enabled UE and NAF to run protocol Ua in a secure way.
The common GAA application procedure is presented in Figure 5.3.
Figure 5.3: The Diameter based GAA application procedure
The steps of the GAA application procedure in Figure 5.3 are:
Step 1
The NAF shall send a Bootstrapping-Info-Request message (BIR) to the BSF. The
content of the message is given here in the same format as in 3GPP TS 29.229
[3]. The curly brackets indicate mandatory AVPs. The square brackets indicate
optional AVP. The address refers to the Fully Qualified Host Name (FQDN).
\ ::=\\ **\ \ **{ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }\ [ Auth-Session-
State ] ; NO_STATE_MAINTAINED\ { Origin-Host } ; Address of NAF\ { Origin-
Realm } ; Realm of NAF\ { Destination-Realm } ; Realm of BSF\ [ Destination-
Host ] ; Address of the BSF\ * [ GAA-Service-Identifier ] ; Service
identifiers\ { Transaction-Identifier } ; B-TID\ { NAF-Id } ; NAF_ID\ [ GBA_U-
Awareness-Indicator ] ; GBA_U awareness of the NAF\ *[ AVP ]\ *[ Proxy-Info ]\
*[ Route-Record ]
The content of Vendor-Specific-Application-ID according IETF RFC 6733 [33] is:
\::=\\ 1* [Vendor-Id] ; 3GPP
is 10415\ 0*1 {Auth-Application-Id} ; 16777220\ 0*1 {Acct-Application-Id} ;
Omitted
The NAF should set the Auth-Session-State AVP to NO_STATE_MAINTAINED to inform
that the BSF does not need to maintain any session state information for this
session according 3GPP TS 29.229 [3].
The Destination-Realm AVP is set to subscriber's BSF. The address of the BSF
is extracted from the B-TID.
NOTE: In the case where the subscriber has contacted a NAF that is in a
visited network, the NAF contacts the subscriber\'s home BSF through a
Diameter based Proxy (Zn-Proxy) that is located in the same network as the
NAF. The local BSF and the Zn-Proxy may be co-located. See 3GPP TS 33.220 [6].
The NAF indicates the GAA services for which the information is retrieved by
GAA-Service-Identifier AVPs. The Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier defines
the earlier bootstrapping procedure execution.
Step 2
In the successful case the BSF has a tuple \ identified by
Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier (B-TID). When the BSF receives the
request it checks the existence and validity of the tuple for given B-TID. If
checking fails the BSF sends an Answer message with Experimental-Result set to
indicate the error type 5403. If the tuple for B-TID exists, but is expired,
error type 5403 is also send to indicate needs for renewal of the boostrapping
procedure. In successful case the Result-Code is set to 2xxx as defined in
IETF RFC 6733 [33].
The BSF derives the key material for the ME (i.e., Ks_NAF in the case of
GBA_ME, and Ks_ext_NAF in the case of GBA_U) and possibly the key material for
the UICC (i.e., Ks_int_NAF in the case of GBA_U) according to the B-TID and
packs them into ME-Key-Material AVP and possible UICC-Key-Material AVP. The
ME-Key-Material contains Ks_(ext)_NAF and the UICC-key-Material contains the
Ks_int_NAF key. The BSF select correct user's Security Settings according the
request's GAA-Service-Identifier AVP to GBA-UserSecSettings AVP. If NAF
grouping is used by the operator and there are one or more USSs corresponding
to the requested GSID, then also the nafGroup attribute of USS is checked. If
the NAF has sent a GAA-Service-Identifier that does not have corresponding
user's security settings, and the BSF is locally configured to reject those
requests from the NAF, then the error 5402 is raised. If the NAF has sent a
GAA-Service-Identifier that have corresponding user\'s security settings, but
the BSF is locally configured to reject those from that NAF, then the error
5402 is raised too.
The NAF may be addressed from the UE with different FQDNs. The BSF shall check
if this NAF-Id is allowed to be used for the NAF. If the NAF identified by its
Origin-Host AVP is configured in the BSF not to be authorized to use the given
NAF-Id, the BSF may raise the error situation 5402. The BSF may also be
configured so that a certain NAF is not authorized to use a certain GAA-
Service-Identifier. This situation may be also indicated by error code 5402.
Exceptions to the cases specified here shall be treated by BSF as error
situations. The Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY.
Step 3
After that the BSF shall send a Bootstrapping-Info-Answer message (BIA) back
to the NAF.
\ ::= \\ **\
\ **{ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }\ [ Result-Code ]\ [
Experimental-Result]\ [ Auth-Session-State ] ; NO_STATE_MAINTAINED\ { Origin-
Host } ; Address of BSF\ { Origin-Realm } ; Realm of BSF\ [ User-Name ] ;
IMPI\ [ ME-Key-Material ] ; Required\ [ UICC-Key-Material ] ; Conditional\ [
Key-ExpiryTime ] ; Time of expiry\ [ BootstrapInfoCreationTime ] ;
Bootstrapinfo creation time\ [ GBA-UserSecSettings ] ; Selected USSs\ [ GBA-
Type ] ; GBA type used in bootstrapping\ *[ AVP ]\ *[ Proxy-Info ]\ *[ Route-
Record ]
The BSF shall set the Auth-Session-State AVP to NO_STATE_MAINTAINED because
the BSF does not maintain any session state information about this session and
the NAF does not need to send any session termination request 3GPP TS 29.229
[3].
The BSF may or may not send the User-name AVP (IMPI) according its
configuration.
The mandatory common key material with the ME (Ks_NAF or Ks_ext_NAF) is sent
in the ME-Key-Material AVP. The common key material with the UICC (Ks_int_NAF)
is optionally sent in the UICC-Key-Material AVP only if the \"uiccType\" tag
in bsfInfo from the HSS is set to \"GBA_U\".
The Key-ExpiryTime AVP contains the expiry time of the Bootstrapping
information in the BSF according its configuration. The expiry time is
represented according the Diameter Time data format in seconds that have
passed since 0h on January 1, 1900 UTC . If a special key lifetime value is
given in the \"lifeTime\" tag inside the bsfInfo from the HSS in bootstraping
procedure, it is used instead of the BSF default configuration value when the
expiry time is calculated.
The BootstrapInfoCreationTime AVP contains the bootstrapinfo creation time,
i.e., creation time of the Bootstrapping information in the BSF. The
bootstrapinfo creation time is represented in seconds that have passed since
January 1, 1900 00:00:00.000 UTC.
The BSF selects the appropriate User Security Settings (if any) to the GBA-
UserSecSettings AVP from stored GAA-UserSecSettings in Bootstrapping
information according the GBA-Service-Identifier AVPs in the request message.
The BSF shall indicate the type of used authentication in the bootstrapping
procedure to the NAF in GBA-Type, if other than 3G GBA type has been
performed.
When the NAF receives the BIA message, the NAF shall check the value of the
GBA-Type AVP if it is included in the message. If the NAF does not support the
GBA-Type the NAF shall stop processing the message and should indicate an
error via the O&M subsystem. The further procedure in the NAF when the BIA is
received is described in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5], 3GPP TS 33.222 [11] and
optionally in GAA service type specific TSs.
## 5.3 Protocol Zn between NAF and BSF based on Web Services
The procedures in the NAF and in the BSF related Web Services [13] based Zn
interface are the same as specified in clause 5.2, but instead of Diameter
messages a Web Services procedures shall be used to communicate over Zn
interface. Annex D specifies the GBA Service for Web Services, i.e., it
contains the Web Services Definition Language (WSDL) [14] specification for
GBA Service. Below are the attributes that are defined for GBA Service
request, response, and fault cases.
Figure 5.4: The Web Services based GAA application procedure
The possible attribute value definitions and restrictions for the request,
response, and fault messages are the same as in clause 6 unless explicitly
specified in this clause. The steps of the GAA application procedure in Figure
5.4 are:
Step 1
The NAF shall send a \"requestBootstrappingInfoRequest\" message to the BSF.
The WSDL schema of this message is included in Annex D.
Following elements are included into this message:
\- \"btid\"
> This is B-TID and defines the earlier bootstrapping procedure execution.
> Description in subclause 6.3.1.2 applies.
\- \"nafid\"
> This is the NAF-Id. Description in subclause 6.3.1.3 applies.
\- \"gsid\"
> This element contains the GAA Services Identifiers. Description in subclause
> 6.3.1.4 applies while the GAA Service Type Codes for 3GPP standardized
> services are defined in Annex B.
\- \"gbaUAware\"
> This element is optionally included. It indicates whether NAF is GBA_U
> aware, and is capable of using and handling the \"uiccKeyMaterial\". The
> default value for \"gbaUAware\" is false. Description and values defined for
> the corresponding Diameter AVP in subclause 6.3.1.8 apply.
>
> The NAF may use one or more \"extension\" elements to include additional
> data to the request, but the BSF may ignore the additional data.
>
> This SOAP message shall be sent to BSF, then the URI of the message shall
> contain the BSF address extracted from \"btid\".In the case where the
> subscriber has contacted a NAF that is in a visited network, the NAF
> contacts the subscriber\'s home BSF through a GBA-Proxy that is located in
> the same network as the NAF. The local BSF and the GBA-Proxy may be co-
> located. See 3GPP TS 33.220 [6].
Step 2
The procedures for step 2 are the same as in step 2 in clause 5.2.
If any of the error situations described in step 2 in clause 5.2 arises, the
BSF shall respond with a \"requestBootstrappingInfoFault\" message, as defined
in Annex D. The \"errorCode\" element shall contain the corresponding Diameter
error code (see clause 6.2.2). If the \"errorText\" is included, it shall
contain a human-readable description of the error.
Step 3
After that, \"requestBootstrappingInfoResponse\" message is sent back to the
NAF. The WSDL schema of this message is included in Annex D.
> Following elements are included into this message:
\- \"impi\"
> This element is optionally included according to BSF configuration.
> Description for User-Name AVP from 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] applies.
\- \"meKeyMaterial\"
> It includes the mandatory common key material with the ME (Ks_NAF or
> Ks_ext_NAF). Description in subclause 6.3.1.6 applies.
\- \"uiccKeyMaterial\"
> This element is the common key material with the UICC (Ks_int_NAF). It is
> optionally sent only if the \"uiccType\" tag in \"bsfInfo\" (received by BSF
> from the HSS over Zh) is set to \"GBA_U\". Description in subclause 6.3.1.7
> applies.
\- \"keyExpiryTime\"
> It contains the expiry time of the Bootstrapping information in the BSF
> according its configuration. If a special key lifetime value is given in the
> \"lifeTime\" tag inside the \"bsfInfo\" (received by BSF from the HSS over
> Zh) in bootstraping procedure, it shall be used instead of the BSF default
> configuration value when the expiry time is calculated. Description in
> subclause 6.3.1.5 applies.
\- \"bootstrappingInfoCreationTime\"
> This element contains the bootstrapinfo creation time, i.e., creation time
> of the Bootstrapping information in the BSF. Description in subclause
> 6.3.1.9 applies.
\- \"gbaType\"
> This element indicates the type of used authentication in the bootstrapping
> procedure to the NAF in \"gbaType\" element. It shall be included if other
> than 3G GBA type has been performed. Description and values defined for the
> corresponding Diameter AVP in subclause 6.3.1.11 apply.
\- \"ussList\"
> This element is optionally included. The BSF shall select the appropriate
> User Security Settings (if any) into the \"ussList\" element from stored
> GAA-UserSecSettings in Bootstrapping information according \"gsid\" elements
> in the request message. The \"ussList\" element contains a standalone XML
> document whose root element shall be \"ussList\" element as specified in
> Annex A and which contains the User Security Settings selected by the BSF.
> Description in subclause 6.3.1.1 applies.
The BSF may use one or more \"extension\" elements to include additional data
to the request, but the NAF may ignore the additional data.
> When the NAF receives the \"requestBootstrappingInfoResponse\" message, the
> NAF shall check the value of the \"gbaType\" element if it is included in
> the message. If the NAF does not support the GBA type the NAF shall stop
> processing the message and should indicate an error via the O&M subsystem.
> The further procedure in the NAF when the requestBootstrappingInfoResponse
> message is received is described in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5], 3GPP TS 33.222 [11]
> and optionally in GAA service type specific TSs.
## 5.4 Protocol Zpn between NAF and BSF based on Diameter
The requirements for Zpn interface are defined in 3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
The protocol Zpn retrieves the GPI, key material and possibly user security
settings data by NAF from BSF. When the NAF wants to send data to the UE, but
the NAF has no valid NAF-key available, the following steps are executed as
depicted in Figure 5.4. The basic procedure is:
In general, the UE and the NAF will not yet share the key(s) required to
protect protocol Ua. If they already do, there is no need for the NAF to
invoke protocol Zpn.
It is assumed that the NAF has sufficient information available, i.e. user
identity and the address of BSF.
A) The NAF starts protocol Zpn with BSF
\- The NAF requests GBA-Push-Info (GPI), NAF specific key material
corresponding to the user identity.
\- The BSF fetches AVs from the HSS, generates and supplies to the NAF the
requested GPI, NAF specific key material, the expiry time, the bootstrapinfo
creation time, and the appropriate User Security Settings defined for received
application identifiers.
B) The NAF sends GPI over protocol Upa to the UE (see 3GPP TS 33.223 [23])
Once the run of protocol Upa is completed the purpose of bootstrapping is
fulfilled and it will enable the UE and NAF to run protocol Ua in a secure
way.
The GBA push procedure over Zpn is presented in Figure 5.4.
Figure 5.4-1: The Diameter based GBA push procedure over Zpn
The steps of the GBA push procedure in Figure 5.4-1 are:
\- Step 1
The NAF shall send a GBA-Push-Info-Request message to the BSF. The content of
the message is given here in the same format as in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3]. The
curly brackets indicate mandatory AVPs. The square brackets indicate optional
AVP. The address refers to the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN).
\ ::=\\ **\
\ **{ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }\ { Origin-Host } ;
Address of NAF\ { Origin-Realm } ; Realm of NAF\ { Destination-Realm } ; Realm
of BSF\ [ Destination-Host ] ; Address of the BSF\ { UE-Id } ; User identity\
{ UE-Id-Type } ; Public or private identity\ { UICC-App-Label } ; UICC
application label\ * [ GAA-Service-Identifier ] ; Service identifiers\ { NAF-
SA-Identifier } ; P-TID\ { NAF-Id } ; NAF_ID\ { UICC-ME } ; Use of GBA_ME or
GBA_U\ { Requested-Key-Lifetime } ; Requested NAF-Key lifetime\ { Private-
Identity-Request } ; Request private identity\ [ GBA_U-Awareness-Indicator ] ;
GBA_U awareness of the NAF\ [ Security-Feature-Request ] ; Sec. feature
request\ *[ AVP ]\ *[ Proxy-Info ]\ *[ Route-Record ]
The content of Vendor-Specific-Application-ID according IETF RFC 6733 [33] is:
\::=\\ 1* [Vendor-Id] ; 3GPP
is 10415\ 0*1 {Auth-Application-Id} ; xxxxxxxx\ 0*1 {Acct-Application-Id} ;
Omitted
The Destination-Realm AVP and Destination-Host AVP are set to subscriber's
BSF.
NOTE: In the case the NAF is in a visited network, the NAF contacts the
subscriber\'s home BSF through a Diameter based Proxy (Zn-Proxy) that is
located in the same network as the NAF. In this case the Destination-Host
shall not be included.The local BSF and the Zn-Proxy may be co-located. See
3GPP TS 33.220 [6].
The NAF indicates the GAA services for which the information is retrieved by
GAA-Service-Identifier AVPs.
With UE-Id and UE-Id-Type AVPs the NAF indicates the user identity and its
type, i.e. private or public. The NAF uses UICC-ME and UICC-App-Label AVPs to
identity which UICC application is to be used and if GBA-ME or GBA_U should be
used. Private-Identity-Request indicates if he NAF requests the BSF to send
the private user identity. Requested-Key-Lifetime AVP indicates the requested
key lifetime for the NAF keys. NAF-SA-Identifier (P-TID) is sent to the BSF so
that BSF can include it to the encrypted GPI. See 3GPP TS 33.223 [23]).
The NAF may request information on the availability of security features using
the Security-Features-Resquest AVP. The AVP may contain a semicolumn-separated
list of security features that are available ordered by preference.
\- Step 2
When the BSF receives the GPI request it checks that the requested key
lifetime in the GPI request is less than the allowed max value in the system.
If checking fails the BSF sends an Answer message with Experimental-Result set
to indicate the error type 5402. In successful case the Result-Code is set to
2xxx as defined in IETF RFC 6733 [33].
> The BSF includes the received user identity (public of private) to the Zh
> protocol request.
If GBA_U was requested by the NAF, the BSF queries its database to find out if
the private user identity is registered and if a valid Ks already exists. If a
valid Ks exists, the BSF shall invalidate this Ks
The BSF derives the key material for the ME (i.e., Ks_NAF in the case of
GBA_ME, and Ks_ext_NAF in the case of GBA_U) and possibly the key material for
the UICC (i.e., Ks_int_NAF in the case of GBA_U) according to the NAF-ID and
packs them into ME-Key-Material AVP and possible UICC-Key-Material AVP. The
ME-Key-Material contains Ks_(ext)_NAF and the UICC-key-Material contains the
Ks_int_NAF key. The BSF select correct user's Security Settings according the
request's GAA-Service-Identifier AVP to GBA-UserSecSettings AVP. If NAF
grouping is used by the operator and there are one or more USSs corresponding
to the requested GSID, then also the nafGroup attribute of USS is checked. If
the NAF has sent a GAA-Service-Identifier that does not have corresponding
user's security settings, and the BSF is locally configured to reject those
requests from the NAF, then the error 5402 is raised. If the NAF has sent a
GAA-Service-Identifier that have corresponding user\'s security settings, but
the BSF is locally configured to reject those from that NAF, then the error
5402 is raised too.
The BSF generates the GPI according to TS 33.223 [23].
The BSF shall check if this NAF-Id is allowed to be used for the NAF. If the
NAF identified by its Origin-Host AVP is configured in the BSF not to be
authorized to use the given NAF-Id, the BSF may raise the error situation
5402. The BSF may also be configured so that a certain NAF is not authorized
to use a certain GAA-Service-Identifier. This situation may be also indicated
by error code 5402.
\- Step 3
After that the BSF shall send a GBA-Push-Info-Answer message back to the NAF.
The BSF deletes the used Ks according to 3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
\ ::= \\ **\ \ **{ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }\ [ Result-Code ]\ [
Experimental-Result]\ { Origin-Host } ; Address of BSF\ { Origin-Realm } ;
Realm of BSF\ [ User-Name ] ; IMPI\ [ ME-Key-Material ] ; Required\ [ UICC-
Key-Material ] ; Conditional\ [ Key-ExpiryTime ] ; Time of expiry\ [
BootstrapInfoCreationTime ] ; Bootstrapinfo creation time\ [ GBA-
UserSecSettings ] ; Selected USSs\ [ GBA-Type ] ; GBA type used in
bootstrapping\ [ GBA-Push-Info ] ; GBA Push Info\ [ Security-Feature-Response
] ; Sec. feature response\ *[ AVP ]\ *[ Proxy-Info ]\ *[ Route-Record ]
The BSF may or may not send the User-name AVP (IMPI) It is only returned if
requested and public user identity was used in the GBA-Push-Info-Request
message according its configuration.
The mandatory common key material with the ME (Ks_NAF or Ks_ext_NAF) is sent
in the ME-Key-Material AVP. The common key material with the UICC (Ks_int_NAF)
is optionally sent in the UICC-Key-Material AVP only if the \"uiccType\" tag
in bsfInfo from the HSS is set to \"GBA_U\".
The Key-ExpiryTime AVP contains the expiry time of the Bootstrapping
information in the BSF according its configuration. The expiry time is
represented according the Diameter Time data format in seconds that have
passed since 0h on January 1, 1900 UTC . If a special key lifetime value is
given in the \"lifeTime\" tag inside the bsfInfo from the HSS in bootstraping
procedure, it is used instead of the BSF default configuration value when the
expiry time is calculated.
The BootstrapInfoCreationTime AVP contains the bootstrapinfo creation time,
i.e., creation time of the Bootstrapping information in the BSF. The
bootstrapinfo creation time is represented in seconds that have passed since
January 1, 1900 00:00:00.000 UTC.
The BSF selects the appropriate User Security Settings (if any) to the GBA-
UserSecSettings AVP from stored GAA-UserSecSettings in Bootstrapping
information according the GBA-Service-Identifier AVPs in the request message.
The BSF shall indicate the type of used authentication in the bootstrapping
procedure to the NAF in GBA-Type, if other than 3G GBA type has been
performed.
The GBA-Push-Info AVP includes the GPI. The contents of GPI are defined in
3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
If the BSF supports the usage of securityFeature and the NAF has requested the
securityFeatures from the BSF in the request, the BSF shall extract
securityFeatures element from the bsfInfo element in subscriber\'s GUSS and
add those security features to the Security-Features-Response AVP in the
response which are common in the received securityFeatures request from the
NAF and in the extracted information from the bsfInfo element. The common
security features are added to the Security-Features-Response AVP in the order
as they appear in the bsfInfo element. If securityFeatures element is not
defined in the GUSS,or there is no common securityFeature, the BSF shall
include an empty string to the Security-Features-Response AVP in the response.
When the NAF receives the GBA-Push-Info-Answer message, the NAF shall check
the value of the GBA-Type AVP if it is included in the message. If the NAF
does not support the GBA-Type the NAF shall stop processing the message and
should indicate an error via the O&M subsystem. The further procedure in the
NAF when the GBA-Push-Info-Answer message is received is described in 3GPP TS
33.223 [23], 3GPP TS 24.109 [7].
## 5.5 Protocol Zpn between NAF and BSF based on Web Services
The procedures in the NAF and in the BSF related Web Services [13] based Zpn
interface are the same as specified in clause 5.4, but instead of Diameter
messages a Web Services procedures shall be used to communicate over Zpn
interface. AnnexG specifies the GBA Service for Web Services, i.e., it
contains the Web Services Definition Language (WSDL) [14] specification for
GBA Service. Below are the attributes that are defined for GBA Service
request, response, and fault cases.
Figure 5.5: The Web Services based GAA application procedure
The possible attribute value definitions and restrictions for the request,
response, and fault messages are the same as in clause 6 unless explicitly
specified in this clause. The steps of the GAA application procedure in Figure
5.4 are:
Step 1
The NAF shall send a \"requestGbaPushInfoRequest message\" to the BSF. The
WSDL schema of this message is included in Annex G.
> Following elements are included into this message:
\- \"ptid\"
> This is P-TID and it is given to the BSF so that it can be included in the
> encrypted \"gbaPushInfo\" element in the response. Description in subclause
> 6.3.1.19 applies.
\- \"nafid\"
> This is the NAF-Id. Description in subclause 6.3.1.3 applies.
\- \"gsid\"
> This element contains the GAA Services Identifiers. Description in subclause
> 6.3.1.4 applies while the GAA Service Type Codes for 3GPP standardized
> services are defined in Annex B.
\- \"gbaUAware\"
> This element is optionally included. It indicates whether NAF is GBA_U
> aware, and is capable of using and handling the \"uiccKeyMaterial\". The
> default value for \"gbaUAware\" is false. Description and values defined for
> the corresponding Diameter AVP in subclause 6.3.1.8 apply.
\- \"userId\"
> This element indicates the user identity. Description in subclause 6.3.1.12
> applies.
\- \"userIdType\"
> This element indicates the user identity type, i.e. private or public.
> Description and values defined for the corresponding Diameter AVP in
> subclause 6.3.1.13 apply.
\- \"uiccAppLabel\"
> This element includes the UICC application identity to be used. Description
> in subclause 6.3.1.14 applies.
\- \"uiccOrMe\"
> This element indicates the BSF whether GBA_ME or GBA_U is to be used for GBA
> push. Description and values defined for the corresponding Diameter AVP in
> subclause 6.3.1.15 apply.
\- \"requestedLifeTime\"
> This element indicates the requested key lifetime for the NAF keys.
> Description in subclause 6.3.1.16 applies.
\- \"privateIdRequest\"
\- If this element is present it indicates that the NAF requests the BSF to
send the private user identity of the user. Description and values defined for
the corresponding Diameter AVP in subclause 6.3.1.17
apply.\"securityFeaturesRequest\"
> If this element is present it indicates that the NAF requests information on
> the availability of security features. The element may contain a semicolumn-
> separated list of security features that are available ordered by
> preference. Description in subclause 6.3.1.20 applies while the values are
> defined in Annex A.
The NAF may use one or more \"extension\" elements to include additional data
to the request, but the BSF may ignore the additional data.
> This SOAP message shall be sent to BSF, then the URI of the message shall
> contain the BSF address.
>
> In the case the NAF is in a visited network, the NAF contacts the
> subscriber\'s home BSF through a GBA-Proxy that is located in the same
> network as the NAF. The local BSF and the GBA-Proxy may be co-located. See
> 3GPP TS 33.220 [6].
Step 2
> The procedures for step 2 are the same as in step 2 in clause 5.4.
>
> If any of the error situations described in step 2 in clause 5.4 arises, the
> BSF shall respond with a requestGbaPushInfoFault message, as defined in
> Annex G. The \"errorCode\" element shall contain the corresponding Diameter
> error code (see clause 6.2.2). If the \"errorText\" is included, it shall
> contain a human-readable description of the error.
Step 3
After that, the \"requestGbaPushInfoResponse\" message is sent back to the
NAF. The WSDL schema of this message is included in Annex G.
> Following elements are included into this message:
\- \"impi\"
> This element is optionally included according to BSF configuration. It is
> only returned if requested and public user identity was used in
> \"requestGbaPushInfoRequest\" message. Description for User-Name AVP from
> 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] applies.
\- \"meKeyMaterial\"
> It includes the mandatory common key material with the ME (Ks_NAF or
> Ks_ext_NAF). Description in subclause 6.3.1.6 applies.
\- \"uiccKeyMaterial\"
> This element is the common key material with the UICC (Ks_int_NAF). It is
> optionally sent only if the \"uiccType\" tag in \"bsfInfo\" (received by BSF
> from the HSS over Zh) is set to \"GBA_U\". Description in subclause 6.3.1.7
> applies.
\- \"keyExpiryTime\"
> It contains the expiry time of the Bootstrapping information in the BSF
> according its configuration. If a special key lifetime value is given in the
> \"lifeTime\" tag inside the \"bsfInfo\" (received by BSF from the HSS over
> Zh) in bootstraping procedure, it shall be used instead of the BSF default
> configuration value when the expiry time is calculated. Description in
> subclause 6.3.1.5 applies.
\- \"bootstrappingInfoCreationTime\"
> This element contains the bootstrapinfo creation time, i.e., creation time
> of the Bootstrapping information in the BSF. Description in subclause
> 6.3.1.9 applies.
\- \"gbaType\"
> This element indicates the type of used authentication in the bootstrapping
> procedure to the NAF in \"gbaType\" element. It shall be included if other
> than 3G GBA type has been performed. Description and values defined for the
> corresponding Diameter AVP in subclause 6.3.1.11 apply.
\- \"ussList\"
> This element is optionally included. The BSF shall select the appropriate
> User Security Settings (if any) into the \"ussList\" element from stored
> GAA-UserSecSettings in Bootstrapping information according \"gsid\" elements
> in the request message. The \"ussList\" element contains a standalone XML
> document whose root element shall be \"ussList\" element as specified in
> Annex A and which contains the User Security Settings selected by the BSF.
> Description in subclause 6.3.1.1 applies.
\- \"gbaPushInfo\"
> This element includes the GPI. Description in subclause 6.3.1.18 applies.
\- \"securityFeaturesResponse\"
> If the BSF supports the usage of securityFeature and the NAF has requested
> the securityFeatures from the BSF in the request, the BSF shall extract
> securityFeatures element from the \"bsfInfo\" element in subscriber\'s GUSS
> and add those security features to the securityFeaturesResponse element in
> the response which are common in the received \"securityFeaturesRequest\"
> from the NAF and the extracted information from the \"bsfInfo\" element. The
> common security features are added to the \"SecurityFeaturesResponse\"
> element in the order as they appear in the \"bsfInfo\" element. If
> \"securityFeatures\" element is not defined in the GUSS or there is no
> common \"securityFeature\", the BSF shall add empty string to the
> \"securityFeaturesResponse\" element in the response. Description in
> subclause 6.3.1.21 applies while the values are defined in Annex A.
>
> The BSF may use one or more \"extension\" elements to include additional
> data to the request, but the NAF may ignore the additional data.
>
> When the NAF receives the \"requestGbaPushInfoResponse\" message, the NAF
> shall check the value of the \"gbaType\" element if it is included in the
> message. If the NAF does not support the GBA type the NAF shall stop
> processing the message and should indicate an error via the O&M subsystem.
> The further procedure in the NAF when the \"requestGbaPushInfoResponse\"
> message is received is described in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5], 3GPP TS 33.222 [11]
> and optionally in GAA service type specific TSs.
# 6 Diameter application for Zh, Zn and Zpn interfaces
## 6.0 Introduction
The Zh, Zn and Zpn interface protocols are defined as IETF vendor specific
Diameter applications, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor identifier
assigned by IANA to 3GPP (http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers)
is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the Zh interface application
is 16777221 (allocated by IANA).
The Diameter application identifiers assigned to the Zn and Zpn interface
application are 16777220 and 16777268 respectively (allocated by IANA).
## 6.1 Command-Code values
The Zn and Zpn interfaces assign new Command-Codes 310 and 312.
The messages in Zh interface use the same Command-Code value 303 as
Multimedia-Auth-Request/Answer messages defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] for Cx
interface.
As the Diameter commands used over Zh, Zn and Zpn have been defined based on
the former specification of the Diameter base protocol, the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVP is still listed as a required AVP (an AVP indicated as
{AVP}) in the command code format specifications defined in this specification
to avoid backward compatibility issues, even if the use of this AVP has been
deprecated in the new specification of the Diameter base protocol (IETF RFC
6733 [33]).
## 6.2 Result-Code AVP values
This section defines new result code values that must be supported by all
Diameter implementations that conform to this specification. When one of the
result codes defined here is included in a response, it shall be inside an
Experimental-Result AVP and Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
### 6.2.1 Success
Errors that fall within the Success category are used to inform a peer that a
request has been successfully completed.
The success category result codes defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] for Cx
interface are useless and therefore not required in Zh, Zn and Zpn interfaces.
### 6.2.2 Permanent failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category are used to inform the
peer that the request failed, and should not be attempted again.
The Permanent failure category result codes defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] for
Cx interface are useless and therefore not required in Zh , Zn and Zpn
interfaces.
#### 6.2.2.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_IDENTITY_UNKNOWN (5401)
A message was received by the HSS for an IMPI or IMPU that is unknown.
#### 6.2.2.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_NOT_AUTHORIZED (5402)
A message was received by the BSF which the BSF can not authorize. In this
case the NAF should indicate to the UE that the service is not allowed. In
case of GBA push, the NAF should not contact the UE.
#### 6.2.2.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_TRANSACTION_IDENTIFIER_INVALID (5403)
A message was received by the BSF for an invalid (e.g. unknown or expired)
Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier (B-TID). In this case the NAF should
request the UE to bootstrap again.
#### 6.2.2.4 Void
#### 6.2.2.5 Void
#### 6.2.2.6 Void
#### 6.2.2.7 Void
## 6.3 AVPs
The AVPs defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] for 3GPP IMS Cx interface Multimedia-
Auth-Request/Answer messages are used as they are.
The following table describes the additional new Diameter AVPs defined for the
Zh, Zn and Zpn interface protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag
values and whether or not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-Id header of
all AVPs defined in this specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
Table 6.1: New Diameter Multimedia Application AVPs
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AVP Flag rules
**Attribute Name** **AVP Code** **Section defined** **Value Type** **Must**
**May** **Should not** **Must not** **May Encr.** GBA-UserSecSettings 400
6.3.1.1 OctedString M, V No Transaction-Identifier 401 6.3.1.2 OctetString M,
V No NAF-Id 402 6.3.1.3 OctetString M, V No GAA-Service-Identifier 403 6.3.1.4
OctedString M, V No Key-ExpiryTime 404 6.3.1.5 Time M, V No ME-Key-Material
405 6.3.1.6 OctedString M, V No UICC-Key-Material 406 6.3.1.7 OctedString M, V
No GBA_U-Awareness-Indicator 407 6.3.1.8 Enumerated M, V No
BootstrapInfoCreationTime 408 6.3.1.9 Time M, V No GUSS-Timestamp 409 6.3.1.10
Time V M No GBA-Type 410 6.3.1.11 Enumerated M, V No UE-Id 411 6.3.1.12
OctetString M, V No UE-Id-Type 412 6.3.1.13 Enumerated M, V No UICC-App-Label
413 6.3.1.14 OctetString M, V No UICC-ME 414 6.3.1.15 Enumerated M, V No
Requested-Key-Lifetime 415 6.3.1.16 Time M, V No Private-Identity-Request 416
6.3.1.17 Enumerated M, V No GBA-Push-Info 417 6.3.1.18 OctedString M, V No
NAF-SA-Identifier 418 6.3.1.19 OctedString M, V No Security-Feature-Request
419 6.3.1.20 OctetString M,V No Security-Feature-Response 420 6.3.1.21
OctetString M,V No NOTE 1: The AVP header bit denoted as 'M', indicates
whether support of the AVP is required. The AVP header bit denoted as 'V',
indicates whether the optional Vendor-ID field is present in the AVP header.
* * *
### 6.3.1 Common AVPs
#### 6.3.1.1 GBA-UserSecSettings AVP
The GBA-UserSecSettings AVP (AVP code 400) is of type OctetString. If
transmitted on the Zh interface it contains GBA user security settings (GUSS).
If transmitted on the Zn interface it contains the relevant USSs only. The
content of GBA-UserSecSettings AVP is a XML document whose root element shall
be the \"guss\" element for Zh interface and the \"ussList\" element for the
Zn interface. The XML schema is defined in annex A.
#### 6.3.1.2 Transaction-Identifier AVP
The Transaction-Identifier AVP (AVP code 401) is of type OctetString. This AVP
contains the Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier (B-TID).
#### 6.3.1.3 NAF-Id
The NAF-Id AVP (AVP code 402) is of type OctetString. This AVP contains the
full qualified domain name (FQDN) of the NAF that the UE uses concatenated
with the Ua security protocol identifier as specified in 3GPP TS 33.220 [5].
The FQDN of the NAF that is part of the NAF_Id may be a different domain name
that with which the BSF knows the NAF.
#### 6.3.1.4 GAA-Service-Identifier AVP
The GAA-Service-identifier AVP (AVP code 403) is of type OctedString. This AVP
informs a BSF about the support of a GAA-service by the NAF. According this
AVP the BSF can select the right service's user security settings.
For 3GPP standardized services (e.g., PKI portal), the GAA-Service-Identifier
(GSID) shall be in the range 0 to 999999, and the currently standardized
values for GSID shall be the GAA Service Type Code of the particular service.
The GAA Service Type Codes for 3GPP standardized services are defined in Annex
B.
NOTE: In the future, standardized GSID values that are different than the GAA
Service Type Code may be standardised (e.g. to differentiate between the
services \"MBMS streaming\" and \"MBMS download\") and then several different
GSID can exist within one GAA Service Type Code.
Examples: The GSID is \"1\" for all PKI-portals, and \"4\" for all MBMS
services.
#### 6.3.1.5 Key-ExpiryTime AVP
The Key-ExpiryTime AVP (AVP code 404) is of type Time. This AVP informs the
NAF about the expiry time of the key.
#### 6.3.1.6 ME-Key-Material AVP
The required ME-Key-Material AVP (AVP code 405) is of type OctetString. The
NAF is sharing this key material (Ks_NAF in the case of GBA_ME or Ks_ext_NAF
in the case of GBA_U) with the Mobile Equipment (ME).
#### 6.3.1.7 UICC-Key-Material AVP
The condition UICC-Key-Material AVP (AVP code 406) is of type OctetString. The
NAF may share this key material (Ks_int_NAF in the case of GBA_U) with a
security element (e.g. USIM, ISIM, etc..) in the UICC. Only some GAA
applications use this conditional AVP.
#### 6.3.1.8 GBA_U-Awareness-Indicator
The conditional GBA_U-Awareness-Indicator AVP (AVP code 407) is of type
Enumerated. The following values are defined.
NO (0) The sending node is not GBA_U aware
YES(1) The sending node is GBA_U aware
The default value is 0 i.e. absence of this AVP indicates that the sending
node is not GBA_U aware.
#### 6.3.1.9 BootstrapInfoCreationTime AVP
The BootstrapInfoCreationTime AVP (AVP code 408) is of type Time. This AVP
informs the NAF about the bootstrapinfo cration time of the key.
#### 6.3.1.10 GUSS-Timestamp AVP
The GUSS-Timestamp AVP (AVP code 409) is of type Time. If transmitted this AVP
informs the HSS about the timestamp of the GUSS stored in the BSF.
#### 6.3.1.11 GBA-Type
The GBA-Type AVP (AVP code 410) is of type Enumerated. The AVP informs the NAF
about the authentication type that was used during bootstrapping procedure.
The following values are defined:
\- 3G GBA (0) The 3G GBA has been performed as defined in TS 33.220 [5].
\- 2G GBA (1) The 2G GBA has been performed as defined in TS 33.220 [5] ,
Annex I.
\- GBA Digest (2) The GBA Digest has been performed as defined in TS 33.220
[5], Annex M.
The default value is 0 i.e. the absence of this AVP indicates 3G GBA. The
value 2 is not applicable for Zpn.
#### 6.3.1.12 UE-Id
The UE-Id AVP (AVP code 411) is of type OctedString. The AVP informs the BSF
the identity of the user.
#### 6.3.1.13 UE-Id-Type
The UE-Id-Type AVP (AVP code 412) is of type Enumerated. The AVP informs the
BSF the type of the identity of the user.
The following values are defined:
\- (0) Private user identity.
\- (1) Public user identity.
#### 6.3.1.14 UICC-App-Label
The UICC-App-Label AVP (AVP code 413) is of type OctedString. The AVP informs
the BSF the UICC application to be used for GBA push.
#### 6.3.1.15 UICC-ME
The UICC-ME AVP (AVP code 414) is of type Enumerated. The AVP informs the BSF
the whether GBA_ME or GBA_U is to be used for GBA push.
The following values are defined:
\- GBA_ME (0) GBA_ME shall be run.
\- GBA_U (1) GBA_U shall be run.
#### 6.3.1.16 Requested-Key-Lifetime
The Requested-Key-Lifetime AVP (AVP code 415) is of type Time. The AVP informs
the BSF about the requested lifetime for the NAF keys.
#### 6.3.1.17 Private-Identity-Request
The Private-Identity-Request AVP (AVP code 416) is of type Enumerated. The AVP
informs the BSF if the NAF requests the private identity of the user.
The following values are defined:
\- Private identity requested (0) .
\- Private identity not requested (1)
#### 6.3.1.18 GBA-Push-Info
The GBA-Push-Info AVP (AVP code 417) is of type OctetString. The AVP includes
the GBA-Push-Info as defined in 3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
#### 6.3.1.19 NAF-SA-Identifier
The NAF-SA-Identifier AVP (AVP code 418) is of type OctetString. The AVP
contains the NAF-SA-Identifier (P-TID). See 3GPP TS 33.223 [23].
#### 6.3.1.20 Security-Feature-Request
The Security-Feature-Request AVP (AVP code 419) is of type OctetString. The
AVP contains one or several of the security features requested by the NAF. The
values are defined in Annex A.
#### 6.3.1.21 Security-Feature-Response
The Security-Feature-Request AVP (AVP code 420) is of type OctetString. The
AVP contains one or several of the security features identified by the HSS.
This information is conveyed to the BSF using the \"securityFeatures\" element
in the \"bsfElement\" of GUSS (cf. Annex A), and the securityFeatures received
in the request. The values are defined in Annex A.
## 6.4 User identity to HSS resolution
The User identity to HSS resolution mechanism enables the BSF to find the
identity of the HSS that holds the subscriber data for a given subscriber when
multiple and separately addressable HSSs have been deployed by the network
operator. The resolution mechanism is not required in networks that utilise a
single HSS or when a BSF is configured to use pre-defined HSS.
The resolution mechanism is equivalent to the mechanism defined for the Cx/Dx
interface described in 3GPP TS 23.228 [12] and shall use a Subscription
Locator Function (SLF) or a Diameter Proxy Agent.
The BSF accesses the SLF via the Dz interface. The Dz interface shall be
always used in conjunction with the Zh interface. The Dz interface is based on
Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [33]. The SLF
functionality shall use the routing mechanism provided by an enhanced Diameter
redirect agent, which is able to extract the Subscriber identity from the
received requests.
The SLF or the Diameter Proxy Agent shall be able to determine the HSS
identity.
To get the HSS identity the BSF shall send the Zh request normally destined to
the HSS to a pre-configured Diameter identity.
\- If this Zh request is received by an SLF (acting as a Diameter redirect
agent), the SLF shall determines the HSS identity and shall send to the BSF a
notification of redirection towards the HSS identity, in response to the Zh
request. Multiple HSS identities may be included in the response, as specified
in IETF RFC 6733 [33]. In such a case, the BSF shall send the Zh Request to
the first HSS identity in the ordered list received in the Zh Response from
the SLF. If the BSF does not receive a successful response to the Zh Request,
the BSF shall send a Zh Request to the next HSS identity in the ordered list.
This procedure shall be repeated until a successful response from an HSS is
received.
\- If this Zh request is received by the Diameter Proxy Agent, the Diameter
Proxy Agent shall determine the HSS identity and shall forward the Zh request
directly to the HSS. The BSF shall determine the HSS identity from the
response to the Zh request received from the HSS.
After the user identity to HSS resolution, the BSF may store the HSS identity
and, if stored, shall use it in further Zh requests associated to the same
Subscriber.
In networks where the use of the user identity to HSS resolution mechanism is
required and the BSF is not configured to use predefined HSS, each BSF shall
be configured with the address/name of the SLF or the Diameter Proxy Agent
implementing this resolution mechanism.
# 7 Use of namespaces
This clause contains the namespaces that have either been created in this 3GPP
specification, or in 3GPP specification 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] or the values
assigned to existing namespaces managed by IANA.
## 7.1 AVP codes
This specification reserves the 3GPP vendor specific values 10415:400-499 and
assigns values 10415:400-418 for the GAA from the 3GPP AVP Code namespace for
3GPP Diameter applications ([8]). The 3GPP vendor specific AVP code space is
managed by 3GPP CT4. See section 6 for the assignment of the namespace in this
specification.
Besides the Diameter base protocol AVPs specified in IETF RFC 6733 [33], this
specification reuses the following AVPs from 3GPP TS 29.229 [3]:\
Authentication-Session-State, User-Name, Public-User-Identity and SIP-Auth-
Data-Item.
### 7.2 Experimental-Result-Code AVP values
This specification reserves Experimental-Result-Code AVP values
10415:2401-2409 and 10415:5401-5409. See section 6.2.
### 7.3 Command Code values
Only Command-Codes 310 and 303 from 3GPP TS 29.229 [3] is used in this
specification.
This specification reuses only the Command-Code value, not the content of the
original specification. The AVPs, that are defined required in TS 29.229 [3],
but are not needed in Zh, Zn or Zpn interfaces, are removed and are therefore
not required in Zh, Zn or Zpn interface messages. All new AVPs for GAA are
defined optional although they may be mandatory in GAA viewpoint.
This specification does not assign new command codes to the 3GPP TS 29.229
[3].
###### ## Annex A (normative): GBA-UserSecSettings XML definition
This annex contains the XML schema definition for an XML document carrying the
GBA User Security Settings inside GBA-UserSecSettings AVP in Zh,Zn and Zpn
interface.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
NOTE 1: The \ elements within the complex types ExtensionType allow
for compatible standard extensions in future releases. The \ elements within the other complex types allow for
compatible private extensions.
The values are:
\- The value of the attribute \"id\" in the element \"guss\" is the same as
user's IM Private Identity (IMPI) used in User-Name AVP.
\- The value of the element \"timestamp\" in the element \"guss\" is the same
type as GUSS-Timstamp used in GUSS-Timestamp AVP and indicates the timestamp
of the GUSS. Timestamp value shall be expressed in UTC form, indicated by a
time zone designator \"Z\" immediately following the time portion of the
value.
\- The value of the attribute \"id\" in the element \"uss\" is the same as
service identifier (GSID) used in GAA-Service-Identifier AVP.
NOTE 2: In the case with currently standardized 3GPP applications (c. f. Annex
B), the service identifier (GSID) is the same as the GAA Service Type Code
i.e. the \"id\" and the \"type\" attribute would have the same value. For
example, in the interoperator GAA where the requesting BM-SC (i.e. NAF) is
different operator network than the answering BSF, the BM-SC (NAF) can request
particular user\'s MBMS USS by using \"4\" for the GSID in the \"id\"
attribute in the USS. If the BSF operator wishes to have different MBMS USSs
for different BM-SCs (NAFs), it can use the nafGroup attribute to separate
NAFs to specific groups, and each group would get a particular USSs: \ would be given to NAFs in group A, and
\ would be given to NAFs in group B
when they request it. NAF groups are operator specific, i.e., operator decides
which USS is given to which NAF.\"
\- The value of the element \"uiccType\" in the element \"bsfInfo\" is:\ GBA
to indicate the basic case, or\ GBA_U to indicate that generation of
Ks_int_NAF is also required in the BSF.\ The default value is GBA.
\- The value of the element \"lifeTime\" in the element \"bsfInfo\" indicates
a user specific key lifetime (duration in seconds). If the lifeTime element is
missing the default value in the BSF is used.
\- The value of the optional element \"securityFeatures\" in the element
\"bsfInfo\" indicates a user specific security feature list that the UE
supports. If the securityFeature element is missing then the security features
are not defined. If there is a list of several values, they are separated by
\";\". Defined values are:
\- \"GPL_U\": The UICC supports Generic Push Layer on the UICC as specified in
3GPP TS 33.224 [30].
\- The value of attribute \"type\" in the element \"uss\" is GAA service type
code defined in annex B.
\- The value of attribute \"nafGroup\" in the element \"uss\" is an operator
internal group designator for a NAF group the USS is valid for. If this
attribute is missing then only the attribute \"id\" is used for selection of
this element.
\- Values of the element \"uid\" are user's public authentication identities
from the HSS.
\- Values of element \"flag\" are user's authorization flag codes from the HSS
for GAA service type indicated in the type attribute in the parent uss
element. If an authorization flag exist the NAF have permission to give the
corresponding service, otherwise not
\- The value of the element \"keyChoice\" in the \"Extension\" element inside
the \"uss\" element is \"ME-based-key\", i.e., Ks_ NAF or Ks_ext_NAF shall be
used, or \"UICC-based-key\", i.e., Ks_int_NAF shall be used or \"ME-UICC-
based-keys\", i.e., Ks_ext_NAF or Ks_int_NAF can be used. The value of this
element indicates to the NAF, which key shall be used. If the keyChoice
element is missing, then as a default the \"ME-based-key\" shall be used by
the NAF unless a prior agreement exists that mandates to use \"UICC-based-
key\" or \"ME-UICC-based-keys\".
In the following illustrative examples the values are italised and underlined.
The content of one User Security Setting tag is boxed.
\
\
\86400\
\
\
> \ nafGroup=\"_[A]{.underline}_ \">
>
> \
>
> \_[tel:358504836551]{.underline}_ \
>
> _\ [lauri.laitinen\@example.com]{.underline}_\
>
> _..._
>
> _\ _
>
> \
>
> \_[1]{.underline}\ _
>
> _..._
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \_[ME-based-key]{.underline}_ \
>
> \
>
> \
...
\
\
The above GAA User Security Settings example for user \"358500004836551@
ims.mnc050.mcc358.3gppnetwork.org\" defines that for PKI-Portal (GAA service
type code is 1) services are allowed for user identities \"tel:358504836551\"
and \"lauri.laitinen\@example.com\" and authentication is allowed (flag 1
exists) but non-repudiation is not allowed (flag 2 is missing) to NAFs that
provide the GAA service identified by \"1\" GAA Service Identifier. This
particular USS for PKI-Portal is intended to be used only with a NAF group
that is labeled as \"A\" (NAF groupings and NAFs that belong to these groups
are specified by the MNO). Additionally, the key choice for the PKI-Portal
should use only ME based key (as key keyChoice is set to \"ME-based-key\").
The BSF shall not generate UICC-Ks, because uiccType is missing. A special key
lifetime defines that the duration after which the key expires is 86400
seconds.
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \_[tel:358504836551]{.underline}_ \
>
> _\ [lauri.laitinen\@example.com]{.underline}_\
>
> _\ _
>
> \
>
> \_[1]{.underline}\ _
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \_[ME-based-key]{.underline}_ \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> ]]>
The above is an example how the value of \"GAA-UserSecSettings\" in Diameter
based Zn reference point and \"ussList\" in Web Services based Zn reference
point is populated.
NOTE 3: The BSF has removed the \"nafGroup\" attribute from \"uss\" element.
Also, the XML document has been surrounded by \"\\" tags,
so that the XML parser handling the outer message (i.e., in Web Services case)
will not parse the ussList. The ussList will be parsed by the application
itself handling the incoming message.
Below is an example illustrating the usage of the flag for service
authorization. The content of one User Security Setting tag is boxed.
\
\
\86400\
\
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \_[tel:358501234567]{.underline}_ \
>
> _\ [pekka.mustermann\@example.com]{.underline}_\
>
> _..._
>
> _\ _
>
> \
>
> \_[1]{.underline}\ _
>
> _..._
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \_[ME-based-key]{.underline}_ \
>
> ...
>
> \
>
> \
...
\
\
The above GAA User Security Settings example for user \"358501234567@
ims.mnc050.mcc358.3gppnetwork.org\" defines that for ANDSF (GAA service type
code is 8) services are allowed for user identities \"tel:358501234567\" and
\"pekka.mustermann\@example.com\" and authentication is allowed (flag 1
exists) i.e. the user is authorized to use the ANDSF service according to the
policy stored in the ANDSF server. If the flag contains a 0 or is missing, the
stated user identities would not be authorized to use the GAA service
identified by \"8\" GAA Service Identifier. Additionally, the key choice for
the ANDSF should use only ME based key (as key keyChoice is set to \"ME-based-
key\").
Analogously, the authorization flag is used for OpenID GBA Interworking (GAA
Service Type Code 11) the authentication is allowed (flag 1 exists) i.e. the
user is authorized to use the OpenID-GBA Interworking service. If the flag
contains a 0 or is missing, the stated user identities would not be authorized
to use the GAA service identified by \"11\" GAA Service Identifier.
Additionally, the key choice for the OpenID/GBA Interworking should use only
ME based key if the keyChoice extension is set to \"ME-based-key\".
###### ## Annex B (normative): GAA Service Type Codes
The GAA Service Type Code values are used in GAA to indicate interpretation,
coding and usage of GAA service type specific data.
For examples each GAA service type may have their own set of authorization
flags. Meaning and coding of these flags are defined in Annex C. There may
also be proprietary GAA service types with their own definitions in the
future.
Code values 0 -- 999999 are reserved for standardized GAA service types.
The following values are defined for standardized GAA service types with 3GPP
specification:
0 Unspecific service\ 1 PKI-Portal\ 2 Authentication Proxy\ 3 Presence\ 4
MBMS\ 5 Liberty Alliance Project (see [15])
6 UICC - Terminal Key Establishment (see [17])
7 Terminal -- Remote Device Key Establishment (see [18])
8 ANDSF (see [24])
9\. GBA Push (see [25])
10 IMS based PSS MBMS (see [26])
11 OpenID GBA Interworking (see [29])
12 Generic Push Layer (see [30])
Default value is 0. An unspecific service may or may not have user security
settings containing or not a list of public identities. An unspecific service
cannot have specified authorization flags or other service type specific data.
###### ## Annex C (normative): GAA Authorization flag codes
For GAA services which have a defined set of special authorization flag codes
the following rule holds: The service specified by the GAA authorization flag
codes is allowed for a user only if user's user security setting contains that
flag.
The following standardised GAA service types that are listed in previous annex
B have the following special authorization flag codes:
**PKI-Portal (1)**
1 Authentication allowed
2 Non-repudiation allowed
**ANDSF (8)**
0 Not authorized
1 Authorized according to policy stored in ANDSF server
**OpenID Interworking (13)**
0 Not authorized
1 Authorized
###### ## Annex D (normative): Web Services Definition for Zn interface
This annex contains the Web Services Defination Language (WSDL) [14] for Zn
interface:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex E (informative): Liberty authentication context definitions
for GBA
# E.1 Introduction
This clause describes the GBA Authentication Context definition that the
Liberty Identity Provider uses to describe GBA parameters to Liberty Service
Provider. The Liberty 3GPP Security Interworking is further discussed in 3GPP
TR 33.980 [15].
# E.2 GBA Authentication context statement data model
A particular Liberty authentication context statement will capture the
characteristics of the process, procedures, and mechanisms by which the
authentication authority verified the subject before issuing an identity,
protects the secrets on which subsequent authentications are based, and the
mechanisms used for this authentication. These characteristics are categorized
in the Liberty ID-FF Authentication Context Specification [16] as follows:
\- Identification - Characteristics that describe the processes and mechanism
the authentication authority uses to initially create an association between a
subject and the identity (or name) by which the subject will be known.
\- Technical Protection - Characteristics that describe how the \"secret\"
(the knowledge or possession of which allows the subject to authenticate to
the authentication authority) is kept secure.
\- Operational Protection - Characteristics that describe procedural security
controls employed by the authentication authority (for example, security
audits, records archival).
\- Authentication Method - Characteristics that define the mechanisms by which
the subject of the issued assertion authenticates to the authentication
authority (for example, a password versus a smartcard).
\- Governing Agreements - Characteristics that describe the legal framework
(e.g. liability constraints and contractual obligations) underlying the
authentication event and/or its associated technical authentication
infrastructure.
Compared to Liberty Authentication Context [16], the GBA Authentication
Context statement data model adds a description to to which GBA mechanism was
used during bootstrapping with the BSF, and how the corresponding shared
secret was used with the Identity Provider (IdP) that functions as a NAF.
The authentication contexts classes specific to mobile terminals specified by
Liberty Alliance are called
\- MobileOneFactorUnregistered,
\- MobileTwoFactorUnregistered,
\- MobileOneFactorContract, and
\- MobileTwoFactorContract classes.
The GBA authentication context uses some of the elements in these classes and
introduces a new element called \"GBAMechanism\", which can be used to
describe GBA specific parameters of the authentication. The elements used in
the GBA Authentication Context schemas are:
\- GBAMechanismType: describes the GBA bootstrapping mechanism (identifies the
method used over Ub reference point);
\- AuthenticatorTransportProtocolType: describes the authentication mechanism
that was used authenticate the UE towards the Liberty Identity Provider
(identifies the method used over Ua reference point);
\- KeyActivationType: describes the mechanism to achieve two factor
authentication (valid in *TwoFactor* authentication schemas).
# E.3 GBA authentication context statement schema
This section lists the complete GBA Authentication Context XML schema. It is
based on Liberty Authentication Context XML Schema to which the addition is
the additional description of how GBA procedures have been conducted, i.e.,
GBAMechanism element.
\
\
\
\
\
\
This authentication context has been defined for the
3GPP and 3GPP2 Generic Bootstrapping Architecture. It
defines new GBAMechanismType and its values, but reuses
the Liberty authentication context schema for other
values. The GBA authentication context is based on the
MobileOneFactor* and MobileTwoFactor* authentication
contexts with the exception that only shared secret
based authentication methods (i.e., symmetric) are used,
and private key (i.e., asymmetric) methods are not
used when authenticating the UE due to the nature of GBA.
\
\
\
\
\
\
Legacy GBA where existing old authentication
frameworks are used for bootstrapping such
2G GBA in 3GPP, and CDMA 1x and CDMA 1xEvDo
in 3GPP2.
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA using AKA as specified in 3GPP and 3GPP2.
The shared secret is derived in the mobile and
used in the mobile.
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA_U using AKA as specified in 3GPP and 3GPP2.
The shared secret is derived in the UICC and used
in the mobile.
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA_U using AKA as specified in 3GPP and 3GPP2.
The shared secret is derived in the UICC and used
in the UICC.
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA mechanism used in the bootstrapping procedure.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
# E.4 GBA authentication context classes
## E.4.1 GBAOneFactorUnregistered
This class reflects that there were no mobile customer registration procedures
and an authentication of the UE is done without requiring explict end-user
interaction.
### E.4.1.1 Associated 3GPP URI
http://www.3gpp.org/schemas/authctx/classes/GBAOneFactorUnregistered
### E.4.1.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ \
\ \
\
\
\
\
\
## E.4.2 GBATwoFactorUnregistered
This class reflects that there were no mobile customer registration procedures
and a two-factor based authentication of the UE is done requiring an explicit
end-user interaction during authentication procedure (e.g., a PIN needs to be
typed).
### E.4.2.1 Associated 3GPP URI
http://www.3gpp.org/schemas/authctx/classes/GBATwoFactorUnregistered
### E.4.2.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ \
\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## E.4.3 GBAOneFactorContract
This class reflects that mobile customer registration procedures have taken
place and an authentication of the UE is done without requiring explicit end-
user interaction.
### E.4.3.1 Associated 3GPP URI
http://www.3gpp.org/schemas/authctx/classes/GBAOneFactorContract
### E.4.3.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ \
\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## E.4.4 GBATwoFactorContract
This class reflects that mobile customer registration procedures have taken
place and a two-factor based authentication of the UE is done requiring an
explicit end-user interaction during authentication procedure (e.g., a PIN
needs to be typed).
### E.4.4.1 Associated 3GPP URI
http://www.3gpp.org/schemas/authctx/classes/GBATwoFactorContact
### E.4.4.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ \
\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex F (informative): SAML authentication context definitions for
GBA
# F.1 Introduction
This clause describes the GBA Authentication Context definition that an
Identity Provider (IdP) uses to describe GBA parameters to a Service Provider
(SP). SAML authentication contexts are further discussed in the SAML
Authentication Context specification [19].
# F.2 GBA authentication context declaration data model
Similarly to Liberty (cf. Annex E), a SAML authentication context declaration
captures characteristics of the processes, procedures, and mechanisms by which
the authentication authority verified the subject before issuing an identity,
protects the secrets on which subsequent authentications are based, and the
mechanisms used for this authentication (identification, technical protection,
operational protection, authentication method and governing agreements) OASIS
Standard [22].
Compared to the SAML authentication context declaration data model OASIS
Standard [22], the GBA authentication context declaration data model extends
the SAML model by adding a description of which GBA mechanism was used during
bootstrapping with the BSF, and at the same time restricts the SAML model in a
number of respects specific to GBA (only shared secret as authenticator type,
only HTTP or SSL as authenticator transport protocol, secret key activation by
PIN, only mobile device or smartcard as key storage medium).
The authentication contexts classes specific to mobile terminals specified by
SAML are:
\- MobileOneFactorUnregistered,
\- MobileTwoFactorUnregistered,
\- MobileOneFactorContract, and
\- MobileTwoFactorContract.
The GBA authentication context classes introduced herein correspond to the
above ones and are:
\- GBAOneFactorUnregistered,
\- GBATwoFactorUnregistered,
\- GBAOneFactorContract, and
\- GBATwoFactorContract.
The GBA authentication context classes are derived from the corresponding SAML
authentication context classes by means of the following patterns:
\- The GBA mechanism (corresponding to ME-based GBA, UICC-based GBA, 2G GBA,
etc.) is added to the authentication method type for all the four classes.
\- A set of GBA-specific restrictions (only shared secret as authenticator
type, only HTTP or SSL as authenticator transport protocol, only mobile device
or smartcard as key storage medium) is applied to all the four classes.
\- For the "OneFactor" classes (GBAOneFactorUnregistered and
GBAOneFactorContract), there is no more difference (compared to the
corresponding SAML class) in addition to the two changes described above.
\- For the "TwoFactor" classes (GBATwoFactorUnregistered and
GBATwoFactorContract), the key activation by means of PIN is mandatory in
secret key protection.
Given the above patterns, the rest of this annex is expected to be understood
without further detailed explanations.
# F.3 GBA authentication context declaration types
This section lists the type definitions common to all the four GBA
authentication context declaration classes. It adds the GBA mechanism elements
(and the necessary type definitions) to the SAML types.
\
\
\
\
These types are intended to be used in the definition of
the authentication context classes in 3GPP and 3GPP2 Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA). The new authentication
context classes are defined separately.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA mechanism used in the bootstrapping procedure.
\
\
\
\
\
\
Legacy GBA where existing old authentication
frameworks are used for bootstrapping such
2G GBA in 3GPP, and CDMA 1x and CDMA 1xEvDo
in 3GPP2.
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA using AKA as specified in 3GPP and 3GPP2.
The shared secret is derived in the mobile and
used in the mobile.
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA_U using AKA as specified in 3GPP and 3GPP2.
The shared secret is derived in the UICC and used
in the mobile.
\
\
\
\
\
\
GBA_U using AKA as specified in 3GPP and 3GPP2.
The shared secret is derived in the UICC and used
in the UICC.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
# F.4 GBA authentication context declaration classes
## F.4.1 GBAOneFactorUnregistered
This class reflects that there were no mobile customer registration procedures
and an authentication of the UE is done without requiring explict end-user
interaction.
### F.4.1.1 Associated 3GPP URI
urn:3gpp:gba:ac:saml:2007-08:classes:GBAOneFactorUnregistered
### F.4.1.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
The GBA authentication context class comparable to
the SAML MobileOneFactorUnregistered class.
Id: 3gpp-gba-saml-authn-context-gbaonefactor-unreg-1.0.xsd
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## F.4.2 GBATwoFactorUnregistered
This class reflects that there were no mobile customer registration procedures
and a two-factor based authentication of the UE is done requiring an explicit
end-user interaction during authentication procedure (e.g., a PIN needs to be
typed).
### F.4.2.1 Associated 3GPP URI
urn:3gpp:gba:ac:saml:2007-08:classes:GBATwoFactorUnregistered
### F.4.2.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
The GBA authentication context class comparable to
the SAML MobileTwoFactorUnregistered class.
Id: 3gpp-gba-saml-authn-context-gbatwofactor-unreg-1.0.xsd
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## F.4.3 GBAOneFactorContract
This class reflects that mobile customer registration procedures have taken
place and an authentication of the UE is done without requiring explicit end-
user interaction.
### F.4.3.1 Associated 3GPP URI
urn:3gpp:gba:ac:saml:2007-08:classes:GBAOneFactorContract
### F.4.3.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
The GBA authentication context class comparable to
the SAML MobileOneFactorContract class.
Id: 3gpp-gba-saml-authn-context-gbaonefactor-reg-1.0.xsd
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## F.4.4 GBATwoFactorContract
This class reflects that mobile customer registration procedures have taken
place and a two-factor based authentication of the UE is done requiring an
explicit end-user interaction during authentication procedure (e.g., a PIN
needs to be typed).
### F.4.4.1 Associated 3GPP URI
urn:3gpp:gba:ac:saml:2007-08:classes:GBATwoFactorContract
### F.4.4.2 Class schema
\
\
\
\
\
The GBA authentication context class comparable to
the SAML MobileTwoFactorContract class.
Id: 3gpp-gba-saml-authn-context-mobiletwofactor-reg-1.0.xsd
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex G (normative): Web Services Definition for Zpn interface
This annex contains the Web Services Definition Language (WSDL) [14] for Zpn
interface:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#