# Foreword
The present document has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the signalling requirements and procedures used
at network elements related to the GLR for GTP within the 3GPP system at the
application level.
The present document gives the description of the systems needed only in the
network utilising GLR as the delta document against 3GPP TS 29.060.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description
Stage2\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.119: \"Gateway Location Register (GLR) -- stage2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification, Core
Network Protocols -- Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp Interface\".
# 2 Definitions and abbreviations
## 2.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Gateway Location Register:** this entity handles location management of
roaming subscriber in visited network without involving HLR
**Intermediate GSN:** this entity is used as serving GSN towards home network
and relay some PDU notification messages between serving GSN and Gateway GSN
**MM context:** information sets held in MS and GSNs for a GPRS subscriber
related to mobility management (MM)
**MM Context ID:** IMSI or equivalent for use in conjunction with Anonymous
Access (please refer to section GTP Header)
**Path:** UDP/IP path and TCP/IP path are examples of paths that may be used
to multiplex GTP tunnels
**Path Protocol:** path Protocol is the protocol(s) used as a bearer of GTP
between GSNs
**PDP:** packet Data Protocol (PDP) is a network protocol used by an external
packet data network interfacing to GPRS
**PDP Context:** information sets held in MS and GSNs for a PDP address
**Signalling message:** GTP signalling messages are exchanged between GSN
pairs in a path. The signalling messages are used to transfer GSN capability
information between GSN pairs and to create, update and delete GTP tunnels
**T-PDU:** original packet, for example an IP datagram, from an MS or a
network node in an external packet data network. A T-PDU is the payload that
is tunnelled in the GTP tunnel
**Tunnel Endpoint Identifier (TEID):** this field unambiguously identifies a
tunnel endpoint in the receiving GTP-U or GTP-C protocol entity. The receiving
end side of a GTP tunnel locally assigns the TEID value the transmitting side
has to use. The TEID values are exchanged between tunnel endpoints using GTP-C
messages
## 2.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
GGSN Gateway GPRS support node
GLR Gateway Location Register
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IM_GSN Intermediate GSN
IP Internet Protocol
GLR Gateway Location Register
SGSN Serving GPRS support node
TEID Tunnel Endpoint IDentifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
# 3 General
The present document defines the GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) specific to
the network with the GLR, i.e. the protocol between IM_GSN and other nodes
(i.e. GGSN, SGSN and GTP-MAP protocol converting GSN). It includes only the
GTP signalling but not data transfer procedures.
The interface between IM_GSM and GGSN is either intra-PLMN interface or inter-
PLMN interface.
Figure 1: Logical Architecture for PS domain in the network with GLR
The GTP protocol is implemented only by IM_GSNs, SGSNs and GGSNs. No other
systems need to be aware of GTP. GPRS MSs are connected to a SGSN without
being aware of GTP.
It is assumed that there will be a many-to-many relationship between IM_GSNs,
SGSNs and GGSNs. An IM_GSN may provide service to many GGSNs. A SGSN may
provide service to many IM_GSNs and GGSNs.
# 4 Transmission order and bit definitions
Transmission order and bit definitions on the interface between the IM_GSN and
other nodes in the network with GLR are the same as that used in the network
without the GLR, see 3GPP TS 29.060.
# 5 GTP header
The GTP header used on interface between the IM_GSN and other nodes in the
network with GLR is the same as that used in the network without the GLR, see
3GPP TS 29.060.
# 6 GTP Message and Message Formats
The only signalling plane exists between the IM_GSN and other nodes (i.e.
GGSN, SGSN and GTP-MAP protocol converting GSN).
## 6.1 Signalling Message Formats
GTP defines a set of signalling messages between two associated GSNs. The
signalling messages to be used between the IM_GSN and other nodes are defined
in the table below. For the GTP signalling messages to be used on other
interfaces see 3GPP TS 29.060.
Table 1: Signalling messages
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Message Type value | Signalling message | Reference | | | | | | (Decimal) | | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 3 | Version Not Supported | 7.4.3 in 3GPP TS | | | | 29.060 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 27 | PDU Notification | 7.5.12 in 3GPP TS | | | Request | 29.060 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 28 | PDU Notification | 7.5.13 in 3GPP TS | | | Response | 29.060 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 29 | PDU Notification | 7.5.14 in 3GPP TS | | | Reject Request | 29.060 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 30 | PDU Notification | 7.5.15 in 3GPP TS | | | Reject Response | 29.060 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 32 | Send Routeing | 7.6.1 in 3GPP TS | | | Information for GPRS | 29.060 | | | Request | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 33 | Send Routeing | 7.6.2 in 3GPP TS | | | Information for GPRS | 29.060 | | | Response | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 34 | Failure Report | 7.6.3 in 3GPP TS | | | Request | 29.060 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 35 | Failure Report | 7.6.4 in 3GPP TS | | | Response | 29.060 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
## 6.2 Path Management messages
The messages, which are listed in following table, are used on the interface
between the IM_GSN and other nodes. For the definitions of these messages and
other messages used on the other interfaces refer to the corresponding
sections in 3GPP TS 29.060.
* * *
Messages Sending node Receiving node Version Not Supported IM_GSN GGSN, SGSN
GGSN, SGSN IM_GSN
* * *
## 6.3 Tunnel Management messages
In following table, only the messages used between the IM_GSN and GGSN and
between the IM_GSN and SGSN are listed. For the definitions of these messages
and other messages used on the other interfaces refer to the corresponding
sections in 3GPP TS 29.060.
* * *
Messages Sending node Receiving node PDU Notification Request GGSN IM_GSN
IM_GSN SGSN PDU Notification Response SGSN IM_GSN IM_GSN GGSN PDU Notification
Reject Request SGSN IM_GSN IM_GSN GGSN PDU Notification Reject Response GGSN
IM_GSN IM_GSN SGSN
* * *
## 6.4 Location Management message
In the network with the GLR, The optional Location Management messages are
defined to support the case when Network-Requested PDP Context Activation
procedures are used and an IM_GSN does not have a SS7 MAP interface. GTP is
then used to transfer signalling messages between the IM_GSN and a GTP-MAP
protocol-converting GSN in the GPRS backbone network. The GTP-MAP protocol-
converting GSN converts the signalling messages described in this section
between GTP and MAP. The MAP messages are sent to and received from the GLR.
The GTP-MAP protocol-converting function is described in 3GPP TS 23.060. The
MAP protocol describing the corresponding procedures and messages is described
in 3GPP TS 29.002. This alternative method is illustrated in Figure 2.
Figure 2: IM_GSN - GLR Signalling via a GTP-MAP protocol-converter in a GSN
In following table, only the messages used between the IM_GSN and The GTP-MAP
protocol-converting GSN are listed. For the definitions of these messages and
other messages used on the other interfaces refer to the corresponding
sections in 3GPP TS 29.060.
* * *
Messages Sending node Receiving node Send Routeing Information for GPRS
Request IM_GSN GTP-MAP protocol-converting Send Routeing Information for GPRS
Response GTP-MAP protocol-converting IM_GSN Failure Report Request IM_GSN GTP-
MAP protocol-converting Failure Report Response GTP-MAP protocol-converting
IM_GSN
* * *
## 6.5 Mobility Management messages
The messages belonging to the mobility management messages are not used on the
interface between the IM_GSN and other nodes in the network with the GLR.
## 6.6 Reliable delivery of signalling messages
For the Reliability mechanism in the IM_GSN, see section 7.8 in 3GPP TS
29.060.
## 6.7 Information element
The format of information elements in the message used on the interface
between the IM_GSN and other nodes in the network with GLR is the same as that
in the network without the GLR. See 3GPP TS 29.060.
# 7 Signalling Plane (GTP-C)
The definition of signalling plane used in the network with the GLR is the
same as that used in the network without the GLR, see in 3GPP TS 29.060.
# 8 GTP-U
GTP-U is not used on the interface between the IM_GSN and other nodes. For the
definition of GTP-U on the other interfaces, see in 3GPP TS 29.060.
# 9 Path Protocol
The Path Protocol on the interface between the IM_GSN and other nodes in the
network with the GLR is the same as that used in the network without the GLR.
See 3GPP TS 29.060.
# 10 Error handling
The error handling on the interface between the IM_GSN and other nodes is the
same as that in the network without the GLR. See 3GPP TS 29.060. One exception
is that the IM_GSN doesn\'t have a Restart Counter because the IM_GSM stores
no PDP and MM context and therefore the synchronisation of the status of these
with other GSNs is not needed.
# 11 Inter-PLMN GTP communication over the Gp Interface
Refer to the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 29.060.
# 12 IP, the networking technology used by GTP
Refer to the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 29.060.
# 13 GTP parameters
The definitions and directions for use of the parameters in GTP (inc. timer
values or counter values and so on) on the interface between the IM_GSN and
other nodes is the same as that used in the network without the GLR. See 3GPP
TS 29.060.
#