# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the stage 3 specification of the Nu reference
point. The functional requirements and the stage 2 specifications of the Nu
reference point are specified in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2]. The Nu reference point
lies between the Packet Flow Description Function (PFDF) and the Service
Capability Exposure Function (SCEF).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and Charging Control signalling flows and QoS
parameter mapping\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[6] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[7] IETF RFC 793: \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 29.251: \"**Gw and Gwn reference points for sponsored data
connectivity** \".
[10] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[11] IETF RFC 7159: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[12] IETF draft-newton-json-content-rules-09: \"A Language for Rules
Describing JSON Content\".
NOTE: This individual draft will not further progress in IETF. It is available
from the following link: https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-newton-json-
content-rules-09.txt.
[13] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[14] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[15] IETF RFC 7232: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Conditional
Requests\".
[16] IETF RFC 7233: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Range
Requests\".
[17] IETF RFC 7234: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching\".
[18] IETF RFC 7235: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Authentication\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"Evolved GPRS Tunnelling Protocol for EPS (GTPv2)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Packet Flow Description (PFD):** A set of information enabling the detection
of application traffic provided by a 3^rd^ party service provider (from 3GPP
TS 23.203 [3]).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PFD Packet Flow Description
PFDF Packet Flow Description Function
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
TDF Traffic Detection Function
# 4 Nu reference point
## 4.1 Overview
The Nu reference point is located between the Packet Flow Description Function
(PFDF) and the Service Capability Exposure Function (SCEF). The Nu reference
point is used for provisioning of PFDs from the SCEF to the PFDF and reporting
the result of the PFD Management from the PFDF to the SCEF.
The stage 2 level requirements for the Nu reference point are defined in 3GPP
TS 23.682 [2].
## 4.2 Nu reference model
The Nu reference point is defined between the SCEF and the PFDF. The
relationships between the different functional entities involved are depicted
in figure 4.2.1. The overall PCC architecture is depicted in subclause 3a of
3GPP TS 29.213 [4].
Figure 4.2.1: Nu reference model
## 4.3 Functional elements
### 4.3.1 PFDF
The PFDF (Packet Flow Description Function) is a functional element which
receives and manages the PFDs associated to application identifier (s) from
the SCEF via the Nu reference point.
The PFDF provisions PFDs for the corresponding application identifier (s) to
the PCEF/TDF as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 [3] and 3GPP TS 29.251 [9].
### 4.3.2 SCEF
The SCEF (Service Capability Exposure Function) is a functional element which
provides means to securely expose the services and capabilities provided by
the 3GPP network interfaces.
The SCEF shall support the management of PFDs provided by the 3^rd^ party
SCS/AS. The SCEF may provision the PFDs to the PFDF via the Nu reference
point.
## 4.4 Procedures over Nu reference point
### 4.4.1 Management of PFD
The PFDs associated with application identifier (s) may be created, updated or
removed in the PFDF by the third party SCS/AS via the SCEF as defined in 3GPP
TS 23.682 [2].
If the SCEF receives one or more sets of PFDs for external application
identifier (s) provisioned by the third party SCS/AS, which is authorized to
perform the management of PFDs based on operator policies, the SCEF shall:
\- If the external application identifier(s) is different from the application
identifier(s) known at the PFDF, translate the external application
identifier(s) to the application identifier(s) known at the PFDF; and
\- may check if the allowed delay satisfies the required SLA against the
minimum allowed delay as defined in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2]; and
\- send an HTTP POST message to the PFDF including the provisioned PFD changes
for the the application identifier (s) within the body of the HTTP POST as
described in subclause 5.3.5.2.
NOTE 1: It is up to operator configuration whether to use different external
application identifiers that require a mapping to application identifiers
known at the PFDF. The external application identifier can be the same as the
application identifier known at the PFDF.
Upon receipt of the HTTP request for the provisioning operation from the SCEF,
the PFDF shall perform the following steps:
\- If an allowed delay is received for an application identifier, for Pull
mode as defined in 3GPP TS 29.251 [9], the PFDF shall compare the allowed
delay with the configured caching time which is:
\- a caching time value configured for that application identifier; or
\- the default caching time value if no caching time value is configured for
that application identifier.
\- Then if the PFDF cannot ensure the PCEF/TDF will pull the PFDs in time
(i.e. allowed delay is shorter than the caching time), the PFDF shall within
the HTTP response send a failure reason and that caching time value used in
the comparison and may still store (create/update/remove) the PFDs for this
application identifier.
NOTE 2: In the Combination mode as defined in 3GPP TS 29.251 [9], the PFDF can
check the received allowed delay against the caching time but will always
store (create/update/remove) the PFDs.
\- In the Pull mode as defined in 3GPP TS 29.251 [9], for the application
identifier(s) without the need to send failure reason; or in the Push or
Combination mode as defined in 3GPP TS 29.251 [9], for received application
identifier(s), the PFDF shall:
\- delete all the PFD(s) for the application identifier(s) where the removal-
flag is also provided and set to true;
\- update the existing PFD(s) if a new PFD(s) with the same PFD identifier(s)
is received , add new PFD(s) if the new PFD(s) with a new PFD identifier(s) is
received, and/or delete an existing PFD(s) if the same PFD identifier(s)
without any content is received, where the partial-flag is also provided and
set to true;
\- remove existing PFD(s) (if available) and install the new PFD(s) for the
corresponding PFD identifier(s) whereno flag is provided;
\- acknowledge the HTTP POST message by sending a corresponding HTTP response
with the appropriate status code as defined in subclause 5.3.2. If the POST
operation was successful for at least one application identifier, the PFDF
shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code.
### 4.4.2 PFD management notification
In the Push mode or Combination mode as defined in 3GPP TS 29.251 [9], if the
PFDs are provisioned to at least one of the known PCEFs/TDFs (but not all)
within the allowed delay (i.e. the provisioned PFDs can not be enforced
successfully in some PCEF/TDFs known on the PFDF), the PFDF may notify the
SCEF about the failed PFD provisioning with the HTTP POST message using the
failure reason \"PARTIAL_FAILURE\" as defined in Table 5.4.7.1-1. In this
case, the PFDF may include location area(s) of the PCEF/TDF(s) which can not
enforce the provisioned PFD(s) within the field \"user-plane-location-area\"
of the corresponding instance of the PFD report(s). If the PFDs are
provisioned to none of the known PCEFs/TDFs within the allowed delay, the PFDF
shall notify the SCEF about the failed PFD provisioning with the HTTP POST
message using appropriate failure reason as defined in subclause 6.4.6.3 of
3GPP TS 29.251 [9].
When receiving the HTTP POST message, the SCEF shall respond with an HTTP
response message.
# 5 Nu protocol
## 5.1 Introduction
The following layers of the protocol stack for the Nu reference point between
the SCEF and the PFDF are described in subclauses:
\- IETF RFC 793 [7] provides the communication service at the transport layer.
\- An optional communication security layer can be added between the transport
and the application delivery layer (see subclause 6).
\- The application delivery layer provides the transport of the specific
application communication data using IETF RFC 7230 [13], IETF RFC 7231 [14],
IETF RFC 7232 [15], IETF RFC 7233 [16], IETF RFC 7234 [17] and IETF RFC 7235
[18].
> \- The specific application communication layer constitutes the transport of
> the JSON content type.
Figure 5.1.1 illustrates the protocol stack of the RESTful Nu reference point.
Figure 5.1.1: Protocol stack of the RESTful Nu reference point
## 5.2 Transport layer
HTTP is layered over TCP, which provides a reliable transport.
For provisioning of PFDs from the SCEF to the PFDF, the SCEF acts as an HTTP
client and the PFDF acts as an HTTP server. As a result, the SCEF shall
initiate a TCP connection with the PFDF.
## 5.3 Application delivery layer
### 5.3.1 General
The application delivery layer shall use RESTful HTTP.
The application delivery layer provides provisioning of the PFDs by the SCEF.
If the SCEF needs to provision PFDs for a set of application identifier(s)
(creation/update/deletion) to the PFDF, the SCEF shall send an HTTP POST
message.
### 5.3.2 HTTP status codes
The HTTP status codes for the REST-based Nu interface are specified in the
IETF RFC 7231 [14].
### 5.3.3 Methods
Methods indicate to the server what action has to be performed. Every HTTP
request message has a method.
The HTTP POST method is used by the SCEF to provision PFDs for a set of
application identifiers. The request URI defines the address responsible for
the management of the PFDs provisioning as a controller resource.
The HTTP POST method is also used by the PFDF to inform the SCEF for PFD
management notification.
Every HTTP request results in a response message that comes back with a status
code and further information in its body, if required. The HTTP request
initiator waits for this response before initiating a further request.
### 5.3.4 Resources and URI design
The URI design shall be based on the structure defined in IETF RFC 3986 [10]:
scheme \":\" hier-part [ \"?\" query ] [ \"#\" fragment ]\ hier-part = \"//\"
authority path-abempty\ / path-absolute\ / path-rootless\ / path-empty
The scheme may be HTTP or HTTPS for the Nu interface. Within a scheme the
definition of names shall follow the rules of HTTP URIs. Host and port are the
main parts of the authority. The path element identifies the resources.
For the Nu interface, the following required parts of the URI shall be used as
follows:
scheme: The application delivery layer protocol \"http\" or \"https\".
authority: It includes the server address and optionally a port as follows:
host [\":\" port]
path-absolute: The path-absolute should have the following ABNF: \"/\" mainapp
\"/\" mainresource. In this release:
\"mainapp" is \"nuapplication\".
\"mainresource\" is \"provisioning\".
The PFDs management (associating/disassociating PFDs with application
identifiers) in PFDF is a controller resource that is responsible for
processing requests that provisioning a set of changes for more than one set
of PFDs for corresponding application identifiers atomically.
An example of the URI to identify the controller resource is
http://pfdfserver.example.com/nuapplication/provisioning.
NOTE: A different path can be used when the Resource URI is preconfigured in
the SCEF.
### 5.3.5 HTTP request/response formats
#### 5.3.5.1 General
The PFDs provisioning procedure is performed through HTTP transactions
consisting of a request initiated by the SCEF and answered by the PFDF.
Table 5.3.5.1-1 summarizes the content of the requests and responses. More
detailed information is specified in the corresponding subclauses as indicated
in the table.
Table 5.3.5.1-1: Nu requests/response summary table
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Method | Resource | Clause | Request | I | Response | | | URI's | Defined | body | nitiator | body | | | path | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | POST | /nu | 5.3.5.2 | Conte | SCEF | Su | | | applicat | | nt-Type: | | ccessful | | | ion/prov | | applicat | | r | | | isioning | | ion/json | | esponse: | | | | | | | The PFDF | | | (NOTE 1) | | The SCEF | | may | | | | | shall | | include | | | | | include | | infor | | | | | PFDs | | mational | | | | | content | | data in | | | | | as | | the body | | | | | sociated | | of the | | | | | with | | response | | | | | app | | in | | | | | lication | | Annex A. | | | | | ident | | | | | | | ifier(s) | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | schema | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | Annex A. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | POST | {scef-n | 5.3.5.3 | Conte | PFDF | | | | otificat | | nt-Type: | | | | | ion-uri} | | applicat | | | | | | | ion/json | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | The PFDF | | | | | /nu | | shall | | | | | applicat | | include | | | | | ion/noti | | noti | | | | | fication | | fication | | | | | | | result | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | and | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | ident | | | | | | | ifier(s) | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | schema | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | Annex A. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | /nu | | | | | | | applicat | | | | | | | ion/prov | | | | | | | isioning | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | when it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | SCEF. In | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | case the | | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | | part set | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | methods | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | use the | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | one. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | /nu | | | | | | | applicat | | | | | | | ion/noti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | when it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | PFDF and | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | scef- | | | | | | | notifica | | | | | | | tion-uri | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | received | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | prov | | | | | | | isioning | | | | | | | POST. In | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | case the | | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | | part set | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | methods | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | use the | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | one. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 5.3.5.2 POST /nuapplication/provisioning
The provisioning of the PFDs shall be performed by the SCEF by using the POST
method as follows:
\- The request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.4 with the \"path\"
part set to: /nuapplication/provisioning.
\- The Content-Type header field set to \"application/json\"
\- The body of the message encoded in JSON format as defined in Annex A. The
body shall include
\- for the PFD(s) creation for a new application identifier, a new application
identifier and its full list of PFD(s) to be created;
\- for the PFD(s) full update for an existing application identifier, the
existing application identifier and its new full list of PFD(s)
\- for the PFD(s) partial update for an existing application identifier, the
existing application identifier, partial update indication and
\- new PFD(s) with new PFD identifier(s) to add new PFD(s),
\- new PFD(s) with existing PFD identifier(s) to update existing PFD(s),
and/or
\- the existing PFD identifier(s) without any content to remove the existing
PFD(s);
\- for the PFD(s) removal for an existing application identifier, the existing
application identifier and the removal indication.
Upon receipt of the HTTP POST request, the PFDF shall respond to the SCEF
indicating whether the provisioning was successful or not using one of the
HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 5.3.2. If the provisioning was
accepted, the PFDF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code if no
resource is created, or an HTTP 201 Created status code if one or more
resources are created. If the allowed delay is too short according to the
criteria in subclause 4.4.1, the PFDF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status
code and additional information in the body of the response indicating failure
reason \"too short allowed delay\" and the value of caching time as defined in
Annex A. If the provisioning was rejected, the PFDF shall indicate the reason
using an appropriate HTTP status code as defined in subclause 5.3.2 and
optionally additional information in the body of the response as defined in
Annex A.
Below is an example of an HTTP POST and a corresponding successful response:
POST /nuapplication/provisioning HTTP/1.1
Host: pfdfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
[
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-1\",
\"removal-flag\":true
},
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-2\",
\"allowed-delay\":600,
\"pfds\":[
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd1\",
\"flow-descriptions\":[
\"permit in ip from 10.68.28.39 80 to any\"
]
},
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd2\",
\"urls\":[
\"\^http://test.example.com(/\\\S*)?\$\"
]
}
]
},
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-3\",
\"partial-flag\":true,
\"pfds\":[
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd3\",
\"urls\":[
\"\^http://test.example2.net(/\\\S*)?\$\"
]
},
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd4\"
}
]
}
]
Here is an example of a successful response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 7 May 2012 16:00:00 GMT
Server: pfdfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
\"success-message\": \"Notification was processed successfully.\",
}
#### 5.3.5.3 POST /nuapplication/notification
The notification of the PFD management shall be performed by the PFDF by using
the POST method as follows:
\- The request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.4 with the \"path\"
part set to: /nuapplication/notification.
\- The Content-Type header field set to \"application/json\".
\- The body of the message encoded in JSON format as defined in Annex A. The
body shall include the pfd-report.
Upon receipt of the HTTP POST request, the SCEF shall respond to the PFDF with
HTTP 200 OK status code.
Below is an example of an HTTP POST and a corresponding response:
POST /nuapplication/notification HTTP/1.1
Host: scefserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
{
\"notification-pfd-reports\": [
{
\"application-ids\": [\"test-application-1\", \"test-application-2\", \"test-
application-3\"],
\"pfd-failure-code\":\"PARTIAL_FAILURE\",
\"user-plane-location-area\": {
> \"cell-ids\" : [\"46000045BD6007\", \"46000045BD6008\"],
>
> \"tracking-area-ids\" : [\"46000063F8\", \"46000063F9\"]
>
> }
}
]
}
Here is an example of a response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 7 May 2018 16:00:00 GMT
Server: scefserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
### 5.3.6 Feature negotiation
#### 5.3.6.1 General
The REST based Nu interface needs to provide a mechanism to advertise required
and optional features supported by both the SCEF and PFDF for interoperability
reasons as the functionality of the REST Nu based interface is augmented.
Feature negotiation shall take place during the first interaction (i.e. HTTP
POST in provisioning) between the PFDF and the SCEF. The client shall include
in the HTTP request the set of supported features as follows:
\- if a feature is required for the proper operation of the application, it
shall be included within the 3gpp-Required-Features header;
\- if a feature is optional for the proper operation of the application, it
shall be included within the 3gpp-Optional-Features header.
The server shall include, within the 3gpp-Accepted-Features header in the HTTP
response, the set of features it supports in common with the client.
If the server does not support any of the required features advertised by the
client within the 3gpp-Required-Features header, the server shall reject the
HTTP request with an HTTP 412 Precondition Failed status code and shall
include the commonly supported features with the client within the 3gpp-
Accepted-Features.
If the server requires certain features to be supported that are not
advertised by the client, the server shall reject the HTTP request with an
HTTP 412 Precondition Failed status code and shall include the commonly
supported features with the client within the 3gpp-Accepted-Features and the
required features in the 3gpp-required-features.
If the SCEF and the PFDF successfully negotiate supported features, the list
of commonly supported features shall be applicable for the lifetime of the
application. Features that are not advertised as supported shall not be used.
The sender may send information that is related to the supported features. Any
unrecognized information shall be ignored by the receiver.
The table below defines the features applicable to the Nu interface.
Table 5.3.6.1-1: Features used in Nu Interface
+------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature | M/O | Description | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | DomainNameProtocol | O | This feature supports the | | | | additional protocol matching | | | | condition for the domain | | | | name in PFD data. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | PfdMgmtNotification | O | This feature supports the | | | | PFD management notification. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature: A short name for | | | | the feature to which the M/O | | | | and description pertain. | | | | | | | | M/O: Indication on whether | | | | the implementation of the | | | | feature is mandatory (\"M\") | | | | or optional (\"O\") in this | | | | 3GPP Release. | | | | | | | | Description: Textual | | | | description of the feature. | | | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+
NOTE: The base functionality for the Nu interface is defined in the Release-14
version of this specification and a feature is an extension of that
functionality. The negotiation of supported features allows interworking
between the endpoints of the Nu interface whereby each entity may support all,
some, or none of the features that the Nu application can support defined in
this specification. Features are defined so that they are independent of each
other. Any introduced feature is explicitly defined in this specification.
Since a post Release-16 version of SCEF does not send any supported feature
information, the interworking PFDF supporting Release-16 version does not need
to send any information related to supported feature and both sides shall
behave as specified in the Release-14 version of this specification.
A post Release-16 version of PFDF may receive supported feature information
from a Release-16 version of SCEF, those information will be ignored by the
PFDF and both sides shall behave as specified in the Release-14 version of
this specification.
#### 5.3.6.2 HTTP custom headers
This subclause defines any new HTTP custom headers introduced by this
specification.
##### 5.3.6.2.1 3gpp-Optional-Features
This header is used by the client to advertise the optional features that are
supported by the client.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [13].
3gpp-Optional-Features = \"3gpp-Optional-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Optional-Features: feature1, feature2
##### 5.3.6.2.2 3gpp-Required-Features
This header is used by the client to announce the mandatory features that must
be supported in the server.
This header is also used by the server to indicate the missing features that
must be supported in the client.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [13].
3gpp-Required-Features = \"3gpp-Required-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Required-Features: feature1, feature2
##### 5.3.6.2.3 3gpp-Accepted-Features
The header is used by the server to confirm the commonly supported set of
features with the client.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [13].
3gpp-Accepted-Features = \"3gpp-Accepted-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Accepted-Features: feature1, feature2
## 5.4 Specific application communication
### 5.4.1 General
Specific application communication represents the presentation of application
data structures by transforming data into the form that the application
accepts. It establishes the context between application-layer entities.
NOTE: This release only supports the content type JSON.
### 5.4.2 Content type
The body of HTTP messages shall be in JSON format. The content of the JSON
text is defined in subclause 5.4.3 and Annex A.
The MIME media type that shall be used within the Content-Type header field is
\"application/json\" as defined in IETF RFC 7159 [11].
### 5.4.3 JSON provisioning fields
#### 5.4.3.1 General
Table 5.4.3.1-1 describes the JSON provisioning fields used within the body of
the HTTP messages representing the PFDs information associated with an
application identifier. The table includes the information about the name of
the field and the type of the fields.
Table 5.4.3.1-1: Nu Provisioning JSON fields
+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Field Name | Clause | JSON Value | JCR Type | Ap | | | defined | Type | | plicability | | | | (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | application | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | | | -identifier | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | al | 3GPP TS 2 | number | uint64 | | | lowed-delay | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | pfds | 3GPP TS 2 | array | array | | | | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | pfd | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | | | -identifier | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | flow-d | 3GPP TS 2 | array | array | | | escriptions | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | urls | 3GPP TS 2 | array | array | | | | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | d | 3GPP TS 2 | array | array | | | omain-names | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | r | 3GPP TS 2 | boolean | boolean | | | emoval-flag | 9.251 [9] | | | | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | p | 3GPP TS 2 | boolean | boolean | | | artial-flag | 9.251 [9] | | | | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | dn-protocol | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | DomainN | | | 9.251 [9] | | | ameProtocol | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | scef-notif | 5.4.3.2 | string | string | PfdMgmtN | | ication-uri | | | | otification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | | value types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF RFC 7 | | | | | | 159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | JCR types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF draft- | | | | | | newton-json | | | | | | -content-ru | | | | | | les [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Only one of | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | emoval-flag | | | | | | and the | | | | | | p | | | | | | artial-flag | | | | | | for the | | | | | | application | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | set to | | | | | | true. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Fields | | | | | | marked with | | | | | | a supported | | | | | | feature are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | ause 5.3.6. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
#### 5.4.3.2 scef-notification-uri
The scef-notification-uri is of type string indicating the SCEF sent URI for
receiving notifications.
### 5.4.4 Void
### 5.4.5 JSON errors and informational response fields
#### 5.4.5.1 General
Table 5.4.4.1-1 describes the JSON fields defined for the errors and
informational responses including their types and the field names.
Table 5.4.5.1-1: JSON fields for errors and informational response
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type | Ap | | | defined | Type | (NOTE 2) | plicability | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | | | | (NOTE 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | errors | 3GPP TS 2 | array | array | | | | 9.251 [9] | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | error-type | 3GPP TS 2 | string | \"ap | | | | 9.251 [9] | | plication\" | | | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | interface\" | | | | | | | | | | | | \"server\" | | | | | | | | | | | | \"other\" | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | er | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | | | ror-message | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | error-tag | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | | | | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | error-path | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | | | | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | error-info | 3GPP TS 2 | object | object | | | | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | succ | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | | | ess-message | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | s | 3GPP TS 2 | string | string | | | uccess-path | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | s | 3GPP TS 2 | object | object | | | uccess-info | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | | value types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF RFC 7 | | | | | | 159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | JCR types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF draft- | | | | | | newton-json | | | | | | -content-ru | | | | | | les [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | quoted | | | | | | strings for | | | | | | a string | | | | | | type. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | error is | | | | | | sent from | | | | | | the PFDF to | | | | | | the SCEF. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | Fields | | | | | | marked with | | | | | | a supported | | | | | | feature are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | ause 5.3.6. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.4.6 JSON report fields
#### 5.4.6.1 General
Table 5.4.6.1-1 describes the JSON fields defined for the report information
objects which are included in the error-info field.
Table 5.4.6.1-1: JSON fields for Report from the PFDF
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type | Ap | | | defined | Type | (NOTE 2) | plicability | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pfd-reports | 5.4.6.2 | array | array | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | appl | 5.4.6.3 | array | array | | | ication-ids | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pfd-f | 3GPP TS | string | string | | | ailure-code | 29.251 [9 | | | | | | ] (NOTE 3) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | c | 3GPP TS 2 | number | uint64 | | | aching-time | 9.251 [9] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | | value types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF RFC 7 | | | | | | 159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | JCR types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF draft- | | | | | | newton-json | | | | | | -content-ru | | | | | | les [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | additional | | | | | | failure | | | | | | reasons for | | | | | | Nu are | | | | | | \"TOO_SH | | | | | | ORT_ALLOWE | | | | | | D_DELAY\". | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Fields | | | | | | marked with | | | | | | a supported | | | | | | feature are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | ause 5.3.6. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.4.6.2 pfd-reports
The pfd-reports field is of type array and it contains a list of pfds reports.
The pdf-reports field can be used in an HTTP response to report failures in
the installation/modification of PFDs. In this case, it shall be provided as a
sub field of the error-info field.
Multiple pfd report instances shall be provided within the pfd-reports field
if different pfd-failure-code values are applicable within the same HTTP
response.
caching-time field is included if the pfd-failure-code is set to the value
\"TOO_SHORT_ALLOWED_DELAY\".
A report instance shall contain application-ids and pfd-failure-code fields.
The JCR format for the pfd-reports is:
\$pfd-reports = \"pfd-reports\" : [
{ \$application-ids,
\$pfd-failure-code,
\$caching-time,
} +
]
#### 5.4.6.3 application-ids
The application-ids field is of type array of string, and contains one or more
application identifiers to which the PFDs belong.
### 5.4.7 JSON notification fields
#### 5.4.7.1 General
Table 5.4.7.1-1 describes the JSON notification fields used within the body of
the HTTP messages. The table includes the information about the name of the
field and the type of the fields.
Table 5.4.7.1-1: Nu Notification JSON fields
+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Field Name | Clause | JSON Value | JCR Type | Ap | | | defined | Type | | plicability | | | | (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | no | 5.4.7.2 | array | array | PfdMgmtN | | tification- | | | | otification | | pfd-reports | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | appl | 5.4.6.3 | array | array | PfdMgmtN | | ication-ids | | | | otification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | pfd-f | 3GPP TS | string | string | PfdMgmtN | | ailure-code | 29.251 [9 | | | otification | | | ] (NOTE 4) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | us | 5.4.7.3 | object | object | PfdMgmtN | | er-plane-lo | | | | otification | | cation-area | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | cell-ids | 5.4.7.4 | array | array | PfdMgmtN | | | | | | otification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | enodeb-ids | 5.4.7.5 | array | array | PfdMgmtN | | | | | | otification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | extended | 5.4.7.6 | array | array | PfdMgmtN | | -enodeb-ids | | | | otification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | routi | 5.4.7.7 | array | array | PfdMgmtN | | ng-area-ids | | | | otification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | tracki | 5.4.7.8 | array | array | PfdMgmtN | | ng-area-ids | | | | otification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | | value types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF RFC 7 | | | | | | 159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | JCR types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF draft- | | | | | | newton-json | | | | | | -content-ru | | | | | | les [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Fields | | | | | | marked with | | | | | | a supported | | | | | | feature are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | ause 5.3.6. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | additional | | | | | | failure | | | | | | reasons for | | | | | | Nu are | | | | | | \"PARTIAL\ | | | | | | _FAILURE\". | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
#### 5.4.7.2 notification-pfd-reports
The notification-pfd-reports field is of type array and it contains a list of
pfds reports.
The notification-pdf-reports field can be used in an HTTP POST to notify the
failures in the installation/modification of PFDs. In this case, it shall be
included in the body of the meessage.
Multiple pfd report instances shall be provided within the notification-pfd-
reports field if different pfd-failure-code values are applicable within the
same HTTP response.
user-plane-location-area field is included if the pfd-failure-code is set to
the value \"PARTIAL_FAILURE\".
A report instance shall contain application-ids and pfd-failure-code fields.
The JCR format for the notification-pfd-reports is:
\$notification-pfd-reports = \"notification-pfd-reports\" : [
{ \$application-ids,
\$pfd-failure-code,
\$user-plane-location-area ?
} +
]
#### 5.4.7.3 user-plane-location-area
The user-plane-location-areas field is of type object and it contains location
areas of the user plane(s) which can not enforce the PFD(s) successfully.
The JCR format for the user-plane-location-area is:
\$user-plane-location-area = // : {
\$cell-ids ?,
\$enodeb-ids ?,
\$extended-enodeb-ids ?,
\$routing-area-ids ?,
\$tracking-area-id ?
}
#### 5.4.7.4 cell-ids
The cell-ids is of type string array and it contains a list of Cell Global
Identities served by the user plane(s) which can not enforce the PFD(s)
successfully. The content of the string has the same encoding as defined in
subclause 8.21.1 of 3GPP TS 29.274 [19].
#### 5.4.7.5 enodeb-ids
The enodeb-ids is of type string array and it contains a list of eNodeB
identities served by the user plane(s) which can not enforce the PFD(s)
successfully. The content of the string has the same encoding as defined in
subclause 8.21.7 of 3GPP TS 29.274 [19].
#### 5.4.7.6 extended-enodeb-ids
The enodeb-ids is of type string array and it contains a list of eNodeB
identities served by the user plane(s) which can not enforce the PFD(s)
successfully. The content of the string has the same encoding as defined in
subclause 8.21.8 of 3GPP TS 29.274 [19].
#### 5.4.7.7 routing-area-ids
The routing-area-ids is of type string array and it contains a list of Routing
Area Identities served by the user plane(s) which can not enforce the PFD(s)
successfully. The content of the string has the same encoding as defined in
subclause 8.21.3 of 3GPP TS 29.274 [19].
#### 5.4.7.8 tracking-area-ids
The tracking-area-ids is of type string array and it contains a list of
Tracking Area Identities served by the user plane(s) which can not enforce the
PFD(s) successfully. The content of the string has the same encoding as
defined in subclause 8.21.4 of 3GPP TS 29.274 [19].
## 5.5 PFDF discovery
The PFDF URI may be pre-configured on the SCEF.
The SCEF may select the PFDF by this configuration.
## 5.6 SCEF discovery
The SCEF notification URI may be pre-configured on the PFDF.
The SCEF notification URI may also be sent to the PFDF in the PFD
provisioning.
The PFDF may select the SCEF by the pre-configuration or use the notification
URI received in the PFD provisioning.
# 6 Secure communication
Either the NDS/IP network layer security defined in 3GPP TS 33.210 [5] or HTTP
over TLS as defined in IETF RFC 2818 [6] should be used to secure
communication over the REST based Nu interface.
###### ## Annex A (informative): JSON Schema
# A.1 Provisioning schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP request providing
the provisioned PFDs. The schema is based on IETF draft-newton-json-content-
rules [12] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.nuapplication.provisioning
# import 3gpp.gwapplication.pfds as pfds
; JCR representing the PFDs provisioning data
\$provisioning-root = @{root}{
\$application-identifier,
\$removal-flag ?,
\$partial-flag ?,
\$allowed-delay ?,
\$pfds ?,
\$scef-notification-uri ?
}
; An array list of the PFDs for multiple application identifiers
\$pfds-array-root = @{root} [ \$provisioning-root * ]
; The detected application traffic identifier for the PFDs
\$application-identifier = \"application-identifier\" : string
; The allowed delay time for the PFDs deployment
\$allowed-delay = \"allowed-delay\" : uint64
; The PFDs associated with the same application identifier
\$pfds = \"pfds\" : [ \$pfd * ]
; The PFD content
\$pfd = {
\$pfd-identifier,
( \$flow-descriptions \| \$urls \| \$domain-names \| // : any) ?,
\$pfds.dn-protocol ?
}
; The PFD identifier
\$pfd-identifier = \"pfd-identifier\" : string
; The flow descriptions
\$flow-descriptions = \"flow-descriptions\" : [ string + ]
; The url matching expressions
\$urls = \"urls\" : [ string + ]
; The domain name match criteria
\$domain-names = \"domain-names\" : [ string + ]
; A flag indicates whether this is a removal or not
\$removal-flag = \"removal-flag\" : boolean
; A flag indicates whether this is a partial update or not
\$partial-flag = \"partial-flag\" : boolean
; The URI in the SCEF for receiving notifications from the PFDF
\$scef-notification-uri = \"scef-notification-uri\" : string
# A.2 Error and Informational response schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP responses in case
of errors or success. The schema is based on IETF draft-newton-json-content-
rules [12] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.nuapplication.info
; A JCR for the error/successful response body
; Errors information
\$errors-root = @{root} { \$errors }
; Success information
\$success-root = @{root} {
\$success-message,
\$success-path ?,
\$success-info ?
}
; Resource fields definitions
; The list of errors returned in responses sent by the PCEF/TDF
\$errors = \"errors\" : [
{
\$error-type,
\$error-message,
\$error-tag ?,
\$error-path ?,
\$error-info ?
} +
]
; The error type for an error. It can be one of \'application\',
\'interface\', \'server\' and \'other\'.
\$error-type = \"error-type\" : ( \"application\" \| \"interface\" \|
\"server\" \| \"other\" )
; The error text message
\$error-message = \"error-message\" : string
; The error tag for a specific error
\$error-tag = \"error-tag\" : string
; A JSON pointer path to the error resource
\$error-path = \"error-path\" : string
; Any additional information for the error
\$error-info = \"error-info\" : {
\$pfd-reports ?,
// : any *
}
; Report fields definitions
; The list of pfd reports sent to the SCEF
\$pfd-reports = \"pfd-reports\" : [
{
\$application-ids,
\$pfd-failure-code,
\$caching-time
} +
]
; The application identifiers for the PFDs
\$application-ids = \"application-ids\" : [string+]
; The string format for the pfd failure code
\$pfd-failure-code =: (
\"MALFUNCTION\" \|
\"RESOURCES_LIMITATION\" \|
\"TOO_SHORT_ALLOWED_DELAY\" \|
\"PARTIAL_FAILURE\" \|
\"OTHER_REASON\"
)
; The caching time for the PFDs
\$caching-time = \"caching-time\" : uint64
; The successful text message
\$success-message = \"success-message\" : string
; A JSON pointer path to the success resource
\$success-path = \"success-path\" : string
; Any additional information for the success.
\$success-info = \"success-info\" : { // : any *}
# A.3 PFD management notification schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP request providing
the notification of PFD management. The schema is based on IETF draft-newton-
json-content-rules [12] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.nuapplication.notification
; A JCR for the notification body
\$notification-root = @{root} {
\$notification-pfd-reports
}
; Report fields definitions
; The list of pfd reports sent to the SCEF
\$notification-pfd-reports = \"notification- pfd-reports\" : [
{
\$application-ids,
\$pfd-failure-code,
\$user-plane-location-area ?
} +
]
; The application identifiers for the PFDs
\$application-ids = \"application-ids\" : [string+]
; The string format for the pfd failure code
\$pfd-failure-code =: (
\"MALFUNCTION\" \|
\"RESOURCES_LIMITATION\" \|
\"PARTIAL_FAILURE\" \|
\"OTHER_REASON\"
)
; The location area of user planes which can not enforce the PFDs successfully
\$user-plane-location-area = {
\$cell-ids ?,
\$enodeb-ids ?,
\$extended-enodeb-ids ?,
\$routing-area-ids ?,
\$tracking-area-ids ?
}
; The cell IDs served by the user planes which can not enforce the PFDs
successfully
\$cell-ids = \"cell-ids\" : [ string + ]
; The eNodeB IDs served by the user planes which can not enforce the PFDs
successfully
\$enodeb-ids = \"enodeb-ids\" : [ string + ]
; The extended eNodeB IDs served by the user planes which can not enforce the
PFDs successfully
\$extended-enodeb-ids = \"extended-enodeb-ids\" : [ string + ]
; The Routing Area IDs served by the user planes which can not enforce the
PFDs successfully
\$routing-area-ids = \"routing-area-ids\" : [ string + ]
; The Tracking Area IDs served by the user planes which can not enforce the
PFDs successfully
\$tracking-area-ids = \"tracking-area-ids\" : [ string + ]
###### ## Annex B (informative): Call Flows
# B.1 General
This annex describes the procedures for the interactions between the PFDF and
the SCEF.
# B.2 Provisioning of PFDs
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the Provisioning of PFDs.
Figure B.2.1: Provisioning of PFDs
1\. The SCEF sends the HTTP POST to the PFDF to indicate the creation,
modification or deletion of PFDs for one or more application identifier(s)
including the parameters defined in subclause 5.3.5.2.
2\. The PFDF sends the HTTP 200 OK response to the SCEF including the
parameters defined in subclause 5.3.5.2.
#