# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the stage 3 specification of the Gw and Gwn
reference points. The functional requirements and the stage 2 specifications
of the Gw and Gwn reference points are specified in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2]. The Gw
reference point lies between the Packet Flow Description Function (PFDF) and
the Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF). The Gwn reference point
lies between the Packet Flow Description Function (PFDF) and the Traffic
Detection Function (TDF).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.203: "Policy and charging control architecture".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and Charging Control signalling flows and QoS
parameter mapping\"
[4] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control (PCC); Reference points\".
[6] IETF RFC 793: \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[7] Void.
[8] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[9] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[10] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\"
[11] IETF RFC 7159: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[12] IETF draft-newton-json-content-rules-09: \"A Language for Rules
Describing JSON Content\".
NOTE: This individual draft will not further progress in IETF. It is available
from the following link: https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-newton-json-
content-rules-09.txt.
[13] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.250: \"**Nu reference point between SCEF and PFDF for
sponsored data connectivity** \".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.155: \"Traffic steering control; Representational state
transfer (REST) over St reference point\".
[16] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[17] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[18] IETF RFC 7232: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Conditional
Requests\".
[19] IETF RFC 7233: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Range
Requests\".
[20] IETF RFC 7234: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching\".
[21] IETF RFC 7235: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Authentication\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Packet Flow Description (PFD):** A set of information enabling the detection
of application traffic provided by a 3^rd^ party service provider (from 3GPP
TS 23.203 [2]).
**Pull mode:** A mode used between the PCEF/TDF and the PFDF where the PFDs
are sent by the PFDF at reception of an HTTP request from the PCEF/TDF.
**Push mode:** A mode used between the PCEF/TDF and the PFDF where the PFDs
and/or notification of PFD deletion are sent by the PFDF in an HTTP request to
the PCEF/TDF.
**Combination mode:** A mode used between the PCEF/TDF and the PFDF where both
pull and push exist. This mode allows the PFDF to send the PFDs at reception
of an HTTP request from the PCEF/TDF and provision PFD changes
(creation/update/deletion) and/or notification of PFD creation/update/deletion
in the HTTP request to the PCEF/TDF.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PFD Packet Flow Description
PFDF Packet Flow Description Function
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
TDF Traffic Detection Function
# 4 Gw reference point
## 4.1 Overview
The Gw reference point is located between the Packet Flow Description Function
(PFDF) and the Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF). The Gw
reference point is used for provisioning and removal of PFDs from the PFDF to
the PCEF and reporting the handling result of PFDs from the PCEF to the PFDF.
The stage 2 level requirements for the Gw reference point are defined in 3GPP
TS 23.203 [2].
## 4.2 Gw reference model
The Gw reference point is defined between the PFDF and the PCEF. The
relationships between the different functional entities involved are depicted
in figure 4.2.1. The overall PCC architecture is depicted in subclause 3a of
3GPP TS 29.213 [3].
Figure 4.2.1: Gw reference model
## 4.3 Functional elements
### 4.3.1 PFDF
The PFDF (Packet Flow Description Function) is a functional element which
stores PFDs associated with application identifier (s) and transfers them to
the PCEF via Gw interface to enable the PCEF to perform accurate application
detection when the PFDs are managed by a 3^rd^ party service provider.
The PFDF receives PFDs for the corresponding application identifier (s) from
the SCEF as defined in 3GPP TS 23.682 [4]and 3GPP TS 29.250 [14].
### 4.3.2 PCEF
The PCEF (Policy and Charging Enforcement Function) funtionality defined in
subclause 4.4.2 of 3GPP TS 29.212 [5] shall be applied. In addition, the PCEF
shall support the management of PFDs provisioned by the PFDF. The application
detection filter may be extended with the PFDs provided by the PFDF.
## 4.4 Procedures over Gw reference point
When the PFDF is deployed and the management of PFDs is supported by the PCEF,
the mode of PFDs management shall be consistently configured in one PLMN, it
may be:
\- Pull mode only, or
\- Push mode only, or
\- Combination mode.
### 4.4.1 Request for PFDs (\"Pull mode\" and \"Combination mode\")
At the time a PCC Rule with an application identifier for which PFDs
provisioned by the PFDF are not available is activated or provisioned, or when
the caching timer for an application identifier elapses and a PCC Rule for the
application identifier is still active, the PCEF shall request all PFDs for
the application identifier from the PFDF.
The PCEF shall send an HTTP GET message to the PFDF to retrieve the PFDs for
one or more application identifier(s) as defined in subclauses 6.3.3.2,
6.3.3.3 and 6.3.3.4.
Upon receipt of the HTTP request for the pull operation, the PFDF shall
respond to the PCEF indicating whether the pull operation was successful or
not by using one of the HTTP status codes; if the pull operation is
successful, the PFDF :
\- shall provide the PFDs of the specified application identifier(s) from the
request within the body of the HTTP response; and
\- if there are caching time value(s) configured for any of the specified
application identifier(s), shall set the caching-time to the caching time
value(s) for those application identifier(s) in the body of the HTTP response.
The PCEF shall install, update or remove the received PFD(s) for the
application identifier(s).
The PCEF shall also for each application identifier start a caching timer with
a value
\- according to the received caching time value for that application
identifier, if such a value is received for that application identifier; or
\- otherwise with a default caching time value configured in the PCEF.
NOTE 1: The PCEF(s) and the PFDF(s) within an operator network are configured
with the same default caching time value to be applied for all application
identifiers.
NOTE 2: In the combination mode, the HTTP POST message from the PFDF does not
impact the running caching timer of an application identifier.
When the PCEF removes the last PCC rule that refers to the corresponding
application identifier, or when the caching timer expires and no PCC rule
refers to the application identifier, the PCEF may remove the PFD(s) related
with the application identifier.
The PFDs retrieved from PFDF take precedence over any PFDs pre-configured in
the PCEF. If all PFDs retrieved from the PFDF are removed for an application
identifier, the pre-configured PFDs shall be applied again for the application
identifier.
### 4.4.2 Provisioning of PFDs (\"Push mode\"" and \"Combination mode\")
The PFDF may create, update or remove one or multiple PFDs associated with
application identifier(s) to the PCEF. When the request for creation, update,
or removal for an application identifier(s) is received from the SCEF, for the
Push mode, the PFDF shall for each PCEF it serves:
\- immediately send to the PCEF an HTTP POST message including the provisioned
changes of one or more application identifiers as specified in subclause
6.3.3.5, or
\- wait for a period shorter than the allowed delay ( e.g.to aggregate all the
PFDs for several application) , then send to the PCEF an HTTP POST message
including the provisioned changes.
For the Combination mode, the PFDF may for each PCEF it serves wait for a
period shorter than the allowed delay (e.g. to aggregate all the PFDs for
several application) and, if no HTTP GET request for that application
identifier is received during the waiting time, then send an HTTP POST message
including the provisioned changes and/or notification of PFD creation/update
for that application identifier as specified in subclause 6.3.3.5.
NOTE 1: In the combination mode, the PFDF can check the received allowed delay
against the caching time as specified in subclause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.250
[14], in order to utilize the pull procedure.
When the PCEF receives the HTTP POST message, the PCEF shall
\- for an application identifier(s) where no flag is provided, remove the all
existing all PFD(s) (if available) and install all the new provided PDF(s).
\- for an application identifier(s) where the removal-flag is also provided
and set to true, delete the existing PFD(s);
\- for an application identifier(s) where partial-flag is also provided and
set to true
\- install a new PFD(s) if the new PFD(s) with a new PFD identifier(s) is
received,
\- update an existing PFD(s) if a new PFD(s) with the same PFD identifier(s)
is recevied, and/or
\- delete an existing PFD(s) if the same PFD identifier(s) without any content
is received;
\- acknowledge the HTTP POST message by sending a corresponding HTTP response
with the appropriate status code (200 OK for success) as described in
subsclause 6.3.4; and
\- retrieve the PFDs for the corresponding application identifier(s) as
defined in subclause 4.4.1 either immediately if the allowed-delay is not
provided, or within the provided allowed-delay for the application
identifier(s) where the notification-flag is included and set to true.
NOTE 2: It depends on the implementation whether the PCEF initiates separate
pull requests to retrieve the PFDs for different application identifier(s)
within the allowed-delay. The decision to send PFD, and/or notification of PFD
creation/update/deletion for certain application identifier on the PFDF is
based on the operator policy.
NOTE 3: In the push mode, the PFDF can be configured with the list of PCEFs
per application identifier(s).
NOTE 4: The caching timer is not applicable for the PCEF/TDF in Push mode.
# 5 Gwn reference point
## 5.1 Overview
The Gwn reference point is located between the Packet Flow Description
Function (PFDF) and the Traffic Detection Function (TDF). The Gwn reference
point enables transport of PFDs from the PFDF to the TDF for a particular
Application Identifier or for a set of Application Identifiers.
The Gwn reference point supports the following functions:
\- Creation, updating and removal of individual or the whole set of PFDs from
the PFDF to the TDF.
\- Confirmation of creation, updating and removal of PFDs from the TDF to the
PFDF.
NOTE: The interaction between the PFDF and the TDF is not related to any IP-
CAN session.
The stage 2 level requirements for the Gwn reference point are defined in 3GPP
TS 23.203 [2].
## 5.2 Gwn reference model
The Gwn reference point is defined between the PFDF and the TDF. The
relationships between the different functional entities involved are depicted
in figure 5.2.1. The overall PCC architecture is depicted in subclause 3a of
3GPP TS 29.213 [3].
Figure 5.2.1: Gwn reference model
## 5.3 Functional elements
### 5.3.1 PFDF
Subclause 4.3.1 is applicable with the clarification that the TDF replaces the
PCEF and Gwn interface replaces Gw interface.
### 5.3.2 TDF
The TDF (Traffic Detection Function) funtionality defined in subclause 4b.4.2
of 3GPP TS 29.212 [5] shall be applied. In addition, the TDF shall support the
management of PFDs provisioned by the PFDF.
## 5.4 Procedures over Gwn reference point
The procedures in subclause 4.4 are applicable with the clarification that the
TDF replaces the PCEF in those procedures.
# 6 Gw/Gwn protocol
## 6.1 Introduction
The following layers of the protocol stack for the Gw/Gwn reference point
between PCEF/TDF and PFDF are described in subclauses:
\- TCP as defined in IETF RFC 793 [6] provides the communication service at
the transport layer.
\- An optional communication security layer can be added between the transport
and the application delivery layer (see clause 7).
\- The application delivery layer provides the transport of the specific
application communication data using HTTP as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [16],
IETF RFC 7231 [17], IETF RFC 7232 [18], IETF RFC 7233 [19], IETF RFC 7234 [20]
and IETF RFC 7235 [21].
\- The specific application communication layer constitutes the transport of
the JSON content type.
Figure 6.1.1 illustrates the protocol stack of the RESTful Gw/Gwn reference
point.
Figure 6.1.1: Protocol stack of the Gw/Gwn reference point
## 6.2 Transport layer
HTTP is layered over TCP, which provides a reliable transport.
If the \"Pull mode\" is deployed, then the PCEF/TDF shall act as an HTTP
client and the PFDF shall act as an HTTP server. In this case, the PCEF/TDF
shall initiate a TCP connection with the PFDF.
If the \"Push mode\" is deployed, then the PFDF shall act as an HTTP client
and the PCEF/TDF shall act as an HTTP server. In this case, the PFDF shall
initiate a TCP connection with the PCEF/TDF.
If the \"Combination mode\" is deployed, then
\- for pull request, the HTTP roles and TCP session establishment as described
above for the \"Pull mode\" apply.
\- for push request (with or without notification), the HTTP roles and TCP
session establishment as described above for the \"Push mode\" apply.
## 6.3 Application delivery layer
The application delivery layer shall use RESTful HTTP.
The application delivery layer provides the following services:
\- Retrieval of the PFDs from the PFDF
\- Provisioning of the PFDs by the PFDF
\- Notification sent from PFDF to the PCEF/TDF to indicate PFD changes related
to application identifiers being created, updated or deleted
In order to retrieve the PFD for a specific application identifier, the PFDF
shall send an HTTP GET message including the application identifier as a path
element of the request URI as specified in subclause 6.3.3.2.
In order to retrieve the PFDs for a set of application identifiers, the
PCEF/TDF shall send an HTTP GET message to the PFDF including the application
identifier(s) as the query parameters in the URI as specified in subclause
6.3.3.3.
In order to retrieve all PFDs, the PCEF/TDF may omit the '?' and {query
parameters} in the HTTP GET message's URI as specified in subclause 6.3.3.4.
If the PFDF needs to provision PFDs for a set of application identifier(s)
(creation/update/deletion) to the PCEF/TDF, the PFDF shall send an HTTP POST
message, which includes the provisioned changes and/or the notifications of
impacted application identifiers as described in subclause 6.3.3.5.
6.3.1 Methods
Methods indicate to the server what action has to be performed. Every HTTP
request message has a method. The following HTTP methods can be used:
\- GET: Used by the PCEF/TDF to retrieve the PFDs information for a set of
application identifier(s). The server returns the PFDs representation within
the body of the response.
\- POST: Used by the PFDF to provision or notify PFDs changes for a set of
application identifiers(s). The request URI defines the address responsible
for the management of the PFDs provisioning as a controller resource.
Every HTTP request results in a response message that comes back with a status
code and further information in its body, if required. The HTTP request
initiator waits for this response before initiating a further request.
### 6.3.2 Resources and URI design
#### 6.3.2.1 General
The URI design shall be based on the structure defined in IETF RFC 3986 [10]:
scheme \":\" hier-part [ \"?\" query ] [ \"#\" fragment ]\ hier-part = \"//\"
authority path-abempty\ / path-absolute\ / path-rootless\ / path-empty
The scheme may be HTTP or HTTPS for the Gw/Gwn interface. Within a scheme the
definition of names shall follow the rules of HTTP URIs. Host and port are the
main parts of the authority. The path element identifies the resources.
For the Gw/Gwn interface, the following required parts of the URI shall be
used as follows:
\- scheme: The application delivery layer protocol \"http\" or \"https\".
\- authority: It includes the server address and optionally a port as follows:
host [\":\" port]
\- path-absolute: The path-absolute should have the following ABNF: \"/\"
mainapp \"/\" mainresource [\"/\" resourcepath]. In this release:
\- \"mainapp\" is \"gwapplication\".
\- \"mainresource\" is defined in subclauses 6.3.2.2 and 6.3.2.3.
\- \"resourcepath\" contains the path to identify the PFDs resource for a
specific application identifier.
#### 6.3.2.2 URI design for Pull mode
In pull mode, the PFDs in PFDF is a readable RESTful resource:
\- \"mainresource\" is \"pfds\".
\- \"resourcepath\" varies and is defined in subclauses 6.3.3.2, 6.3.3.3 and
6.3.3.4.
An example of the URI to identify the RESTful resource is:
http://pfdfserver.example.com/gwapplication/pfds.
NOTE: A different resource path can be used when the Resource URI is
preconfigured in the PCEF/TDF.
#### 6.3.2.3 URI design for Push mode
In push mode, the PFDs management (associating/disassociating PFDs with
application identifiers) in PCEF/TDF is a controller resource that is
responsible for processing push requests that involve provisioning and/or
notifying a set of changes for more than one set of PFDs for corresponding
application identifiers atomically.
\- \"mainresource\" shall be \"provisioning\".
\- \"resourcepath\" is not applicable in push mode.
An example of the URI to identify the controller resource is
http://pcefserver.example.com/gwapplication/provisioning.
NOTE: A different resource path can be used when the Resource URI is
preconfigured in the PFDF.
### 6.3.3 HTTP request/response formats
#### 6.3.3.1 General
The PFDs pull procedure is performed through HTTP transactions consisting of a
request initiated by the PCEF/TDF and its corresponding response provided by
the PFDF. While the PFDs push procedure is initiated by the PFDF and answered
by the PCEF/TDF
Table 6.3.3.1-1 summarizes the content of the requests and responses. More
detailed information is specified in the corresponding subclauses as indicated
in the table.
Table 6.3.3.1-1: Gw/Gwn requests/response summary table
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Method | Resource | Clause | Request | I | Response | | | URI's | Defined | body | nitiator | body | | | path | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GET | /gwa | 6.3.3.2 | None | PCEF/TDF | Su | | | pplicati | | | | ccessful | | | on/pfds/ | | | | r | | | {applica | | | | esponse: | | | tion-ide | | | | The PFDF | | | ntifier} | | | | shall | | | | | | | include | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | the | | | | | | | repres | | | | | | | entation | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | PDFs of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | body of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | as per | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | A.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GET | /gwapp | 6.3.3.3 | None | PCEF/TDF | Su | | | lication | | | | ccessful | | | /pfds?{q | | | | r | | | uery-par | | | | esponse: | | | ameters} | | | | The PFDF | | | | | | | shall | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | include | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repres | | | | | | | entation | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | PDFs for | | | | | | | a set of | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | ident | | | | | | | ifier(s) | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | body of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | as per | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | A.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GET | /gw | 6.3.3.4 | None | PCEF/TDF | Su | | | applicat | | | | ccessful | | | ion/pfds | | | | r | | | | | | | esponse: | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | The PFDF | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | repres | | | | | | | entation | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | sponding | | | | | | | PDFs for | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | ident | | | | | | | ifier(s) | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | body of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | as per | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | A.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | POST | /gw | 6.3.3.5 | Conte | PFDF | Su | | | applicat | | nt-Type: | | ccessful | | | ion/prov | | applicat | | r | | | isioning | | ion/json | | esponse: | | | | | | | The | | | (NOTE 2) | | The PFDF | | PCEF/TDF | | | | | may | | may | | | | | include | | include | | | | | PFDs | | infor | | | | | content | | mational | | | | | and/or | | data in | | | | | noti | | the body | | | | | fication | | of the | | | | | as | | response | | | | | sociated | | as per | | | | | with | | Annex | | | | | app | | A.3 | | | | | lication | | | | | | | ident | | | | | | | ifier(s) | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | schema | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | A.2. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | /gwa | | | | | | | pplicati | | | | | | | on/pfds/ | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | when it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | CEF/TDF. | | | | | | | In that | | | | | | | case the | | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | | part set | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | methods | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | use the | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | one. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | /gw | | | | | | | applicat | | | | | | | ion/prov | | | | | | | isioning | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | when it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | PFDF. In | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | case the | | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | | part set | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | methods | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | use the | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | one. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 6.3.3.2 GET /gwapplication/pfds/{application-identifier}
To retrieve the PFDs for a specific application identifier, the PCEF/TDF shall
send an HTTP GET request to the PFDF as follows:
\- the request URI formatted as defined in subclause 6.3.2 with the \"path\"
part set to: /gwapplication/pfds/{application-identifier}, where the
application-identifier is the application id with which the PFDs are
associated.
Upon receipt of the HTTP GET, the PFDF shall respond to the PCEF/TDF
indicating whether the querying of the resource was successful or not using
one of the HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 6.3.4. If the resource
exists, the PFDF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code and include the
PFDs representation state within the body of the response as defined in Annex
A.1. If no resource was found, the PFDF shall respond with an HTTP 404 not
found. The PFDF shall also include the Content-Type header field set to
\"application/json\".
If the PCEF/TDF receives the HTTP 404 not found status code, the PCEF/TDF
shall remove all the PFD(s) of the queried application identifier.
Below is an example of a corresponding HTTP GET:
GET /gwapplication/pfds/test-application-1 HTTP/1.1
Host: pfdfserver.example.com
Here is an example of a successful response :
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: pfdfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-1\",
\"caching-time\":200000,
\"pfds\":[
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd1\",
\"flow-descriptions\":[
\"permit in ip from 10.68.28.39 80 to any\",
\"permit out ip from any to 10.68.28.39 80\"
]
},
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd2\",
\"urls\":[
\"\^http://test.example.com(/\\\S*)?\$\"
]
}
]
}
#### 6.3.3.3 GET /gwapplication/pfds?{query-parameters }
To retrieve the PFDs for a set of application identifier(s), the PCEF/TDF may
send an HTTP GET request to the PFDF as follows:
\- The request URI formatted as defined in subclause 6.3.2 with the \"path\"
part set to: /gwapplication/pfds?{query-parameters}, where the query-
parameters contains one or multiple application identifier(s) delimited by
comma with a parameter name \"application-identifiers\". As an example:
\"application-identifiers=id1,id2,id3\"
\- Any \"=\" and \",\" for any application identifier in the query parameters
shall be encoded as \"%3D\" and \"%2C\" in the URI.
Upon receipt of the HTTP request, the PFDF shall respond to the PCEF/TDF
indicating whether the querying of the resources was successful or not using
one of the HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 6.3.4. If at least one
resource exists, the PFDF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code and
include a list of the PFDs associated with the found application identifier(s)
within the body of the response as defined in Annex A.1. If the PFDs
associated with a queried application-identifier are not provided in the
response, it implicitly means that the corresponding application-identifier
does not exist at the PFDF. If no resource was found, the PFDF shall respond
with an HTTP 404 not found. The PFDF shall also include the Content-Type
header field set to \"application/json\".
If the PCEF/TDF receives the 200 OK but one or more queried application
identifier(s) is not provided in the response, the PCEF/TDF shall remove the
PFD(s) of the queried application identifier(s) which is not included in the
response.
If the PCEF/TDF receives the HTTP 404 not found status code, the PCEF/TDF
shall remove all the PFD(s) of the queried application identifier(s).
Below is an example of this HTTP GET on two sets of PFDs query. But only one
is found in the PFDF.
GET /gwapplication/pfds?application-identifiers=test-application-1,test-
application-2 HTTP/1.1
Host: pfdfserver.example.com
Here is an example of a successful response :
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: pfdfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
[
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-1\",
\"caching-time\":200000,
\"pfds\":[
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd1\",
\"flow-descriptions\":[
\"permit in ip from 10.68.28.39 80 to any\",
\"permit out ip from any to 10.68.28.39 80\"
]
},
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd2\",
\"urls\":[
\"\^http://test.example.com(/\\\S*)?\$\"
]
}
]
}
]
#### 6.3.3.4 GET /gwapplication/pfds
To retrieve PFDs associated with all application identifiers, the PCEF/TDF may
send an HTTP GET request to the PFDF as follows:
\- The request URI formatted as defined in subclause 6.3.2 with the \"path\"
part set to: /gwapplication/pfds.
Upon receipt of the HTTP request, the PFDF shall respond to the PCEF/TDF
indicating whether the querying of the resources was successful or not using
one of the HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 6.3.4. If at least one
resource exists, the PFDF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code and
include a list of the PFDs associated with the found application identifier(s)
within the body of the response as defined in Annex A.1. If no resource was
found, the PFDF shall respond with an HTTP 404 not found. The PFDF shall also
include the Content-Type header field set to \"application/json\".
If the PCEF/TDF receives the 200 OK but one or more application identifier(s)
which exists at the PCEF/TDF is not provided in the response, the PCEF/TDF
shall remove the PFD(s) of the application identifier(s) which is not included
in the response.
If the PCEF/TDF receives the HTTP 404 not found status code, the PCEF/TDF
shall remove all the PFD(s) of all the identifier(s) which exist at the
PCEF/TDF.
Below is an example of this HTTP GET.
GET /gwapplication/pfds HTTP/1.1
Host: pfdfserver.example.com
Here is an example of a successful response :
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: pfdfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
[
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-1\",
\"caching-time\":200000,
\"pfds\":[
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd1\",
\"flow-descriptions\":[
\"permit in ip from 10.68.28.39 80 to any\",
\"permit out ip from any to 10.68.28.39 80\"
]
},
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd2\",
\"urls\":[
\"\^http://test.example.com(/\\\S*)?\$\"
]
}
]
}
]
#### 6.3.3.5 POST /gwapplication/provisioning
The provisioning of the PFDs shall be performed by the PFDF by using the POST
method as follows:
\- The request URI formatted as defined in subclause 6.3.2 with the \"path\"
part set to: /gwapplication/provisioning.
\- The Content-Type header field set to \"application/json\"
\- The body of the message encoded in JSON format as defined in Annex A.2. The
body shall include
\- for the PFD(s) creation for a new application identifier, a new application
identifier and its full list of PFD(s) to be created;
\- for the PFD(s) full update for an existing application identifier, the
existing application identifier and its new full list of PFD(s);
\- for the PFD(s) partial update for an existing application identifier, the
existing application identifier, partial update indication and
\- new PFD(s) with new PFD identifier(s) to install the new PFD(s ,
\- new PFD(s) with existing PFD identifier(s) to update the existing PFD(s),
and/or
\- the existing PFD identifier(s) without any content to remove the PFD(s);
\- for the PFD(s) removal for an existing application identifier, the existing
application identifier and the removal indication;
\- for the PFD(s) notification, the notification indication and an optional
allowed delay time for the PCEF/TDF to pull the corresponding PFD(s) within
the allowed delay time.
Upon receipt of the HTTP POST, the PCEF/TDF shall respond to the PFDF
indicating whether the provisioning was successful or not using one of the
HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 6.3.4. If the provisioning was
accepted, the PCEF/TDF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code if no
resource is created, or an HTTP 201 Created status code if one or more
resources are created. If the provisioning was rejected, the PCEF/TDFshall
indicate the reason using an appropriate HTTP status code for as defined in
subclause 6.3.4 and optionally additional information in the body of the
response as defined in Annex A.3. If the pfd-reports is included, the PCEF/TDF
shall identify the failed PFDs by including the application-identifier and
specify the failed reason code by including a pfd-failure-code field.
Depending on the value of the pfd-failure-code field, the PFDF may provision
the PFDs again.
Below is an example of an HTTP POST and a corresponding successful response:
POST /gwapplication/provisioning HTTP/1.1
Host: pcefserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
[
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-1\",
\"notification-flag\":true,
\"allowed-delay\":600
},
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-2\",
\"removal-flag\":true
},
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-3\",
\"pfds\":[
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd1\",
\"flow-descriptions\":[
\"permit in ip from 10.68.28.39 80 to any\"
]
}
]
},
{
\"application-identifier\":\"test-application-4\",
\"partial-flag\":true,
\"pfds\":[
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd3\",
\"urls\":[
\"\^http://test.example2.net(/\\\S*)?\$\"
]
},
{
\"pfd-identifier\":\"pfd4\"
}
]
}
]
Here is an example of a successful response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 17:10:00 GMT
Server: pcefserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
\"success-message\": \"Notification was processed successfully.\",
}
### 6.3.4 HTTP status codes
HTTP status codes are used as defined in IETF RFC 7231 [17]
### 6.3.5 Feature negotiation
#### 6.3.5.1 General
The REST based Gw/Gwn interface needs to provide a mechanism to advertise
required and optional features supported by both the PCEF/TDF and PFDF for
interoperability reasons as the functionality of the REST Gw/Gwn based
interface is augmented.
Feature negotiation shall take place during the first interaction (either HTTP
POST in push or HTTP GET in pull) between the PFDF and the PCEF/TDF. The
client shall include in the HTTP request the set of supported features as
follows:
\- if a feature is required for the proper operation of the application, it
shall be included within the 3gpp-Required-Features header;
\- if a feature is optional for the proper operation of the application, it
shall be included within the 3gpp-Optional-Features header.
The server shall include, within the 3gpp-Accepted-Features header in the HTTP
response, the set of features it supports in common with the client.
If the server does not support any of the required features advertised by the
client within the 3gpp-Required-Features header, the server shall reject the
HTTP request with an HTTP 412 Precondition Failed status code and shall
include the commonly supported features with the client within the 3gpp-
Accepted-Features.
If the server requires certain features to be supported that are not
advertised by the client, the server shall reject the HTTP request with an
HTTP 412 Precondition Failed status code and shall include the commonly
supported features with the client within the 3gpp-Accepted-Features and the
required features in the 3gpp-required-features.
If the PCEF/TDF and the PFDF successfully negotiate supported features, the
list of commonly supported features shall be applicable for the lifetime of
the application. Features that are not advertised as supported shall not be
used.
The sender may send information that is related to the supported features. Any
unrecognized information shall be ignored by the receiver.
The table below defines the features applicable to the Gw interface.
Table 6.3.5.1-1: Features used in Gw Interface
+------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature | M/O | Description | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | PartialUpdate | O | The PFDF can use this | | | | feature for partial update | | | | in PFD push. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | DomainNameProtocol | O | This feature supports the | | | | additional protocol matching | | | | condition for the domain | | | | name in PFD data. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature: A short name for | | | | the feature to which the M/O | | | | and description pertain. | | | | | | | | M/O: Indication on whether | | | | the implementation of the | | | | feature is mandatory (\"M\") | | | | or optional (\"O\") in this | | | | 3GPP Release. | | | | | | | | Description: Textual | | | | description of the feature. | | | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+
The table below defines the features applicable to the Gwn interface.
Table 6.3.5.1-2: Features used in Gwn Interface
+------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature | M/O | Description | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | PartialUpdate | O | The PFDF can use this | | | | feature for partial update | | | | in PFD push. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | DomainNameProtocol | O | This feature supports the | | | | additional protocol matching | | | | condition for the domain | | | | name in PFD data. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature: A short name for | | | | the feature to which the M/O | | | | and description pertain. | | | | | | | | M/O: Indication on whether | | | | the implementation of the | | | | feature is mandatory (\"M\") | | | | or optional (\"O\") in this | | | | 3GPP Release. | | | | | | | | Description: Textual | | | | description of the feature. | | | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+
NOTE: The base functionality for the Gw/Gwn interface is defined in the
Release-14 version of this specification and a feature is an extension of that
functionality. The negotiation of supported features allows interworking
between the endpoints of the Gw/Gwn interface whereby each entity may support
all, some, or none of the features that the Gw/Gwn application can support
defined in this specification. Features are defined so that they are
independent of each other. Any introduced feature is explicitly defined in
this specification.
#### 6.3.5.2 HTTP custom headers
This subclause defines any new HTTP custom headers introduced by this
specification.
##### 6.3.5.2.1 3gpp-Optional-Features
This header is used by the client to advertise the optional features that are
supported by the client.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [16].
3gpp-Optional-Features = \"3gpp-Optional-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Optional-Features: feature1, feature2
##### 6.3.5.2.2 3gpp-Required-Features
This header is used by the client to announce the mandatory features that must
be supported in the server.
This header is also used by the server to indicate the missing features that
must be supported in the client.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [16].
3gpp-Required-Features = \"3gpp-Required-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Required-Features: feature1, feature2
##### 6.3.5.2.3 3gpp-Accepted-Features
The header is used by the server to confirm the commonly supported set of
features with the client.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in IETF RFC 7230 [16].
3gpp-Accepted-Features = \"3gpp-Accepted-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Accepted-Features: feature1, feature2
#### 6.3.5.3 Precedence for HTTP custom headers
The server shall evaluate the HTTP custom headers first if other conditional
headers (e.g. If-None-Match, as defined in IETF RFC 7232 [18]) are also
present.
## 6.4 Specific application communication
### 6.4.1 General
Specific application communication represents the presentation of application
data structures by transforming data into the form that the application
accepts. It establishes the context between application-layer entities.
NOTE: This release only supports the content type JSON
### 6.4.2 Content type
The HTTP POST requests in pull mode shall be an encoded string which is
defined in subclause 6.3.3.4.
The HTTP responses in pull mode as well as the HTTP messages in push mode
shall be in JSON format. The content of the JSON text is defined in subclause
6.4.3, 6.4.4 and Annex A.
The MIME media type that shall be used within the Content-Type header field is
"application/json" as defined in IETF RFC 7159 [11].
### 6.4.3 JSON PFDs fields
#### 6.4.3.1 General
Table 6.4.3.1.1 describes the JSON fields used within the body of the HTTP
messages representing the PFDs information associated with an application
identifier. The table includes the information about the name of the field and
the type of the fields.
Table 6.4.3.1.1: Gw/Gwn PFD JSON fields
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Field Name | Clause | JSON Value | JCR Type | Ap | | | defined | Type | (NOTE 2) | plicability | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | application | 6.4.3.2 | string | string | | | -identifier | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | c | 6.4.3.4 | number | uint64 | | | aching-time | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pfds | 6.4.3.5 | array | array | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pfd | 6.4.3.6 | string | string | | | -identifier | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | flow-d | 6.4.3.7 | array | array | | | escriptions | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | urls | 6.4.3.8 | array | array | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | d | 6.4.3.9 | array | array | | | omain-names | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | dn-protocol | 6.4.3.10 | string | string | DomainN | | | | | | ameProtocol | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | | value types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF RFC 7 | | | | | | 159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | JCR types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF draft- | | | | | | newton-json | | | | | | -content-ru | | | | | | les [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Fields | | | | | | marked with | | | | | | a supported | | | | | | feature are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | ause 6.3.5. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.4.3.2 application-identifier
The application-identifier field is of type string, and contains the
application identifier to which the PFDs belong.
#### 6.4.3.3 void
#### 6.4.3.4 caching-time
The caching-time field is of type uint64. It's a caching time value in
seconds. When the caching timer elapses, the PCEF/TDF shall re-fetch the PFDs
associated with the corresponding application-identifier from the PFDF. If the
caching-time is:
\- omitted, the PCEF/TDF shall use the preconfigured default caching time
value to control how long the PFDs valid; or
\- set to zero, then the PFDs are valid until explicitly deleted by the PFDF.
NOTE: The value zero of caching-time is only valid in the Combination mode and
can be used as an indication of infinite PFD validity. It can be used to avoid
unnecessary PFD refreshment for an application, in such case, the PFDs cannot
be deleted at the expiration of the caching timer if it was not stopped at
reception of caching-time set to zero value.
#### 6.4.3.5 pfds
The pfds field is of type array. It contains the PFDs that belong to a
specific application identifier. When multiple PFDs are associated with the
application identifier, the application is detected when any of the PFDs
associated with the application identifier is matched.
The following defines the content of the PFD:
The pfd-identifier field shall be included within the PFD, and shall be unique
within the context of an application identifier.
At least one of the flow-descriptions field, the urls field, the domain-names
field or a custom filed shall be present for the application traffic
detection. If a PFD contains multiple filter types, the PFD is only matched
when every filter type contained in the PFD has a matching value.
The custom field is type of any with an arbitrary field name. Any primitive
type, array, or object defined in IETF RFC 7159 [11] can be set to this field.
It provides the extensions for the **proprietary application traffic detection
mechanisms** , based on the agreement between the ASP and the mobile operator.
Below are the JCR for the PFD:
\$pfd = {
\$pfd-identifier,
(\$flow-descriptions \| \$urls \| \$domain-names \| // : any) ?
}
#### 6.4.3.6 pfd-identifier
The pfd-identifier is of type string. It uniquely identifies a PFD within its
associated application identifier.
#### 6.4.3.7 flow-descriptions
The flow-descriptions is of type string array. The content of the string has
the same encoding as the IPFilterRule AVP value as defined in IETF RFC 6733
[13]. It represents a 3-tuple with protocol, server ip and server port for
UL/DL application traffic.
#### 6.4.3.8 urls
The urls is type of string array. The content of the string shall be a URL or
a regular expression which is used to match the significant parts of the URL.
#### 6.4.3.9 domain-names
The domain-names is type of string array. The content of the string shall be
an FQDN or a regular expression as a domain name matching criteria.
#### 6.4.3.10 dn-protocol
The dn-protocol is type of string. It indicates the additional protocol and
protocol field for domain names to be matched, applicable when domain-names
field is present.
The following values are defined:
DNS_QNAME
Identifies the DNS protocol and the question name in DNS query.
TLS_SNI
Identifies the Server Name Indication in TLS ClientHello message.
TLS_SAN
Identifies the Subject Alternative Name in TLS ServerCertificate message.
TLS_SCN
Identifies the Subject Common Name in TLS ServerCertificate message.
### 6.4.4 JSON provisioning fields
#### 6.4.4.1 General
In addition to subclause 6.4.3, Table 6.4.4.1.1 describes the extra JSON
fields used within the body of the HTTP messages representing the PFDs
provisioning information in push mode. The table includes the information
about the name of the field and the type of the fields.
Table 6.4.4.1.1: Gw/Gwn Provisioning JSON fields
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Field Name | Clause | JSON Value | JCR Type | Ap | | | defined | Type | (NOTE 2) | plicability | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | notifi | 6.4.4.2 | boolean | boolean | | | cation-flag | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | r | 6.4.4.3 | boolean | boolean | | | emoval-flag | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | al | 6.4.4.4 | number | uint64 | | | lowed-delay | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | 6.4.4.5 | boolean | boolean | Pa | | artial-flag | | | | rtialUpdate | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | | value types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF RFC 7 | | | | | | 159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | JCR types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | IETF draft- | | | | | | newton-json | | | | | | -content-ru | | | | | | les [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Fields | | | | | | marked with | | | | | | a supported | | | | | | feature are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | ause 6.3.5. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Only one of | | | | | | the | | | | | | notific | | | | | | ation-flag, | | | | | | r | | | | | | emoval-flag | | | | | | and the | | | | | | p | | | | | | artial-flag | | | | | | for the | | | | | | application | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | set to | | | | | | true. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.4.4.2 notification-flag
The notification-flag is of type boolean.
If the value of the flag is true, then it indicates a PFDs notification, and
the corresponding PFDs information for the application identifier is not
provided in the JSON body. Instead, the PCEF/TDF shall reload it with the
application identifier via the pull procedure.
#### 6.4.4.3 removal-flag
The removal-flag is of type boolean.
If the value of the flag is true, then it indicates the PFDs and its
associated application identifier have been removed in the PFDF. The PCEF/TDF
shall unbind all PFDs associated with that application identifier.
#### 6.4.4.4 allowed-delay
The allowed-delay field is of type uint64. It contains a time interval in
seconds. The PFDs shall be deployed within this time interval. If the allowed-
delay is omitted, or if it is set to zero, then the PFDs shall be immediately
deployed.
#### 6.4.4.5 partial-flag
The partial-flag is of type boolean.
If the value of the flag is true, then it indicates some PFDs for the
application identifier(s) have been created/updated/deleted in the PFDF. The
PCEF/TDF shall update existing PFDs or add new PFDs for the PFD identifier(s)
with PFDs, or unbind all PFDs associated with the PFD identifier(s) without
any PFDs content.
### 6.4.5 JSON errors and informational response fields
#### 6.4.5.1 General
Table 6.4.5.1.1 describes the JSON fields defined for the errors and
informational responsesincluding their types and the filed names.
Table 6.4.5.1.1: JSON fields for errors and informational response
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type (NOTE | | | defined | Type (NOTE 1) | 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | errors | 3GPP TS | array | array | | | 29.155 [15] | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-type | 3GPP TS | string | \ | | | 29.155 [15] | | "application\" | | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | | | \"interface\" | | | | | | | | | | \"server\" | | | | | | | | | | \"other\" | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-message | 3GPP TS | string | string | | | 29.155 [15] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-tag | 6.4.5.2 | string | string | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-path | 3GPP TS | string | string | | | 29.155 [15] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-info | 3GPP TS | object | object | | | 29.155 [15] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | s | 3GPP TS | string | string | | uccess-message | 29.155 [15] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | success-path | 3GPP TS | string | string | | | 29.155 [15] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | success-info | 3GPP TS | object | object | | | 29.155 [15] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | value types | | | | | are defined in | | | | | IETF | | | | | RF | | | | | C 7159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | JCR types are | | | | | defined in | | | | | IETF | | | | | dra | | | | | ft-newton-json | | | | | -content-rules | | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | quoted strings | | | | | for a string | | | | | type. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | error is sent | | | | | from the | | | | | PCEF/TDF to | | | | | the PFDF. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.4.5.2 error-tag
The error-tag field is of type string. It defines a tag for a particular
error.
PFD_EVENT
This error-tag shall be used when the PFDs cannot be installed/modified at the
PCEF, pfd-reports shall be provided in the error-info as described in
subclause 6.4.6.
### 6.4.6 JSON report fields
#### 6.4.6.1 General
Table 6.4.6.1.1 describes the JSON fields defined for the report information
objects which are included in the error-info field.
Table 6.4.6.1.1: JSON fields for Report from the PCEF
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type (NOTE | | | defined | Type (NOTE 1) | 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | pdf-reports | 6.4.6.2 | array | array | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | a | 3GPP TS | array | array | | pplication-ids | 29.250 [14] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | pf | 6.4.6.3 | string | string | | d-failure-code | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | value types | | | | | are defined in | | | | | IETF RF | | | | | C 7159 [11]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | JCR types are | | | | | defined in | | | | | IE | | | | | TF draft-newto | | | | | n-json-content | | | | | -rules [12]. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.4.6.2 pfd-reports
The pfd-reports field is of type array and it contains a list of pfds reports.
The pdf-reports field can be used in an HTTP response to report failures in
the installation/modification of PFDs in the Push mode. In this case, it shall
be provided as a sub field of the error-info field.
Multiple pfd report instances shall be provided within the pfd-reports field
if different pfd-failure-code values are applicable within the same HTTP
response.
A report instance shall contain the application-ids and pfd-failure-code
fields.
The JCR format for the pfd-reports is:
\$pfd-reports = \"pfd-reports\" : [
{ \$application-ids,
\$pfd-failure-code
} +
]
#### 6.4.6.3 pfd-failure-code
The pfd-failure-code is of type string.
The following values are defined in this release:
MALFUNCTION
RESOURCES_LIMITATION
OTHER_REASON
## 6.5 The discovery of PCEF/TDF and PFDF
### 6.5.1 PCEF/TDF discovery
For "Push mode", the PFDF requires a method to discover the PCEF(s)/TDF(s).
A list of PCEF/TDF URIs may be pre-configured on the PFDF.
The PFDF may select the PCEF/TDF by this configuration.
NOTE: Other methods to discover the PCEF(s)/TDF(s) are implementation
specific.
### 6.5.2 PFDF discovery
For "Pull mode", the PCEF/TDF requires a method to discover the PFDF.
The PFDF URI may be pre-configured on the PCEF/TDF.
The PCEF/TDF may select the PFDF by this configuration.
NOTE 1: Other methods to discover the PFDF are implementation specific.
NOTE 2: If multiple PFDFs are deployed within one PLMN, coordination between
the PFDFs is needed to avoid duplicated provisioning, e.g. to avoid that the
PCEF/TDFs served by different PFDFs are overlapping
# 7 Secure communication
Either the NDS/IP network layer security defined in 3GPP TS 33.210 [8] or HTTP
over TLS as defined in IETF RFC 2818 [9] should be used to secure
communication over the REST based Gw and Gwn interfaces.
###### ## Annex A (normative): JSON Schema
# A.1 PFDs schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP responses
providing the state of one or more PFDs resources in pull mode. The schema is
based on IETF draft-newton-json-content-rules [12] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.gwapplication.pfds
; JCR representing the pfds root resource
\$pfds-root = @{root}{
\$application-identifier,
\$caching-time ?,
\$pfds
}
; An array list of the PFDs for multiple application identifiers
\$pfds-array-root = @{root} [ \$pfds-root * ]
; The caching timer for the PFDs
\$caching-time = \"caching-time\" : uint64
; The PFDs associated with the same application identifier
\$pfds = \"pfds\" : [ \$pfd * ]
; The PFD content
\$pfd = {
\$pfd-identifier,
( \$flow-descriptions \| \$urls \| \$domain-names \| // : any) ?,
\$dn-protocol ?
}
; The PFD identifier
\$pfd-identifier = \"pfd-identifier\" : string
; The flow descriptions
\$flow-descriptions = \"flow-descriptions\" : [ string + ]
; The url matching expressions
\$urls = \"urls\" : [ string + ]
; The domain name match criteria
\$domain-names = \"domain-names\" : [ string + ]
; The domain name protocol
\$dn-protocol =: (
\"DNS_QNAME\" \|
\"TLS_SNI\" \|
\"TLS_SAN\" \|
\"TLS_SCN\"
)
# A.2 Provisioning schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP request providing
the provisioned PFDs as well as the PFDs notifications in push mode. The
schema is based on IETF draft-newton-json-content-rules [12] and is defined
below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.gwapplication.provisioning
# import 3gpp.gwapplication.pfds as pfds
; JCR representing the PFDs provisioning data
\$provisioning-root = @{root}{
\$pfds.application-identifier,
\$notification-flag ?,
\$removal-flag ?,
\$partial-flag ?,
\$allowed-delay ?,
\$pfds.pfds ?
}
; An array list of the PFDs provisioning/notification for multiple application
identifiers
\$provisioning-array-root = @{root} [ \$provisioning-root * ]
; A flag indicates whether this is a notification or a provisioning
\$notification-flag = \"notification-flag\" : boolean
; A flag indicates whether this is a removal or not
\$removal-flag = \"removal-flag\" : boolean
; A flag indicates whether this is a partial update or not
\$partial-flag = \"partial-flag\" : boolean
; The allowed delay time for the PFDs deployment
\$allowed-delay = \"allowed-delay\" : uint64
# A.3 Error and Informational response schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP responses in case
of errors or success. The schema is based on IETF draft-newton-json-content-
rules [12] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.gwapplication.info
; A JCR for the error/successful response body
; Errors information
\$errors-root = @{root} { \$errors }
; Success information
\$success-root = @{root} {
\$success-message,
\$success-path ?,
\$success-info ?
}
; Resource fields definitions
; The list of errors returned in responses sent by the PCEF/TDF
\$errors = \"errors\" : [
{
\$error-type,
\$error-message,
\$error-tag ?,
\$error-path ?,
\$error-info ?
} +
]
; The error type for an error. It can be one of \'application\',
\'interface\', \'server\' and \'other\'.
\$error-type = \"error-type\" : ( \"application\" \| \"interface\" \|
\"server\" \| \"other\" )
; The error text message
\$error-message = \"error-message\" : string
; The error tag for a specific error
\$error-tag = \"error-tag\" : string
; A JSON pointer path to the error resource
\$error-path = \"error-path\" : string
; Any additional information for the error
\$error-info = \"error-info\" : {
\$pfd-reports ?,
// : any *
}
; Report fields definitions
; The list of pfd reports sent to the PFDF
\$pfd-reports = \"pfd-reports\" : [
{ \$application-ids,
\$pfd-failure-code
} +
]
; The string format for the pfd failure code
\$pfd-failure-code =: (
\"MALFUNCTION\" \|
\"RESOURCES_LIMITATION\" \|
\"OTHER_REASON\"
)
; The successful text message
\$success-message = \"success-message\" : string
; A JSON pointer path to the success resource
\$success-path = \"success-path\" : string
; Any additional information for the success.
\$success-info = \"success-info\" : { // : any *}
; application identifiers
\$application-ids = \"application-ids\" : [ string +]
###### ## Annex B (informative): Call Flows
## B.1 General
This annex describes the procedures for the interactions between the PFDF and
the PCEF/TDF.
## B.2 Request for PFDs ("Pull mode")
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the request for PFDs.
Figure B.2.1: Request for PFDs
1\. The PCEF/TDF sends the HTTP GET to the PFDF to request the PFDs including
the parameters defined in subclause 6.3.3.2, 6.3.3.3 or 6.3.3.4.
2\. The PFDF sends the HTTP 200 OK response to the PCEF/TDF including the
parameters defined in subclause 6.3.3.2, 6.3.3.3 or 6.3.3.4.
## B.3 Provisioning of PFDs ("Push mode")
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the provisioning of PFDs.
Figure B.3.1: Provisioning of the PFDs
1\. The PFDF sends the HTTP POST to the PCEF/TDF to provision the PFDs of one
or more application identifiers including the parameters defined in subclause
6.3.3.5.
2\. The PCEF/TDF sends the HTTP 200 OK response to the PFDF including the
parameters defined in subclause 6.3.3.5.
## B.4 Provisioning of PFDs by Push with Notifications
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the provisioning of PFDs by
push with notifications.
Figure B.4.1: Provisioning of the PFDs by push with notification
1\. The PFDF sends the HTTP POST to the PCEF/TDF to provision the notification
of creation/update for one or more application identifiers including the
parameters defined in subclause 6.3.3.5.
2\. The PCEF/TDF sends the HTTP 200 OK response to the PFDF including the
parameters defined in subclause 6.3.3.5.
3\. Within the allowed-delay provided in the step1, the PCEF/TDF initiates the
procedure defined in Annex B.2 to request the PFDs for the application
identifiers.
NOTE: The step 3 can be executed multiple times if the PCEF/TDF initiates
separate pull requests to retrieve the PFDs for different application
identifier(s).
#