# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Policy Control Event Exposure Service of the 5G System. It provides stage 3
protocol definitions, message flows and specifies the API for the Npcf Event
Exposure service.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and the procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [4].
The 5G System stage 3 call flows are provided in 3GPP TS 29.513 [8].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
The Policy Control Event Exposure Service is provided by the Policy Control
Function (PCF). This service exposes policy control events observed at the
PCF.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G System;
Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[7] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.
[8] 3GPP TS 29.513: \"5G System; Policy and Charging Control signalling flows
and QoS parameter mapping; Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.512: \"5G System; Session Management Policy Control Service;
Stage 3\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.507: \"5G System; Access and Mobility Policy Control Service;
Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.525: \"5G System; UE Policy Control Service; Stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.514: \"5G System; Policy Authorization Service; Stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.508: \"5G System; Session Management Event Exposure Service;
Stage 3\".
[16] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[17] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[18] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[19] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[20] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[21] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[22] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AF Application Function
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
API Application Programming Interface
ATSSS Access Traffic Steering, Switching and Splitting
DNN Data Network Name
ePDG evolved Packet Data Gateway
GPSI Generic Public Subscription Identifier
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
MA Multi-Access
NEF Network Exposure Function
NID Network Identifier
NF Network Function
NRF Network Repository Function
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
OAM Operation And Maintenance
PCF Policy Control Function
RFSP RAT Frequency Selection Priority
S-NSSAI Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
SMF Session Management Function
SNPN Stand-alone Non-Public Network
SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier
UDM Unified Data Management
UDR Unified Data Repository
URSP UE Route Selection Policy
# 4 Npcf_EventExposure Service
## 4.1 Service Description
### 4.1.1 Overview
The Policy Event Exposure Service, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP
TS 23.503 [4], is provided by the Policy Control Function (PCF).
This service:
\- allows NF service consumers to subscribe, modify and unsubscribe from
policy control events; and
\- notifies NF service consumers with a corresponding subscription about
observed events on the PCF.
The types of observed events include:
\- PLMN identifier notification; and
\- Access type change.
The target of the event reporting may include a group of UE(s) or any UE (i.e.
all UEs). When an event occurs, to which the NF service consumer has
subscribed, the PCF reports the requested information to the NF service
consumer based on the event reporting information definition requested by the
NF service consumer (see 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], subclause 4.15.1).
### 4.1.2 Service Architecture
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The Policy and
Charging related 5G architecture and signalling flows are also described in
3GPP TS 29.513 [8].
The Policy Event Exposure Service (Npcf_EventExposure) is part of the Npcf
service-based interface exhibited by the Policy Control Function (PCF).
The only known NF service consumer of the Npcf_EventExposure service is the
Network Exposure Function (NEF).
The Npcf_EventExposure service is provided by the PCF and consumed by NF
service consumers (e.g. NEF), as shown in figure 4.1.2-1 for the SBI
representation model and in figure 4.1.2-2 for reference point representation
model.
Figure 4.1.2-1: Npcf_EventExposure service Architecture, SBI representation
Figure 4.1.2-2: Npcf_EventExposure service Architecture, reference point
representation
NOTE: The NWDAF can be a consumer of the Npcf_EventExposure service to perform
data collection. However, there is no data collected from the PCF by the NWDAF
defined in this release of the specification.
### 4.1.3 Network Functions
#### 4.1.3.1 Policy Control Function (PCF)
The PCF (Policy Control Function) is a functional element that encompasses
policy control decision and flow based charging control functionalities as
defined in 3GPP TS 29.512 [9], access and mobility policy decisions for the
control of the UE Service Area Restrictions and RAT/RFSP control as defined in
3GPP TS 29.507 [10] and UE Policy decisions for the control of Access network
discovery and selection policy and UE Route Selection Policy (URSP) as defined
in 3GPP TS 29.525 [11].
The policy control decision and flow based charging control functionalities
enable the PCF to provide network control regarding the service data flow
detection, gating, QoS and flow based charging (except credit management)
towards the SMF/UPF. The PCF offers these capabilities to the NF service
consumers (e.g. the AF and NEF) as defined in 3GPP TS 29.514 [12] and 3GPP TS
29.214 [13].
The Policy Event Exposure Service enables the PCF to report policy control
events observed in one or more PCF services to NF service consumers.
#### 4.1.3.2 NF Service Consumers
As indicated in subclause 4.1.2 above, the only known NF service consumer of
the Npcf_EventExposure service is the Network Exposure Function (NEF).
The Network Exposure Function (NEF) is a functional element that supports the
following functionalities:
\- The NEF securely exposes network capabilities and events provided by 3GPP
NFs to AF.
\- The NEF provides a means for the AF to securely provide information to 3GPP
network and can authenticate, authorize and assist in throttling the AF.
\- The NEF translates the information received from the AF to the one sent to
internal 3GPP NFs, and vice versa.
> \- The NEF supports exposing information (collected from other 3GPP NFs) to
> the AF.
## 4.2 Service Operations
### 4.2.1 Introduction
Service operations defined for the Npcf_EventExposure Service are shown in
table 4.2.1-1.
_Table 4.2.1-1: Npcf_EventExposure Service Operations_
* * *
Service Operation Name Description Initiated by Npcf_EventExposure_Subscribe
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to subscribe for
event notifications on a specified policy control event for a group of UE(s)
or any UE, or to modify a subscription. NF service consumer (NEF)
Npcf_EventExposure_Unsubscribe This service operation is used by an NF service
consumer to unsubscribe from event notifications. NF service consumer (NEF)
Npcf_EventExposure_Notify This service operation is used by the PCF to report
UE related policy control event(s) to the NF service consumer which has
subscribed to the event report service. PCF
* * *
### 4.2.2 Npcf_EventExposure_Subscribe service operation
#### 4.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to subscribe for
policy events notifications on a specified context for a group of UE(s) or any
UE, or to modify an existing subscription.
The following are the types of events for which a subscription can be made:
\- PLMN identifier notification; and
\- Change of Access Type.
The following procedures using the Npcf_EventExposure_Subscribe service
operation are supported:
\- creating a new subscription;
\- modifying an existing subscription.
#### 4.2.2.2 Creating a new subscription
Figure 4.2.2.2-1 illustrates the creation of a subscription.
Figure 4.2.2.2-1: Creation of a subscription
To subscribe to event notifications, the NF service consumer shall send an
HTTP POST request with: \"{apiRoot}/npcf-eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/\" as
request URI as shown in figure 4.2.2.2-1, step 1, and the
\"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data structure as request body.
The \"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data structure shall include:
\- identification of the policy events to subscribe as \"eventSubs\"
attribute;
\- indication of the UEs to which the subscription applies via:
a) identification of a group of UE(s) via a \"groupId\" attribute; or
b) identification of any UE by ommitting the \"groupId\" attribute.
\- a URI where to receive the requested notifications as \"notifUri\"
attribute; and
\- a Notification Correlation Identifier assigned by the NF service consumer
for the requested notifications as \"notifId\" attribute.
The \"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data structure also may include:
\- description of the event reporting information as \"eventsRepInfo\", which
may include:
a) event notification method (periodic, one time, on event detection) as
\"notifMethod\" attribute;
b) Maximum Number of Reports as \"maxReportNbr\" attribute;
c) Monitoring Duration as \"monDur\" attribute;
d) repetition period for periodic reporting as \"repPeriod\" attribute;
e) immediate reporting indication as \"immRep\" attribute;
f) sampling ratio as \"sampRatio\" attribute; and/or
g) group reporting guard time as \"grpRepTime\" attribute.
\- if the supported feature \"ExtendedSessionInformation\" is supported, to
filter the AF sessions for which the policy event report shall occur, the
identification of the services one or more AF sessions may belong to as
\"filterServices\" attribute, which may include per service identification:
a) a list of ethernet flows in the \"servEthFlows\" attribute; or
b) a list of IP flows in the \"servIpFlows\" attribute; and/or
c) an AF application identifier in the \"afAppId\" attribute.
\- to filter the DNNs for which the policy event report shall occur, the
identification of the DNNs in the \"filterDnns\" attribute; and
\- to filter the S-NSSAIs for which the policy event report shall occur, the
identification of the S-NSSAIs in the \"filterSnssais\" attribute.
If the PCF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST request due to an
internal PCF error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the PCF shall send an
HTTP error response as specified in subclause 5.7.
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request with \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/\" as request URI and \"PcEventExposureSubsc\"
data structure as request body, the PCF shall create a new \"Individual Policy
Events Subscription\" resource, store the subscription and send a HTTP \"201
Created\" response as shown in figure 4.2.2.2-1, step 2. The PCF shall include
in the \"201 Created\" response:
\- a Location header field; and
\- an \"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data type in the payload body.
The Location header field shall contain the URI of the created individual
application session context resource i.e. \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\".
The \"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data type payload body shall contain the
representation of the created \"Individual Policy Events Subscription\".
When the \"monDur\" attribute is included in the response, it represents a
server selected expiry time that is equal or less than a possible expiry time
in the request.
When the \"immRep\" attribute is included in the subscription and the
subscribed policy control events are available, the PCF shall immediately
notify the NF service consumer using the Npcf_EventExposure_Notify service
operation, as described in subclause 4.2.4.2.
When the sampling ratio as the \"sampRatio\" attribute is included in the
subscription, the PCF shall select a random subset of UEs among the target UEs
according to the sampling ratio and only report the event(s) related to the
selected subset of UEs.
When the group reporting guard time as the \"grpRepTime\" attribute is
included in the subscription, the PCF shall accumulate all the event reports
for the target UEs until the group reporting guard time expires. Then the PCF
shall notify the NF service consumer using the Npcf_EventExposure_Notify
service operation, as described in subclause 4.2.4.2.
#### 4.2.2.3 Modifying an existing subscription
Figure 4.2.2.3-1 illustrates the modification of an existing subscription.
Figure 4.2.2.3-1: Modification of an existing subscription
To modify an existing subscription to event notifications, the NF service
consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request with: \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request URI, as shown
in figure 4.2.2.3-1, step 1, where \"{**subscriptionId**}\" is the
subscription correlation ID of the existing subscription. The
\"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data structure is included as request body as
described in subclause 4.2.2.2.
NOTE 1: An alternate NF service consumer than the one that requested the
generation of the subscription resource can send the PUT.
NOTE 2: The \"notifUri\" attribute within the PcEventExposureSubsc data
structure can be modified to request that subsequent notifications are sent to
a new NF service consumer.
If the PCF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP PUT request due to an
internal PCF error or an error in the HTTP PUT request, the PCF shall send an
HTTP error response as specified in subclause 5.7.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the PCF determines the received
HTTP PUT request needs to be redirected, the PCF shall send an HTTP redirect
response as specified in subclause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
Upon successful reception of an HTTP PUT request with: \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request URI and
\"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data structure as request body, the PCF shall store
the subscription and send an HTTP \"200 OK\" response with the
\"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data structure as response body, as shown in figure
4.2.2.3-1, step 2.
The \"PcEventExposureSubsc\" data structure payload body shall contain the
representation of the modified \"Individual Policy Events Subscription\".
When the \"monDur\" attribute is included in the response, it represents a NF
service producer selected expiry time that is equal or less than a possible
expiry time received in the request.
When the \"immRep\" attribute is included in the updated subscription and the
subscribed policy control events are available, the PCF shall immediately
notify the NF service consumer using the Npcf_EventExposure_Notify service
operation, as described in subclause 4.2.4.2.
When the sampling ratio as the \"sampRatio\" attribute is included in the
subscription, the PCF shall select a random subset of UEs among the target UEs
according to the sampling ratio and only report the event(s) related to the
selected subset of UEs.
When the group reporting guard time as the \"grpRepTime\" attribute is
included in the subscription, the PCF shall accumulate all the event reports
for the target UEs until the group reporting guard time expires. Then the PCF
shall notify the NF service consumer using the Npcf_EventExposure_Notify
service operation, as described in subclause 4.2.4.2.
### 4.2.3 Npcf_EventExposure_UnSubscribe service operation
#### 4.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to unsubscribe from
event notifications.
The following procedure using the Npcf_EventExposure_UnSubscribe service
operation is supported:
\- unsubscription from event notifications.
#### 4.2.3.2 Unsubscription from event notifications
Figure 4.2.3.2-1 illustrates the unsubscription from event notifications.
Figure 4.2.3.2-1: Unsubscription from event notifications
To unsubscribe from event notifications, the NF service consumer shall send an
HTTP DELETE request with: \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request URI, as shown
in figure 4.2.3.2-1, step 1, where \"{**subscriptionId**}\" is the
subscription correlation identifier of the existing resource subscription that
is to be deleted.
If the PCF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP DELETE request due to
an internal PCF error or due to an error in the HTTP DELETE request, the PCF
shall send the HTTP error response as specified in subclause 5.7.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the PCF determines the received
HTTP DELETE request needs to be redirected, the PCF shall send an HTTP
redirect response as specified in subclause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
Upon successful reception of the HTTP DELETE request with: \"{apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request URI, the PCF
shall remove the corresponding subscription and send an HTTP \"204 No
Content\" response as shown in figure 4.2.3.2-1, step 2.
### 4.2.4 Npcf_EventExposure_Notify service operation
#### 4.2.4.1 General
The Npcf_EventExposure_Notify service operation enables the PCF to notify the
NF service consumers that the previously subscribed policy control event
occurred.
The following procedure using the Npcf_EventExposure_Notify service operation
is supported:
\- notification about subscribed events.
#### 4.2.4.2 Notification about subscribed events
Figure 4.2.4.2-1 illustrates the notification about subscribed events.
Figure 4.2.4.2-1: Notification about subscribed events
If the PCF observes policy control related event(s) for which an NF service
consumer has subscribed, the PCF shall send an HTTP POST request as shown in
figure 4.2.4.2-1, step 1, with the \"{notifUri}\" as request URI containing
the value previously provided by the NF service consumer within the
corresponding subscription, and the \"PcEventExposureNotif\" data structure.
The \"PcEventExposureNotif\" data structure shall include:
\- The notification correlation ID provided by the NF service consumer during
the subscription as \"notifId\" attribute; and
\- information about the observed event(s) within the \"eventNotifs\"
attribute that shall contain for each observed event an
\"PcEventNotification\" data structure that shall include:
1\. the Policy Control event as \"event\" attribute;
2\. for an access type change:
a) new access type as \"accType\" attribute;
b) the new RAT type as \"ratType\" attribute, if applicable for the notified
access type; and
c) if the \"ATSSS\" feature is supported:
i. if it is the first access type report for a PDU session, and both, 3GPP and
non-3GPP access information is available, the \"addAccessInfo\" attribute. The
\"addAccessInfo\" attribute contains the additional access type information,
where the access type is encoded in the \"accessType\" attribute, and the RAT
type is encoded in the \"ratType\" attribute when applicable for the notified
access type;
ii. if it is a subsequent access type change report:
\- if a new access type is added to the MA PDU session, the\"addAccessInfo\"
attribute with the added access type encoded in the \"accessType\" attribute,
and the RAT type encoded in the \"ratType\" attribute when applicable for the
notified access type;
\- if an access type is released in the MA PDU session, the \"relAccessInfo\"
attribute with the released access type encoded in the \"accessType\"
attribute, and the RAT type encoded in the \"ratType\" attribute when
applicable for the notified access type; and
NOTE: For a MA PDU session, if the \"ATSSS\" feature is not supported by the
AF, the PCF includes the \"accessType\" attribute and the \"ratType\"
attribute with a currently active combination of access type and RAT type (if
applicable for the notifed access type). When both 3GPP and non-3GPP accesses
are available, the PCF includes the information corresponding to the 3GPP
access.
d) for EPC inteworking scenarios, the ePDG address as \"anGwAddr\" attribute,
if applicable for the notified access type;
3\. for a PLMN change:
a) new network identity containing the PLMN Identifier and, if available, the
NID in the \"plmnId\" attribute;
4\. the identity of the affected UE in the \"supi\" attribute and, if
available, in the \"gpsi\" attribute;
5\. the time at which the event was observed encoded as \"timeStamp\"
attribute;
6\. if available, and if the feature \"ExtendedSessionInformation\" is
supported, information about the PDU session involved in the reported event in
the \"pduSessInfo\" attribute, that shall include:
a) the S-NSSAI of the PDU session in the \"snssai\" attribute;
b) the DNN of the PDU session in the \"dnn\" attribute; and
c) the IPv4 address in the \"ueIpv4\" attribute and/or the IPv6 prefix in the
\"ueIpv6\" attribute, or the Ethernet MAC address in the \"ueMac\" attribute;
and
> if the IPv4 address is included in the \"ueIpv4\" attribute, may include the
> IP domain in the \"ipDomain\" attribute;
7\. if available, and if the feature \"ExtendedSessionInformation\" is
supported, information about the services involved in the reported event in
the indicated PDU session in the \"repServices\" attribute, which may include
per identified service:
a) a list of Ethernet flows in the \"servEthFlows\" attribute which contains
an impacted Ethernet flow number within the \"flowNumber\" attribute in each
EthernetFlowInfo data structure; or
b) a list of IP flows in the \"servIpFlows\" attribute which contains an
impacted IP flow number within the \"flowNumber\" attribute in each IpFlowInfo
data structure; and/or
c) an AF application identifier in the \"afAppId\" attribute.
If the NF service consumer cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST
request due to an internal error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the NF
service consumer shall send an HTTP error response as specified in subclause
5.7.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the NF service consumer determines
the received HTTP POST request needs to be redirected, the NF service consumer
shall send an HTTP redirect response as specified in subclause 6.10.9 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [5].
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request with \"{notifUri}\" as
request URI and a \"PcEventExposureNotif\" data structure as request body, the
NF service consumer shall send a \"204 No Content\" HTTP response, as shown in
figure 4.2.4.2-1, step 2, for a successful processing.
# 5 Npcf_EventExposure Service API
## 5.1 Introduction
The Npcf_EventExposure Service shall use the Npcf_EventExposure API.
The API URI of the Npcf_EventExposure API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the PCF shall have the Resource URI structure defined in subclause 4.4.1 of
3GPP TS 29.501 [6], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
\- The \ shall be \"npcf-eventexposure\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in subclause
5.3.
## 5.2 Usage of HTTP
### 5.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [16], shall be used as specified in subclause 5.2 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in subclause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[5].
The OpenAPI [7] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Npcf_EventExposure is contained in Annex A.
### 5.2.2 HTTP standard headers
#### 5.2.2.1 General
See subclause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] for the usage of HTTP standard
headers.
#### 5.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [17], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in subclause 5.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [5]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [18].
### 5.2.3 HTTP custom headers
#### 5.2.3.1 General
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in subclause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [5] shall be applicable.
In this Release of the specification, no specific custom headers are defined
for the Npcf_EventExposure API.
## 5.3 Resources
### 5.3.1 Resource Structure
Figure 5.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Npcf_EventExposure API
Table 5.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 5.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description Policy
Control Events Subscriptions /subscriptions POST Subscription to notifications
of policy control events and creation of an Individual Policy Control Events
Subscription resource. Individual Policy Control Events Subscription
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} GET Reads an Individual Policy Control Events
Subscription resource. PUT Modifies an Individual Policy Control Events
Subscription. DELETE Cancels an individual subscription to notifications of
policy control events.
* * *
### 5.3.2 Resource: Policy Control Events Subscriptions (Collection)
#### 5.3.2.1 Description
The Policy Control Events Subscriptions resource represents all subscriptions
of the Npcf_EventExposure service at a given PCF.
#### 5.3.2.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/npcf-eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.3.2.2-1.
Table 5.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See subclause 5.1
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 5.3.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 5.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description PcEventExposureSubsc M 1 Contains the
information required for the creation of a new individual policy control
events subscription.
* * *
Table 5.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description PcEventExposureSubsc M 1
201 Created Contains the representation of the Individual Policy Control
Events Subscription resource. NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error status codes for
the POST method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] also apply.
* * *
Table 5.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}
* * *
#### 5.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
### 5.3.3 Resource: Individual Policy Control Events Subscription (Document)
#### 5.3.3.1 Description
The Individual Policy Control Events Subscription resource represents a single
subscription of the Npcf_EventExposure service at a given PCF.
#### 5.3.3.2 Resource definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See subclause 5.1 subscriptionId
string Identif a subscription to the PCF event exposure service.
* * *
#### 5.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 5.3.3.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | PcEvent | M | 1 | 200 OK | A | | ExposureSubsc | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | Control | | | | | | Events | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | is returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | retrieval. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | PCF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | retrieval. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | PCF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [5] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative PCF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative PCF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
##### 5.3.3.3.2 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.2-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description PcEventExposureSubsc M 1 Modifies the
existing Individual Policy Control Events Subscription resource.
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | PcEvent | M | 1 | 200 OK | Successful | | ExposureSubsc | | | | case: The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | Control | | | | | | Events | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | was modified | | | | | | and a | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | is returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | PCF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | PCF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [5] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative PCF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.2-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative PCF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
##### 5.3.3.3.3 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.3.3.3.3-1.
Table 5.3.3.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.3.3.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.3.3.3.3-3.
Table 5.3.3.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case: The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | Control | | | | | | Events | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscriptionId | | | | | | was deleted. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | termination. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | PCF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | termination. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | PCF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [5] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.3.3.3.3-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative PCF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
Table 5.3.3.3.3-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative PCF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected
* * *
#### 5.3.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
## 5.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None.
## 5.5 Notifications
### 5.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply with subclause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] and
subclause 4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
Table 5.5.1-1: Notifications overview
* * *
Notification Callback URI HTTP method or custom operation Description (service
operation) Policy Control Event Notification {notifUri} POST Notification of
policy control event reporting.
* * *
### 5.5.2 Policy Control Event Notification
#### 5.5.2.1 Description
The Policy Control Event Notification is used by the PCF to report one or
several observed policy control events to the NF service consumer that has
subscribed to such notifications via the Individual Policy Control Events
Subscription resource.
#### 5.5.2.2 Target URI
The Callback URI **\"{notifUri}\"** shall be used with the callback URI
variables defined in table 5.5.2.2-1.
Table 5.5.2.2-1: Callback URI variables
* * *
Name Data type Definition notifUri Uri The Notification Uri as assigned by the
NF service consumer during the subscription service operation and described
within the PcEventExposureSubsc data type (see table 5.6.2.2-1).
* * *
#### 5.5.2.3 Standard Methods
##### 5.5.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.5.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.5.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.5.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.5.2.3.1-3.
Table 5.5.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description PcEventExposureNotif M 1 Provides
Information about observed policy control events
* * *
Table 5.5.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The receipt | | | | | Content | of the | | | | | | Notification | | | | | | is | | | | | | acknowledged. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during event | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NF consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during event | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NF consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: In | | | | | | addition, the | | | | | | HTTP status | | | | | | codes which | | | | | | are specified | | | | | | as mandatory | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [5] | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method shall | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.5.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI representing the end point of an alternative NF consumer (service)
instance towards which the notification should be redirected. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-
Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance towards
which the notification request is redirected
* * *
Table 5.5.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI representing the end point of an alternative NF consumer (service)
instance towards which the notification should be redirected. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-
Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance towards
which the notification request is redirected
* * *
## 5.6 Data Model
### 5.6.1 General
This subclause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 5.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Npcf_EventExposure
service based interface protocol.
Table 5.6.1-1: Npcf_EventExposure specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability EthernetFlowInfo 5.6.2.6
Identification of an UL/DL ethernet flow. ExtendedSessionInformation
IpFlowInfo 5.6.2.7 Identification of an UL/DL IP flow.
ExtendedSessionInformation PcEvent 5.6.3.3 Policy Control Events.  
PcEventExposureSubsc 5.6.2.2 Represents an Individual Policy Events
Subscription resource.  
PcEventExposureNotif 5.6.2.3 Describes notifications about Policy Control
events that occurred in an Individual Policy Events Subscription resource.  
PcEventNotification 5.6.2.8 Represents the information reported for a Policy
Control event.  
PduSessionInformation 5.6.2.9 Represents PDU session identification
information. ExtendedSessionInformation ReportingInformation 5.6.2.4
Represents the type of reporting the subscription requires.  
ServiceIdentification 5.6.2.5 Identification of the service to which the
subscription applies. ExtendedSessionInformation
* * *
Table 5.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Npcf_EventExposure service
based interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to
their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their
use within the Npcf_EventExposure service based interface.
Table 5.6.1-2: Npcf_EventExposure re-used Data Types
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Data type | Reference | Comments | Applicability | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | AccessType | 3GPP TS | Access Type. | | | | 29.571 [14] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Additi | 3GPP T | Indicates the | ATSSS | | onalAccessInfo | S 29.512 [9] | combination of | | | | | additional | | | | | Access Type | | | | | and RAT Type | | | | | for MA PDU | | | | | session | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | AfAppId | 3GPP TS | AF application | ExtendedSess | | | 29.514 [12] | Identifier. | ionInformation | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | AnGwAddress | 3GPP TS | Carries the | | | | 29.514 [12] | control plane | | | | | address of the | | | | | EPC untrusted | | | | | non-3GPP | | | | | access network | | | | | gateway. | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DateTime | 3GPP TS | Time stamp. | | | | 29.571 [14] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dnn | 3GPP TS | Identifies a | | | | 29.571 [14] | DNN. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DurationSec | 3GPP TS | Seconds of | | | | 29.571 [14] | duration. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EthF | 3GPP TS | Identifies an | ExtendedSess | | lowDescription | 29.514 [12] | ethernet flow | ionInformation | | | | description. | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F | 3GPP TS | Identifies an | ExtendedSess | | lowDescription | 29.514 [12] | IP flow | ionInformation | | | | description. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Gpsi | 3GPP TS | Generic Public | | | | 29.571 [14] | Subscription | | | | | Identifier. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | GroupId | 3GPP TS | Identifies a | | | | 29.571 [14] | group of UEs. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MacAddr48 | 3GPP TS | Mac Address of | ExtendedSess | | | 29.571 [14] | the UE. | ionInformation | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Noti | 3GPP TS | Represents the | | | ficationMethod | 29.508 [15] | Notification | | | | | Method. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | PlmnIdNid | 3GPP TS | Identifies the | | | | 29.571 [14] | network: the | | | | | PLMN | | | | | Identifier | | | | | and, for an | | | | | SNPN, also the | | | | | NID. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RatType | 3GPP TS | RAT Type. | | | | 29.571 [14] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Re | 3GPP TS | Contains | ES3XX | | directResponse | 29.571 [14] | redirection | | | | | related | | | | | information. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SamplingRatio | 3GPP TS | Sampling | | | | 29.571 [14] | Ratio. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Snssai | 3GPP TS | Identifies a | | | | 29.571 [14] | S-NSSAI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Supi | 3GPP TS | Identifies the | | | | 29.571 [14] | SUPI of the | | | | | UE. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sup | 3GPP TS | Used to | | | portedFeatures | 29.571 [14] | negotiate the | | | | | applicability | | | | | of the | | | | | optional | | | | | features | | | | | defined in | | | | | subclause 5.8. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Uinteger | 3GPP TS | Unsigned | | | | 29.571 [14] | integer. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | \ | | | | | "AnGwAddress\" | | | | | data structure | | | | | is only used | | | | | to encode the | | | | | ePDG address | | | | | and is only | | | | | applicable to | | | | | the 5GS and | | | | | EPC/E-UTRAN | | | | | interworking | | | | | scenario as | | | | | defined in | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 29.512 [9], | | | | | Annex B. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: In | | | | | order to | | | | | support a set | | | | | of MAC | | | | | addresses with | | | | | a specific | | | | | range in the | | | | | traffic | | | | | filter, | | | | | feature | | | | | M | | | | | acAddressRange | | | | | as specified | | | | | in clause 5.8 | | | | | shall be | | | | | supported. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.6.2 Structured data types
#### 5.6.2.1 Introduction
This subclause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
#### 5.6.2.2 Type PcEventExposureSubsc
Table 5.6.2.2-1: Definition of type PcEventExposureSubsc
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eventSubs | array | M | 1..N | S | | | | (PcEvent) | | | ubscribed | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | Control | | | | | | | events. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | even | Re | O | 0..1 | R | | | tsRepInfo | portingIn | | | epresents | | | | formation | | | the | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirements | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | groupId | GroupId | C | 0..1 | R | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | internal | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | a group | | | | | | | of UEs. | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | targeting | | | | | | | a Group | | | | | | | of UE(s). | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | f | a | O | 1..N | R | | | ilterDnns | rray(Dnn) | | | epresents | | | | | | | the DNNs | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | policy | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | apply. | | | | | | | Each DNN | | | | | | | is a full | | | | | | | DNN with | | | | | | | both the | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | Operator | | | | | | | Id | | | | | | | entifier, | | | | | | | or a DNN | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | only. If | | | | | | | omitted | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | any DNN. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | filt | arra | O | 1..N | R | | | erSnssais | y(Snssai) | | | epresents | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | S-NSSAIs | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | policy | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | apply. If | | | | | | | omitted | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | S-NSSAI. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | filte | a | O | 1..N | R | Extended | | rServices | rray(Serv | | | epresents | SessionIn | | | iceIdenti | | | the | formation | | | fication) | | | services | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | policy | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | apply. If | | | | | | | omitted, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | policy | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | apply for | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | active | | | | | | | services. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notifUri | Uri | M | 1 | Not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | URI for | | | | | | | Policy | | | | | | | Control | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eporting. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notifId | string | M | 1 | Not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | rrelation | | | | | | | ID | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | by the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | dFeatures | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | | Supported | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | | ause 5.8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | HTTP POST | | | | | | | request/ | | | | | | | response. | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: In | | | | | | | the HTTP | | | | | | | request, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the set | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | by the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | In the | | | | | | | HTTP | | | | | | | response, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the set | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | by both | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | PCF. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 5.6.2.3 Type PcEventExposureNotif
Table 5.6.2.3-1: Definition of type PcEventExposureNotif
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability notifId
string M 1 Notification Correlation ID assigned by the NF service consumer.  
eventNotifs array(PcEventNotification) M 1..N Represents the Policy Control
Events to be reported according to the subscription corresponding to the
Notification Correlation ID.
* * *
#### 5.6.2.4 Type ReportingInformation
Table 5.6.2.4-1: Definition of type ReportingInformation
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability immRep
boolean O 0..1 Indication of immediate reporting. If included, when it is set
to true it indicates immediate reporting of the subscribed events, if
available. Otherwise, reporting will occur when the event is met.  
notifMethod NotificationMethod O 0..1 Represents the notification method
(periodic, one time, on event detection). If \"notifMethod\" attribute is not
supplied, the default value \"ON_EVENT_DETECTION\" applies.  
maxReportNbr Uinteger O 0..1 Represents the maximum number of reports, after
which the subscription ceases to exist (i.e., the reporting ends). It may be
present for the \"PERIODIC\" and on \"ON_EVENT_DETECTION\" notification
methods. If omitted, there is no limit.  
monDur DateTime C 0..1 Represents the time at which the subscription ceases to
exist (i.e the subscription becomes invalid and the reporting ends). If
omitted, there is no time limit. If present in the subscription request, it
shall be present in the subscription response.  
repPeriod DurationSec O 0..1 Indicates the time interval between successive
event notifications.It is supplied for notification method \"PERIODIC\".  
sampRatio SamplingRatio O 0..1 Indicates the ratio of the random subset to
target UEs, event reports only relates to the subset.  
grpRepTime DurationSec O 0..1 Indicates the time during which the the event
reports detected for the concerned UEs are aggregated in a group, in order to
be reported together to the NF service consumer.
* * *
#### 5.6.2.5 Type ServiceIdentification
Table 5.6.2.5-1: Definition of type ServiceIdentification
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability servEthFlows
array(EthernetFlowInfo) C 1..N Ethernet flows of a service.
ExtendedSessionInformation servIpFlows array(IpFlowInfo) C 1..N IP flows of a
service ExtendedSessionInformation afAppId AfAppId O 0..1 Contains an AF
application identifier. ExtendedSessionInformation NOTE: At least one of the
\"servEthFlows\", \"servIpFlows\" or \"afAppId\" attributes shall be present.
The \"servEthFlows\" attribute and the \"servIpFlows\" attribute shall not be
both present at the same time.
* * *
#### 5.6.2.6 Type EthernetFlowInfo
Table 5.6.2.6-1: Definition of type EthernetFlowInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability ethFlows
array(EthFlowDescription) C 1..2 Contains the flow description for the Uplink
and/or Downlink Ethernet flows. It shall be present in the subscription
request. ExtendedSessionInformation flowNumber integer M 1 Identifies the
ordinal number of the Ethernet flow. ExtendedSessionInformation
* * *
#### 5.6.2.7 Type IpFlowInfo
Table 5.6.2.7-1: Definition of type IpFlowInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability ipFlows
array(FlowDescription) C 1..2 Contains the flow description for the Uplink
and/or Downlink IP flows. It shall be present in the subscription request
ExtendedSessionInformation flowNumber integer M 1 Identifies the ordinal
number of the IP flow. ExtendedSessionInformation
* * *
#### 5.6.2.8 Type PcEventNotification
Table 5.6.2.8-1: Definition of type PcEventNotification
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability event PcEvent
M 1..N Reported Policy Control event.  
accType AccessType C 0..1 Access Type. It shall be included when the reported
PcEvent is \"AC_TY_CH\".  
addAccessInfo AdditionalAccessInfo O 0..1 Indicates the additional combination
of Access Type and RAT Type available for MA PDU session. It may be present
when the notified event is \"AC_TY_CH\" and the PDU session is a Multi-Access
PDU session. ATSSS relAccessInfo AdditionalAccessInfo O 0..1 Indicates the
release of a combination of Access Type and RAT Type available for MA PDU
session. It may be present when the notified event is \"AC_TY_CH\" and the PDU
session is a Multi-Access PDU session. ATSSS anGwAddr AnGwAddress O 0..1 ePDG
address. It shall be included if applicable when the reported PcEvent is
\"AC_TY_CH\".  
ratType RatType O 0..1 RAT Type. It shall be included if applicable when the
reported PcEvent is \"AC_TY_CH\".  
plmnId PlmnIdNid C 0..1 PLMN Identifier and, for an SNPN, also the NID. It
shall be included when the reported PcEvent is \"PLMN_CH\".  
supi Supi C 0..1 SUPI of the UE. It shall be present if available.  
gpsi Gpsi O 0..1 Gpsi shall contain either an External Id or an MSISDN.  
timeStamp DateTime M 1 Time at which the event is observed.  
pduSessInfo PduSessionInformation O 0..1 Represents PDU session information
related to the observed event. ExtendedSessionInformation repServices
ServiceIdentification O 0..1 Represents service information related to the
observed event. ExtendedSessionInformation
* * *
#### 5.6.2.9 Type PduSessionInformation
Table 5.6.2.9-1: Definition of type PduSessionInformation
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | snssai | Snssai | M | 1 | S-NSSAI | Extended | | | | | | of the | SessionIn | | | | | | PDU | formation | | | | | | session. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | dnn | Dnn | M | 1..N | Dnn of | Extended | | | | | | the PDU | SessionIn | | | | | | session, | formation | | | | | | a full | | | | | | | DNN with | | | | | | | both the | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | Operator | | | | | | | Id | | | | | | | entifier, | | | | | | | or a DNN | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | only. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueIpv4 | Ipv4Addr | C | 0..1 | The IPv4 | Extended | | | | | | address | SessionIn | | | | | | of the | formation | | | | | | served | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueIpv6 | I | C | 0..1 | The IPv6 | Extended | | | pv6Prefix | | | prefix of | SessionIn | | | | | | the | formation | | | | | | served | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ipDomain | string | O | 0..1 | I | Extended | | | | | | dentifies | SessionIn | | | | | | the IP | formation | | | | | | domain. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueMac | MacAddr48 | C | 0..1 | UE MAC | Extended | | | | | | address. | SessionIn | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Either | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | served UE | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | (an | | | | | | | Ipv4Addr | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | pv6Prefix | | | | | | | or both | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable) | | | | | | | or UE MAC | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | \"i | | | | | | | pDomain\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute, | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | mbination | | | | | | | with a | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "ueIpv4\" | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
### 5.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
#### 5.6.3.1 Introduction
This subclause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be
referenced from data structures defined in the previous subclauses.
#### 5.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 5.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 5.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability
* * *
#### 5.6.3.3 Enumeration: PcEvent
The enumeration PcEvent represents the policy control events that can be
subscribed. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 5.6.3.3-1.
Table 5.6.3.3-1: Enumeration PcEvent
* * *
Enumeration value Description Applicability AC_TY_CH Access Type Change  
PLMN_CH PLMN Change
* * *
## 5.7 Error handling
### 5.7.1 General
HTTP error handling shall be supported as specified in subclause 5.2.4 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [5].
For the Npcf_EventExposure API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in subclause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
Protocol errors and application errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5] shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP
status codes are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table
5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
In addition, the requirements in the following subclauses are applicable for
the Npcf_ EventExposure API.
### 5.7.2 Protocol Errors
In this Release of the specification, there are no service specific protocol
errors applicable for the Npcf_EventExposure API.
### 5.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Npcf_EventExposure service are listed
in table 5.7.3-1.
Table 5.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
## 5.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 5.8-1 are defined for the Npcf_EventExposure
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
subclause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
Table 5.8-1: Supported Features
* * *
Feature number Feature Name Description 1 ExtendedSessionInformation Indicates
the support of additional session information in the subscription and report
of policy control event. 2 MacAddressRange Indicates the support of a set of
MAC addresses with a specific range in the traffic filter. 3 ATSSS Indicates
the support of the report of the multiple access types of a MA PDU session. 4
ES3XX Extended Support for 3xx redirections. This feature indicates the
support of redirection for any service operation, according to Stateless NF
procedures as specified in subclauses 6.5.3.2 and 6.5.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[5] and according to HTTP redirection principles for indirect communication,
as specified in subclause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
* * *
## 5.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [19] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [5], the access to the
Npcf_EventExposure API, based on local configuration, may be authorized by
means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [20]), using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [21])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 authorization is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming
services offered by the Nnrf_NFManagement API, shall obtain a \"token\" from
the authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [21], subclause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF where the NF Service Consumer invoked the
discovery of the Npcf_EventExposure service.
The Npcf_EventExposure API defines a single scope \"npcf-eventexposure\" for
the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource
or operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
The present Annex contains an OpenAPI [7] specification of HTTP messages and
content bodies used by the Npcf_EventExposure API.
This Annex shall take precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API.
NOTE: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification file contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900
[22] and subclause 5.3.1 of the 3GPP TS 29.501 [6] for further information).
# A.2 Npcf_EventExposure API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 1.1.2
title: Npcf_EventExposure
description: \|
PCF Event Exposure Service.
© 2021, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.523 V16.5.0; 5G System; Policy Control Event Exposure
Service; Stage 3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.523/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/npcf-eventexposure/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in subclause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- npcf-eventexposure
paths:
/subscriptions:
post:
summary: Creates a new Individual Policy Control Events Subscription resource
operationId: PostPcEventExposureSubsc
tags:
\- Policy Control Events Subscription (Collection)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEventExposureSubsc\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Success
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEventExposureSubsc\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the created individual policy control
events subscription resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/npcf-
eventexposure/v1/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
PcEventNotification:
\'{\$request.body#/notifUri}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEventExposureNotif\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content, Notification was succesfull
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}:
get:
summary: \"Reads an existing Individual Policy Control Events Subscription\"
operationId: GetPcEventExposureSubsc
tags:
\- Individual Policy Control Events Subscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Policy Control Event Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: OK. Resource representation is returned
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEventExposureSubsc\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
summary: \"Modifies an existing Individual Policy Control Events Subscription
\"
operationId: PutPcEventExposureSubsc
tags:
\- Individual Policy Control Events Subscription (Document)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEventExposureSubsc\'
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Policy Control Event Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: OK. Resource was succesfully modified and representation is
returned
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEventExposureSubsc\'
\'204\':
description: No Content. Resource was succesfully modified
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: \"Cancels an existing Individual Policy Control Events Subscription
\"
operationId: DeletePcEventExposureSubsc
tags:
\- Individual Policy Control Events Subscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Policy Control Event Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content. Resource was succesfully deleted
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
npcf-eventexposure: Access to the Npcf_EventExposure API.
schemas:
PcEventExposureNotif:
type: object
properties:
notifId:
type: string
eventNotifs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEventNotification\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- notifId
\- eventNotifs
PcEventExposureSubsc:
type: object
properties:
eventSubs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEvent\'
minItems: 1
eventsRepInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ReportingInformation\'
groupId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/GroupId\'
filterDnns:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Dnn\'
minItems: 1
filterSnssais:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
minItems: 1
filterServices:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ServiceIdentification\'
minItems: 1
notifUri:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
notifId:
type: string
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- eventSubs
\- notifId
\- notifUri
ReportingInformation:
type: object
properties:
immRep:
type: boolean
notifMethod:
\$ref:
\'TS29508_Nsmf_EventExposure.yaml#/components/schemas/NotificationMethod\'
maxReportNbr:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
monDur:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
repPeriod:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DurationSec\'
sampRatio:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SamplingRatio\'
grpRepTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DurationSec\'
ServiceIdentification:
type: object
properties:
servEthFlows:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EthernetFlowInfo\'
minItems: 1
servIpFlows:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/IpFlowInfo\'
minItems: 1
afAppId:
\$ref: \'TS29514_Npcf_PolicyAuthorization.yaml#/components/schemas/AfAppId\'
# All conditions in allOf must be met
allOf:
# First condition is that servEthFlows and servIpFlows are mutually exclusive
\- not:
required: [servEthFlows, servIpFlows]
# Second condition is that at least one the servEthFlows, servIpFlows and
afAppId shall be present
\- anyOf:
\- required: [servEthFlows]
\- required: [servIpFlows]
\- required: [afAppId]
EthernetFlowInfo:
type: object
properties:
ethFlows:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29514_Npcf_PolicyAuthorization.yaml#/components/schemas/EthFlowDescription\'
minItems: 1
maxItems: 2
flowNumber:
type: integer
required:
\- flowNumber
IpFlowInfo:
type: object
properties:
ipFlows:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29514_Npcf_PolicyAuthorization.yaml#/components/schemas/FlowDescription\'
minItems: 1
maxItems: 2
flowNumber:
type: integer
required:
\- flowNumber
PcEventNotification:
type: object
properties:
event:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PcEvent\'
accType:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/AccessType\'
addAccessInfo:
\$ref:
\'TS29512_Npcf_SMPolicyControl.yaml#/components/schemas/AdditionalAccessInfo\'
relAccessInfo:
\$ref:
\'TS29512_Npcf_SMPolicyControl.yaml#/components/schemas/AdditionalAccessInfo\'
anGwAddr:
\$ref:
\'TS29514_Npcf_PolicyAuthorization.yaml#/components/schemas/AnGwAddress\'
ratType:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RatType\'
plmnId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnIdNid\'
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
timeStamp:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
pduSessionInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PduSessionInformation\'
repServices:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ServiceIdentification\'
required:
\- event
\- timeStamp
PduSessionInformation:
type: object
properties:
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
dnn:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Dnn\'
ueIpv4:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ipv4Addr\'
ueIpv6:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ipv6Prefix\'
ipDomain:
type: string
ueMac:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/MacAddr48\'
required:
\- snssai
\- dnn
oneOf:
\- required: [ueMac]
\- anyOf:
\- required: [ueIpv4]
\- required: [ueIpv6]
# Simple data types and Enumerations
PcEvent:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- AC_TY_CH
\- PLMN_CH
\- type: string
#