# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nnssaaf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the NSSAAF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] IETF RFC 4648: \"The Base16, Base32 and Base64 Data Encodings\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"5G System; Unified Data Management Services; Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.518: \"5G System; Access and Mobility Management Services;
Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
NSSAA Network Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization
NSSAAF NSSAA Function
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
Within the 5GC, the NSSAAF offers services to the AMF via the Nnssaaf service
based interface.
The AMF shall make use of the NSSAAF service when it needs to invoke network
slice-specific authentication and authorization for a specific UE and a
specific S-NSSAI (see 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] clause 4.2.9.2, and 3GPP TS 33.501
[14] clause 16.2 and 16.3).
The NSSAAF service shall also be used by the AMF to receive slice re-
authentication notification or slice authorization revocation notification
sent from the AAA-S (see 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] clause 4.2.9.3, 4.2.9.4 and 3GPP
TS 33.501 [14] clause 16.3 and 16.4).
Figure 4.1-1 provides the reference model with focus on the NSSAAF.
Figure 4.1-1: Reference model -- NSSAAF
# 5 Services offered by the NSSAAF
## 5.1 Introduction
The NSSAAF offers the following services via the Nnssaaf interface:
\- Nnssaaf_NSSAA Service
Table 5.1-1 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-1: API Descriptions
Service Name Clause Description OpenAPI Specification File apiName **Annex**
* * *
Nnssaaf_NSSAA 5.2 slice-Specific authentication and authorization service
Nnssaaf_NSSAA.yaml nnssaaf-nssaa A.2
## 5.2 Nnssaaf_NSSAA Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The Nnssaaf_NSSAA service provides slice-specific authentication and
authorization for a given UE. The NSSAAF is acting as NF Service Producer,
while the AMF is the NF Service Consumer.
Following functionalities are provided by the Nnssaaf service:
\- Perform slice-specific authentication and authorization for a given UE;
\- Trigger slice-specific re-authentication to a given UE;
\- Revoke the slice-specific authentication and authorization for a given UE.
The Nnssaaf_NSSAA service supports the following service operations.
Table 5.2.1-1: Service operations supported by the Nnssaaf_NSSAA service
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Service | Description | Operation | Example | | Operations | | | Consumer(s) | | | | Semantics | | +================+================+================+================+ | Authenticate | Perform | Re | AMF | | | slice-specific | quest/Response | | | | authentication | | | | | and | | | | | authorization | | | | | for a given | | | | | UE. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Re- | Request | Callback | AMF | | Authentication | slice-specific | | | | Notification | re- | | | | | authentication | | | | | and | | | | | re | | | | | -authorization | | | | | for a given | | | | | UE. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Revocation | Request | Callback | AMF | | Notification | revocation of | | | | | slice-specific | | | | | authentication | | | | | and | | | | | authorization | | | | | result for a | | | | | given UE. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
See Table 5.2.1-1 for an overview of the service operations supported by the
Nnssaaf_NSSAA service.
#### 5.2.2.2 Authenticate
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The Authenticate service operation permits the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the
AMF) to initiate slice-specific authentication and authorization, e.g. during
a UE Registration procedure or upon reception of a re-authentication
notification from the NSSAAF (see clause 5.2.2.3). The NSSAAF may relay the
EAP message to an AAA-S and collect the result of slice-specific
authentication and authorization from the AAA-S, as specified in clause
4.2.9.2 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], and clause 16.3 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8].
The NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) shall send a POST request to the
resource representing slice authentication collection (i.e. .../v1/slice-
authentications) to request the NSSAAF to create the corresponding resource
context and perform slice-specific authentication and authorization.
Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1: Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization
1\. The NF Service Consumer (AMF) shall send a POST request to the NSSAAF,
targeting the resource of slice authentication collection (i.e. .../v1/slice-
authentications), to perform slice-specific authentication and authorization.
The payload of the body shall contain the slice authentication information,
which includes:
\- UE ID (i.e. GPSI)
\- S-NSSAI
\- EAP ID Response message (if it is received from the UE), or the EAP ID
Response message with EAP ID stored, or the EAP ID Response message with Null
value (if EAP ID is not requested or received);
\- optionally, the callback URI of the AMF to receive re-authentication
notification from the NSSAAF;
\- optionally, the callback URI of the AMF to receive revocation notification
from the NSSAAF.
Based on local policy, the AMF may determine to provide callback URI(s) for
receiving re-authentication notification or revocation notification. For
example, the callback URIs are provided for an UE identified with low mobility
characteristic.
If Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization is triggered by the AMF
during a Registration procedure as described in clause 4.2.9.2 of 3GPP TS
23.502 [3], the AMF shall set \"status\" attribute for the given slice listed
in \"nssaaStatusList\" attribute to \"PENDING\" (See 3GPP TS 29.518 [16]).
2\. The NSSAAF creates slice authentication context for the UE, and starts the
slice-specific authentication and authorization procedure. If the AAA-S is
involved in slice-specific authentication and authorization procedure, the
NSSAAF shall forward the EAP ID Response message to the AAA-S if the EAP ID
Response message does not contain the Null value. Depending on the result,
either step 3a or step 3b is performed. The NSSAAF obtains the AAA-S address
from local configuration, based on S-NSSAI.
3a. On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned. The \"Location\" header
shall contain the URI of the created resource (e.g. .../v1/slice-
authentications/{authCtxId}). The payload body shall contain the slice
authentication context, which includes the EAP message generated by the NSSAAF
or from the AAA-S. The NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) shall forward the
received EAP message to the UE in NAS message, as specified in clause 4.2.9.2
of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
3b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1. If the slice is not authorized, the NSSAAF shall use the
\"SLICE_AUTH_REJECTED\" application error code.
3c. On redirection, the appropriate HTTP status code (e.g. \"307 Temporary
Redirect\") shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE may be included in the
payload body of POST response, as specified in table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
4\. Once receiving EAP message from the UE, the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the
AMF) shall send a PUT request to the NSSAAF, targeting the resource of the
slice authentication context (i.e. .../v1/slice-authentications/{authCtxId}).
The payload body shall carry the slice authentication confirmation data which
includes:
\- UE ID (i.e. GPSI)
\- S-NSSAI
\- AAA-S address
\- EAP Message (which is received from the UE)
5\. The NSSAAF checks and confirms the slice-specific authentication and
authorization. If the AAA-S is involved, the NSSAAF shall forward the EAP
Message to the AAA-S to confirm the slice-specific authentication and
authorization. Depending on the result, either step 6a or step 6b is
performed.
6a. On success, \"200 OK\" shall be returned. The payload body shall contain
the slice authentication confirmation response, which includes the EAP message
(e.g. EAP success/failure message) generated by the NSSAAF or from the AAA-S.
The NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) shall forward the EAP message to the UE
in NAS message.
If the UE is authenticated, the NSSAAF shall set the \"authResult\" attribute
to \"EAP_SUCCESS\". If failed to authenticate the UE, the \"authResult\"
attribute shall be set to \"EAP_FAILURE\".
If subsequent EAP message exchange is needed between the UE and the
NSSAAF(AAA-S), the NSSAAF shall not include SliceAuthResult in the response
message.
6b. On failure, one of the HTTP status codes listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1 shall
be returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with
the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
6c. On redirection, the appropriate HTTP status code (e.g. \"307 Temporary
Redirect\") shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE may be included in the
payload body of POST response, as specified in table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3.
7-9. If subsequent EAP message exchange is needed between the UE and the
NSSAAF to finish the EAP based authentication, step 7-9 are performed. On
failure, one of the HTTP status codes listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be
returned with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure with the
\"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1. On redirection, the appropriate HTTP status code (e.g. \"307
Temporary Redirect\") shall be returned, and a RedirectResponse IE may be
included in the message body, as specified in table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3.
In above steps, if the AAA-S is involved in the slice-specific authentication
and authorization procedure while there is no expected response from the AAA-S
in the case of time out, the NSSAAF shall return HTTP status code \"504
Gateway Timeout\", with the message body containing a ProblemDetails structure
with the \"cause\" attribute set to \"TIMED_OUT_REQUEST\".
After the completion of slice-specific authentication and authorization
procedure, it is up to implementation whether the NSSAAF stores the slice
authentication context and related resources for a configured period, or
deletes the context and resource immediately, e.g. depending on the potential
need for AAA-S initiated slice-specific re-authentication/revocation
notification.
If the slice-specific authentication and authorization was successful (i.e.
\"authResult\" attribute received from NSSAAF in step 6a is set to
\"EAP_SUCCESS\"), the AMF shall set \"status\" attribute for the given slice
listed in \"nssaaStatusList\" attribute to \"EAP_SUCCESS\" (see 3GPP TS 29.518
[16]).
If the slice-specific authentication and authorization finally fails (i.e.
\"authResult\" attribute received from NSSAAF in step 6a is set to
\"EAP_FAILURE\"), the AMF shall set \"status\" attribute for the given slice
listed in \"nssaaStatusList\" attribute to \"EAP_FAILURE\" (see 3GPP TS 29.518
[16]). In this case, if there are PDU sessions previously established
corresponding to the S-NSSAIs required to be authenticated, the AMF should
additionally trigger the release of those PDU sessions.
If the slice-specific authentication and authorization cannot be completed,
then:
\- If it is due to receiving a response with HTTP status code \"504 Gateway
Timeout\" or due to lack of response from the NSSAAF during an NSSAA
procedure, the AMF may later re-initiate slice-specific authentication and
authorization procedure based on its policy. The AMF should wait for a
configured period before re-initiating slice-specific authentication and
authorization procedure. If the retry attempts are exhausted, the AMF stops
the slice-specific authentication and authorization procedure.
NOTE 1: It is recommended to limit the number of retry attempts as described
in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
\- If it is due to the UE becoming unreachable during an NSSAA procedure, the
AMF stops the slice-specific authentication and authorization procedure.
\- If the AMF stops the slice-specific authentication and authorization
procedure (i.e. after exhausting the retry attempts or when the UE becomes
unreachable), the AMF shall keep the \"status\" attribute set to \"PENDING\",
for the given slice(s) listed in \"nssaaStatusList\" attribute (see 3GPP TS
29.518 [16]).
NOTE 2: The AMF initiates the slice-specific authentication and authorization
for S-NSSAIs in \"PENDING\" status at next UE uplink activity.
#### 5.2.2.3 Re-Authentication Notification
##### 5.2.2.3.1 General
The Re-Authentication Notification service operation shall be used by the
NSSAAF to notify the AMF to re-initiate slice-specific authentication and
authorization for a given UE, as specified in clause 4.2.9.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502
[3], and clause 16.4 of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8].
If there are two different AMFs serving the UE (e.g. the NSSAAF retrieves two
different AMFs from the UDM), the NSSAAF may determine to send the re-
authentication notification to both AMFs. Or, the NSSAAF may first send re-
authentication notification to one of the AMF, and then send revocation
notification to another AMF if EAP authentication fails in first AMF. If EAP
authentication succeeds in first AMF then NSSAAF does not notify the other
AMF.
The NSSAAF shall notify the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) by using the
HTTP POST method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1: Re-authentication Notification
1\. The NSSAAF shall send a POST request to the callback URI used to receiving
re-authentication notification, which is either provided by the NF Service
Consumer (i.e. the AMF), or retrieved from the AMF profile stored in the NRF.
The HTTP payload body of the POST request shall contain the
SliceAuthReauthNotification data structure, within which:
\- the notificationType set to the SliceAuthNotificationType of
\"SLICE_RE_AUTH\";
\- the gpsi set to the GPSI of the given UE required to be re-authenticated;
\- the snssai set to the S-NSSAI required to be re-authenticated;
\- the supi set to the SUPI of the given UE required to be re-authenticated.
NOTE: The NSSAAF can obtain the SUPI of the UE in the response of a previous
Nudm_UECM_Get used by the NSSAAF to retrieve the AMF ID.
2a. On success, \"204 No Content\" shall be returned and the payload body of
the POST response shall be empty.
After responding the request, the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) shall
send NAS message to the UE to trigger re-authentication and re-authorization
for the given slice.
The AMF then decides to execute the Slice-Specific Authentication and
Authorization if needed as described in clause 5.2.2.2.1.
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code (e.g. \"404 Not Found\") listed in
Table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be returned.
For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body shall contain a ProblemDetails
structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error
listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
2c. On redirection, the appropriate HTTP status code (e.g. \"307 Temporary
Redirect\") shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE may be included in the
payload body of POST response, as specified in table 6.1.5.2.3.1-3.
If the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) is not able to handle the request,
but knows that another NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) is able to handle
it, it shall reply with an HTTP 3xx redirect error response pointing to the
URI of the new NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF).
#### 5.2.2.4 Revocation Notification
##### 5.2.2.4.1 General
The Revocation Notification service operation shall be used by the NSSAAF to
notify the AMF to revoke slice-specific authentication and authorization
result, as specified in clause 4.2.9.4 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], and clause 16.5
of 3GPP TS 33.501 [8], and may trigger the AMF to release the corresponding
PDU sessions associated to the indicated slice.
If there are two different AMFs serving the UE (e.g. the NSSAAF retrieves two
different AMFs from the UDM), the NSSAAF may determine to send revocation
notification to both AMFs.
The NSSAAF shall notify the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) by using the
HTTP POST method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1: Revocation Notification
1\. The NSSAAF shall send a POST request to the revocation notification
callback URI, which is either provided by the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the
AMF), or retrieved from the AMF profile stored in the NRF.
The HTTP payload body of the POST request shall contain the
SliceAuthRevocNotification data structure, within which:
\- the notificationType set to the SliceAuthNotificationType of
\"SLICE_REVOCATION\";
\- the gpsi set to the GPSI of the given UE for whom the slice-specific
authorization revocation is required;
\- the snssai set to the S-NSSAI for which the slice-specific authorization
revocation is required;
\- the supi set to the SUPI of the given UE for whom the slice-specific
authorization revocation is required.
NOTE: The NSSAAF can obtain the SUPI of the UE in the response of a previous
Nudm_UECM_Get used by the NSSAAF to retrieve the AMF ID.
2a. On success, \"204 No Content\" shall be returned and the payload body of
the POST response shall be empty.
On receiving the request, the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) shall revoke
the slice-specific authentication and authorization result for the given UE.
If there is PDU session associated to the given slice, the AMF shall trigger
the PDU session release to the SMF, with appropriate cause value.
The AMF shall remove the \"status\" for the given slice in \"nssaaStatusList\"
attribute (see 3GPP TS 29.518 [16]).
2b. On failure, one of the HTTP status code (e.g. \"404 Not Found\") listed in
Table 6.1.7.3-1 shall be returned.
For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body shall contain a ProblemDetails
structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of the application error
listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
2c. On redirection, the appropriate HTTP status code (e.g. \"307 Temporary
Redirect\") shall be returned. A RedirectResponse IE may be included in the
payload body of POST response, as specified in table 6.1.5.3.3.1-2.
If the NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) is not able to handle the request,
but knows that another NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) is able to handle
it, it shall reply with an HTTP 3xx redirect error response pointing to the
URI of the new NF Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF).
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nnssaaf_NSSAA Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The Nnssaaf_NSSAA service shall use the Nnssaaf_NSSAA API.
The API URI of the \ API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/**
The request URIs used in HTTP request from the NF service consumer towards the
NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in clause
4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nnssaaf-nssaa\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 5.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nnssaaf_NSSAA API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be applicable.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
The structure of the Resource URIs of the Nnssaaf_NSSAA service is shown in
Figure 6.1.3.1-1
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the NSSAA API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +================+================+================+================+ | slice-a | /v1/slice-a | POST | Initiate the | | uthentications | uthentications | | slice-specific | | | | | authentication | | (Collection) | | | and | | | | | authorization | | | | | process by | | | | | providing | | | | | inputs related | | | | | to the UE and | | | | | a specific | | | | | slice. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | slice- | /v1/slice | PUT | Put the UE | | authentication | -authenticatio | | response from | | | ns/{authCtxId} | | the EAP | | (Document) | | | process. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: slice-authentications (Collection)
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents a collection of the slice-authentication resources
generated by the NSSAAF.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nnssaaf-nssaa /\ /slice-
authentications**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion string See clause 6.1.1
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 6.1.3.2.3.1 POST {#post .H6}
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description SliceAuthInfo M 1 Contains the GPSI,
S-NSSAI, and EAP ID Response from the UE, etc.
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Sli | M | 1 | 201 Created | This case | | ceAuthContext | | | | indicates the | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | resource has | | | | | | been created | | | | | | by the NSSAAF | | | | | | for the | | | | | | requested | | | | | | s | | | | | | lice-specific | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | and | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthorization, | | | | | | and further | | | | | | EAP process | | | | | | is required. | | | | | | | | | | | | The HTTP | | | | | | response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a | | | | | | \"Location\" | | | | | | header that | | | | | | contains the | | | | | | resource URI | | | | | | of the | | | | | | created | | | | | | resource. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if | | | | | | this is a | | | | | | redirection | | | | | | triggered by | | | | | | an SCP to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | another SCP. | | | | | | In the former | | | | | | case, the URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same NSSAAF | | | | | | or NSSAAF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if | | | | | | this is a | | | | | | redirection | | | | | | triggered by | | | | | | an SCP to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | another SCP. | | | | | | In the former | | | | | | case, the URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same NSSAAF | | | | | | or NSSAAF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 400 Bad | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Request | represents | | | | | | the failure | | | | | | to start | | | | | | s | | | | | | lice-specific | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | and | | | | | | authorization | | | | | | because of | | | | | | input | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | error. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 Forbidden | This case | | roblemDetails | | | | represents | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | or the slice | | | | | | is not | | | | | | allowed to be | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthenticated. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | SLICE_A | | | | | | UTH_REJECTED | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | This case | | roblemDetails | | | | represents | | | | | | the user or | | | | | | user context | | | | | | is not found. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | CONTEX | | | | | | T_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | USE | | | | | | R_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 504 Gateway | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Time out | represents | | | | | | network error | | | | | | or remote | | | | | | peer (i.e. | | | | | | AAA-S) error, | | | | | | e.g. not | | | | | | reachable, no | | | | | | response and | | | | | | time out. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | NET | | | | | | WORK_FAILURE | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | UPSTREAM_ | | | | | | SERVER_ERROR | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | TIME\ | | | | | | _OUT_REQUEST | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the POST method on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 201 response code on this
resource
+----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+ | Location | URI | M | 1 | URI of created | | | | | | resource for the | | | | | | slice | | | | | | authentication | | | | | | context. | | | | | | | | | | | | The URI structure | | | | | | is defined in | | | | | | clause 6.1.3.3.1. | +----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-6: Links supported by the 201 Response Code on this endpoint
* * *
Name Resource name HTTP method or custom operation Link parameter(s)
Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-7: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
endpoint
+----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +==========+===========+===+=============+====================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | URI pointing to | | | | | | the resource of | | | | | | another NF service | | | | | | producer to which | | | | | | the request should | | | | | | be sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same URI, | | | | | | if a request is | | | | | | redirected to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-8: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
endpoint
+----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +==========+===========+===+=============+====================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | URI pointing to | | | | | | the resource of | | | | | | another NF service | | | | | | producer to which | | | | | | the request should | | | | | | be sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same URI, | | | | | | if a request is | | | | | | redirected to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
There is no Resource Custom Operations in the current version of this API.
#### 6.1.3.3 Resource: slice-authentication (Document)
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Description
The sub-resource \"slice-authentication\" is generated by the NSSAAF. This
subresource should not persist after the slice-specific authentication and
authorization process finishes.
##### 6.1.3.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nnssaaf-nssaa/\ /slice-
authentications/{authCtxId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion string See clause 6.1.1 authCtxId
string The slice authentication context ID, which is of data type
SliceAuthCtxId defined in clause 6.1.6.3.2.
##### 6.1.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 6.1.3.3.3.1 PUT {#put .H6}
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description SliceAuthConfirmationData M 1 Contains the
EAP message generated by the UE and provided to the AMF.
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Sli | M | 1 | 200 OK | This case | | ceAuthConfirm | | | | indicates | | ationResponse | | | | that the | | | | | | NSSAAF has | | | | | | performed the | | | | | | s | | | | | | lice-specific | | | | | | au | | | | | | thentication. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | body shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | result of the | | | | | | s | | | | | | lice-specific | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | and | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthorization. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if | | | | | | this is a | | | | | | redirection | | | | | | triggered by | | | | | | an SCP to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | another SCP. | | | | | | In the former | | | | | | case, the URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same NSSAAF | | | | | | or NSSAAF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if | | | | | | this is a | | | | | | redirection | | | | | | triggered by | | | | | | an SCP to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | another SCP. | | | | | | In the former | | | | | | case, the URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same NSSAAF | | | | | | or NSSAAF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 400 Bad | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Request | represents a | | | | | | s | | | | | | lice-specific | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | failure | | | | | | because of | | | | | | input | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | error. This | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the | | | | | | NSSAAF was | | | | | | not able to | | | | | | process the | | | | | | s | | | | | | lice-specific | | | | | | au | | | | | | thentication. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 Forbidden | This case | | roblemDetails | | | | represents | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | or the slice | | | | | | is not | | | | | | allowed to be | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthenticated. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | SLICE_A | | | | | | UTH_REJECTED | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | This case | | roblemDetails | | | | represents | | | | | | the UE or UE | | | | | | related | | | | | | context is | | | | | | not found. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | CONTEX | | | | | | T_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | USE | | | | | | R_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 504 Gateway | This case | | roblemDetails | | | Time out | represents | | | | | | network error | | | | | | or remote | | | | | | peer (i.e. | | | | | | AAA-S) error, | | | | | | e.g. not | | | | | | reachable, no | | | | | | response when | | | | | | time out. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | NET | | | | | | WORK_FAILURE | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | UPSTREAM_ | | | | | | SERVER_ERROR | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | TIMED\ | | | | | | _OUT_REQUEST | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-4: Headers supported by the PUT method on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 200 response code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-6: Links supported by the 200 Response Code on this endpoint
* * *
Name Resource name HTTP method or custom operation Link parameter(s)
Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-7: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
endpoint
+----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +==========+===========+===+=============+====================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | URI pointing to | | | | | | the resource of | | | | | | another NF service | | | | | | producer to which | | | | | | the request should | | | | | | be sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same URI, | | | | | | if a request is | | | | | | redirected to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-8: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
endpoint
+----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +==========+===========+===+=============+====================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | URI pointing to | | | | | | the resource of | | | | | | another NF service | | | | | | producer to which | | | | | | the request should | | | | | | be sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same URI, | | | | | | if a request is | | | | | | redirected to the | | | | | | same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +----------+-----------+---+-------------+--------------------+
##### 6.1.3.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
There is no Resource Custom Operations in the current version of this API.
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
#### 6.1.4.1 Overview
There is no Custom Operation in the current version of this API.
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and clause
4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
Table 6.1.5.1-1: Notifications overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | (service | | | | | operation) | +================+================+================+================+ | Re- | {r | POST | Re- | | authentication | eauthNotifUri} | | authentication | | Notification | | | Notification | | | (NF Service | | | | | Consumer | | | | | provided | | | | | callback | | | | | reference) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Revocation | { | POST | Revocation | | Notification | revocNotifUri} | | Notification | | | | | | | | (NF Service | | | | | Consumer | | | | | provided | | | | | callback | | | | | reference) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.5.2 Re-authentication Notification
##### 6.1.5.2.1 Description
The Re-authentication Notification is used by the NSSAAF to trigger the NF
Service Consumer (i.e. the AMF) to re-initiate slice-specific authentication
and authorization for a given UE.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Target URI
The Notification URI **\"{reauthNotifUri}\"** shall be used with the resource
URI variables defined in table 6.1.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
reauthNotifUri String formatted as URI which carries the re-authentication
notification URI.
##### 6.1.5.2.3 Standard Methods
##### 6.1.5.2.3.1 POST {#post-1 .H6}
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
SliceAuthReauthNotification M 1 SliceAuthReauthNotification which carries the
re-authentication notification for a given UE.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | n/a | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | shall | | | | | | generate a | | | | | | Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | URI pointing | | | | | | to the | | | | | | endpoint of | | | | | | another NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an SCP | | | | | | redirects the | | | | | | message to | | | | | | another SCP | | | | | | then the | | | | | | location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the same URI | | | | | | or a | | | | | | different URI | | | | | | pointing to | | | | | | the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | shall | | | | | | generate a | | | | | | Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | URI pointing | | | | | | to the | | | | | | endpoint of | | | | | | another NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an SCP | | | | | | redirects the | | | | | | message to | | | | | | another SCP | | | | | | then the | | | | | | location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the same URI | | | | | | or a | | | | | | different URI | | | | | | pointing to | | | | | | the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.5.3 Revocation Notification
##### 6.1.5.3.1 Description
The Revocation Notification is used by the NSSAAF to trigger the NF Service
Consumer (i.e. the AMF) to revoke the slice-specific authentication and
authorization result for a given UE.
##### 6.1.5.3.2 Target URI
The Notification URI **\"{revocNotifUri}\"** shall be used with the resource
URI variables defined in table 6.1.5.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
revocNotifUri String formatted as URI which carries the revocation
notification URI.
##### 6.1.5.3.3 Standard Methods
##### 6.1.5.3.3.1 POST {#post-2 .H6}
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.5.3.3.1-2.
Table 6.1.5.3.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
SliceAuthRevocNotification M 1 SliceAuthNotification which carries the
revocation notification for a given UE.
Table 6.1.5.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | n/a | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | shall | | | | | | generate a | | | | | | Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | URI pointing | | | | | | to the | | | | | | endpoint of | | | | | | another NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an SCP | | | | | | redirects the | | | | | | message to | | | | | | another SCP | | | | | | then the | | | | | | location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the same URI | | | | | | or a | | | | | | different URI | | | | | | pointing to | | | | | | the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | shall | | | | | | generate a | | | | | | Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | URI pointing | | | | | | to the | | | | | | endpoint of | | | | | | another NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an SCP | | | | | | redirects the | | | | | | message to | | | | | | another SCP | | | | | | then the | | | | | | location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the same URI | | | | | | or a | | | | | | different URI | | | | | | pointing to | | | | | | the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nnssaaf service based
interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nnssaaf specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
SliceAuthInfo 6.1.6.2.2 Contains the GPSI, S-NSSAI, EAP ID Response, etc.  
SliceAuthContext 6.1.6.2.3 Contains the information of the resource created
for slice-specific authentication and authorization.  
SliceAuthConfirmationData 6.1.6.2.4 Contains the EAP message from the UE for
EAP process.  
SliceAuthConfirmationResponse 6.1.6.2.5 Contains the slice-specific
authentication and authorization result from the NSSAAF to the UE.  
SliceAuthReauthNotification 6.1.6.2.6 Contains the re-authentication
notification for slice-specific authentication and authorization.  
SliceAuthRevocNotification 6.1.6.2.7 Contains the revocation notification for
slice-specific authentication and authorization.  
SliceAuthCxtId 6.1.6.3.2 Contains the resource ID of slice authentication
context.  
EapMessage 6.1.6.3.2 Contains the string formatted EAP message.  
SliceNotificationType 6.1.6.3.3 Notification type of slice-specification
authentication and authorization.
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nnssaaf service based
interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within the Nnssaaf service based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nnssaaf re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] Common Data Type used in response bodies  
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] Redirect Response  
Gpsi 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] GPSI  
Snssai 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] S-NSSAI  
AuthStatus 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] Slice Authentication Status  
Supi 3GPP TS 29.571 [10] SUPI of the UE
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
The following clause defines the structures to be used in resource
representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: SliceAuthInfo
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type SliceAuthInfo
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | gpsi | Gpsi | M | 1 | Contains | | | | | | | the GPSI | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | UE. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | snssai | Snssai | M | 1 | Contains | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | S-NSSAI | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | authen | | | | | | | tication. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eapIdRsp | E | M | 1 | Contains | | | | apMessage | | | the EAP | | | | | | | ID | | | | | | | Responses | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If no EAP | | | | | | | ID | | | | | | | Responses | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | received | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the Null | | | | | | | value. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | amfI | NfI | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | nstanceId | nstanceId | | | may be | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | AMF | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | etermines | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | e-authent | | | | | | | ication/r | | | | | | | evocation | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | URI to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | NSSAAF. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | Instance | | | | | | | Id of the | | | | | | | AMF. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | reaut | Uri | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | hNotifUri | | | | may be | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | e.g. if | | | | | | | the AMF | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | etermines | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | with low | | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | | charac | | | | | | | teristic. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | re-authe | | | | | | | ntication | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | URI. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | revo | Uri | O | 0..1 | This IE | | | cNotifUri | | | | may be | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | e.g. if | | | | | | | the AMF | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | etermines | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | with low | | | | | | | mobility | | | | | | | charac | | | | | | | teristic. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | evocation | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | URI. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: SliceAuthContext
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type SliceAuthContext
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
gpsi Gpsi M 1 Contains the GPSI of the UE.  
snssai Snssai M 1 Contains the S-NSSAI for authentication.  
authCtxId SliceAuthCtxId M 1 Indicates the resource ID uniquely identifying
the slice authentication context, generated by the NSSAAF.  
eapMessage EapMessage M 1 Contains the EAP message to be sent to the UE.
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: SliceAuthConfirmationData
Table 6.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type SliceAuthConfirmationData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
gpsi Gpsi M 1 Contains the GPSI of the UE.  
snssai Snssai M 1 Contains the S-NSSAI for authentication.  
eapMessage EapMessage M 1 Contains the EAP message received from the UE.
##### 6.1.6.2.5 Type: SliceAuthConfirmationResponse
Table 6.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type SliceAuthConfirmationResponse
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
gpsi Gpsi M 1 Contains the GPSI of the UE.  
snssai Snssai M 1 Contains the S-NSSAI for authentication.  
eapMessage EapMessage M 1 Contains the EAP success/failure message needs to be
sent to the UE.  
authResult AuthStatus O 0..1 When present, it shall indicate the result of
slice-specific authentication and authorization.
##### 6.1.6.2.6 Type: SliceAuthReauthNotification
Table 6.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type SliceAuthReauthNotification
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
notificationType SliceAuthNotificationType M 1 Indicate the type of slice
authentication notification.  
gpsi Gpsi M 1 Contains the GPSI of the UE.  
snssai Snssai M 1 Contains the S-NSSAI for authentication.  
supi Supi C 0..1 This IE should be sent by the NSSAAF to the AMF, if
available.
##### 6.1.6.2.7 Type: SliceAuthRevocNotification
Table 6.1.6.2.7-1: Definition of type SliceAuthRevocNotification
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
notificationType SliceAuthNotificationType M 1 Indicate the type of slice
authentication notification.  
gpsi Gpsi M 1 Contains the GPSI of the UE.  
snssai Snssai M 1 Contains the S-NSSAI for authentication.  
supi Supi C 0..1 This IE should be sent by the NSSAAF to the AMF, if
available.
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Type Name | Type | Description | Applicability | | | Definition | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | SliceAuthCtxId | string | The resource | | | | | ID uniquely | | | | | identifying | | | | | the slice | | | | | authentication | | | | | context, | | | | | generated by | | | | | the NSSAAF. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | EapMessage | string | The EAP packet | | | | | is encoded | | | | | using base64 | | | | | (see | | | | | IETF RF | | | | | C 4648 [14]) | | | | | and | | | | | represented as | | | | | a String. | | | | | | | | | | Format: base64 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: SliceAuthNotificationType
The enumeration SliceAuthNotificationType represents the notification type of
slice-specific authentication and authorization. It shall comply with the
provisions defined in table 6.1.6.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration SliceAuthNotificationType
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
SLICE_RE_AUTH This value is used to indicate the re-authentication is needed  
SLICE_REVOCATION This value is used to indicate the previous slice-specific
authentication and authorization shall be revoked.
#### 6.1.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
There is no alternative data types defined in this specification.
#### 6.1.6.5 Binary data
There is no binary data type defined in this specification.
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nnssaaf_NSSAA API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nnssaaf_NSSAA API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nnssaaf_NSSAA service are specified.
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nnssaaf_NSSAA service are listed in
Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
RESOURCE_TEMP_MOVED 307 Temporary Redirect Indicates that the NSSAAF is not
able to handle the request, but points to the URI of another NSSAAF.
RESOURCE_MOVED 308 Permanent Redirect Indicates that the NSSAAF is not able to
handle the request, but points to the URI of another NSSAAF.
SLICE_AUTH_REJECTED 403 Forbidden The user cannot be authenticated, e.g.
authentication request rejected by the AAA-S. CONTEXT_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found
The NSSAAF cannot find the resource corresponding to the URI provided by the
NF Service Consumer, i.e. the resource identified by the authCtxId does not
exist in the NSSAAF. USER_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The user does not exist in
the HPLMN. UPSTREAM_SERVER_ERROR 504 Gateway Timeout Error happens in reaching
the remote peer (i.e. the AAA-S). NETWORK_FAILURE 504 Gateway Timeout The
request is rejected due to a network problem. TIMED_OUT_REQUEST 504 Gateway
Timeout No response is received from the remote peer (i.e. the AAA-S) when
time out.
## 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the Nnssaaf_NSSAA API.
They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in clause
6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
## 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nnssaaf_NSSAA API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF
RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client Credentials\"
authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10]) plays the role of
the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nnssaaf_NSSAA API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization
server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS
29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nnssaaf_NSSAA service.
The Nnssaaf_NSSAA API defines a single scope \"nnssaaf-nssaa\" for the entire
service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource or operation
level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
## A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE : The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository hosted, that
uses the GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause
5.3.1 and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
## A.2 Nnssaaf_NSSAA API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Nnssaaf_NSSAA
version: 1.0.5
description: \|
Network Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS29.526, NSSAA Service, version 16.7.0.
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.526/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nnssaaf-nssaa/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nnssaaf-nssaa
paths:
/slice-authentications:
post:
summary: Create slice authentication context
operationId: CreateSliceAuthenticationContext
tags:
\- Slice Authentication Context Creation
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthInfo\'
required: true
responses:
\'201\':
description: SliceAuthContext
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthContext\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource according to the
structure: {apiRoot}/nnssaaf-nssaa/v1/slice-authentications/{authCtxId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
description: Bad Request from the AMF
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'403\':
description: Forbidden due to slice authentication rejected
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'404\':
description: User does not exist
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'504\':
description: Network error or remote peer error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
callbacks:
reauthenticationNotification:
\'{request.body#/reauthNotifUri}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthReauthNotification\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: slice re-authentication notification response
\'307\':
description: Temporary Redirect
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RedirectResponse\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect
target\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'308\':
description: Permanent Redirect
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RedirectResponse\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect
target\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
description: Unexpected error
revocationNotification:
\'{request.body#/revocNotifUri}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthRevocNotification\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: slice revocation notification response
\'307\':
description: Temporary Redirect
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RedirectResponse\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect
target\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'308\':
description: Permanent Redirect
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RedirectResponse\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect
target\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
description: Unexpected error
/slice-authentications/{authCtxId}:
put:
summary: Confirm the slice authentication result
operationId: ConfirmSliceAuthentication
tags:
\- Confirm Slice Authentication
parameters:
\- name: authCtxId
in: path
required: true
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthConfirmationData\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Request processed (EAP success or Failure)
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthConfirmationResponse\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
description: Bad Request
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'500\':
description: Internal Server Error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
\'504\':
description: Network error or remote peer error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nnssaaf-nssaa: Access to the nnssaaf-nssaa API
schemas:
#
# COMPLEX TYPES:
#
SliceAuthInfo:
type: object
properties:
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
eapIdRsp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapMessage\'
amfInstanceId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/NfInstanceId\'
reauthNotifUri:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
revocNotifUri:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
required:
\- gpsi
\- snssai
\- eapIdRsp
SliceAuthContext:
type: object
properties:
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
authCtxId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthCtxId\'
eapMessage:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapMessage\'
required:
\- gpsi
\- snssai
\- authCtxId
\- eapMessage
SliceAuthConfirmationData:
type: object
properties:
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
eapMessage:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapMessage\'
required:
\- gpsi
\- snssai
\- eapMessage
SliceAuthConfirmationResponse:
type: object
properties:
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
eapMessage:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EapMessage\'
authResult:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/AuthStatus\'
required:
\- gpsi
\- snssai
\- eapMessage
SliceAuthReauthNotification:
type: object
properties:
notifType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthNotificationType\'
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
required:
\- notifType
\- gpsi
\- snssai
SliceAuthRevocNotification:
type: object
properties:
notifType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SliceAuthNotificationType\'
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
required:
\- notifType
\- gpsi
\- snssai
#
# SIMPLE TYPES:
#
SliceAuthCtxId:
type: string
description: contains the resource ID of slice authentication context
nullable: false
SliceAuthNotificationType:
type: string
enum:
\- SLICE_RE_AUTH
\- SLICE_REVOCATION
EapMessage:
type: string
format: base64
description: contains an EAP packet
nullable: true
#