# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present specification describes the APIs for the Service Enabler
Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL). The SEAL and related stage 2
architecture, functional requirements and information flows are specified in
3GPP TS 23.434 [2].
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.122: \"T8 reference point for Northbound Application
Programming Interfaces (APIs)\".
[4] IETF RFC 6455: \"The Websocket Protocol\".
[5] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[6] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[7] IETF RFC 7232: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Conditional
Requests\".
[8] IETF RFC 7233: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Range Requests\".
[9] IETF RFC 7234: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching\".
[10] IETF RFC 7235: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Authentication\".
[11] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\".
[12] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[13] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[15] Open API Initiative, "OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification",
https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.
[16] 3GPP TS 29.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage
3".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage
2".
[18] 3GPP TS 33.122: \"Security Aspects of Common API Framework for 3GPP
Northbound APIs\".
[19] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[20] 3GPP TS 29.523: \"5G System; Policy Control Event Exposure Service; Stage
3\".
[21] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[22] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 29.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
MB2 reference point; Stage 3\".
[24] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[25] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[26] 3GPP TS 33.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
(SEAL); Security Aspects\".
# 3 Definitions of terms and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**VAL service:** A generic name for any service offered by the VAL service
provider to their VAL users.
**SEAL service:** A generic name for a common service (e.g. group management,
configuration management, location management) that can be utilized by
multiple vertical applications.
**SEAL provider:** Provider of SEAL service(s).
**VAL server:** A generic name for the server application function of a
specific VAL service.
**SEAL server:** An entity that provides the server side functionalities
corresponding to the specific SEAL service.
**VAL system:** The collection of applications, services, and enabling
capabilities required to support a VAL service.
**VAL group:** A defined set of VAL UEs or VAL users configured for specific
purpose in a VAL service.
NOTE: The set could be of either VAL UEs or VAL users depending on the
specific VAL service.
**VAL group home system:** The VAL system where the VAL group is defined.
**VAL group member:** A VAL service user, whose VAL user ID is listed in a
particular VAL group.
**Vertical application:** An application catering to a specific vertical.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GS 5G System
AEF API Exposing Function
API Application Programming Interface
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
NDS Network Domain Security
NDS/IP NDS for IP based protocols
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
REST Representational State Transfer
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
SCS Service Capability Server
SEAL Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
UE User Equipment
VAL Vertical Application Layer
# 4 Overview
3GPP has considered in 3GPP TS 23.434 [2] the development of Service enabler
architecture layer for verticals (SEAL) over 3GPP networks to support vertical
applications (e.g. V2X applications). It specifies the functional architecture
for SEAL and the procedures, information flows and APIs for each service
within SEAL in order to support vertical applications over the 3GPP systems.
To ensure efficient use and deployment of vertical applications over 3GPP
systems, SEAL services includes, group management, configuration management,
location management, identity management, key management and network resource
management.
3GPP TS 23.434 [2], clause 6 specifies the functional entities and domains of
the functional model, reference points descriptions and SEAL APIs for SEAL
services.
The present document specifies the APIs needed to support SEAL.
# 5 Services offered by the SEAL servers
## 5.1 Introduction of SEAL services
The table 5.1-1 lists the SEAL server APIs below the service name. A service
description clause for each API gives a general description of the related
API.
Table 5.1-1: List of SEAL Service APIs
* * *
Service Name Service Operations Operation Semantics Consumer(s)
SS_LocationReporting Create_Trigger_Location_Reporting Request/ Response VAL
server Fetch_Location_Report_Trigger Request/Response VAL server
Update_Trigger_Location_Reporting Request/ Response VAL server
Cancel_Trigger_Location_Reporting Request/ Response VAL server
SS_LocationInfoEvent Subscribe_Location_Info Subscribe/Notify VAL server
Notify_Location_Info VAL server SS_LocationInfoRetrieval Obtain_Location_Info
Request/ Response VAL server SS_GroupManagement Query_Group_Info Request/
Response VAL server Update_Group_Info Request/ Response VAL server
Create_Group Request/ Response VAL server Delete_Group Request/Response VAL
server SS_GroupManagementEvent Subscribe_Group_Info_Modification
Subscribe/Notify VAL server Notify_Group_Info_Modification VAL server
Notify_Group_Creation VAL server SS_UserProfileRetrieval Obtain_User_Profile
Request/ Response VAL server SS_UserProfileEvent Subscribe_User_Profile_Update
Subscribe/Notify VAL server Notify_User_Profile_Update VAL server
SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation Reserve_Network_Resource Request/Response VAL
server Request_Unicast_Resource Request/Response VAL server
Update_Unicast_Resource Request/Response VAL server Request_Multicast_Resource
Request/Response VAL server Notify_UP_Delivery_Mode Subscribe/Notify VAL
server SS_Events Subscribe_Event Subscribe/Notify VAL server Notify_Event VAL
server Unsubscribe_Event VAL server SS_KeyInfoRetrieval Obtain_Key_Info
Request/Response VAL server NOTE: The service operations of SS_Events API are
reused by the SS_LocationInfoEvent, SS_GroupManagementEvent and
SS_UserProfileEvent for events related services.
* * *
Table 5.1-2 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined in this specification.
Table 5.1-2: API Descriptions
* * *
**Service Name** **Clause** **Description** **OpenAPI Specification File**
**apiName** **Annex** SS_LocationReporting 7.1 Report Location Information
Service. TS29549_SS_LocationReporting.yaml ss-lr A.2 SS_GroupManagement 7.2
Group Management Service TS29549_SS_GroupManagement.yaml ss-gm A.3
SS_UserProfileRetrieval 7.3 User Profile Retrieval Service
TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml ss-upr A.4 SS_Network_Resource_Adaptation
7.4 Network Resource Adaptation Service
TS29549_SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation.yaml ss-nra A.5 SS_Events 7.5 Events
Notify Service TS29549_SS_Events.yaml ss-events A.6 SS_KeyInfoRetrieval 7.6
Key Information Retrieval Service TS29549_SS_KeyInfoRetrieval.yaml ss-kir A.7
* * *
## 5.2 Location management APIs
### 5.2.1 SS_LocationReporting API
#### 5.2.1.1 Service Description
##### 5.2.1.1.1 Overview
The SS_LocationReporting API, as defined 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], allows VAL server
via LM-S reference point to configure reporting trigger of location
information to the location management server.
#### 5.2.1.2 Service Operations
##### 5.2.1.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for SS_LocationReporting API is shown in the
table 5.2.1.2.1-1.
Table 5.2.1.2.1-1: Operations of the SS_LocationReporting API
* * *
Service operation name Description Initiated by
Create_Trigger_Location_Reporting This service operation is used by VAL server
to create the trigger to report location information. VAL server
Fetch_Location_Report_Trigger This service operation is used by VAL server to
retrieve the location reporting trigger information. VAL server
Update_Trigger_Location_Reporting This service operation is used by VAL server
to update the trigger to report location information. VAL server
Cancel_Trigger_Location_Reporting This service operation is used by VAL server
to cancel the trigger to report location information. VAL server
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90661147 .anchor}
##### 5.2.1.2.2 Create_Trigger_Location_Reporting
###### 5.2.1.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to create the trigger to report
location information.
###### 5.2.1.2.2.2 VAL server providing trigger configuration using
Create_Trigger_Location_Reporting service operation
To create the reporting trigger configuration, the VAL server shall send HTTP
POST request message to location management server. The body of the HTTP POST
message shall include the LocationReportConfiguration data type, as specified
in the clause 7.1.1.2.2.3.1.
Upon receiving the HTTP POST message as described above, the location
management server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to provide the trigger;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to provide the triggers, the location
management server shall;
a. create a new resource for Individual SEAL Location Reporting Configuration
as specified in clause 7.1.1.2.1; and
b. return the SEAL Resource URI in the response message.
##### 5.2.1.2.3 Fetch_Location_Report_Trigger
###### 5.2.1.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by VAL server to retrieve an individual
location reporting configuration information.
###### 5.2.1.2.3.2 VAL server fetching trigger configuration using
Fetch_Location_Report_Trigger service operation
To fetch the location report trigger configuration, the VAL server shall send
HTTP GET request message to location management server on the resource URI
representing the individual SEAL location reporting configuration, as
specified in 7.1.1.2.3.3.1.
Upon receiving the HTTP GET message as described above, the location
management server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to fetch the trigger information;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to fetch the trigger information, the
location management server shall;
a. return the location report trigger configuration in
LocationReportConfiguration data type, as specified in clause 7.1.1.2.1.
##### 5.2.1.2.4 Update_Trigger_Location_Reporting
###### 5.2.1.2.4.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to update the trigger to report
location information.
###### 5.2.1.2.4.2 VAL server providing trigger configuration using
Update_Trigger_Location_Reporting service operation
To modify the reporting trigger configuration, the VAL server shall send HTTP
PUT message to the location management server to the Resource URI identifying
the individual SEAL location reporting configuration resource representation,
as specified in the clause 7.1.1.2.3.3.2. Upon receiving the HTTP PUT message,
the location management server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to modify the configuration information;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to modify the information, then the
location management server shall;
a. if the configuration information in the request is valid, update the
resource identified by the Resource URI of the configuration received in the
request;
b. return the updated location reporting configuration information in the
response
##### 5.2.1.2.5 Cancel_Trigger_Location_Reporting
###### 5.2.1.2.5.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to cancel the trigger to report
location information.
###### 5.2.1.2.5.2 VAL server providing trigger configuration using
Cancel_Trigger_Location_Reporting service operation
To delete the reporting trigger configuration, the VAL server shall send an
HTTP DELETE message to the resource representing Individual SEAL Location
Reporting Configuration as specified in clause 7.1.1.2.3.3.3.
Upon receiving the HTTP DELETE message, the location management server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to delete the configuration information; and
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to delete the configuration information,
the location management server shall delete the resource pointed by the
Resource URI for Individual SEAL Location Reporting Configuration.
### 5.2.2 SS_LocationInfoEvent API
The SS_LocationInfoEvent API, as defined 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], allows a VAL
server via LM-S reference point to subscribe for and receive notifications of
location information from the location management server. The
SS_LocationInfoEvent API supports this via the event
\"LM_LOCATION_INFO_CHANGE\" of the SS_Events API as specified in clause 7.5.
### 5.2.3 SS_LocationInfoRetrieval API
The SS_LocationInfoRetrieval API, as defined 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], enables the
VAL server via LM-S reference point to obtain location information from the
location management server. The SS_LocationInfoRetrieval API supports this via
the event \"LM_LOCATION_INFO_CHANGE\" of the SS_Events API by setting the
\"immRep\" attribute to true and setting the \"notifMethod\" attribute to
\"ONE_TIME\" within the \"eventReq\" attribute, as specified in clause 7.5.
Upon receipt of the immediate reporting indication in the \"immRep\" attribute
within the \"eventReq\" attribute sets to true in the HTTP POST request, the
location management server shall ignore the \"notificationDestination\"
attribute within the SEALEventSubscription data type and include the event
details in the \"eventDetails\" attribute, if available, in the HTTP POST
response.
## 5.3 Group management APIs
### 5.3.1 SS_GroupManagement API
#### 5.3.1.1 Service Description
##### 5.3.1.1.1 Overview
The SS_GroupManagement API, as defined 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], allows VAL server
via GM-S reference point to create, fetch, update and delete VAL group
membership and configuration information.
#### 5.3.1.2 Service Operations
##### 5.3.1.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for SS_GroupManagement API is shown in the table
5.3.1.2.1-1.
Table 5.3.1.2.1-1: Operations of the SS_GroupManagement API
* * *
Service operation name Description Initiated by Query_Group_Info This service
operation is used by VAL server to query for VAL group documents, group
membership list and configuration information. VAL Server Update_Group_Info
This service operation is used by VAL server to modify group membership and
configuration information. VAL server Create_Group This service operation is
used by VAL server to configure new VAL group. VAL server Delete_Group This
service operation is used by the VAL server to delete the VAL group. VAL
server
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90661167 .anchor}
##### 5.3.1.2.2 Query_Group_Info
###### 5.3.1.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to obtain VAL group documents,
group membership and configuration information.
###### 5.3.1.2.2.2 VAL server fetching VAL group documents, group membership
and configuration information using Query_Group_Info service operation
To obtain membership, configuration information of a VAL group, the VAL server
shall send a HTTP GET message to the group management server, on VAL group
document's resource representation URI as specified in clause 7.2.1.2.3.3.1.
The GET message may include the following query parameters: membership list,
group configuration. To obtain VAL groups information, the VAL server shall
send a HTTP GET message to the group management server, on VAL group documents
collection resource representation URI as specified in clause 7.2.1.2.2.3.2.
The GET message may include the following query parameters: VAL Group ID, VAL
Service ID.
Upon receiving the HTTP GET message as described above, the group management
server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to fetch the VAL group information;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to obtain the group information, the group
management server shall;
a. if the request to VAL group document's resource representation URI includes
query parameters, then, return in the response message with VAL group
information which includes, group membership list information if the request
includes membership list query, group configuration information if the request
includes group configuration query and VAL group identifier;
b. if the request to VAL group document's resource representation URI does not
include query parameter, then, return the VAL group document resource in the
response message;
c. in the request to VAL group documents collection resource representation
URI, return the VAL group documents matching the query parameters in the
response message.
##### 5.3.1.2.3 Update_Group_Info
###### 5.3.1.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to modify group membership and
configuration information.
###### 5.3.1.2.3.2 VAL server modifying group membership and configuration
using Update_Group_Info service operation
To modify group information of a VAL group, the VAL server shall send HTTP PUT
message to the group management server to the Resource URI identifying the VAL
group document resource representation, as specified in the clause
7.2.1.2.3.3.2. This request shall not replace valGroupId property in the
existing resource. Upon receiving the HTTP PUT message, the group management
server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to modify VAL group information;
2\. verify that valGroupId in the request is same as valGroupId of the VAL
group document resource;
3\. if the VAL server is authorized to modify the group information and the
valGroupId matches, then the group management server shall;
a. if the group configuration information in the request is valid, update the
resource identified by the Resource URI of the group document with group
members list and group configuration information received in the request;
b. return the updated VAL group document in the response
##### 5.3.1.2.4 Create_Group
###### 5.3.1.2.4.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to create VAL group.
###### 5.3.1.2.4.2 VAL server creating new group using Create_Group service
operation
To create a VAL group, the VAL server shall send a HTTP POST message to the
group management server. The body of the POST message shall include VAL group
document information as specified in clause 7.2.1.2.2.3.1. Upon receiving HTTP
POST message, the group management server shall
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to create VAL group document;
2\. if the VAL group document information in the request includes location
criteria, shall obtain the list of VAL users or VAL UEs within the requested
location criteria information from the Location Management server and include
them in VAL group members of the new VAL group;
3\. if the VAL server is authorized to create VAL group document, shall create
a new resource as defined in 7.2.1.2.2.3.1 and return the VAL group document
and its Resource URI in the response message.
##### 5.3.1.2.5 Delete_Group
###### 5.3.1.2.5.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to delete a VAL group.
###### 5.3.1.2.5.2 VAL server deleting VAL group using Delete_Group service
operation
To delete a VAL group, the VAL server shall send a HTTP DELETE message to the
Group Management server to its resource representation in the Group Management
server as specified in clause 7.2.1.2.3.3.3. Upon receiving HTTP DELETE
message, the Group Management server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to delete the VAL group document;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to delete the VAL group document, the
Group Management server shall
a. delete the resource representation pointed by the group document resource
identifier.
### 5.3.2 SS_GroupManagementEvent API
The SS_GroupManagementEvent API, as defined 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], allows a VAL
server via GM-S reference point to subscribe for and receive notifications
from Group Management server on new VAL group creations and on modifications
to VAL Group membership and configuration information. The
SS_GroupManagementEvent API supports this via the \"GM_GROUP_CREATE\" and
\"GM_GROUP_INFO_CHANGE\" events of SS_Events API as specified in clause 7.5.
In order to authorize the VAL servers that have to be notified of a
GM_GROUP_CREATE event, the Group Management server shall identify the VAL
services (VAL Service IDs) allowed for the VAL server by the "subscriberId"
attribute and shall notify the VAL server if the VAL services enabled for the
created VAL group are allowed for the VAL server.
Upon the receipt of the VAL group document from the group management server
during Create_Group service operation, if the VAL server is interested in
receiving the notifications about newly registered or de-registered VAL UE IDs
to the VAL group, then the VAL server may subscribe to
\"GM_GROUP_INFO_CHANGE\" event using the SS_Events API as specified in clause
7.5.1, to receive any VAL group membership update notifications.
## 5.4 Configuration management APIs
### 5.4.1 SS_UserProfileRetrieval API
#### 5.4.1.1 Service Description
##### 5.4.1.1.1 Overview
The SS_UserProfileRetrieval API, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], allows VAL
server via CM-S reference point to obtain user profile from the configuration
management server.
#### 5.4.1.2 Service Operations
##### 5.4.1.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for SS_UserProfileRetrieval API is shown in the
table 5.4.1.2.1-1.
Table 5.4.1.2.1-1: Operations of the SS_UserProfileRetrieval API
* * *
Service operation name Description Initiated by Obtain_User_Profile This
service operation is used by VAL server to obtain user profile. VAL server
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90661186 .anchor}
##### 5.4.1.2.2 Obtain_User_Profile
###### 5.4.1.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to obtain VAL user profile
information.
###### 5.4.1.2.2.2 VAL server retrieving VAL user profile information using
Obtain_User_Profile service operation
To obtain a VAL user's profile, the VAL server shall send HTTP GET request
message to configuration management server, on VAL service's resource
representation URI, with query parameters VAL user ID or VAL UE ID and
optionally VAL service ID, as specified in 7.3.1.2.2.3.1.
Upon receiving the HTTP GET message as described above, the configuration
management server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to fetch the VAL user profile information;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to obtain the requested VAL user profile
information, the configuration management server shall;
a. return in the response message with profile information corresponding to
the query parameters that was sent in the request message.
### 5.4.2 SS_UserProfileEvent API
The SS_UserProfileEvent API, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], allows a VAL
server via CM-S reference point to subscribe for and receive notifications
from the Configuration Management server on profile updates to VAL User or VAL
UE. The SS_UserProfileEvent API supports this via the
\"CM_USER_PROFILE_CHANGE\" event in SS_Events API as specified in clause 7.5.
## 5.5 Network resource management APIs
### 5.5.1 SS_Network_Resource_Adaptation API
#### 5.5.1.1 Service Description
##### 5.5.1.1.1 Overview
The SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API, as defined 3GPP TS 23.434 [2], allows
VAL server via NRM-S reference point to communicate with the network resource
management server for network resource adaptation including reserving network
resource, requesting and subscribing for unicast and multicast resources.
#### 5.5.1.2 Service Operations
##### 5.5.1.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API is shown in
the table 5.5.1.2.1-1.
Table 5.5.1.2.1-1: Operations of the SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API
* * *
Service operation name Description Initiated by Reserve_Network_Resource
Requesting for network resource adaptation VAL server Request_Unicast_Resource
Requesting unicast resource VAL server Update_Unicast_Resource Updating
unicast resource VAL server Request_Multicast_Resource Requesting multicast
resource VAL server Notify_UP_Delivery_Mode Notifying the user plane delivery
mode NRM server
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90661196 .anchor}
##### 5.5.1.2.2 Reserve_Network_Resource
###### 5.5.1.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to request for network resource
adaptation.
###### 5.5.1.2.2.2 VAL server requesting for network resource adaptation using
Reserve_Network_Resource service operation
The VAL server shall send a HTTP POST message to the NRM server. The body of
the POST message shall include VAL UE(s) or VAL group information and the VAL
service QoS requirement. Upon receiving HTTP POST message, the NRM server
shall
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to request for network resource adaptation;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized, the NRM server shall determine the QoS
requirements for each VAL UE based on the VAL UE(s) or VAL group information;
3\. for each VAL UE, the NRM server initiates the PCC procedures; and
4\. the NRM server provides result and optionally includes the accepted value
for the QoS requirements based on the outcome of the PCC procedure in the
response message
##### 5.5.1.2.3 Request_Unicast_Resource
###### 5.5.1.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to request for unicast
resource.
###### 5.5.1.2.3.2 VAL server requesting for unicast resource using
Request_Unicast_Resource service operation
The VAL server shall send a HTTP POST message to the NRM server. The body of
the POST message shall include VAL user or UE information and the VAL service
requirement. Upon receiving HTTP POST message, the NRM server shall
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to request for unicast resource;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized, the NRM server evaluates the need for
network resources and use of resource sharing;
3\. for the VAL user or UE, the NRM server initiates interaction via SIP core;
4\. the NRM server creates a unicast subscription as specified in clause
7.4.1.2.4.3.1; and
5\. the NRM server provides result in the response message.
##### 5.5.1.2.4 Update_Unicast_Resource
###### 5.5.1.2.4.1 General
Void.
###### 5.5.1.2.4.2 VAL server requesting for updating the unicast resource
using Update_Unicast_Resource service operation
Void.
##### 5.5.1.2.5 Request_Multicast_Resource
###### 5.5.1.2.5.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to request for multicast
resource.
###### 5.5.1.2.5.2 VAL server requesting for multicast resource using
Request_Multicast_Resource service operation
The VAL server shall send a HTTP POST message to the NRM server. The body of
the POST message shall include VAL group information, service announcement
mode, QoS information, Broadcast area and VAL server notification endpoint
address information. Upon receiving HTTP POST message, the NRM server shall
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to request for multicast resource;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized, the NRM server decides to establish an
MBMS bearer in EPS using the procedures defined in 3GPP TS 29.468 [23];
3\. the NRM server creates a multicast subscription as specified in clause
7.4.1.2.2.3.1;
4\. the NRM server provides the result in the response message.
##### 5.5.1.2.6 Notify_UP_Delivery_Mode
###### 5.5.1.2.6.1 General
This service operation is used by the NRM server to send user plane
notifications to the VAL server.
###### 5.5.1.2.6.2 Notifying user plane events using Notify_UP_Delivery_Mode
service operation
To notify the user plane events, the NRM server shall send an HTTP POST
message using the Notification Destination URI received in the multicast
resource request. The body of the HTTP POST message shall include an
UserPlaneNotification as specified in clause 7.4.1.3.2.
Upon receiving the HTTP POST message, the VAL server shall process the Event
Notification.
## 5.6 Events APIs
### 5.6.1 SS_Events API
#### 5.6.1.1 Service Description
##### 5.6.1.1.1 Overview
The SS_Events API, allows a VAL server via LM-S, GM-S, CM-S reference points
to subscribe and unsubscribe from SEAL events and to receive notifications
from the Location Management Server, Group Management Server and Configuration
Management Server respectively.
#### 5.6.1.2 Service Operations
##### 5.6.1.2.1 Introduction
The service operations defined for the SS_Events API are shown in the table
5.6.1.2.1-1.
Table 5.6.1.2.1-1: Operations of the SS_Events API
* * *
Service operation name Description Initiated by Subscribe_Event This service
operation is used by VAL server to subscribe for events from SEAL servers. VAL
Server Unsubscribe_Event This service operation is used by VAL server to
unsubscribe for events from SEAL servers. VAL Server Notify_Event This service
operation is used by SEAL servers to send the notifications to the VAL server.
SEAL servers (Location Management, Group Management, Configuration
Management).
* * *
##### 5.6.1.2.2 Subscribe_Event
###### 5.6.1.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to subscribe to the SEAL
events.
###### 5.6.1.2.2.2 Subscribing to SEAL events using Subscribe_Event service
operation
To subscribe to SEAL events, the VAL server shall send an HTTP POST message to
the SEAL server. The body of the HTTP POST message shall include VAL Server
Identifier, Event Type, Event Filters, Reporting Requirements and a
Notification Destination URI as specified in clause 7.5.1.2.2.3.1.
Upon receiving the above described HTTP POST message, the SEAL server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to subscribe to the SEAL events mentioned in the HTTP POST message;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to subscribe to the SEAL events, the SEAL
server shall:
a. create a new resource as specified in clause 7.5.1.2.1; and
b. return the SEAL Resource URI in the response message.
##### 5.6.1.2.3 Notify_Event
###### 5.6.1.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by the SEAL servers to send notifications to
the VAL server.
###### 5.6.1.2.3.2 Notifying SEAL events using Notify_Event service operation
To notify the SEAL events, the SEAL server shall send an HTTP POST message
using the Notification Destination URI received in the subscription request.
The body of the HTTP POST message shall include an Event Notification and SEAL
Resource URI.
Upon receiving the HTTP POST message, the VAL server shall process the Event
Notification.
##### 5.6.1.2.4 Unsubscribe_Event
###### 5.6.1.2.4.1 General
This service operation is used by a VAL server to un-subscribe from the SEAL
events.
###### 5.6.1.2.4.2 Unsubscribing from SEAL events using Unsubscribe_Event
service operation
To unsubscribe from SEAL events, the VAL server shall send an HTTP DELETE
message to the resource representing the event in the SEAL server as specified
in clause 7.5.1.2.3.3.1.
Upon receiving the HTTP DELETE message, the SEAL sever shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to Unsubscribe from the SEAL event associated with the SEAL
Resource URI; and
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to unsubscribe from the SEAL events, the
SEAL server shall delete the resource pointed by the SEAL Resource URI
## 5.7 Key management APIs
### 5.7.1 SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API
#### 5.7.1.1 Service Description
##### 5.7.1.1.1 Overview
As specified in 3GPP TS 33.434 [26], the SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API, allows the
VAL server via KM-S reference point to obtain the VAL service specific key
management information from the key management server.
#### 5.7.1.2 Service Operations
##### 5.7.1.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API is shown in the
table 5.7.1.2.1-1.
Table 5.7.1.2.1-1: Operations of the SS_ KeyInfoRetrieval API
* * *
Service operation name Description Initiated by Obtain_Key_Info This service
operation is used by VAL server to obtain key management information. VAL
server
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90661232 .anchor}
##### 5.7.1.2.2 Obtain_Key_Info
###### 5.7.1.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by the VAL server to obtain VAL service
specific key management information.
###### 5.7.1.2.2.2 VAL server obtaining VAL service specific key material
using Obtain_Key_Info service operation
To obtain key management information specific to VAL service, the VAL server
shall send HTTP GET request message to key management server, on Key records
resource collection URI, with query parameters VAL service ID and optionally
VAL user ID or VAL UE ID, as specified in 7.6.1.2.2.3.1.
Upon receiving the HTTP GET message as described above, the key management
server shall:
1\. verify the identity of the VAL server and check if the VAL server is
authorized to obtain key management information specific to VAL service, VAL
user or VAL UE, the URI in the request is of target SEAL KMS and date/time of
the request is in recent time window;
2\. if the VAL server is authorized to obtain the requested key management
information, the key management server shall;
a. return in the response message with key management information
corresponding to the query parameters that were sent in the request message.
# 6 SEAL Design Aspects Common for All APIs
## 6.1 General
SEAL APIs allow secure access to the capabilities provided by SEAL.
This document specifies the procedures triggered at different functional
entities as a result of API invocation requests and event notifications. The
stage-2 level requirements and signalling flows are defined in 3GPP TS 23.434
[2].
Several design aspects, as mentioned in the following clauses, are specified
in 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] and referenced by this specification.
## 6.2 Data Types
### 6.2.1 General
This clause defines structured data types, simple data types and enumerations
that are applicable to several APIs defined in the present specification and
can be referenced from data structures defined in the subsequent clauses.
In addition, data types that are defined in OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification [15]
can also be referenced from data structures defined in the subsequent clauses.
NOTE: As a convention, data types names in the present specification are with
an upper-case letter in the beginning. Parameters are with a lower-case letter
in the beginning. As an exception, data types that are also defined in OpenAPI
3.0.0 Specification [15] can use a lower-case case letter in the beginning for
consistency.
Table 6.2.1-1 specifies data types re-used by the SEAL from other
specifications, including a reference to their respective specifications and
when needed, a short description of their use within the SEAL.
Table 6.2.1-1: Re-used Data Types
+--------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | Data type | Reference | Comments | +--------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | Uri | 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] | | +--------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | TestNotification | 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] | Following | | | | clarifications apply: | | | | | | | | - The SCEF is the | | | | SEAL server; and | | | | | | | | - The SCS/AS is the | | | | VAL server. | +--------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | WebsockNotifConfig | 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] | Following | | | | clarifications apply: | | | | | | | | - The SCEF is the | | | | SEAL server; and | | | | | | | | - The SCS/AS is the | | | | VAL server. | +--------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.2.2 Referenced structured data types
Table 6.2.2-1 lists structured data types defined in this specification
referenced by multiple services:
Table 6.2.2-1: Referenced Structured Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Description VALGroupDocument Clause 7.2.1.4.2.2 VAL Group
document information. ProfileDoc Clause 7.3.1.4.2.2 VAL User or VAL UE profile
information.
* * *
### 6.2.3 Referenced Simple data types and enumerations
Following simple data types defined in Table 6.2.3-1 are applicable to several
APIs in this document:
Table 6.2.3-1: Simple data types applicable to several APIs
* * *
Type name Reference Description
* * *
## 6.3 Usage of HTTP
For SEAL APIs, support of HTTP/1.1 (IETF RFC 7230 [5], IETF RFC 7231 [6], IETF
RFC 7232 [7], IETF RFC 7233 [8], IETF RFC 7234 [9] and IETF RFC 7235 [10])
over TLS (IETF RFC 5246 [11]) is mandatory and support of HTTP/2 (IETF RFC
7540 [12]) over TLS (IETF RFC 5246 [11]) is recommended.
A functional entity desiring to use HTTP/2 shall use the HTTP upgrade
mechanism to negotiate applicable HTTP version as described in IETF RFC 7540
[12].
Usage of HTTP over TLS and the TLS profiles shall be as specified in clause
5.1.1.4 of 3GPP TS 33.434 [26].
## 6.4 Content type
The bodies of HTTP request and successful HTTP responses shall be encoded in
JSON format (see IETF RFC 8259 [13]).
The MIME media type that shall be used within the related Content-Type header
field is \"application/json\", as defined in IETF RFC 8259 [13].
NOTE: This release only supports the content type JSON.
## 6.5 URI structure
6.5.1 Resource URI structure
All API URIs of SEAL APIs shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/**
\"apiRoot\" is configured by means outside the scope of the present document.
It includes the scheme (\"https\"), host and optional port, and an optional
prefix string. \"apiName\" and \"apiVersion\" shall be set dependent on the
API, as defined in the corresponding clauses below.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the above root
API URI.
NOTE 1: The \"apiVersion\" will only be increased if the new API version
contains backward incompatible changes. Otherwise, the supported feature
mechanism defined in clause 6.8 can be used to negotiate extensions.
NOTE 2: A different root structure can be used when the resource URI is
preconfigured in the API invoking entity.
The root structure may be followed by \"apiSpecificSuffixes\" that are
dependent on the API and are defined separately for each API as resource URI
where they apply:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
6.5.2 Custom operations URI structure
The custom operation definition is in Annex C of 3GPP TS 29.501 [14].
The URI of a custom operation which is associated with a resource shall have
the following structure:
> **{apiRoot}/\
> /\/\/\**
Custom operations can also be associated with the service instead of a
resource. The URI of a custom operation which is not associated with a
resource shall have the following structure:
> **{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
In the above URI structures, \"apiRoot\", \"apiName\", \"apiVersion\" and
\"apiSpecificResourceUriPart\" are as defined in clause 6.5.1 and
\"custOpName\" represents the name of the custom operation as defined in
clause 5.1.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [14]
## 6.6 Notifications
The functional entities
\- shall support the delivery of notifications using a separate HTTP
connection towards an address;
\- may support testing delivery of notifications; and
\- may support the delivery of notification using WebSocket protocol (see IETF
RFC 6455 [4]),
as described in 3GPP TS 29.122 [3], with the following clarifications:
\- the SCEF is the SEAL server; and
\- the SCS/AS is the Subscriber.
## 6.7 Error Handling
Response bodies for error handling, as described in 3GPP TS 29.122 [3], are
applicable to all APIs in the present specification unless specified
otherwise, with the following clarifications:
\- the SCEF is the SEAL server; and
\- the SCS/AS is the functional entity invoking an API.
## 6.8 Feature negotiation
The functional entity invoking an API (i.e. the VAL server) and the SEAL
server use feature negotiation procedures defined in 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] to
negotiate the supported features, with the following clarifications:
\- description of the SCEF applies to the SEAL server; and
\- description of the SCS/AS applies to the functional entity invoking an API.
## 6.9 HTTP headers
The HTTP headers described in 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] are applicable to all APIs in
this document.
## 6.10 Conventions for Open API specification files
The conventions for Open API specification files as specified in clause 5.2.9
of 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] shall be applicable for all APIs in this document.
# 7 SEAL API Definitions
## 7.1 Location management APIs
### 7.1.1 SS_LocationReporting API
#### 7.1.1.1 API URI
The SS_LocationReporting service shall use the SS_LocationReporting API.
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the VAL server towards the
location management server shall have the Resource URI structure as defined in
clause 6.5 with the following clarifications:
\- The \ shall be \"ss-lr\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 7.1.1.2.
#### 7.1.1.2 Resources
##### 7.1.1.2.1 Overview
Figure 7.1.1.2.1-1: Resource URI structure of the SS_LocationReporting API
Table 7.1.1.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 7.1.1.2.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description SEAL
Location Reporting Configurations /trigger-configurations POST Creates a new
Individual SEAL Location Reporting Configuration information. Individual SEAL
Location Reporting Configuration /trigger-configurations/{configurationId} GET
Retrieves an Individual SEAL Location Reporting Configuration information
identified by {configurationId}. PUT Updates an Individual SEAL Location
Reporting Configuration information identified by {configurationId}. DELETE
Delete an Individual SEAL Location Reporting Configuration information
identified by {configurationId}.
* * *
##### 7.1.1.2.2 Resource: SEAL Location Reporting Configurations
###### 7.1.1.2.2.1 Description
The resource allows the VAL server to request to create a new individual SEAL
location reporting configuration information at the location management
server.
###### 7.1.1.2.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-lr/\ /trigger-configurations**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.1.1.2.2.2-1.
Table 7.1.1.2.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.1.1.1
* * *
###### 7.1.1.2.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.1.1.2.2.3.1 POST
Table 7.1.1.2.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.1.1.2.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.1.1.2.2.3.1-3.
Table 7.1.1.2.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description LocationReportConfiguration M 1 Location
reporting configuration information.
* * *
Table 7.1.1.2.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | L | M | 1 | 201 Created | Location | | ocationReport | | | | reporting | | Configuration | | | | configuration | | | | | | is created | | | | | | successfully. | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+
Table 7.1.1.2.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/ss-
lr/\/trigger-configurations/{configurationId}
* * *
###### 7.1.1.2.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
##### 7.1.1.2.3 Resource: Individual SEAL Location Reporting Configuration
###### 7.1.1.2.3.1 Description
The resource represents an individual SEAL location reporting configuration
that is created at the location management server.
###### 7.1.1.2.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-lr/\ /trigger-
configurations/{configurationId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.1.1.2.3.2-1.
Table 7.1.1.2.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.1.1.1 configurationId string Represents an individual SEAL location
reporting configuration resource.
* * *
###### 7.1.1.2.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.1.1.2.3.3.1 GET
This operation retrieves an individual SEAL location reporting configuration
information. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in
table 7.1.1.2.3.3.1-1.
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.1.1.2.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.1.1.2.3.3.1-3.
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | LocationRepo | M | 1 | 200 OK | The location | | rtConfiguration | | | | reporting | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | information. | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | GET method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+
###### # 7.1.1.2.3.3.2 PUT
This operation updates the individual SEAL location reporting configuration.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.1.1.2.3.3.2-1.
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.1.1.2.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.1.1.2.3.3.2-3.
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description LocationReportConfiguration M 1 Updated
details of the location reporting configuration.
* * *
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | LocationRepo | M | 1 | 200 OK | The | | rtConfiguration | | | | configuration | | | | | | is updated | | | | | | successfully | | | | | | and the updated | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | information | | | | | | returned in the | | | | | | response. | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | PUT method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+
###### # 7.1.1.2.3.3.3 DELETE
This operation deletes the individual SEAL location reporting configuration.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.1.1.2.3.3.3-1.
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.1.1.2.3.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.1.1.2.3.3.3-3.
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.1.1.2.3.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body
on this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The | | | | | Content | individual | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfigurationId | | | | | | is deleted. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 7.1.1.2.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 7.1.1.3 Notifications
None.
#### 7.1.1.4 Data Model
##### 7.1.1.4.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API. Data
types listed in clause 6.2 apply to this API.
Table 7.1.1.4.1-1 specifies the data types defined specifically for the
SS_LocationReporting API service.
Table 7.1.1.4.1-1: SS_LocationReporting API specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability
LocationReportConfiguration 7.1.1.4.2.2
* * *
Table 7.1.1.4.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the SS_LocationReporting API
service.
Table 7.1.1.4.1-2: SS_LocationReporting API Re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability Accuracy 3GPP TS 29.122 [3]  
DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
DurationSec 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [21] Used to negotiate the applicability of
optional features defined in table 7.1.1.6-1.  
ValTargetUe Clause 7.3.1.4.2.3 Used to indicate either VAL User ID or VAL UE
ID, to which location reporting applies.
* * *
##### 7.1.1.4.2 Structured data types
###### 7.1.1.4.2.1 Introduction
###### 7.1.1.4.2.2 Type: LocationReportConfiguration
Table 7.1.1.4.2.2-1: Definition of type LocationReportConfiguration
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | va | string | M | 1 | R | | | lServerId | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the VAL | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | valTgtUe | Va | M | 1 | R | | | | lTargetUe | | | epresents | | | | | | | the VAL | | | | | | | User ID | | | | | | | or VAL UE | | | | | | | ID to | | | | | | | which the | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | applies. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | immRep | boolean | O | 0..1 | I | | | | | | | ndication | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | immediate | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eporting. | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | included, | | | | | | | when it | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | true it | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | immediate | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubscribed | | | | | | | events, | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | therwise, | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | occur | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | event is | | | | | | | met. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | monDur | DateTime | O | 0..1 | R | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the time | | | | | | | at which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | ceases to | | | | | | | exist | | | | | | | (i.e the | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | trigger | | | | | | | becomes | | | | | | | invalid). | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | omitted, | | | | | | | there is | | | | | | | no time | | | | | | | limit. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | repPeriod | Du | O | 0..1 | Indicates | | | | rationSec | | | the time | | | | | | | interval | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | uccessive | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | reports. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | accuracy | Accuracy | O | 0..1 | R | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | desired | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | accuracy | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | requested | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | O | 0..1 | Used to | | | | dFeatures | | | negotiate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | API as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | | 7.1.1.6. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | HTTP POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | uccessful | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | creation. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 7.1.1.4.3 Simple data types and enumerations
#### 7.1.1.5 Error Handling
General error responses are defined in clause 6.7.
#### 7.1.1.6 Feature negotiation
General feature negotiation procedures are defined in clause 6.8.
Table 7.1.1.6-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description**
* * *
## 7.2 Group management APIs
### 7.2.1 SS_GroupManagement API
#### 7.2.1.1 API URI
The SS_GroupManagement service shall use the SS_GroupManagement API.
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the VAL server towards the Group
management server shall have the Resource URI structure as defined in clause
6.5 with the following clarifications:
\- The \ shall be \"ss-gm\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 7.2.1.2
#### 7.2.1.2 Resources
##### 7.2.1.2.1 Overview
Figure 7.2.1.2.1-1: Resource URI structure of the SS_GroupManagement API
Table 7.2.1.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 7.2.1.2.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description VAL
Group Documents /group-documents POST Create a new VAL group document. GET
Retrieve VAL group documents according to the query parameters. If there are
no query parameters, do not fetch any VAL group document. Individual VAL Group
Document /group-documents/{groupDocId} GET Retrieve an individual VAL group's
membership and configuration information according to query parameter on the
resource identified by {groupDocId}. If there are no query parameter, fetch
the whole VAL group document resource identified by {groupDocId}. PUT Update
an individual VAL group's membership and configuration information identified
by {groupDocId}.
* * *
##### 7.2.1.2.2 Resource: VAL Group Documents
###### 7.2.1.2.2.1 Description
The VAL Group Documents resource represents all the VAL group documents that
are created at a given group management server.
###### 7.2.1.2.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-gm/\ /group-documents**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.2.1.2.2.2-1.
Table 7.2.1.2.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.2.1.1
* * *
###### 7.2.1.2.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.2.1.2.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.2.1.2.2.3.1-1.
Table 7.2.1.2.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.2.1.2.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.2.1.2.2.3.1-3.
Table 7.2.1.2.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description VALGroupDocument M 1 Details of the VAL
group that needs to be created,
* * *
Table 7.2.1.2.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | VAL | M | 1 | 201 Created | VAL group | | GroupDocument | | | | created | | | | | | successfully. | | | | | | | | | | | | The URI of | | | | | | the created | | | | | | resource | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned in | | | | | | the | | | | | | "Location" | | | | | | HTTP header. | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+
Table 7.2.1.2.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/ss-
gm/\/group-documents/{groupDocId}
* * *
###### # 7.2.1.2.2.3.2 GET
This operation retrieves VAL group documents satisfying filter criteria. This
method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.2.1.2.2.3.2-1.
Table 7.2.1.2.2.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description val-group-id string O 0..1 String
identifying the VAL group. val-service-id string O 0..1 String identifying the
VAL service.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.2.1.2.2.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.2.1.2.2.3.2 -3.
Table 7.2.1.2.2.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.2.1.2.2.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | array(VA | M | 0..N | 200 OK | List of VAL | | LGroupDocument) | | | | group | | | | | | documents. This | | | | | | response shall | | | | | | include VAL | | | | | | group documents | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | query | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | provided in the | | | | | | request. | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | GET method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+
###### 7.2.1.2.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
##### 7.2.1.2.3 Resource: Individual VAL Group Document
###### 7.2.1.2.3.1 Description
The Individual VAL Group Document resource represents an individual group
document that is created at a given group management server.
###### 7.2.1.2.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-gm/\ /group-documents/{groupDocId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.2.1.2.3.2-1.
Table 7.2.1.2.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.2.1.1 groupDocId string Represents an individual group document
resource.
* * *
###### 7.2.1.2.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.2.1.2.3.3.1 GET
This operation retrieves VAL group information satisfying filter criteria.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.2.1.2.3.3.1-1.
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description group-members boolean O 0..1 When set
to \'true\', it indicates the group management server to send the members list
information of the VAL group. Set to false or omitted otherwise. group-
configuration boolean O 0..1 When set to \'true\', it indicates the group
management server to send the configuration information of the VAL group. Set
to false or omitted otherwise.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.2.1.2.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.2.1.2.3.3.1-3.
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | V | M | 1 | 200 OK | The VAL group | | ALGroupDocument | | | | information | | | | | | based on the | | | | | | request from | | | | | | the VAL server. | | | | | | | | | | | | This response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | VAL group | | | | | | members list if | | | | | | group-members | | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | | true in the | | | | | | request, VAL | | | | | | group | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | information if | | | | | | the | | | | | | grou | | | | | | p-configuration | | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | | true in the | | | | | | request, VAL | | | | | | group | | | | | | identifier, | | | | | | whole VAL group | | | | | | document | | | | | | resource if | | | | | | both | | | | | | group-members | | | | | | and | | | | | | grou | | | | | | p-configuration | | | | | | flags are | | | | | | omitted/set to | | | | | | false in the | | | | | | request. | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | GET method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+
###### # 7.2.1.2.3.3.2 PUT
This operation updates the VAL group document. This method shall support the
URI query parameters specified in table 7.2.1.2.3.3.2-1.
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.2.1.2.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.2.1.2.3.3.2-3.
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description VALGroupDocument M 1 Updated details of
the VAL group document.
* * *
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | V | M | 1 | 200 OK | The VAL group | | ALGroupDocument | | | | document | | | | | | updated | | | | | | successfully | | | | | | and the updated | | | | | | VAL group | | | | | | document | | | | | | returned in the | | | | | | response. | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | PUT method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+
###### # 7.2.1.2.3.3.3 DELETE
This operation deletes the VAL group document. This method shall support the
URI query parameters specified in table 7.2.1.2.3.3.3-1.
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.2.1.2.3.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.2.1.2.3.3.3-3.
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.2.1.2.3.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body
on this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The | | | | | Content | individual | | | | | | VAL group | | | | | | document | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | groupDocId is | | | | | | deleted. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 7.2.1.2.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 7.2.1.3 Notifications
None.
#### 7.2.1.4 Data Model
##### 7.2.1.4.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API. Data
types listed in clause 6.2 apply to this API
Table 7.2.1.4.1-1 specifies the data types defined specifically for the
SS_GroupManagement API service.
Table 7.2.1.4.1-1: SS_GroupManagement API specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability VALGroupDoument
7.2.1.4.2.2 VAL group document details.
* * *
Table 7.2.1.4.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the SS_GroupManagement API
service.
Table 7.2.1.4.1-2: Re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571
[21] Used to negotiate the applicability of optional features defined in table
7.2.1.6-1.  
LocationInfo 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] The location information related to VAL group.  
ValTargetUe Clause 7.3.1.4.2.3 Used to indicate either VAL User ID or VAL UE
ID, to which location reporting applies.  
LocationArea5G 3GPP TS 29.122 [3] The locations information related to the VAL
group.
* * *
##### 7.2.1.4.2 Structured data types
###### 7.2.1.4.2.1 Introduction
###### 7.2.1.4.2.2 Type: VALGroupDocument
Table 7.2.1.4.2.2-1: Definition of type VALGroupDocument
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | v | string | M | 1 | This is | | | alGroupId | | | | VAL group | | | | | | | identity | | | | | | | (VAL | | | | | | | group ID) | | | | | | | as per | | | | | | | TS 23.4 | | | | | | | 34 [2], | | | | | | | which is | | | | | | | a unique | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the VAL | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | a VAL | | | | | | | group, | | | | | | | set of | | | | | | | VAL users | | | | | | | or VAL | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | service. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | grpDesc | string | O | 0..1 | Text | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | group. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | members | array(Val | O | 1..N | List of | | | | TargetUe) | | | VAL User | | | | | | | IDs or | | | | | | | VAL UE | | | | | | | IDs, | | | | | | | which are | | | | | | | members | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | group. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | v | string | O | 0..1 | Conf | | | alGrpConf | | | | iguration | | | | | | | data for | | | | | | | the VAL | | | | | | | group. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in HTTP | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | from VAL | | | | | | | server to | | | | | | | Group | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | anagement | | | | | | | server. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | valS | arra | O | 1..N | List of | | | erviceIds | y(string) | | | VAL | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | whose | | | | | | | commu | | | | | | | nications | | | | | | | enabled | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | group. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | O | 0..1 | Used to | | | | dFeatures | | | negotiate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | optional | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | API as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | ause 6.8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | HTTP POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | uccessful | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | creation. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | resUri | Uri | O | 0..1 | The URI | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | VAL group | | | | | | | document | | | | | | | resource. | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | locInfo | Loc | O | 0..1 | The | | | | ationInfo | | | location | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | group. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | determine | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | members | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | group. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | a | Locat | O | 0..1 | The | | | ddLocInfo | ionArea5G | | | a | | | | | | | dditional | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | group. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | determing | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | members | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | group. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | | "resUri" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | odifiable | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | server. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 7.2.1.4.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.
#### 7.2.1.5 Error Handling
General error responses are defined in clause 6.7.
#### 7.2.1.6 Feature negotiation
General feature negotiation procedures are defined in clause 6.8.
Table 7.2.1.6-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description**
* * *
## 7.3 Configuration management APIs
### 7.3.1 SS_UserProfileRetrieval API
#### 7.3.1.1 API URI
The SS_UserProfileRetrieval service shall use the SS_UserProfileRetrieval API.
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the VAL server towards the
Configuration management server shall have the Resource URI structure as
defined in clause 6.5 with the following clarifications:
\- The \ shall be \"ss-upr\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 7.3.1.2.
#### 7.3.1.2 Resources
##### 7.3.1.2.1 Overview
Figure 7.3.1.2.1-1: Resource URI structure of the SS_UserProfileRetrieval API
Table 7.3.1.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 7.3.1.2.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description VAL
Services /val-services GET Retrieve VAL User or VAL UE\'s profile information.
* * *
##### 7.3.1.2.2 Resource: VAL Services
###### 7.3.1.2.2.1 Description
The VAL Services resource represents all the VAL services that are created at
a given configuration management server.
###### 7.3.1.2.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-upr/\ /val-services**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.3.1.2.2.2-1.
Table 7.3.1.2.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.3.1.1
* * *
###### 7.3.1.2.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.3.1.2.2.3.1 GET
This operation retrieves VAL User or VAL UE profile information satisfying the
filter criteria. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified
in table 7.3.1.2.2.3.1-1.
Table 7.3.1.2.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description val-tgt-ue ValTargetUe M 1
Identifying a VAL target UE. val-service-id string O 0..1 String identifying a
VAL service.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.3.1.2.2.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.3.1.2.2.3.2 -3.
Table 7.3.1.2.2.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.3.1.2.2.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | ar | M | 0..N | 200 OK | List of VAL | | ray(ProfileDoc) | | | | User / VAL UE | | | | | | profile | | | | | | documents. This | | | | | | response shall | | | | | | include user | | | | | | profile | | | | | | information | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | query | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | provided in the | | | | | | request. | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | GET method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+
###### 7.3.1.2.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 7.3.1.3 Notifications
None.
#### 7.3.1.4 Data Model
##### 7.3.1.4.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API. Data
types listed in clause 6.2 apply to this API
Table 7.3.1.4.1-1 specifies the data types defined specifically for the
SS_UserProfileRetrieval API service.
Table 7.3.1.4.1-1: SS_UserProfileRetrieval API specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability ProfileDoc 7.3.1.4.2.2
Profile information associated with VAL user ID or VAL UE ID.  
ValTargetUe 7.3.1.4.2.3 Information identifying a VAL user ID or VAL UE ID.
* * *
Table 7.3.1.4.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the SS_UserProfileRetrieval
API service.
Table 7.3.1.4.1-2: Re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability n/a
* * *
##### 7.3.1.4.2 Structured data types
###### 7.3.1.4.2.1 Introduction
###### 7.3.1.4.2.2 Type: ProfileDoc
Table 7.3.1.4.2.2-1: Definition of type ProfileDoc
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
profileInformation string M 1 Profile information associated with valTgtUe.  
valTgtUe ValTargetUe M 1 Unique identifier of a VAL user or a VAL UE.
* * *
###### 7.3.1.4.2.3 Type: ValTargetUe
Table 7.3.1.4.2.3-1: Definition of type ValTargetUe
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability valUserId
string O 0..1 Unique identifier of a VAL user.  
valUeId string O 0..1 Unique identifier of a VAL UE.  
NOTE: Either \"valUserId\" or \"valUeId\" shall be provided.
* * *
##### 7.3.1.4.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.
#### 7.3.1.5 Error Handling
General error responses are defined in clause 6.7.
#### 7.3.1.6 Feature negotiation
General feature negotiation procedures are defined in clause 6.8.
Table 7.3.1.6-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description**
* * *
## 7.4 Network resource management APIs
### 7.4.1 SS_Network_Resource_Adaptation API
#### 7.4.1.1 API URI
The SS_Network_Resource_Adaptation service shall use the
SS_Network_Resource_Adaptation API.
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the VAL server towards the NRM
server shall have the Resource URI structure as defined in clause 6.5 with the
following clarifications:
\- The \ shall be \"ss-nra\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 7.4.1.2
#### 7.4.1.2 Resources
##### 7.4.1.2.1 Overview
{width="4.3805555555555555in" height="3.1805555555555554in"}
Figure 7.4.1.2.1-1: Resource URI structure of the SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation
API
Table 7.4.1.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 7.4.1.2.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
Multicast Subscriptions /multicast-subscriptions POST Create a new Individual
Multicast Subscription resource. Individual Multicast Subscription /multicast-
subscriptions/{multiSubId} GET Read an Individual Multicast Subscription
resource. DELETE Remove an Individual Multicast Subscription resource. Unicast
Subscriptions /unicast-subscriptions POST Create a new Individual Unicast
Subscription resource. Individual Unicast Subscription /unicast-
subscriptions/{uniSubId} GET Read an Individual Unicast Subscription resource.
DELETE Remove an Individual Unicast Subscription resource.
* * *
##### 7.4.1.2.2 Resource: Multicast Subscriptions
###### 7.4.1.2.2.1 Description
###### 7.4.1.2.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ss-nra/\/multicast-subscriptions
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
7.4.1.2.2.2-1.
Table 7.4.1.2.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 7.4.1.1 apiVersion string
See clause 7.4.1.1
* * *
###### 7.4.1.2.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.4.1.2.2.3.1 POST
Table 7.4.1.2.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.4.1.2.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.4.1.2.2.3.1-3.
Table 7.4.1.2.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description MulticastSubscription M 1
* * *
Table 7.4.1.2.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Multicas | M | 1 | 201 Created | | | tSubscription | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [22] | | | | | | shall also | | | | | | apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.4.1.2.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/ss-
nra/\/multicast-subscriptions/{multiSubId}
* * *
###### 7.4.1.2.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
##### 7.4.1.2.3 Resource: Individual Multicast Subscription
###### 7.4.1.2.3.1 Description
###### 7.4.1.2.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ss-nra/\/multicast-
subscriptions/{multiSubId}
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
7.4.1.2.3.2-1.
Table 7.4.1.2.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 7.4.1.1. apiVersion string
See clause 7.4.1.1. multiSubId string The multicast subscription identifier.
* * *
###### 7.4.1.2.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.4.1.2.3.3.1 GET
Table 7.4.1.2.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.4.1.2.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.4.1.2.3.3.1-3.
Table 7.4.1.2.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.4.1.2.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Multic | M | 1 | 200 OK | | | astSubscription | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | GET method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [22] | | | | | | shall also | | | | | | apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+
###### # 7.4.1.2.3.3.2 DELETE
Table 7.4.1.2.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.4.1.2.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.4.1.2.3.3.2-3.
Table 7.4.1.2.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.4.1.2.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body
on this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case. The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Multicast | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource was | | | | | | deleted. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [22] | | | | | | shall also | | | | | | apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 7.4.1.2.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
##### 7.4.1.2.4 Resource: Unicast Subscriptions
###### 7.4.1.2.4.1 Description
###### 7.4.1.2.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ss-nra/\/unicast-subscriptions
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
7.4.1.2.4.2-1.
Table 7.4.1.2.4.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 7.4.1.1 apiVersion string
See clause 7.4.1.1
* * *
###### 7.4.1.2.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.4.1.2.4.3.1 POST
Table 7.4.1.2.4.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.4.1.2.4.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.4.1.2.4.3.1-3.
Table 7.4.1.2.4.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description UnicastSubscription M 1
* * *
Table 7.4.1.2.4.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Unicas | M | 1 | 201 Created | | | tSubscription | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [22] | | | | | | shall also | | | | | | apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.4.1.2.4.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/ss-
nra/\/unicast-subscriptions/{uniSubId}
* * *
###### 7.4.1.2.4.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
##### 7.4.1.2.5 Resource: Individual Unicast Subscription
###### 7.4.1.2.5.1 Description
###### 7.4.1.2.5.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/ss-nra/\/unicast-subscriptions/{uniSubId}
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
7.4.1.2.5.2-1.
Table 7.4.1.2.5.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 7.4.1.1. apiVersion string
See clause 7.4.1.1. uniSubId string The unicast subscription identifier.
* * *
###### 7.4.1.2.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.4.1.2.5.3.1 GET
Table 7.4.1.2.5.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.4.1.2.5.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.4.1.2.5.3.1-3.
Table 7.4.1.2.5.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.4.1.2.5.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Unic | M | 1 | 200 OK | | | astSubscription | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | GET method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [22] | | | | | | shall also | | | | | | apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+
###### # 7.4.1.2.5.3.2 DELETE
Table 7.4.1.2.5.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.4.1.2.5.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.4.1.2.5.3.2-3.
Table 7.4.1.2.5.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.4.1.2.5.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body
on this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case. The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Unicast | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource was | | | | | | deleted. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [22] | | | | | | shall also | | | | | | apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 7.4.1.2.5.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 7.4.1.3 Notifications
##### 7.4.1.3.1 General
Table 7.4.1.3.1-1: Notifications overview
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | Callback URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | (service | | | | | operation) | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notify_UP_ | {notifUri} | POST | Report User | | Delivery_Mode | | | Plane | | | | | notification | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 7.4.1.3.2 Notify_UP_Delivery_Mode
###### 7.4.1.3.2.1 Description
###### 7.4.1.3.2.2 Notification definition
Callback URI: {**notifUri**}
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.4.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 7.4.1.3.2.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.4.1.3.2.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 7.4.1.3.2.2-3.
Table 7.4.1.3.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description UserPlaneNotification M 1
* * *
Table 7.4.1.3.2.2-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description n/a 204 No Content The
receipt of the Notification is acknowledged. NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error
status codes for the POST method listed in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[22] also apply.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.4 Data Model
##### 7.4.1.4.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API. Data
types listed in clause 6.2 apply to this API
Table 7.4.1.4.1-1 specifies the data types defined specifically for the
SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API service.
Table 7.4.1.4.1-1: SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability DeliveryMode 7.4.1.4.3.2  
MulticastSubscription 7.4.1.4.2.2  
NrmEvent 7.4.1.4.3.3  
NrmEventNotification 7.4.1.4.2.5  
ServiceAnnoucementMode 7.4.1.4.3.1  
UserPlaneNotification 7.4.1.4.2.4  
UnicastSubscription 7.4.1.4.2.3
* * *
Table 7.4.1.4.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the
SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API service.
Table 7.4.1.4.1-2: Re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
MbmsLocArea 3GPP TS 29.122 [3]  
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
Uint32 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
Uri 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
WebsockNotifConfig 3GPP TS 29.122 [3]  
ValTargetUe 7.3.1.4.2.3 Used to identify either a VAL User ID or a VAL UE ID.  
Ipv4Addr 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
Ipv6Addr 3GPP TS 29.571 [21]  
Port 3GPP TS 29.122 [3]
* * *
##### 7.4.1.4.2 Structured data types
###### 7.4.1.4.2.1 Introduction
###### 7.4.1.4.2.2 Type: MulticastSubscription
Table 7.4.1.4.2.2-1: Definition of type MulticastSubscription
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | v | string | M | 1 | The | | | alGroupId | | | | identity | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | | bearer is | | | | | | | requested | | | | | | | for. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | anncMode | Serv | M | 1 | Indicates | | | | iceAnnouc | | | whether | | | | ementMode | | | the | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | ann | | | | | | | ouncement | | | | | | | is sent | | | | | | | by NRM | | | | | | | server or | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | server. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | mu | string | M | 1 | The QoS | | | ltiQosReq | | | | re | | | | | | | quirement | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulticast. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | locArea | Mb | O | 0..1 | Indicate | | | | msLocArea | | | the area | | | | | | | where the | | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | | bearer is | | | | | | | requested | | | | | | | for. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | duration | DateTime | O | 0..1 | I | | | | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | time at | | | | | | | which the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onsidered | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | expire. | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | omitted | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | request, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | requested | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | valid | | | | | | | forever | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | server. | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | omitted | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | response, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | valid | | | | | | | forever | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | server. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | tmgi | Uint32 | O | 0..1 | TMGI. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | NRM | | | | | | | server if | | | | | | | ann | | | | | | | ouncement | | | | | | | mode is | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | VAL. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notifUri | Uri | M | 1 | I | | | | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | URI where | | | | | | | the NRM | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | sent to. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | req | boolean | O | 0..1 | Set to | Notific | | TestNotif | | | | true by | ation_te | | | | | | the NF | st_event | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | the VAE | | | | | | | server to | | | | | | | send a | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 6.3.5.3. | | | | | | | Set to | | | | | | | false or | | | | | | | omitted | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | therwise. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | w | WebsockNo | O | 0..1 | Conf | Notif | | sNotifCfg | tifConfig | | | iguration | ication_ | | | | | | p | websocket | | | | | | arameters | | | | | | | to set up | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | delivery | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | Websocket | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 6.3.5.4. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | C | 0..1 | Used to | | | | dFeatures | | | negotiate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | icability | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | optional | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | table 7 | | | | | | | .4.1.6-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | server in | | | | | | | the POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | requests | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | creation | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | Multicast | | | | | | | Sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | corr | | | | | | | esponding | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | if it was | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | request. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | u | Ipv4Addr | O | 0..1 | Ip | | | pIpv4Addr | | | | v4address | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | plane. | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | u | Ipv6Addr | O | 0..1 | Ip | | | pIpv6Addr | | | | v6address | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | plane. | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | upPortNum | Port | O | 0..1 | UDP port | | | | | | | number of | | | | | | | the user | | | | | | | plane. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | r | arra | O | 1..N | The radio | | | adioFreqs | y(Uint32) | | | fr | | | | | | | equencies | | | | | | | which may | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | NRM | | | | | | | server. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: At | | | | | | | least one | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | pIpv4Addr | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | pIpv6Addr | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | NRM | | | | | | | server. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
###### 7.4.1.4.2.3 Type: UnicastSubscription
Table 7.4.1.4.2.3-1: Definition of type UnicastSubscription
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability valTgtUe
ValTargetUe M 1 The identity of the VAL user or VAL UE that the unicast bearer
is requested for.  
uniQosReq string O 0..1 The QoS requirement for the unicast.  
duration DateTime O 0..1 Identifies the absolute time at which the
subscription resource is considered to expire. When omitted in the request, it
indicates the resource is requested to be valid forever by the VAL server.
When omitted in the response, it indicates the resource is set to valid
forever by the VAL server.  
notifUri Uri M 1 Identifies the notification URI where the NRM notification
shall be sent to.  
reqTestNotif Boolean O 0..1 Set to true by the NF service consumer to request
the VAE server to send a test notification as defined in clause 6.3.5.3. Set
to false or omitted otherwise. Notification_test_event wsNotifCfg
WebsockNotifConfig O 0..1 Configuration parameters to set up notification
delivery over Websocket protocol as defined in clause 6.3.5.4.
Notification_websocket suppFeat SupportedFeatures O 1 This parameter may be
supplied by VAL server in the POST request that request the creation of a
Unicast Subscription resource and may be supplied in the reply of
corresponding request.
* * *
###### 7.4.1.4.2.4 Type: UserPlaneNotification
Table 7.4.1.4.2.4-1: Definition of type UserPlaneNotification
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability notifId Uri M
1 The subscription resource Uri to which this notification is related.  
eventNotifs array(NrmEventNotification) M 1..N Notifications about Individual
Events
* * *
###### 7.4.1.4.2.5 Type: NrmEventNotification
Table 7.4.1.4.2.5-1: Definition of type NrmEventNotification
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | event | NrmEvent | M | 1 | Event | | | | | | | that is | | | | | | | notified. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ts | DateTime | M | 1 | Time at | | | | | | | which the | | | | | | | event is | | | | | | | observed. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | del | Del | C | 0..1 | Indicates | | | iveryMode | iveryMode | | | delivery | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | user data | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | UE(s) via | | | | | | | unicast | | | | | | | mode or | | | | | | | multicast | | | | | | | mode. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if event | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | P_DELIVE | | | | | | | RY_MODE. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | streamIds | arra | O | 1..N | Indicates | | | | y(string) | | | the media | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | (unicast | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulticast) | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | May be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if event | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | UP_DELIV | | | | | | | ERY_MODE | | | | | | | and NRM | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | has the | | | | | | | streams | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 7.4.1.4.3 Simple data types and enumerations
###### 7.4.1.4.3.1 Enumeration: ServiceAnnoucementMode
Table 7.4.1.4.3.1-1: Enumeration ServiceAnnoucementMode
* * *
**Enumeration value** **Description** **Applicability** NRM NRM server
performs the service announcement.  
VAL VAL server performs the service announcement.
* * *
###### 7.4.1.4.3.2 Enumeration: DeliveryMode
Table 7.4.1.4.3.2-1: Enumeration DeliveryMode
* * *
**Enumeration value** **Description** **Applicability** UNICAST Unicast
delivery  
MULTICAST Multicast delivery
* * *
###### 7.4.1.4.3.3 Enumeration: NrmEvent
Table 7.4.1.4.3.3-1: Enumeration NrmEvent
* * *
**Enumeration value** **Description** **Applicability** UP_DELIVERY_MODE User
Plane delivery mode.
* * *
#### 7.4.1.5 Error Handling
#### 7.4.1.6 Feature negotiation
Table 7.4.1.6-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description** 1 Notification_test_event
The testing of notification connection is supported according to clause 6.6. 2
Notification_websocket The delivery of notifications over Websocket is
supported according to clause 6.6. This feature requires that the
Notification_test_event feature is also supported.
* * *
## 7.5 Event APIs
### 7.5.1 SS_Events API
#### 7.5.1.1 API URI
The SS_Events service shall use the SS_Events API.
The request URIs use in HTTP requests from the VAL server towards the SEAL
server shall have the Resource URI structure as defined in clause 6.5 with the
following clarifications:
\- The \ shall be \"ss-events\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 7.5.1.2.
#### 7.5.1.2 Resources
##### 7.5.1.2.1 Overview
Figure 7.5.1.2.1-1: Resource URI structure of the SS_Events API
Table 7.5.1.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 7.5.1.2.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description SEAL
Events Subscriptions /subscriptions POST Creates a new individual SEAL Event
Subscription. Individual SEAL Events Subscription
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} DELETE Deletes an individual SEAL Event
Subscription identified by the subscriptionId.
* * *
##### 7.5.1.2.2 Resource: SEAL Events Subscriptions
###### 7.5.1.2.2.1 Description
The SEAL Events Subscriptions represents all event subscriptions on the SEAL
server.
###### 7.5.1.2.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-events/\ /subscriptions**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.5.1.2.2.2-1.
Table 7.5.1.2.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.5.1.1
* * *
###### 7.5.1.2.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.5.1.2.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in the table
7.5.1.2.2.3.1-1.
Table 7.5.1.2.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.5.1.2.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.5.1.2.2.3.1-3.
Table 7.5.1.2.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description SEALEventSubscription M 1 Create a new
individual SEAL Events Subscription resource.
* * *
Table 7.5.1.2.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | SEALEven | M | 1 | 201 Created | SEAL Events | | tSubscription | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource | | | | | | created | | | | | | s | | | | | | uccessfully.\ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | The URI of | | | | | | the created | | | | | | resource | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned in | | | | | | the | | | | | | \"Location\" | | | | | | HTTP header | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+
Table 7.5.1.2.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/ss-
events/\/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}
* * *
###### 7.5.1.2.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
##### 7.5.1.2.3 Resource: Individual SEAL Events Subscription
###### 7.5.1.2.3.1 Description
The Individual SEAL Events Subscription resource represents an individual
event subscription of a VAL server.
###### 7.5.1.2.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-events/\
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.5.1.2.3.2-1.
Table 7.5.1.2.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.5.1.1 SubscriptionId string Identifies an Individual Events
Subscription
* * *
###### 7.5.1.2.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.5.1.2.3.3.1 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.5.1.2.3.3.1-1.
Table 7.5.1.2.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.5.1.2.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.5.1.2.3.3.1-3.
Table 7.5.1.2.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.5.1.2.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body
on this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The | | | | | Content | individual | | | | | | SEAL Events | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscriptionId | | | | | | is deleted. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 7.5.1.2.3.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 7.5.1.3 Notifications
##### 7.5.1.3.1 General
The delivery of notifications shall conform to clause 6.6.
Table 7.5.1.3.1-1: Notifications overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | Callback URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | (service | | | | | operation) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SEAL Event | {notificati | POST | Notifies | | Notification | onDestination} | | subscriber of | | | | | a SEAL Event | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 7.5.1.3.2 SEAL Event Notification
###### 7.5.1.3.2.1 Description
SEAL Event Notification is used by the SEAL server notify a VAL server of an
Event. The VAL server shall be subscribed to such SEAL Event Notifications via
the Individual SEAL Events Subscription Resource.
###### 7.5.1.3.2.2 Notification definition
The POST method shall be used for the event notification and the callback URI
shall be the one provided by the VAL server during the subscription to the
event.
Callback URI: **{notificationDestination}**
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
7.5.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 7.5.1.3.2.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.5.1.3.2.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 7.5.1.3.2.2-3.
Table 7.5.1.3.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description SEALEventNotification M 1 Notification
information of a SEAL Event
* * *
Table 7.5.1.3.2.2-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description n/a 204 No Content The
receipt of the Notification is acknowledged. NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error
status codes for the POST method listed in table 5.2.6-1 of 3GPP TS 29.122 [3]
also apply.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.4 Data Model
##### 7.5.1.4.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API. Data
types listed in clause 6.2 apply to this API.
Table 7.5.1.4.1-1 specifies the data types defined specifically for the
SS_Events API service.
Table 7.5.1.4.1-1: SS_Events API specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability SEALEventSubscription
7.5.1.4.2.2 Represents an individual SEAL Event Subscription resource  
SEALEventNotification 7.5.1.4.2.3 Represents an individual SEAL Event
Subscription Notification  
EventSubscription 7.5.1.4.2.4 Represents the subscription to a single SEAL
event.  
SEALEventDetail 7.5.1.4.2.5 Represents the SEAL event detail  
VALGroupFilter 7.5.1.4.2.6 Represents a filter of VAL group identifiers
belonging to a VAL service.  
IdentityFilter 7.5.1.4.2.7 Represents a filter of VAL User / UE identities
belonging to a VAL service.  
SEALEvent 7.5.1.4.3.3 Represents the type of SEAL events that can be
subscribed.  
LMInformation 7.5.1.4.2.8 The location information for a VAL User ID or a VAL
UE ID.
* * *
Table 7.5.1.4.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the SS_Events API service:
Table 7.5.1.4.1-2: Re-used Data Types
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Data type | Reference | Comments | Applicability | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Report | 3GPP TS | Used to | | | ingInformation | 29.523 [20] | indicate the | | | | | reporting | | | | | requirement, | | | | | only the | | | | | following | | | | | information | | | | | are applicable | | | | | for SEAL: | | | | | | | | | | - immRep | | | | | | | | | | - notifMethod | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | maxReportNbr | | | | | | | | | | - monDur | | | | | | | | | | - repPeriod | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Sup | 3GPP TS | Used to | | | portedFeatures | 29.571 [21] | negotiate the | | | | | applicability | | | | | of optional | | | | | features | | | | | defined in | | | | | ta | | | | | ble 7.5.1.6-1. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Te | 3GPP T | Following | | | stNotification | S 29.122 [3] | differences | | | | | apply: | | | | | | | | | | - The SCEF is | | | | | the SEAL | | | | | server; and | | | | | | | | | | - The SCS/AS | | | | | is the | | | | | subscribing | | | | | VAL server. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Uri | 3GPP T | | | | | S 29.122 [3] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Webs | 3GPP T | Following | | | ockNotifConfig | S 29.122 [3] | differences | | | | | apply: | | | | | | | | | | - The SCEF is | | | | | the CAPIF core | | | | | function; and | | | | | | | | | | - The SCS/AS | | | | | is the | | | | | Subscribing | | | | | functional | | | | | entity. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | VA | Clau | Used to send | | | LGroupDocument | se 7.2.1.4.2.2 | VAL group | | | | | document as | | | | | part of event | | | | | detail in the | | | | | event | | | | | notification. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | ProfileDoc | Clau | Used to send | | | | se 7.3.1.4.2.2 | VAL User or | | | | | VAL UE profile | | | | | information as | | | | | part of event | | | | | detail in the | | | | | event | | | | | notification. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | LocationInfo | 3GPP T | Location | | | | S 29.122 [3] | information | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | ValTargetUe | 7.3.1.4.2.3 | Used to | | | | | identify a VAL | | | | | user ID or a | | | | | VAL UE ID. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+
##### 7.5.1.4.2 Structured data types
###### 7.5.1.4.2.1 Introduction
###### 7.5.1.4.2.2 SEALEventSubscription
Table 7.5.1.4.2.2-1: Definition of type SEALEventSubscription
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | sub | string | M | 1 | String | | | scriberId | | | | id | | | | | | | entifying | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubscriber | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | event. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eventSubs | array( | M | 1..N | S | | | | EventSubs | | | ubscribed | | | | cription) | | | events. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eventReq | Re | M | 1 | R | | | | portingIn | | | epresents | | | | formation | | | the | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirements | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notif | Uri | M | 1 | URI where | | | icationDe | | | | the | | | stination | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | should be | | | | | | | delivered | | | | | | | to. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | reque | boolean | O | 0..1 | Set to | Notific | | stTestNot | | | | true by | ation_te | | ification | | | | S | st_event | | | | | | ubscriber | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | the SEAL | | | | | | | server to | | | | | | | send a | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | ause 6.6. | | | | | | | Set to | | | | | | | false or | | | | | | | omitted | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | therwise. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | websockNo | WebsockNo | O | 0..1 | Conf | Notif | | tifConfig | tifConfig | | | iguration | ication_ | | | | | | p | websocket | | | | | | arameters | | | | | | | to set up | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | delivery | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | Websocket | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | ause 6.6. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eve | arra | C | 1..N | Detailed | | | ntDetails | y(SEALEve | | | in | | | | ntDetail) | | | formation | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndividual | | | | | | | Events. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall | | | | | | | only be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | server if | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | immediate | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndication | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "immRep\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"e | | | | | | | ventReq\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | true, and | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | reports | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | O | 0..1 | Used to | | | | dFeatures | | | negotiate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | optional | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | API as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | ause 6.8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | HTTP POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | and in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | uccessful | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | creation. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
###### 7.5.1.4.2.3 SEALEventNotification
Table 7.5.1.4.2.3-1: Definition of type SEALEventNotification
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
subscriptionId string M 1 Identifier of the subscription resource to which the
notification is related -- SEAL resource identifier  
eventDetails array(SEALEventDetail) M 1..N Detailed notifications of
individual Events.
* * *
###### 7.5.1.4.2.4 EventSubscription
Table 7.5.1.4.2.4-1: Definition of type EventSubscription
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eventId | SEALEvent | M | 1 | S | | | | | | | ubscribed | | | | | | | event | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | valGroups | arr | C | 1..N | Each | G | | | ay(VALGro | | | element | M_GroupI | | | upFilter) | | | of the | nfoChange | | | | | | array | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the VAL | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | iden | | | | | | | tifier(s) | | | | | | | of a VAL | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubscriber | | | | | | | wants to | | | | | | | know in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterested | | | | | | | event. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubscribed | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | "GM_GRO | | | | | | | UP_INFO\ | | | | | | | _CHANGE". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | I | arr | C | 1..N | Each | CM_ | | dentities | ay(Identi | | | element | UserProfi | | | tyFilter) | | | of the | leChange, | | | | | | array | LM_ | | | | | | r | LocationI | | | | | | epresents | nfoChange | | | | | | the VAL | | | | | | | User / UE | | | | | | | IDs of a | | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubscriber | | | | | | | wants to | | | | | | | know in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterested | | | | | | | event. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubscribed | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | "CM_USER | | | | | | | _PROFILE | | | | | | | _CHANGE" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | "L | | | | | | | M_LOCATI | | | | | | | ON_INFO\ | | | | | | | _CHANGE". | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | \"v | | | | | | | alSvcId\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | Ident | | | | | | | ityFilter | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | "L | | | | | | | M_LOCATI | | | | | | | ON_INFO\ | | | | | | | _CHANGE". | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
###### 7.5.1.4.2.5 SEALEventDetail
Table 7.5.1.4.2.5-1: Definition of type SEALEventDetail
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | eventId | SEALEvent | M | 1 | Event | | | | | | | that is | | | | | | | notified | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | lmInfos | ar | C | 1..N | The | LM_ | | | ray(LMInf | | | location | LocationI | | | ormation) | | | in | nfoChange | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterested | | | | | | | VAL User | | | | | | | IDs or | | | | | | | VAL UE | | | | | | | IDs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | in event | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | "L | | | | | | | M_LOCATI | | | | | | | ON_INFO\ | | | | | | | _CHANGE". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | valGroup | array | C | 1..N | Newly | GM | | Documents | (VALGroup | | | created | _GroupIn | | | Document) | | | VAL group | foChange, | | | | | | documents | GM_Gr | | | | | | or the | oupCreate | | | | | | VAL | | | | | | | groups | | | | | | | documents | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | embership | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | in event | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | "GM_GR | | | | | | | OUP_INFO | | | | | | | _CHANGE" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | "G | | | | | | | M_GROUP\ | | | | | | | _CREATE". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | pr | array(Pr | C | 1..N | Updated | CM\ | | ofileDocs | ofileDoc) | | | profile | _UserProf | | | | | | in | ileChange | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ssociated | | | | | | | with VAL | | | | | | | Users or | | | | | | | VAL UEs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | only if | | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | in event | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | " | | | | | | | CM_USER\ | | | | | | | _PROFILE\ | | | | | | | _CHANGE". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
###### 7.5.1.4.2.6 VALGroupFilter
Table 7.5.1.4.2.6-1: Definition of type VALGroupFilter
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability valSvcId
string O 0..1 Identity of the VAL Service that the subscriber is interested
in.  
valGrpIds array(string) M 1..N VAL Group identifiers that the event subscriber
wants to know in the interested event.
* * *
###### 7.5.1.4.2.7 IdentityFilter
Table 7.5.1.4.2.7-1: Definition of type IdentityFilter
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability valSvcId
string O 0..1 Identity of the VAL Service that the subscriber is interested
in.  
valTgtUes array(ValTargetUe) C 1..N VAL User IDs or VAL UE IDs that the event
subscriber wants to know in the interested event. This parameter shall be
present if the event subscribed is "CM_USER_PROFILE_CHANGE" or
"LM_LOCATION_INFO_CHANGE".
* * *
###### 7.5.1.4.2.8 LMInformation
Table 7.5.1.4.2.8-1: Definition of type LMInformation
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability valTgtUe
ValTargetUe M 1 VAL User ID or UE ID that the event subscriber wants to know
in the interested event.  
locInfo LocationInfo M 1 The location information associated with the
valTgtUe.
* * *
##### 7.5.1.4.3 Simple data types and enumerations
###### 7.5.1.4.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
###### 7.5.1.4.3.2 Simple data types
None.
###### 7.5.1.4.3.3 Enumeration: SEALEvent
Table 7.5.1.4.3.3-1: Enumeration SEALEvent
* * *
Enumeration value Description Applicability LM_LOCATION_INFO_CHANGE Events
related to the location information of VAL Users or VAL UEs from the Location
Management Server. LM_LocationInfoChange GM_GROUP_INFO_CHANGE Events related
to the modification of VAL group membership and configuration information from
the Group Management Server. GM_GroupInfoChange CM_USER_PROFILE_CHANGE Events
related to update of user profile information from the Configuration
Management Server. CM_UserProfileChange GM_GROUP_CREATE Events related to
creation of new VAL groups from the Group Management Server. GM_GroupCreate
* * *
#### 7.5.1.5 Error Handling
General error responses are defined in clause 6.7.
#### 7.5.1.6 Feature Negotiation
General feature negotiation procedures are defined in clause 6.8. Table
7.5.1.6-1 lists the supported features for SS_Events API.
Table 7.5.1.6-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description** 1 Notification_test_event
Testing of notification connection is supported according to clause 6.6. 2
Notification_websocket The delivery of notifications over Websocket is
supported according to clause 6.6. This feature requires that the
Notification_test_event feature is also supported. 3 LM_LocationInfoChange
This feature supports the location information change event. 4
GM_GroupInfoChange This feature supports the group information change event. 5
CM_UserProfileChange This feature supports the user profile change event. 6
GM_GroupCreate This feature supports the group creation event.
* * *
## 7.6 Key management APIs
### 7.6.1 SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API
#### 7.6.1.1 API URI
The request URI used in each HTTP request from the VAL server towards the Key
management server shall have the structure as defined in clause 6.5 with the
following clarifications:
\- The \ shall be \"ss-kir\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 7.6.1.2.
#### 7.6.1.2 Resources
##### 7.6.1.2.1 Overview
Figure 7.6.1.2.1-1: Resource URI structure of the SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API
Table 7.6.1.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 7.6.1.2.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description Key
records /key-records GET Retrieve key management information uniquely
applicable to VAL service, VAL user or VAL UE.
* * *
##### 7.6.1.2.2 Resource: Key Records
###### 7.6.1.2.2.1 Description
The Key Records resource represents the key management information of all VAL
services that are created at a given key management server.
###### 7.6.1.2.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/ss-kir/\ /key-records**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in the table
7.6.1.2.2.2-1.
Table 7.6.1.2.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data Type Definition apiRoot string See clause 6.5 apiVersion string See
clause 7.6.1.1
* * *
###### 7.6.1.2.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### # 7.6.1.2.2.3.1 GET
This operation retrieves VAL service key management information satisfying the
filter criteria. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified
in table 7.6.1.2.2.3.1-1.
Table 7.6.1.2.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description val-tgt-ue ValTargetUe O 0..1
Identifying a VAL user or a VAL UE. val-service-id string M 1 String
identifying a VAL service.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
7.6.1.2.2.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified
in table 7.6.1.2.2.3.2 -3.
Table 7.6.1.2.2.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 7.6.1.2.2.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | ValKeyInfo | M | 1 | 200 OK | Key management | | | | | | information | | | | | | specific to VAL | | | | | | service, VAL | | | | | | user or VAL UE. | | | | | | This response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | key management | | | | | | information | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | query | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | provided in the | | | | | | request. | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | codes for the | | | | | | GET method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table 5.2.6-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.122 [3] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-----------------+
###### 7.6.1.2.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 7.6.1.3 Notifications
None.
#### 7.6.1.4 Data Model
##### 7.6.1.4.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API. Data
types listed in clause 6.2 apply to this API.
Table 7.6.1.4.1-1 specifies the data types defined specifically for the
SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API service.
Table 7.6.1.4.1-1: SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability ValKeyInfo 7.6.1.4.2.3 Key
management information associated with VAL server, VAL user or VAL UE.
* * *
Table 7.6.1.4.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API
service.
Table 7.6.1.4.1-2: Re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability ValTargetUe Clause 7.3.1.4.2.3 Used
to identify a VAL User ID or VAL UE ID applicable to key management
information.
* * *
##### 7.6.1.4.2 Structured Data Types
###### 7.6.1.4.2.1 Introduction
###### 7.6.1.4.2.2 ValKeyInfo
Table 7.6.1.4.2.3-1: Definition of type ValKeyInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability userUri Uri M
1 URI of the user for which the response is intended.  
skmsId string O 0..1 String identifying the SEAL key management server,
sending the response.  
valService string M 1 String identifying the VAL service. This attribute shall
be same as in the HTTP GET request.  
valTgtUe ValTargetUe O 0..1 String identifying a VAL user or VAL UE. This
value depends on the value that was in the HTTP GET request.  
keyInfo string M 1 Key management information uniquely applicable to the
requested VAL service, VAL user or VAL UE or VAL client.
* * *
##### 7.6.1.4.3 Simple data types and enumerations
None.
#### 7.6.1.5 Error Handling
General error responses are defined in clause 6.7.
#### 7.6.1.6 Feature Negotiation
General feature negotiation procedures are defined in clause 6.8.
Table 7.6.1.6-1: Supported Features
* * *
**Feature number** **Feature Name** **Description**
* * *
# 8 Using Common API Framework
## 8.1 General
When CAPIF is used with a SEAL service, the SEAL server shall support the
following as defined in 3GPP TS 29.222 [16]:
\- the API exposing function and related APIs over CAPIF-2/2e and CAPIF-3/3e
reference points;
\- the API publishing function and related APIs over CAPIF-4/4e reference
point;
\- the API management function and related APIs over CAPIF-5/5e reference
point; and
\- at least one of the security methods for authentication and authorization,
and related security mechanisms.
In a centralized deployment as defined in 3GPP TS 23.222 [17], where the CAPIF
core function and API provider domain functions are co-located, the
interactions between the CAPIF core function and API provider domain functions
may be independent of CAPIF-3/3e, CAPIF-4/4e and CAPIF-5/5e reference points.
When CAPIF is used with a SEAL service, the SEAL server shall register all the
features for northbound APIs in the CAPIF Core Function.
## 8.2 Security
When CAPIF is used for external exposure, before invoking the API exposed by
the SEAL server, the VAL server as API invoker shall negotiate the security
method (PKI, TLS-PSK or OAUTH2) with CAPIF core function and ensure the SEAL
server has enough credential to authenticate the VAL server (see 3GPP TS
29.222 [16], clause 5.6.2.2 and clause 6.2.2.2).
If PKI or TLS-PSK is used as the selected security method between the VAL
server and the SEAL server, upon API invocation, the SEAL server shall
retrieve the authorization information from the CAPIF core function as
described in 3GPP TS 29.222 [16], clause 5.6.2.4.
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.122 [18], the access to the SEAL APIs may be
authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [19]), using the
\"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the CAPIF core function (see
3GPP TS 29.222 [16]) plays the role of the authorization server.
NOTE 1: In this release, only \"Client Credentials\" authorization grant is
supported.
If OAuth2 is used as the selected security method between the VAL server and
the SEAL server, the VAL server, prior to consuming services offered by the
SEAL APIs, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization server, by invoking
the Obtain_Authorization service, as described in 3GPP TS 29.222 [16], clause
5.6.2.3.2.
The SEAL APIs do not define any scopes for OAuth2 authorization. It is the
SEAL server responsibility to check whether the VAL server is authorized to
use an API based on the \"token\". Once the SEAL server verifies the
\"token\", it shall check whether the SEAL server identifier in the \"token\"
matches its own published identifier, and whether the API name in the
\"token\" matches its own published API name. If those checks are passed, the
VAL server has full authority to access any resource or operation for the
invoked API
NOTE 2: For aforementioned security methods, the SEAL server needs to apply
admission control according to access control policies after performing the
authorization checks.
# 9 Security
## 9.1 General
The security aspects of SEAL reference points are specified in 3GPP TS 33.434
[26].
## 9.2 SEAL-S security
As specified in clause 5.1.1.8 of 3GPP TS 33.434 [26], the protection of
SEAL-S reference point shall be supported according to NDS/IP as specified in
3GPP TS 33.210 [25].
When CAPIF is used, the security mechanisms described in clause 8.2 shall be
applied.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This annex is based on the OpenAPI 3.0.0 specification [15] and provides
corresponding representations of all APIs defined in the present specification
in YAML format.
This Annex shall take precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API.
NOTE: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification file contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900
[24] and clause 5.3.1 of the 3GPP TS 29.501 [14] for further information).
# A.2 SS_LocationReporting API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: SS_LocationReporting
description: \|
API for SEAL Location Reporting Configuration.
© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
version: \"1.0.0\"
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.549 V16.0.0 Service Enabler Architecture Layer for
Verticals (SEAL); Application Programming Interface (API) specification; Stage
3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.549/
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials: []
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/ss-lr/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 6.5 of 3GPP TS 29.549
paths:
/trigger-configurations:
post:
description: Creates a new location reporting configuration.
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/LocationReportConfiguration\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: location reporting confirguation resource is created sucessfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/LocationReportConfiguration\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/trigger-configurations/{configurationId}:
get:
description: Retrieves an individual SEAL location reporting configuration
information
parameters:
\- name: configurationId
in: path
description: String identifying an individual configuration resource
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: The location reporting configuration information.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/LocationReportConfiguration\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
description: Updates an individual SEAL location reporting configuration.
parameters:
\- name: configurationId
in: path
description: String identifying an individual configuration resource
required: true
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
description: configuration information to be updated in location management
server.
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/LocationReportConfiguration\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: the configuration is updated successfully
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/LocationReportConfiguration\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
description: Deletes an individual SEAL location reporting configuration.
parameters:
\- name: configurationId
in: path
description: String identifying an individual configuration resource
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: The individual configuration matching configurationId is deleted.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{tokenUrl}\'
scopes: {}
schemas:
LocationReportConfiguration:
type: object
properties:
valServerId:
type: string
valTgtUe:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
immRep:
type: boolean
monDur:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
repPeriod:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DurationSec\'
accuracy:
\$ref: \'TS29122_MonitoringEvent.yaml#/components/schemas/Accuracy\'
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- valServerId
\- valTgtUe
# A.3 SS_GroupManagement API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: SS_GroupManagement
description: \|
API for SEAL Group management.
© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
version: \"1.0.1\"
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.549 V16.2.0 Service Enabler Architecture Layer for
Verticals (SEAL); Application Programming Interface (API) specification; Stage
3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.549/
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials: []
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/ss-gm/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 6.5 of 3GPP TS 29.549
paths:
/group-documents:
post:
description: Creates a new VAL group document.
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VALGroupDocument\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: VAL group created sucessfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VALGroupDocument\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
get:
description: Retrieves VAL group documents satisfying filter criteria
parameters:
\- name: val-group-id
in: query
description: String identifying the VAL group.
schema:
type: string
\- name: val-service-id
in: query
description: String identifying the Val service.
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: List of VAL group documents matching the query parameters in the
request.
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VALGroupDocument\'
minItems: 0
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/group-documents/{groupDocId}:
get:
description: Retrieves VAL group information satisfying filter criteria
parameters:
\- name: groupDocId
in: path
description: String identifying an individual VAL group document resource
required: true
schema:
type: string
\- name: group-members
in: query
description: When set to true indicates the group management server to send
the members list information of the VAL group.
schema:
type: boolean
\- name: group-configuration
in: query
description: When set to true indicates the group management server to send
the group configuration information of the VAL group.
schema:
type: boolean
responses:
\'200\':
description: The VAL group information based on the request from the VAL
server. Includes VAL group members list if group-members flag is set to true
in the request, VAL group configuration information if the group-configuration
flag is set to true in the request, VAL group identifier, whole VAL group
document resource if both group-members and group-configuration flags are
omitted/set to false in the request.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VALGroupDocument\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
description: Updates an individual VAL group document.
parameters:
\- name: groupDocId
in: path
description: String identifying an individual VAL group document resource
required: true
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
description: VAL group document to be updated in Group management server.
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VALGroupDocument\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: VAL group document updated successfully
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VALGroupDocument\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
description: Deletes a VAL Group.
parameters:
\- name: groupDocId
in: path
description: String identifying an individual VAL group document resource
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: The individual VAL group matching groupDocId was deleted.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{tokenUrl}\'
scopes: {}
schemas:
VALGroupDocument:
type: object
properties:
valGroupId:
type: string
description: The VAL group idenitity.
grpDesc:
type: string
description: The text description of the VAL group.
members:
type: array
description: The list of VAL User IDs or VAL UE IDs, which are members of the
VAL group.
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
minItems: 1
valGrpConf:
type: string
description: Configuration data for the VAL group.
valServiceIds:
type: array
description: The list of VAL services enabled on the group.
items:
type: string
minItems: 1
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
resUri:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
locInfo:
\$ref: \'TS29122_MonitoringEvent.yaml#/components/schemas/LocationInfo\'
addLocInfo:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/LocationArea5G\'
required:
\- valGroupId
# A.4 SS_UserProfileRetrieval API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: SS_UserProfileRetrieval
description: \|
API for SEAL User Profile Retrieval.
© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
version: \"1.0.0\"
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.549 V16.0.0 Service Enabler Architecture Layer for
Verticals (SEAL); Application Programming Interface (API) specification; Stage
3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.549/
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials: []
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/ss-upr/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 6.5 of 3GPP TS 29.549
paths:
/val-services:
get:
description: Retrieve VAL User or VAL UE profile information.
parameters:
\- name: val-service-id
in: query
description: String identifying an individual VAL service
required: false
schema:
type: string
\- name: val-tgt-ue
in: query
description: Identifying a VAL target UE.
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: The Profile information of the VAL User or VAL UE.
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProfileDoc\'
minItems: 0
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{tokenUrl}\'
scopes: {}
schemas:
ProfileDoc:
type: object
properties:
profileInformation:
type: string
description: Profile information associated with the valUserId or valUeId.
valTgtUe:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
required:
\- profileInformation
\- valTgtUe
ValTargetUe:
type: object
properties:
valUserId:
type: string
description: Unique identifier of a VAL user.
valUeId:
type: string
description: Unique identifier of a VAL UE.
oneOf:
\- required: [valUserId]
\- required: [valUeId]
# A.5 SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: 1.0.1
title: SS_NetworkResourceAdaptation
description: \|
SS Network Resource Adaptation Service.
© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.549 V16.1.0; Service Enabler Architecture Layer for
Verticals (SEAL); Application Programming Interface (API) specification; Stage
3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.549/
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials: []
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/ss-nra/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
paths:
/multicast-subscriptions:
post:
summary: Creates a new Individual Multicast Subscription resource
operationId: CreateMulticastSubscription
tags:
\- Multicast Subscriptions (Collection)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MulticastSubscription\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Success
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MulticastSubscription\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the created individual multicast
subscription resource\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
UserPlaneNotification:
\'{\$request.body#/notifUri}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UserPlaneNotification\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content, Notification was succesfull
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/multicast-subscriptions/{multiSubId}:
get:
summary: \"Reads an existing Individual Multicast Subscription\"
operationId: GetMulticastSubscription
tags:
\- Individual Multicast Subscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: multiSubId
in: path
description: Multicast Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: OK. Resource representation is returned
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MulticastSubscription\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: \"Delete an existing Individual Multicast Subscription\"
operationId: DeleteMulticastSubscription
tags:
\- Individual Multicast Subscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: multiSubId
in: path
description: Multicast Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content. Resource was succesfully deleted
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/unicast-subscriptions:
post:
summary: Creates a new Individual Unicast Subscription resource
operationId: CreateUnicastSubscription
tags:
\- Unicast Subscriptions (Collection)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UnicastSubscription\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Success
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UnicastSubscription\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the created individual unicast subscription
resource\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
UserPlaneNotification:
\'{\$request.body#/notifUri}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UserPlaneNotification\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content, Notification was succesfull
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/unicast-subscriptions/{uniSubId}:
get:
summary: \"Reads an existing Individual Unicast Subscription\"
operationId: GetUnicastSubscription
tags:
\- Individual Unicast Subscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: uniSubId
in: path
description: Unicast Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: OK. Resource representation is returned
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UnicastSubscription\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: \"Delete an existing Individual Unicast Subscription\"
operationId: DeleteUnicastSubscription
tags:
\- Individual Unicast Subscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: uniSubId
in: path
description: Unicast Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content. Resource was succesfully deleted
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{tokenUrl}\'
scopes: {}
schemas:
MulticastSubscription:
type: object
properties:
valGroupId:
type: string
anncMode:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ServiceAnnoucementMode\'
multiQosReq:
type: string
locArea:
\$ref: \'TS29122_GMDviaMBMSbyMB2.yaml#/components/schemas/MbmsLocArea\'
duration:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
tmgi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
notifUri:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
reqTestNotif:
type: boolean
wsNotifCfg:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/WebsockNotifConfig\'
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
upIpv4Addr:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ipv4Addr\'
upIpv6Addr:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ipv6Addr\'
upPortNum:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Port\'
radioFreqs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- valGroupId
\- anncMode
\- multiQosReq
\- notifUri
UnicastSubscription:
type: object
properties:
valTgtUe:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
uniQosReq:
type: string
duration:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
notifUri:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
reqTestNotif:
type: boolean
wsNotifCfg:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/WebsockNotifConfig\'
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- valTgtUe
\- notifUri
UserPlaneNotification:
type: object
properties:
notifId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
eventNotifs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NrmEventNotification\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- notifId
\- eventNotifs
NrmEventNotification:
type: object
properties:
event:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NrmEvent\'
ts:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
deliveryMode:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DeliveryMode\'
streamIds:
type: array
items:
type: string
minItems: 1
required:
\- event
\- ts
# Simple data types and Enumerations
ServiceAnnoucementMode:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- NRM
\- VAL
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- NRM: NRM server performs the service announcement.
\- VAL: VAL server performs the service announcement.
DeliveryMode:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- UNICAST
\- MULTICAST
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- UNICAST: Unicast delivery.
\- MULTICAST: Multicast delivery.
NrmEvent:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- UP_DELIVERY_MODE
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- UP_DELIVERY_MODE: User Plane delivery mode.
# A.6 SS_Events API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: SS_Events
description: \|
API for SEAL Events management.
© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
version: \"1.0.1\"
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.549 V16.2.0 Service Enabler Architecture Layer for
Verticals (SEAL); Application Programming Interface (API) specification; Stage
3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.549/
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials: []
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/ss-events/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 6.5 of 3GPP TS 29.549
paths:
/subscriptions:
post:
description: Creates a new individual SEAL Event Subscription.
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SEALEventSubscription\'
callbacks:
notificationDestination:
\'{request.body#/notificationDestination}\':
post:
requestBody: # contents of the callback message
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SEALEventNotification\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content (successful notification)
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: SEAL Events subscription resource created successfully.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SEALEventSubscription\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}:
delete:
description: Deletes an individual SEAL Event Subscription.
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Identifier of an individual Events Subscription
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: The individual SEAL Events Subscription matching the
subscriptionId is deleted.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{tokenUrl}\'
scopes: {}
schemas:
SEALEventSubscription:
type: object
properties:
subscriberId:
type: string
description: String identifying the subscriber of the event.
eventSubs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EventSubscription\'
minItems: 1
description: Subscribed events.
eventReq:
\$ref:
\'TS29523_Npcf_EventExposure.yaml#/components/schemas/ReportingInformation\'
notificationDestination:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
requestTestNotification:
type: boolean
description: Set to true by Subscriber to request the SEAL server to send a
test notification. Set to false or omitted otherwise.
websockNotifConfig:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/WebsockNotifConfig\'
eventDetails:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SEALEventDetail\'
minItems: 1
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- subscriberId
\- eventSubs
\- eventReq
\- notificationDestination
SEALEventNotification:
type: object
properties:
subscriptionId:
type: string
description: Identifier of the subscription resource.
eventDetails:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SEALEventDetail\'
minItems: 1
description: Detailed notifications of individual events.
required:
\- subscriptionId
\- eventDetails
EventSubscription:
type: object
properties:
eventId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SEALEvent\'
valGroups:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/VALGroupFilter\'
minItems: 1
description: Each element of the array represents the VAL group identifier(s)
of a VAL service that the subscriber wants to know in the interested event.
identities:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/IdentityFilter\'
minItems: 1
description: Each element of the array represents the VAL User / UE IDs of a
VAL service that the event subscriber wants to know in the interested event.
required:
\- eventId
SEALEventDetail:
type: object
properties:
eventId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SEALEvent\'
lmInfos:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/LMInformation\'
minItems: 1
valGroupDocuments:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_GroupManagement.yaml#/components/schemas/VALGroupDocument\'
minItems: 1
description: The VAL groups documents with modified membership and
configuration information.
profileDocs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ProfileDoc\'
minItems: 1
description: Updated profile information associated with VAL Users or VAL UEs.
required:
\- eventId
VALGroupFilter:
type: object
properties:
valSvcId:
type: string
description: Identity of the VAL service
valGrpIds:
type: array
items:
type: string
minItems: 1
description: VAL group identifiers that event subscriber wants to know in the
interested event.
required:
\- valGrpIds
IdentityFilter:
type: object
properties:
valSvcId:
type: string
description: Identity of the VAL service
valTgtUes:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
minItems: 1
description: VAL User IDs or VAL UE IDs that the event subscriber wants to
know in the interested event.
LMInformation:
type: object
properties:
valTgtUe:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
locInfo:
\$ref: \'TS29122_MonitoringEvent.yaml#/components/schemas/LocationInfo\'
required:
\- locInfo
\- valTgtUe
SEALEvent:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- LM_LOCATION_INFO_CHANGE
\- GM_GROUP_INFO_CHANGE
\- CM_USER_PROFILE_CHANGE
\- GM_GROUP_CREATE
\- type: string
description: >
This string provides forward-compatibility with future
extensions to the enumeration but is not used to encode
content defined in the present version of this API.
description: >
Possible values are
\- LM_LOCATION_INFO_CHANGE: Events related to the location information of VAL
Users or VAL UEs from the Location Management Server.
\- GM_GROUP_INFO_CHANGE: Events related to the modification of VAL group
membership and configuration information from the Group Management Server.
\- CM_USER_PROFILE_CHANGE: Events related to update of user profile
information from the Configuration Management Server.
\- GM_GROUP_CREATE: Events related to creation of new VAL groups from the
Group Mananagement Server.
# A.7 SS_KeyInfoRetrieval API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: SS_KeyInfoRetrieval
description: \|
API for SEAL Key Information Retrieval.
© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
version: \"1.0.1\"
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.549 V16.1.0 Service Enabler Architecture Layer for
Verticals (SEAL); Application Programming Interface (API) specification; Stage
3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.549/
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials: []
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/ss-kir/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 6.5 of 3GPP TS 29.549
paths:
/key-records:
get:
description: Retrieve Key mamangement information specific to VAL service.
parameters:
\- name: val-service-id
in: query
description: String identifying an individual VAL service
required: true
schema:
type: string
\- name: val-tgt-ue
in: query
description: Identifying a VAL target.
required: false
schema:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: The key management information of the VAL service, VAL User or
VAL UE.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ValKeyInfo\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{tokenUrl}\'
scopes: {}
schemas:
ValKeyInfo:
type: object
properties:
userUri:
\$ref: \'TS29122_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
skmsId:
type: string
description: String identifying the key management server.
valService:
type: string
description: Unique identifier of a VAL Service.
valTgtUe:
\$ref:
\'TS29549_SS_UserProfileRetrieval.yaml#/components/schemas/ValTargetUe\'
keyInfo:
type: string
description: Key management information specific to VAL service, VAL User or
VAL UE.
required:
\- userUri
\- valService
\- keyInfo
#