# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nnef southbound Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol
definitions and message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered
by the Network Exposure Function (NEF).
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.288 [14].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.522: \"5G System; Network Exposure Function Northbound APIs;
Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.520: \"5G System; Network Data Analytics Services; Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.517: \"5G System; Application Function Event Exposure Service;
Stage 3\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.551: \"5G System; Packet Flow Description Management Service;
Stage 3\".
[20] 3GPP TS 29.541: \"5G System; Network Exposure (NE) function services for
Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD); Stage 3\".
[21] 3GPP TS 29.554: \"5G System; Background Data Transfer Policy Control
Service; Stage 3\".
[22] 3GPP TS 29.523: \"5G System; Policy Control Event Exposure Service; Stage
3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
API Application Programming Interface
NEF Network Exposure Function
NF Network Function
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Services offered by the NEF
## 4.1 Introduction
The NEF offers to other NFs the following southbound services:
\- Nnef_EventExposure
\- Nnef_PFDManagement
\- Nnef_SMContext
NOTE 1: The northbound services offered by the NEF are defined in 3GPP TS
29.522 [15], e.g. the northbound requirement of Nnef_EventExposure service.
NOTE 2: The services offered by the NEF (e.g. Nnef_EventExposure service) as
specified in the present specification are only applicable for Nnef southbound
services.
NOTE 3: The Nnef_PFDManagement service offered by the NEF southbound is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.551 [19].
NOTE 4: The Nnef_SMContext service offered by the NEF southbound is defined in
3GPP TS 29.541 [20].
## 4.2 Nnef_EventExposure Service
### 4.2.1 Service Description
#### 4.2.1.1 Overview
The Nnef_EventExposure service, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], is provided
by the Network Exposure Function (NEF).
This service:
\- allows NF service consumers to subscribe, modify and unsubscribe for
application events; and
\- notifies NF service consumers with a corresponding subscription about
observed events on the NEF.
The types of observed events applicable for NEF include:
\- Service experience;
\- UE mobility;
\- UE communication; and
\- Exceptions.
The target of the event reporting may include one or more UE(s), a group of
UEs or any UE (i.e. all UEs). When an event to which the NF service consumer
has subscribed occurs, the NEF reports the requested information to the NF
service consumer based on the event reporting information definition requested
by the NF service consumer.
#### 4.2.1.2 Service Architecture
The 5G System Architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The Network Data
Analytics Exposure architecture is defined in 3GPP TS 23.288 [14].
The Nnef_EventExposure service is part of the Nnef service-based interface
exhibited by the Network Exposure Function (NEF).
Known consumers of the Nnef_EventExposure service are:
\- Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF)
Figure 4.2.1.2-1: Reference Architecture for the Nnef_EventExposure Service;
SBI representation
Figure 4.2.1.2-2: Reference Architecture for the Nnef_EventExposure Service:
reference point representation
#### 4.2.1.3 Network Functions
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Network Exposure Function (NEF)
The Network Exposure Function (NEF) is a functional element that provides
application or user related information to the NF service consumers as defined
in this specification.
The NEF allows the NF consumer(s) to (un)subscribe to notifications of
monitoring observed event, and sends the notification to the NF consumer(s)
when a subscribed event is detected.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 NF Service Consumers
The known NF service consumers are as follows:
The Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF):
\- supports (un)subscribing to notifications of subscribed event(s) from the
NEF;
\- supports receiving the notifications of subscribed event(s) from the NEF.
### 4.2.2 Service Operations
#### 4.2.2.1 Introduction
Service operations defined for the Nnef_EventExposure Service are shown in
table 4.2.2.1-1.
_Table 4.2.2.1-1: Nnef_EventExposure Service Operations_
* * *
Service Operation Name Description Initiated by Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to subscribe to, or
modify a subscription in the NEF for event notifications on a specified
application or user related event. NF service consumer
Nnef_EventExposure_Unsubscribe This service operation is used by an NF service
consumer to unsubscribe from event notifications. NF service consumer
Nnef_EventExposure_Notify This service operation is used by the NEF to report
application or user related event(s) to the NF service consumer which has
subscribed to the event report service. NEF
* * *
#### 4.2.2.2 Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe service operation
##### 4.2.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to subscribe to
notifications on specified event(s) or modify an existing subscription.
The following are the types of events for which a subscription to
notifications can be created:
\- Service experience;
\- UE mobility;
\- UE communication; and
\- Exceptions;
The following procedures using the Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe service
operation are supported:
\- creating a new subscription;
\- modifying an existing subscription.
##### 4.2.2.2.2 Creating a new subscription
Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1 illustrates the creation of a Network Exposure Event
Subscription.
Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1: Creation of a subscription
To subscribe to event notifications, the NF service consumer shall send an
HTTP POST request to the NEF with: \"{apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions\" as request URI as shown in step 1
of figure 4.2.2.2.2-1, and the \"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data structure as
request body.
The \"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data structure shall include:
\- a URI where to receive the requested notifications as \"notifUri\"
attribute; and
\- a Notification Correlation Identifier assigned by the NF service consumer
for the requested notifications as \"notifId\" attribute.
\- description of subscribed event information as \"eventsSubs\" attribute by
using one or more \"NefEventSubs\" data.
The \"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data structure may also include:
\- the description of the event reporting information as \"eventsRepInfo\"
attribute.
The \"NefEventSubs\" data structure shall include:
\- an event to subscribe to as a \"event\" attribute; and
\- event filter information as \"eventFilter\" attribute associated with the
event.
The \"eventsRepInfo\" attribute may include:
\- event notification method (periodic, one time, on event detection) as
\"notifMethod\" attribute;
\- Maximum Number of Reports as \"maxReportNbr\" attribute;
\- Monitoring Duration as \"monDur\" attribute;
\- repetition period for periodic reporting as \"repPeriod\" attribute;
\- immediate reporting indication as \"immRep\" attribute;
\- sampling ratio as \"sampRatio\" attribute; and/or
\- group reporting guard time as \"grpRepTime\" attribute.
If the NEF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST request due to an
internal error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the NEF shall send an
HTTP error response as specified in clause 5.1.7.
Upon successful reception of an HTTP POST request with \"{apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions\" as request URI and
\"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data structure as request body, the NEF shall create
a new \"Individual Event Exposure Subscription\" resource, store the
subscription and send an HTTP \"201 Created\" response, as shown in step 2 of
figure 4.2.2.2.2-1. The NEF shall include in the \"201 Created\" response:
\- a Location header field; and
\- an \"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data type in the payload body.
The Location header field shall contain the URI of the created individual
application session context resource i.e. \"{apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\".
The \"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data type payload body shall contain the
representation of the created \"Individual Network Exposure Event
Subscription\".
When the \"monDur\" attribute is included in the response by the NEF, it
represents NEF selected expiry time that is equal or less than the expiry time
received in the request.
When the \"immRep\" attribute is included and sets to \"true\" in the
subscription and the subscribed events are available, the NEF shall include
the reports of the events subscribed, if available, in the HTTP POST response.
When the sampling ratio attribute, as \"sampRatio\", is included in the
subscription, the NEF shall select a random subset of UEs among the target UEs
according to the sampling ratio and only report the event(s) related to the
selected subset of UEs.
When the group reporting guard time, as \"grpRepTime\" attribute, is included
in the subscription, the NEF shall accumulate all the event reports for the
target UEs until the group reporting guard time expires. Then, the NEF shall
notify the NF service consumer using the Nnef_EventExposure_Notify service
operation, as described in clause 4.2.2.4.
##### 4.2.2.2.3 Modifying an existing subscription
Figure 4.2.2.2.3-1 illustrates the modification of an existing subscription.
Figure 4.2.2.2.3-1: Modification of an existing subscription
To modify an existing subscription to event notifications, the NF service
consumer shall send an HTTP PUT request with: \"{apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request
URI, as shown in step 1 of figure 4.2.2.2.3-1, where \"{**subscriptionId**}\"
is the subscription correlation ID of the existing subscription. The
\"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data structure is included as request body as
described in clause 4.2.2.2.2.
NOTE 1: An alternate NF service consumer than the one that requested the
generation of the subscription resource can send the PUT request.
NOTE 2: The \"notifUri\" attribute within the NefEventExposureSubsc data
structure can be modified to request that subsequent notifications are sent to
a new NF service consumer.
NOTE 3: The \"monDur\" attribute within the NefEventExposureSubsc data
structure can be modified to extend the expiry time to keep receiving
notifications.
If the NEF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP PUT request due to an
internal error or an error in the HTTP PUT request, the NEF shall send an HTTP
error response as specified in clause 5.1.7.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the NEF determines the received
HTTP PUT request needs to be redirected, the NEF shall send an HTTP redirect
response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Upon successful reception of an HTTP PUT request with: \"{apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request
URI and \"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data structure as request body, the NEF
shall update the subscription and send an HTTP \"200 OK\" response with the
\"NefEventExposureSubsc\" data structure as response body containing the
representation of the modified \"Individual Network Exposure Event
Subscription\", or an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response, as shown in step 2 of
figure 4.2.2.2.3-1.
When the \"monDur\" attribute is included in the response by the NEF, it
represents NEF selected expiry time that is equal or less than the expiry time
received in the request.
When the \"immRep\" attribute is included and sets to \"true\" in the
subscription and the subscribed events are available, the NEF shall include
the reports of the events subscribed, if available, in the HTTP PUT response.
When the sampling ratio, as \"sampRatio\" attribute, is included in the
subscription, the NEF shall select a random subset of UEs among the target UEs
according to the sampling ratio and only report the event(s) related to the
selected subset of UEs.
When the group reporting guard time, as \"grpRepTime\" attribute, is included
in the subscription, the NEF shall accumulate all the event reports for the
target UEs until the group reporting guard time expires. Then, the NEF shall
notify the NF service consumer using the Nnef_EventExposure_Notify service
operation, as described in clause 4.2.2.4.
#### 4.2.2.3 Nnef_EventExposure_Unsubscribe service operation
##### 4.2.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by an NF service consumer to unsubscribe from
event notifications.
The following procedure using the Nnef_EventExposure_Unsubscribe service
operation is supported:
\- unsubscription from event notifications.
##### 4.2.2.3.2 Unsubscription from event notifications
Figure 4.2.2.3.2-1 illustrates the unsubscription from event notifications.
Figure 4.2.2.3.2-1: Unsubscription from event notifications
To unsubscribe from event notifications, the NF service consumer shall send an
HTTP DELETE request with \"{apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request
URI, as shown in step 1 of figure 4.2.2.3.2-1, where \"{**subscriptionId**}\"
is the subscription correlation identifier of the existing subscription
resource that is to be deleted.
If the NEF cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP DELETE request due to
an internal error or an error in the HTTP DELETE request, the NEF shall send
an HTTP error response as specified in clause 5.1.7.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the NEF determines the received
HTTP DELETE request needs to be redirected, the NEF shall send an HTTP
redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Upon successful reception of an HTTP DELETE request with: \"{apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions/{**subscriptionId**}\" as request
URI, the NEF shall remove the corresponding subscription and send an HTTP
\"204 No Content\" response, as shown in step 2 of figure 4.2.2.3.2-1.
#### 4.2.2.4 Nnef_EventExposure_Notify service operation
##### 4.2.2.4.1 General
The Nnef_EventExposure_Notify service operation enables the NEF to notify the
NF service consumer(s) that the previously subscribed application related
event occurred.
The following procedure using the Nnef_EventExposure_Notify service operation
is supported:
\- notification about subscribed events.
##### 4.2.2.4.2 Notification about subscribed events
Figure 4.2.2.4.2-1 illustrates the notification about subscribed events.
Figure 4.2.2.4.2-1: Notification about subscribed events
If the NEF observes application related event(s) for which an NF service
consumer has subscribed, the NEF shall send an HTTP POST request as shown in
step 1 of figure 4.2.2.4.2-1, with the \"{notifUri}\" as request URI
containing the value previously provided by the NF service consumer within the
corresponding subscription, and the \"NefEventExposureNotif\" data structure.
The \"NefEventExposureNotif\" data structure shall include:
\- notification correlation ID provided by the NF service consumer during the
subscription as \"notifId\" attribute; and
\- information about the observed event(s) within the \"eventNotifs\"
attribute that shall contain for each observed event an
\"NefEventNotification\" data structure that shall include:
\- the application related event as \"event\" attribute;
\- the time at which the event was observed encoded as \"timeStamp\"
attribute;
\- if the \"event\" attribute is \"SVC_EXPERIENCE\", service experience
information about the application involved in the reported event in the
\"svcExprcInfos\" attribute;
\- if the \"event\" attribute is \"UE_MOBILITY\", UE mobility information
assoicated with the application as \"ueMobilityInfos\" attribute;
\- if the \"event\" attribute is \"UE_COMM\", UE communication information
assoicated with the application as \"ueCommInfos\" attribute; and
\- if the \"event\" attribute is \"EXCEPTIONS\", exceptions information
associated with a service flow as \"excepInfos\" attribute.
If the NF service consumer cannot successfully fulfil the received HTTP POST
request due to an internal error or an error in the HTTP POST request, the NF
service consumer shall send an HTTP error response as specified in clause
5.1.7.
If the feature \"ES3XX\" is supported, and the NF service consumer determines
the received HTTP POST request needs to be redirected, the NF service consumer
shall send an HTTP redirect response as specified in clause 6.10.9 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
Upon successful reception of an HTTP POST request with \"{notifUri}\" as
request URI and \"NefEventExposureNotif\" data structure as request body, the
NF service consumer shall send an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response, as shown
in step 2 of figure 4.2.2.4.2-1, in case of a successful processing.
# 5 API Definitions
## 5.1 Nnef_EventExposure Service API
### 5.1.1 Introduction
The Nnef_EventExposure service shall use the Nnef_EventExposure API.
The API URI of the Nnef_EventExposure API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nnef-eventexposure\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
5.1.3.
### 5.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 5.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nnef_EventExposure API is contained in Annex A.
#### 5.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 5.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 5.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be applicable.
In this Release of the specification, no specific custom headers are defined
for the Nnef_EventExposure API.
### 5.1.3 Resources
#### 5.1.3.1 Overview
Figure 5.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nnef_EventExposure API
Table 5.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 5.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
* * *
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
Network Exposure Event Subscriptions /subscriptions POST Creates a
subscription to notifications on application or user related event(s), i.e.
creation of an Individual Network Exposure Event Subscription resource.
Individual Network Exposure Event Subscription /subscriptions/\ GET Reads an
Individual Network Exposure Event Subscription resource. {subscriptionId}
                                                                      PUT                               Modifies an Individual Network Exposure Event Subscription.
                                                                      DELETE                            Cancels an individual subscription to notifications of subscribed event.
* * *
#### 5.1.3.2 Resource: Network Exposure Event Subscriptions
##### 5.1.3.2.1 Description
The resource represents the collection of Network Exposure Event subscriptions
of the Nnef_EventExposure service. It allows NF service consumers to create a
new subscription to notifications on application or user related event(s).
##### 5.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nnef-eventexposure/\ /subscriptions**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 5.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 5.1.1 apiVersion string
See clause 5.1.1
* * *
##### 5.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 5.1.3.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the \ method
on this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 5.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description NefEventExposureSubsc M 1 Contains the
information required for the creation of a new Individual Network Exposure
Event Subscription resource.
* * *
Table 5.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | NefEvent | M | 1 | 201 Created | Contains the | | ExposureSubsc | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Network | | | | | | Exposure | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource. | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+-------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 Contains the URI
of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}
* * *
#### 5.1.3.3 Resource: Individual Network Exposure Event Subscription
##### 5.1.3.3.1 Description
The resource represents an individual Network Exposure Event subscription of
the Nnef_EventExposure service. It allows NF service consumers to
read/modify/cancel a subscription to notifications on application or user
related event(s).
##### 5.1.3.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nnef-eventexposure/\
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
5.1.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.1.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data type Definition apiRoot string See clause 5.1.1 apiVersion string
See clause 5.1.1 subscriptionId string Identifies a subscription to the NEF
event exposure service.
* * *
##### 5.1.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 5.1.3.3.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description supp-feat SupportedFeatures O 0..1
The features supported by the NF service consumer.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NefEvent | M | 1 | 200 OK | Contains the | | ExposureSubsc | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Network | | | | | | Exposure | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | retrieval. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NEF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | retrieval. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NEF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative NEF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative NEF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
###### 5.1.3.3.3.2 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.2-1.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.3.3.3.2-3.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description NefEventExposureSubsc M 1 Modifies the
existing Individual Network Exposure Event Subscription resource.
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NefEvent | M | 1 | 200 OK | Successful | | ExposureSubsc | | | | case. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Network | | | | | | Exposure | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource was | | | | | | modified and | | | | | | a | | | | | | r | | | | | | epresentation | | | | | | is returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Network | | | | | | Exposure | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource was | | | | | | modified. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NEF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | modification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NEF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative NEF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.2-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative NEF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
###### 5.1.3.3.3.3 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.3-1.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.3.3.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.3.3.3.3-3.
Table 5.1.3.3.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Successful | | | | | Content | case. The | | | | | | Individual | | | | | | Network | | | | | | Exposure | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | resource | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscriptionId | | | | | | was deleted. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | termination. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NEF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | termination. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located in an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NEF (service) | | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.3.3.3.3-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative NEF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
Table 5.1.3.3.3.3-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located in an alternative NEF (service) instance. 3gpp-
Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance
towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
### 5.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None.
### 5.1.5 Notifications
#### 5.1.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and clause
4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
Table 5.1.5.1-1: Notifications overview
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | Callback URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | (service | | | | | operation) | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Network | {notifUri} | POST | Provides | | Exposure Event | | | Information | | Notification | | | about observed | | | | | events. | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.1.5.2 Network Exposure Event Notification
##### 5.1.5.2.1 Description
The Network Exposure Event Notification is used by the NEF to report one or
several observed Events to a NF service consumer that has subscribed to such
Notifications.
##### 5.1.5.2.2 Target URI
The Notification URI **\"{notifUri}\"** shall be used with the callback URI
variables defined in table 5.1.5.2.2-1.
Table 5.1.5.2.2-1: Callback URI variables for this resource
* * *
Name Data type Definition notifUri Uri The Notification Uri as assigned by the
NF service consumer during the subscription service operation and described
within the NefEventExposureSubsc data type (see table 5.1.6.2.2-1).
* * *
##### 5.1.5.2.3 Standard Methods
###### 5.1.5.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
5.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 5.1.5.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.1.5.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description NefEventExposureNotif M 1 Provides
Information about observed events
* * *
Table 5.1.5.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The receipt | | | | | Content | of the | | | | | | Notification | | | | | | is | | | | | | acknowledged. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during event | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NF consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection, | | | | | | during event | | | | | | notification. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI | | | | | | representing | | | | | | the end point | | | | | | of an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | NF consumer | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance | | | | | | where the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Applicable if | | | | | | the feature | | | | | | \"ES3XX\" is | | | | | | supported. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 5.1.5.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI representing the end point of an alternative NF consumer (service)
instance towards which the notification should be redirected. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-
Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance towards
which the notification request is redirected.
* * *
Table 5.1.5.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI representing the end point of an alternative NF consumer (service)
instance towards which the notification should be redirected. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-
Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF (service) instance towards
which the notification request is redirected.
* * *
### 5.1.6 Data Model
#### 5.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 5.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nnef_EventExposure
service based interface protocol.
Table 5.1.6.1-1: Nnef_EventExposure specific Data Types
* * *
Data type Section defined Description Applicability NefEvent 5.1.6.3.3  
NefEventExposureNotif 5.1.6.2.3  
NefEventExposureSubsc 5.1.6.2.2  
NefEventFilter 5.1.6.2.7  
NefEventNotification 5.1.6.2.4  
NefEventSubs 5.1.6.2.5  
ServiceExperienceInfo 5.1.6.2.9  
TargetUeIdentification 5.1.6.2.8  
UeCommunicationInfo 5.1.6.2.6  
UeMobilityInfo 5.1.6.2.10  
UeTrajectoryInfo 5.1.6.2.11
* * *
Table 5.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nnef_EventExposure service
based interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to
their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their
use within the Nnef_EventExposure service based interface.
Table 5.1.6.1-2: Nnef_EventExposure re-used Data Types
* * *
Data type Reference Comments Applicability ApplicationId 3GPP TS 29.571 [16]  
ReportingInformation 3GPP TS 29.523 [22]  
CommunicationCollection 3GPP TS 29.517 [18]  
DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571 [16]  
ExceptionInfo 3GPP TS 29.517 [18]  
GroupId 3GPP TS 29.571 [16]  
NetworkAreaInfo 3GPP TS 29.554 [21]  
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Contains redirection related information.
ES3XX Supi 3GPP TS 29.571 [16]  
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [16]  
ServiceExperienceInfoPerFlow 3GPP TS 29.517 [18]  
UserLocation 3GPP TS 29.571 [16]  
Uri 3GPP TS 29.571 [16]
* * *
#### 5.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 5.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 5.1.6.2.2 Type: NefEventExposureSubsc
Table 5.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type NefEventExposureSubsc
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | e | a | M | 1..N | S | | | ventsSubs | rray(NefE | | | ubscribed | | | | ventSubs) | | | events | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | filters. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | even | Re | O | 0..1 | R | | | tsRepInfo | portingIn | | | epresents | | | | formation | | | the | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirements | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | omitted, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | portingIn | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | data type | | | | | | | apply. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notifUri | Uri | M | 1 | Not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | URI for | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eporting. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ev | array(Nef | C | 1..N | R | | | entNotifs | EventNoti | | | epresents | | | | fication) | | | the | | | | | | | Events to | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | reported. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall | | | | | | | only be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | immediate | | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndication | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "immRep\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \"events | | | | | | | RepInfo\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | sets to | | | | | | | true in | | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription, | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | reports | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | vailable. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | notifId | string | M | 1 | Not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | rrelation | | | | | | | ID | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | by the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suppFeat | Supporte | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | dFeatures | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | a list of | | | | | | | Supported | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | used as | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | ause 5.8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | HTTP POST | | | | | | | request/ | | | | | | | response; | | | | | | | or in the | | | | | | | HTTP GET | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"su | | | | | | | pp-feat\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | query | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | HTTP GET | | | | | | | request. | | | | | | | (NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: In | | | | | | | the HTTP | | | | | | | POST | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the set | | | | | | | of NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | features. | | | | | | | In the | | | | | | | HTTP POST | | | | | | | and GET | | | | | | | responses | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the set | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | by both | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | NEF. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.3 Type: NefEventExposureNotif
Table 5.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type NefEventExposureNotif
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability notifId
string M 1 Notification Correlation ID assigned by the NF service consumer.  
eventNotifs array(NefEventNotification) M 1..N Represents the Events to be
reported according to the subscription corresponding to the Notification
Correlation ID.
* * *
##### 5.1.6.2.4 Type: NefEventNotification
Table 5.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type NefEventNotification
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | event | NefEvent | M | 1 | Reported | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | event. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | timeStamp | DateTime | M | 1 | Time at | | | | | | | which the | | | | | | | event is | | | | | | | observed. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | svcE | a | C | 1..N | Contains | ServiceE | | xprcInfos | rray(Serv | | | the | xperience | | | iceExperi | | | service | | | | enceInfo) | | | e | | | | | | | xperience | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"event\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | sets to | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "SVC_EXP | | | | | | | ERIENCE\" | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueMobi | arr | C | 1..N | Contains | U | | lityInfos | ay(UeMobi | | | the UE | eMobility | | | lityInfo) | | | mobility | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"event\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | sets to | | | | | | | \"UE_M | | | | | | | OBILITY\" | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ue | array(Ue | C | 1..N | Contains | UeComm | | CommInfos | Communica | | | the | unication | | | tionInfo) | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | comm | | | | | | | unication | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"event\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | sets to | | | | | | | \"U | | | | | | | E_COMM\" | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | e | ar | C | 1..N | Each | E | | xcepInfos | ray(Excep | | | element | xceptions | | | tionInfo) | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | exception | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | flow. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | \"event\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | sets to | | | | | | | \"EXCE | | | | | | | PTIONS\". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.5 Type NefEventSubs
Table 5.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type NefEventSubs
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | event | NefEvent | M | 1 | S | | | | | | | ubscribed | | | | | | | event. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ev | NefEv | C | 0..1 | R | ServiceE | | entFilter | entFilter | | | epresents | xperience | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | filter | UeComm | | | | | | in | unication | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | a | U | | | | | | ssociated | eMobility | | | | | | with each | | | | | | | event. | E | | | | | | | xceptions | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | \"event\" | | | | | | | sets to | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | SVC_EXPE | | | | | | | RIENCE\", | | | | | | | \"UE_MO | | | | | | | BILITY\", | | | | | | | \"U | | | | | | | E_COMM\" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | \"EXCE | | | | | | | PTIONS\". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.6 Type UeCommunicationInfo
Table 5.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type UeCommunicationInfo
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | supi | Supi | C | 0..1 | I | | | | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | an UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | exposure | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to more | | | | | | | than one | | | | | | | UE. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | int | GroupId | O | 0..1 | I | | | erGroupId | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | an UE | | | | | | | group. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | appId | Appl | O | 0..1 | I | | | | icationId | | | dentifies | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | comms | arr | M | 1..N | This | | | | ay(Commun | | | attribute | | | | icationCo | | | contains | | | | llection) | | | a list of | | | | | | | comm | | | | | | | unication | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.7 Type NefEventFilter
Table 5.1.6.2.7-1: Definition of type NefEventFilter
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | tgtUe | Targ | M | 1 | R | (NOTE 1) | | | etUeIdent | | | epresents | | | | ification | | | the UE | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | to which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | applies. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | appIds | ar | C | 1..N | Each | ServiceE | | | ray(Appli | | | element | xperience | | | cationId) | | | indicates | | | | | | | an | E | | | | | | ap | xceptions | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | id | UeComm | | | | | | entifier. | unication | | | | | | | | | | | | | If | U | | | | | | absent, | eMobility | | | | | | the | | | | | | | NefEv | | | | | | | entFilter | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to any | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | (i.e. all | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | cations). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | locArea | Networ | O | 0..1 | R | ServiceE | | | kAreaInfo | | | epresents | xperience | | | | | | an area | | | | | | | of | E | | | | | | interest. | xceptions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | UeComm | | | | | | | unication | | | | | | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | eMobility | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | icability | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | corr | | | | | | | esponding | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | type. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | events | | | | | | | \"EXCE | | | | | | | PTIONS\", | | | | | | | \"UE_M | | | | | | | OBILITY\" | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | \"UE | | | | | | | _COMM\", | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "appIds\" | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | only one | | | | | | | element. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.8 Type TargetUeIdentification
Table 5.1.6.2.8-1: Definition of type TargetUeIdentification
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | supis | ar | O | 1..N | Each | ServiceE | | | ray(Supi) | | | element | xperience | | | | | | i | | | | | | | dentifies | E | | | | | | a SUPI | xceptions | | | | | | for an | | | | | | | UE. | U | | | | | | | eMobility | | | | | | | | | | | | | | UeComm | | | | | | | unication | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | inte | array | O | 1..N | Each | ServiceE | | rGroupIds | (GroupId) | | | element | xperience | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | E | | | | | | an | xceptions | | | | | | internal | | | | | | | group | U | | | | | | i | eMobility | | | | | | dentifier | | | | | | | which | UeComm | | | | | | i | unication | | | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | a group | | | | | | | of UEs. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | anyUeId | boolean | O | 0..1 | I | ServiceE | | | | | | dentifies | xperience | | | | | | whether | | | | | | | the | E | | | | | | request | xceptions | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to any | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall set | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | \"true\" | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | for any | | | | | | | UE, | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | therwise, | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "false\". | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | feature, | | | | | | | only one | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifying | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | target UE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | provided. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.9 Type: ServiceExperienceInfo
Table 5.1.6.2.9-1: Definition of type ServiceExperienceInfo
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | appId | Appl | C | 0..1 | I | ServiceE | | | icationId | | | dentifies | xperience | | | | | | an | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | exposure | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to more | | | | | | | than one | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | supis | ar | C | 1..N | Each | ServiceE | | | ray(Supi) | | | element | xperience | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | internal | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | svcEx | array(Se | M | 1..N | Each | ServiceE | | pPerFlows | rviceExpe | | | element | xperience | | | rienceInf | | | indicates | | | | oPerFlow) | | | service | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | xperience | | | | | | | for each | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | flow. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.10 Type: UeMobilityInfo
Table 5.1.6.2.10-1: Definition of type UeMobilityInfo
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | supi | Supi | M | 1 | I | | | | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | an UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | exposure | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to more | | | | | | | than one | | | | | | | UE. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | appId | Appl | O | 0..1 | I | | | | icationId | | | dentifies | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plication | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueTrajs | array | M | 1..N | I | | | | (UeTrajec | | | dentifies | | | | toryInfo) | | | an UE | | | | | | | moving | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | ajectory. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 5.1.6.2.11 Type: UeTrajectoryInfo
Table 5.1.6.2.11-1: Definition of type UeTrajectoryInfo
* * *
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability ts DateTime M
1 Identifies the timestamp when the UE enters this area.  
location UserLocation M 1 Includes the location of the UE.
* * *
#### 5.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 5.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 5.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 5.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 5.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability
* * *
##### 5.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: NefEvent
The enumeration NefEvent represents the observed event requested by the NF
service consumer to be monitored. It shall comply with the provisions defined
in table 5.1.6.3.3-1.
Table 5.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration NefEvent
* * *
Enumeration value Description Applicability SVC_EXPERIENCE Indicates that the
observed event is service experience. ServiceExperience UE_COMM Indicates that
the observed event is UE communication. UeCommunication UE_MOBILITY Indicates
that the observed event is UE mobility. UeMobility EXCEPTIONS Indicates that
the observed event is exceptions information. Exceptions
* * *
### 5.1.7 Error Handling
#### 5.1.7.1 General
For the Nnef_EventExposure API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nnef_EventExposure API.
#### 5.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nnef_EventExposure service are specified.
#### 5.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nnef_EventExposure service are listed
in Table 5.1.7.3-1.
Table 5.1.7.3-1: Application errors
* * *
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
### 5.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 5.1.8-1 are defined for the Nnef_EventExposure
API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in
clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 5.1.8-1: Supported Features
* * *
Feature number Feature Name Description 1 ServiceExperience This feature
indicates support for the \"SVC_EXPERIENCE\" event. 2 UeMobility This feature
indicates support for the \"UE_MOBILITY\" event. 3 UeCommunication This
feature indicates support for the \"UE_COMM\" event. 4 Exceptions This feature
indicates support for the \"EXCEPTIONS\" event. 5 ES3XX Extended Support for
3xx redirections. This feature indicates the support of redirection for any
service operation, according to Stateless NF procedures as specified in
subclauses 6.5.3.2 and 6.5.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and according to HTTP
redirection principles for indirect communication, as specified in subclause
6.10.9 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
* * *
### 5.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nnef_EventExposure API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see
IETF RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nnef_EventExposure API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization
server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS
29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nnef_EventExposure service.
The Nnef_EventExposure API defines a single scope \"nnef-eventexposure\" for
the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource
or operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see clause 5B of the 3GPP TR 21.900
[7] and clause 5.3.1 of the 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] for further information).
# A.2 Nnef_EventExposure API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Nnef_EventExposure
version: 1.0.6
description: \|
NEF Event Exposure Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.591 V16.7.0; 5G System; Network Exposure Function
Southbound Services; Stage 3.
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.591/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nnef-eventexposure/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nnef-eventexposure
paths:
/subscriptions:
post:
summary: subscribe to notifications
operationId: CreateIndividualSubcription
tags:
\- Subscriptions (Collection)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventExposureSubsc\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Success
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventExposureSubsc\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to
the structure: {apiRoot}/nnef-
eventexposure/\/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
myNotification:
\'{\$request.body#/notifUri}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventExposureNotif\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content, Notification was succesfull
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}:
get:
summary: retrieve subscription
operationId: GetIndividualSubcription
tags:
\- IndividualSubscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Event Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
\- name: supp-feat
in: query
description: Features supported by the NF service consumer
required: false
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: OK. Resource representation is returned
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventExposureSubsc\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
summary: update subscription
operationId: ReplaceIndividualSubcription
tags:
\- IndividualSubscription (Document)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventExposureSubsc\'
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Event Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: OK. Resource was succesfully modified and representation is
returned
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventExposureSubsc\'
\'204\':
description: No Content. Resource was succesfully modified
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: unsubscribe from notifications
operationId: DeleteIndividualSubcription
tags:
\- IndividualSubscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Event Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content. Resource was succesfully deleted
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nnef-eventexposure: Access to the Nnef_EventExposure API
schemas:
NefEventExposureSubsc:
type: object
properties:
eventsSubs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventSubs\'
minItems: 1
eventsRepInfo:
\$ref:
\'TS29523_Npcf_EventExposure.yaml#/components/schemas/ReportingInformation\'
notifUri:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
notifId:
type: string
eventNotifs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventNotification\'
minItems: 1
suppFeat:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- eventsSubs
\- notifId
\- notifUri
NefEventExposureNotif:
type: object
properties:
notifId:
type: string
eventNotifs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventNotification\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- notifId
\- eventNotifs
NefEventNotification:
type: object
properties:
event:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEvent\'
timeStamp:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
svcExprcInfos:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ServiceExperienceInfo\'
minItems: 1
ueMobilityInfos:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeMobilityInfo\'
minItems: 1
ueCommInfos:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeCommunicationInfo\'
minItems: 1
excepInfos:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29517_Naf_EventExposure.yaml#/components/schemas/ExceptionInfo\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- event
\- timeStamp
NefEventSubs:
type: object
properties:
event:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEvent\'
eventFilter:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NefEventFilter\'
required:
\- event
NefEventFilter:
type: object
properties:
tgtUe:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/TargetUeIdentification\'
appIds:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ApplicationId\'
minItems: 1
locArea:
\$ref:
\'TS29554_Npcf_BDTPolicyControl.yaml#/components/schemas/NetworkAreaInfo\'
required:
\- tgtUe
TargetUeIdentification:
type: object
properties:
supis:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
minItems: 1
interGroupIds:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/GroupId\'
minItems: 1
anyUeId:
type: boolean
ServiceExperienceInfo:
type: object
properties:
appId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ApplicationId\'
supis:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
minItems: 1
svcExpPerFlows:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29517_Naf_EventExposure.yaml#/components/schemas/ServiceExperienceInfoPerFlow\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- svcExpPerFlows
UeMobilityInfo:
type: object
properties:
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
appId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ApplicationId\'
ueTrajs:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeTrajectoryInfo\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- supi
\- ueTrajs
UeCommunicationInfo:
type: object
properties:
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
interGroupId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/GroupId\'
appId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ApplicationId\'
comms:
type: array
items:
\$ref:
\'TS29517_Naf_EventExposure.yaml#/components/schemas/CommunicationCollection\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- comms
UeTrajectoryInfo:
type: object
properties:
ts:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
location:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/UserLocation\'
required:
\- ts
\- location
# Simple data types and Enumerations
NefEvent:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- SVC_EXPERIENCE
\- UE_MOBILITY
\- UE_COMM
\- EXCEPTIONS
\- type: string
#