# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nudsf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the UDSF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI 3.0.0 Specification\", https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-
Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md..
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
> [12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
> Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] IETF RFC 6902: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Patch\".
[15] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[16] IETF RFC 7232: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Conditional
Requests\".
[17] IETF RFC 7234: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching\".
[18] ISO/IEC 14977: \"Information technology -- Syntactic metalanguage \-
Extended BNF\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[20] IETF RFC 2045: \"Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One:
Format of Internet Message Bodies\".
[21] IETF RFC 2046: \"Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Two:
Media Types\".
[22] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
void
## 3.2 Symbols
void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
BNF Backus--Naur Form
EBNF Extended BNF
CP Control Plane
MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
NF Network Function
UDSF Unstructured Data Storage Function
# 4 Overview
The UDSF, as depicted in Figure 4.1-1 below, is described in clause 4.2.5 of
3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. Any of the 5GS NFs can make use of the UDSF to store and
retrieve unstructured data, i.e., data that is not defined in 3GPP
specifications. The UDSF is deployed in the same network where the CP NF is
located and the same UDSF may be shared by all the NFs in the PLMN to
store/retrieve their respective data or an NF may have its own UDSF depending
on operator configuration.
NOTE 1: Structured data in this specification refers to data for which the
structure is defined in 3GPP specifications. Unstructured data refers to data
for which the structure is not defined in 3GPP specifications.
Figure 4.1-1: Reference model -- UDSF
# 5 Services offered by the UDSF
## 5.1 Introduction
The UDSF offers the following services via the Nudsf service based interface:
\- Nudsf_DataRepository Service
NOTE: This service corresponds to the Nudsf_UnstructuredDataManagement service
in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
Table 5.1-1 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-1: API Descriptions
Service Name Clause Description OpenAPI Specification File apiName Annex
* * *
Nudsf_DataRepository 6.1 UDSF Data Repository Service
TS29598_Nudsf_DataRepository.yaml nudsf-dr A.2
## 5.2 Nudsf_DataRepository Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The UDSF is acting as an NF Service Producer. It provides UDSF data repository
service to the NF service consumer. Any NF may use the UDSF to store
unstructured data.
NOTE 1: Structured data in this specification refers to data for which the
structure is defined in 3GPP specifications. Unstructured data refers to data
for which the structure is not defined in 3GPP specifications.
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
For the Nudsf_DataRepository service, the following service operations are
defined:
\- Query
\- Create
\- Update
\- Delete
\- Notify
\- Subscribe
\- Unsubscribe
#### 5.2.2.2 Query
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The following procedures using the Query service operation are supported:
\- Record Retrieval
\- Meta Retrieval
\- Blocks Retrieval
\- Block Retrieval
\- Search
\- Subscriptions Retrieval
\- Individual Subscription Retrieval
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Record Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to retrieve a record that matches the provided recordId
and optionally includes the query parameter supported-features.
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1: Requesting a Record
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a GET request to the resource
indicated by recordId.
2a. On success, the UDSF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the record.
2b. If the record for the given recordId does not exist in the UDSF, the HTTP
status code \"404 Not Found\" shall be returned optionally including
additional error information in the response body (in the ProblemDetails
element).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
##### 5.2.2.2.3 Meta Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.3-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to retrieve meta data associated with the provided
recordId and optionally includes the query parameter supported-features.
Figure 5.2.2.2.3-1: Requesting Meta for a Record
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a GET request to the meta resource
associated with the record indicated by recordId.
2a. On success, the UDSF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the RecordMeta.
2b. If the record for the given recordId and thus the RecordMeta does not
exist in the UDSF, the HTTP status code \"404 Not Found\" shall be returned
optionally including additional error information in the response body (in the
ProblemDetails element).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
##### 5.2.2.2.4 Blocks Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.4-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to retrieve (all) the blocks associated with the provided
recordId and optionally includes the query parameter supported-features.
Figure 5.2.2.2.4-1: Requesting Blocks
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a GET request to the resource
indicated by recordId.
2a. On success, the UDSF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the Blocks associated with the record.
2b. If a Block for the given recordId does not exist in the UDSF, the HTTP
status code \"204 No Content\" shall be returned.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
##### 5.2.2.2.5 Block Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.5-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to retrieve a single block associated with the provided
recordId and blockId and optionally includes the query parameter supported-
features.
Figure 5.2.2.2.5-1: Requesting a Block
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a GET request to the resource
indicated by recordId and blockId.
2a. On success, the UDSF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the Block associated with the blockId.
2b. If the Block for the given recordId and blockId does not exist in the
UDSF, the HTTP status code \"404 Not Found\" shall be returned optionally
including additional error information in the response body (in the
ProblemDetails element).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
##### 5.2.2.2.6 Search
Figure 5.2.2.2.6-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to search a record that matches the provided search
criteria.
The request contains the query parameters filter and optionally supported-
features, limit-range, and count-indicator.
Figure 5.2.2.2.6-1: Searching for Records
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a GET request to the Records
resource with the filter query parameter indicating the search criteria.
2a. On success, the UDSF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the RecordSearchResult.
2b. If the UDSF is not able to return any record for the given search
criteria, the HTTP status code \"204 No Content\" shall be returned.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
##### 5.2.2.2.7 Subscriptions Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.7-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to retrieve all subscriptions associated with the provided
storageId and optionally includes the query parameter supported-features and
limit-range.
Figure 5.2.2.2.7-1: Requesting Subscriptions
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a GET request to the resource
indicated by the storageId.
2\. On success, the UDSF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the NotificationSubscriptions associated with the storageId (if
any).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
##### 5.2.2.2.8 Individual Subscription Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.8-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to retrieve a subscription associated with the provided
storageId and subscriptionId.
Figure 5.2.2.2.8-1: Requesting an Individual Subscription
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a GET request to the resource
indicated by the storageId and the subscriptionId.
2a. On success, the UDSF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the NotificationSubscription.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the GET response body.
#### 5.2.2.3 Create
##### 5.2.2.3.1 General
The following procedures using the Create service operation are supported:
\- Record Create
\- Block Create
##### 5.2.2.3.2 Record Create
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to create a record with the provided recordId.
The request contains the recordId and optionally the query parameters
supported-features and get-previous.
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1: Create a Record
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a PUT request to create the
resource indicated by recordId. The request body contains the meta, zero or
more blocks. The record meta information is mandatory and shall be the first
part and the remaining parts of the request body (if any) shall be child
blocks. If the record meta information is received with record expiry details,
UDSF shall create an implicit subscription locally and notify the NF service
consumer on record expiry.
2a. On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned, the payload body of the PUT
response should contain the representation of the created resource, and the
\"Location\" header shall be present and shall contain the URI of the created
resource.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
##### 5.2.2.3.3 Block Create
Figure 5.2.2.3.3-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to create a block with the provided blockId.
The request contains the blockid and optionally the query parameters
supported-features and get-previous.
Figure 5.2.2.3.3-1: Create a Block
1\. The NF service consumer (any NF) sends a PUT request to create the
resource indicated by blockId.
2a. On success, \"201 Created\" shall be returned, the payload body of the PUT
response should contain the representation of the created resource, and the
\"Location\" header shall be present and shall contain the URI of the created
resource.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
#### 5.2.2.4 Update
##### 5.2.2.4.1 General
The following procedures using the Update service operation are supported:
\- Record Update
\- Block Update
\- Meta Update
\- Subscription Notification Update
##### 5.2.2.4.2 Record Update
Figure 5.2.2.4.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to update a record with the provided recordId.
The request contains the recordId and optionally the query parameters
supported-features and get-previous.
The update shall include meta, zero or more blocks. The record meta
information shall be the first part and is mandatory and the remaining parts
of the body (if any) shall be interpreted as child blocks. Existing record,
meta and blocks shall be discarded and the new record, meta and blocks (if
any) shall be created.
NOTE: The order of the returned blocks in the response is not guaranteed and
can be different from the order used to create them.
Figure 5.2.2.4.2-1: Update a record
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a PUT request to the resource
representing the record that is to be updated, and may include meta, zero or
more blocks. The record meta information is mandatory and shall be the first
part and the remaining parts of the request body (if any) shall be child
blocks. An existing record, i.e., meta and blocks shall be discarded and the
new record, meta and blocks (if any) shall be created.
2a. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"204 No Content\" if no record is
returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was not included in the
request.
2b. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"200 OK\" if a record is
returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was included in the request,
or due to operator\'s policy, the ttl value in the request exceeded the
maximum value allowed.
2c. On failure, the UDSF shall respond with \"412 Precondition Failed\" if one
or more conditions given in the request header fields evaluated to false. The
RecordBody shall include the stored Record if the get-previous query parameter
was included in the request.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
##### 5.2.2.4.3 Block Update
Figure 5.2.2.4.3-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to update a block with the provided blockId.
The request contains the recordId, blockId and the optional query parameters
supported-features, get-previous and the data that is to be updated.
Figure 5.2.2.4.3-1: Update a block
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a PUT request to the resource
representing the block that is to be updated.
2a. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"204 No Content\" if no record is
returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was not included in the
request.
2b. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"200 OK\" if a record is
returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was included in the request.
2c. On failure, the UDSF shall respond with \"412 Precondition Failed\" if one
or more conditions given in the request header fields evaluated to false. The
BlockBody shall be included with the stored Block if the get-previous query
parameter was included in the request.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
##### 5.2.2.4.4 Meta Update
Figure 5.2.2.4.4-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to update the meta data associated with the provided
recordId and optionally the query parameter supported-features and the data
that is to be updated.
Figure 5.2.2.4.4-1: Update meta
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a PATCH request to the resource
representing the meta of the record.
2a. On success, if all the modification instructions in the PATCH request have
been implemented, the UDSF shall respond with \"204 No Content\".
2b. On partial success, i.e. if one or more modification instructions have
been discarded, \"200 OK\" with the execution report, shall be returned.
2c. On failure, the UDSF shall respond with \"404 Not Found\" if the record
indicated by the recordId and thus the meta does not exist and may shall
include the ProblemDetails.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
##### 5.2.2.4.5 Subscription Notification Update
Figure 5.2.2.4.5-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to update the Individual Subscription Notification
identified with the storageId and subscriptionId and optionally the query
parameter supported-features and the data that is to be updated.
Figure 5.2.2.4.5-1: Update Subscription Notification
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a PATCH request to the resource
representing the subscriptionId.
2a. On success, if all the modification instructions in the PATCH request have
been implemented, the UDSF shall respond with \"204 No Content\".
2b. On partial success, i.e. if one or more modification instructions have
been discarded, \"200 OK\" with the execution report, shall be returned.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PATCH response body.
##### 5.2.2.4.6 Subscription Notification Update using PUT
Figure 5.2.2.4.6-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to update a subscription to notifications of data change
using PUT. The request contains the subscriptionId and the
NotificationSubscription and optionally the query parameter supported-
features.
Figure 5.2.2.4.6-1: NF service consumer updates subscription to notifications
1\. The NF service consumer sends a PUT request to the resource indicated by
the storageId and the subscriptionId. The parameter clientId shall be
included. If the resource indicated in URI exists and was created by the
Client identified by the clientId, the UDSF shall apply the update of the
subscription.
2a. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"200 OK\" and include the updated
NotificationSubscription. The expiry attribute of the received
NotificationSubscription may indicate a value or a value different from the
request, if due to an operator policy, an expiry time is enforced or if the
value in the request exceeded a maximum allowed expiry time.
2b. On failure, if one or more monitoredResourceUris from the request don\'t
exist in the UDSF, 409 Conflict shall be returned together with the non-
existing monitoredResourceUris.
2c. On failure, if the service operation cannot be authorized due to e.g. the
resource indicated in URI exists but the clientId in the PUT request does not
match the clientId of the existing resource, the UDSF shall respond with \"403
Forbidden\" and optionally including additional error information in the
response body (in \"ProblemDetails\" element).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
#### 5.2.2.5 Delete
##### 5.2.2.5.1 General
The following procedures using the Delete service operation are supported:
\- Record Delete
\- Block Delete
##### 5.2.2.5.2 Record Delete
Figure 5.2.2.5.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to Delete a record with the provided recordId.
The request contains the record id and optionally the query parameters
supported-features and get-previous.
Figure 5.2.2.5.2-1: Delete a record
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a DELETE request to the resource
representing the record. The UDSF shall delete any resource associated with
the resource (meta and block(s)).
2a. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"204 No Content\" if no record is
returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was not included in the
request.
2b. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"200 OK\" if a record is
returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was included in the request.
2c. On failure, the UDSF shall respond with \"404 Not Found\" if the record
does not exist and may include the ProblemDetails.
2d. On failure, the UDSF shall respond with \"412 Precondition Failed\" if one
or more conditions given in the request header fields evaluated to false and
the get-previous query parameter was included in the request. The RecordBody
shall be included if the get-previous query parameter was included in the
request.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the DELETE response body.
##### 5.2.2.5.3 Block Delete
Figure 5.2.2.5.3-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to Delete a block with the provided blockId.
The request contains the recordId, blockId and optionally the query parameters
supported-features and get-previous.
Figure 5.2.2.5.3-1: Delete a block
1\. The NF service consumer shall send a DELETE request to the resource
representing the block.
2a. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"204 No Content\" if no block is
returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was not included in the
request.
2b. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"200 OK\" if a block is returned,
i.e. the get-previous query parameter was included in the request.
2c. On failure, the UDSF shall respond with \"404 Not Found\" if the block
does not exist and may include the ProblemDetails.
2d. On failure, the UDSF shall respond with \"412 Precondition Failed\" if one
or more conditions given in the request header fields evaluated to false. The
BlockBody shall be included if the get-previous query parameter was included
in the request.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the DELETE response body.
#### 5.2.2.6 Notify
##### 5.2.2.6.1 General
The following procedures using the Notify service operation are supported:
\- Record Expiry Notify
\- Notification due to Data Change
##### 5.2.2.6.2 Record Expiry Notify
Figure5.2.2.6.2-1 shows a scenario where the UDSF notifies the NF service
consumer of the expired record.
The Notify is sent by the UDSF to the NF Service Consumer when the record
expires as indicated by the time to live (ttl) attribute of RecordMeta.
Figure 5.2.2.6.2-1: Record Expiry Notify
1\. The UDSF shall send a POST request to the callback URI. The request shall
contain the record details.
2a. On success, \"204 No content\" shall be returned by the NF Service
Consumer to UDSF.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the POST response body.
##### 5.2.2.6.3 Notification due to Data Change
Figure 5.2.2.6.3-1 shows a scenario where the UDSF notifies the NF service
consumer of a change to data associated with a block or a record triggered by
one or more a Subscription to Notification.
Figure 5.2.2.6.3-1: Notification due to Data Change
1\. The UDSF shall send a POST request to the callback URI. The request shall
contain the RecordNotification details.
2\. On success, \"204 No content\" shall be returned by the NF Service
Consumer to UDSF.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the POST response body.
#### 5.2.2.7 Subscribe
##### 5.2.2.7.1 General
The following procedures using the Subscribe service operation are supported:
\- Subscription to notification of data change
##### 5.2.2.7.2 Subscription to notifications of data change
Figure 5.2.2.7.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to subscribe to notifications of data change. The request
contains the subscriptionId, the NotificationSubscription and optionally the
query parameter supported-features.
Figure 5.2.2.7.2-1: NF service consumer subscribes to notifications
1\. The NF service consumer sends a PUT request to the resource indicated by
the storageId and the subscriptionId. The parameter clientId shall be
included. If the resource indicated in URI doesn\'t exist, the UDSF shall
trigger the creation of the subscription.
2a. On success, the UDSF responds with \"201 Created\"with the message body
containing the NotificationSubscription. The expiry attribute of the received
NotificationSubscription may indicate a value or a value different from the
request, if due to an operator policy, an expiry time is enforced or if the
value in the request exceeded a maximum allowed expiry time.
2b. On failure, if one or more monitoredResourceUris from the request don\'t
exist in the UDSF, 409 Conflict shall be returned together with the non-
existing monitoredResourceUris.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
#### 5.2.2.8 Unsubscribe
##### 5.2.2.8.1 General
The following procedures using the Unsubscribe service operation are
supported:
\- Unsubscription to notification of data change
##### 5.2.2.8.2 Unsubscription to notifications of data change
Figure 5.2.2.8.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF service consumer sends a
request to the UDSF to Unsubscribe to notifications of data change. The
request contains the subscriptionId, and query parameter client-id, optionally
query parameters supported-features and get-previous.
Figure 5.2.2.8.2-1: NF service consumer unsubscribes to notifications
1\. The NF service consumer sends a DELETE request to the resource
representing the subscription to notification of data change which is
indicated by the subscriptionId.
2a. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"204 No Content\" if an empty
response body is returned, i.e. the get-previous query parameter was not
included in the request.
2b. On success, the UDSF shall respond with \"200 OK\" with
NotificationSubscription containing the NotificationSubscription value before
the delete if get-previous was indicated in the request.
2c. If the service operation cannot be authorized due to e.g. the client-id
query parameter does not match the clientId of the existing resource, the UDSF
shall respond with \"403 Forbidden\" with including additional error
information in the response body (in \"ProblemDetails\" element).
2d. If there is no valid subscription to notification of data change which is
indicated by the request, the UDSF shall respond with \"404 Not Found\" with
including additional error information in the response body (in
\"ProblemDetails\" element).
2e. If one or more conditions given in the request header fields evaluated to
false, the UDSF shall respond with \"412 Precondition Failed\".
NotificationSubscription shall be included in the response if get-previous was
indicated in the request.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the PUT response body.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nudsf_DataRepository Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The Nudsf_DataRepository service shall use the Nudsf_DataRepository API.
The API URI of the Nudsf_DataRepository API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/**
The request URI used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards the
NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in clause
4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nudsf-dr\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nudsf_DataRepository API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
The following content types shall be supported:
\- JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\- \"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional
details of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the
content type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
\- JSON Patch (IETF RFC 6902 [14]). The use of the JSON Patch format in a HTTP
request body shall be signalled by the content type \"application/json-
patch+json\".
Multipart messages shall also be supported possibly indicating other content-
types as described in clause 6.1.2.4.
##### 6.1.2.2.3 Cache-Control
As described in IETF RFC 7234 [17] clause 5.2, a \"Cache-Control\" header
should be included in HTTP responses carrying a representation of cacheable
resources. If it is included, it shall contain a \"max-age\" value, indicating
the amount of time in seconds after which the received response is considered
stale.
The \"max-age\" value shall be configurable by operator policy.
##### 6.1.2.2.4 ETag
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [16] clause 2.3, an \"ETag\" (entity-tag) header
should be included in HTTP responses carrying a representation of cacheable or
modifiable resources to allow an NF Service Consumer performing a conditional
GET request with an \"If-None-Match\" header or a conditional PUT/PATCH/DELETE
request with an \"If-Match\" header. If it is included, it shall contain a
server-generated strong validator, that allows further matching of this value
(included in subsequent client requests) with a given resource representation
stored in the server or in a cache.
##### 6.1.2.2.5 If-None-Match
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [16] clause 3.2, an NF Service Consumer may
issue conditional GET or PUT requests towards UDSF by including an \"If-None-
Match\" header in HTTP requests containing one or several entity tags received
in previous responses for the same resource.
If the If-None-Match header is included with the PUT method, it shall be used
with a value of \"*\" to prevent the inadvertent modification of an existing
representation of the target resource when the client believes that the
resource does not have a current representation.
##### 6.1.2.2.6 If-Match
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [16] clause 3.1, an NF Service Consumer may
issue conditional PUT/PATCH/DELETE request towards UDSF by including an \"If-
Match\" header in HTTP requests containing an entity tag received in previous
responses for the same resource.
##### 6.1.2.2.7 Last-Modified
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [16] clause 2.2, a \"Last-Modified\" header
should be included in HTTP responses carrying a representation of cacheable
resources to allow an NF Service Consumer performing a conditional request
with \"If-Modified-Since\" header.
##### 6.1.2.2.8 If-Modified-Since
As described in IETF RFC 7232 [16] clause 3.3, an NF Service Consumer may
issue conditional GET request towards UDSF, by including an \"If-Modified-
Since\" header in HTTP requests.
##### 6.1.2.2.9 When to Use Entity-Tags and Last-Modified Dates
Both \"ETag\" and \"Last-Modified\" headers should be sent in the same HTTP
response as stated in IETF RFC 7232 [16] clause 2.4.
NOTE: \"ETag\" is a stronger validator than the \"Last-Modified\" and is
preferred.
If the UDSF included an \"ETag\" header with the resource then a conditional
GET request for this resource shall be performed with the \"If-None-Match\"
header, and a PUT/PATCH/DELETE request for this resource shall be performed
with the \"If-Match\" header.
##### 6.1.2.2.10 Content-Location
As described in IETF RFC 7231 [15] clause 3.1.4.2, the UDSF shall include the
Content-Location header set to the URI of the expired Record when sending a
Notification to an NF Consumer.
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be applicable.
#### 6.1.2.4 HTTP multipart messages
##### 6.1.2.4.1 General
HTTP multipart messages shall be supported to transfer the opaque Record and
Block Information in the following service operations (and HTTP messages):
\- Record (PUT/GET/DELETE)
\- BlockCollection (GET)
\- RecordNotification (POST)
NOTE: In the clauses below, this specification deviates in the definition of
the Content-ID header from IETF RFC 2045 [20] in that there is no need for the
Content-ID to be \"world unique\", as in this specification the Content-ID is
only required to be unique within the context of a Record, BlockCollection or
RecordNotification.
##### 6.1.2.4.2 Record
The Record is encoded as an HTTP multipart message with the multipart/mixed
content-type as described in IETF RFC 2046 [21].
The boundary parameter is used to delimit each part (Start of parts to
RecordMeta, RecordMeta to Block, Block to Block and Block to End of parts) and
shall be set to a value as in accordance with IETF RFC 2046 [21].
The RecordMeta part shall be the first part, and shall always be present. It
shall include a Content-ID header that may be set to an unquoted value of
\"meta\" or any other suitable value, for example as described in IETF RFC
2045 [20], the Content-Type (see IETF RFC 2045 [20]) header set to
\"application/json\" and include JSON content for the RecordMeta.
Zero or more Block parts may follow the RecordMeta Part. For each Block part
in the HTTP multipart/mixed message, the Block part shall include a Content-ID
header identifying the Block with the value of the blockId, a Content-Type
(see IETF RFC 2045 [20]) header indicating the MIME type of the Block (any
value), e.g. application/octet-stream, application/json or another applicable
MIME type and the Content-Transfer-Encoding (see IETF RFC 2045 [20]) header
with an appropriate value.
##### 6.1.2.4.3 BlockCollection
The BlockCollection is encoded as an HTTP multipart message with the
multipart/parallel content-type as described in IETF RFC 2046 [21].
The boundary parameter is used to delimit each part (Start of parts to Block,
Block to Block and Block to End of parts) and shall be set to a value as in
accordance with IETF RFC 2046 [21].
For the BlockCollection, zero or more Block parts may be included. For each
Block part in the HTTP multipart/parallel message, the Block part shall
include a Content-ID header identifying the Block with the value of the
blockId, a Content-Type header indicating the MIME type of the Block (any
value) e.g. application/octet-stream, application/json or another applicable
MIME type and the Content-Transfer-Encoding (see IETF RFC 2045 [20]) header
with an appropriate value.
##### 6.1.2.4.4 RecordNotification
The RecordNotification is encoded as an HTTP multipart message with the
multipart/mixed content-type as described in IETF RFC 2046 [21].
The boundary parameter is used to delimit each part (Start of parts to
RecordNotification, RecordNotification to RecordMeta, RecordMeta to Block,
Block to Block and Block to End of parts) and shall be set to a value in
accordance with IETF RFC 2046 [21].
The RecordNotification shall be the first part, and shall always be present.
It shall include a Content-ID header set to an unquoted value (see IETF RFC
2045 [20]), of \"recordnotification\" or any other suitable value, for example
as described in IETF RFC 2045 [20], the Content-Type (see IETF RFC 2045 [20])
header set to \"application/json\" and include JSON content for the
NotificationDescription.
The RecordMeta part shall be the second part, and shall always be present. It
shall include a Content-ID header set to an unquoted value of \"meta\" or any
other suitable value, for example as described in IETF RFC 2045 [20], the
Content-Type (see IETF RFC 2045 [20]) header set to \"application/json\" and
include JSON content for the RecordMeta.
Zero or more Block parts may follow the RecordMeta Part. For each Block part
in the HTTP multipart/mixed message, the Block part shall include a Content-ID
header identifying the Block with the value of the blockId, a Content-Type
(see IETF RFC 2045 [20]) header indicating the MIME type of the Block (any
value), e.g. application/octet-stream, application/json or another applicable
MIME type and the Content-Transfer-Encoding (see IETF RFC 2045 [20]) header
with an appropriate value.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the nudsf-dr API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +================+================+================+================+ | Re | /{ | GET | Search for | | cordCollection | realmId}/{stor | | records | | | ageId}/records | | | | (Collection) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Record | /{realmId}/{s | GET | Retrieve a | | | torageId}/reco | | record | | (Document) | rds/{recordId} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PUT | Create or | | | | | update a | | | | | record | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DELETE | Delete a | | | | | record | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Meta | /{re | GET | Retrieve the | | | almId}/{storag | | meta of a | | (Document) | eId}/records/{ | | record | | | recordId}/meta | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PATCH | Modify the | | | | | meta of a | | | | | record | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | /{real | GET | Retrieve all | | lockCollection | mId}/{storageI | | the blocks of | | | d}/records/{re | | a record | | (Collection) | cordId}/blocks | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Block | /{ | GET | Retrieve a | | | realmId}/{stor | | block | | (Document) | ageId}/records | | | | | /{recordId}/bl | | | | | ocks/{blockId} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PUT | Create or | | | | | update a block | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DELETE | Delete a block | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notificatio | /{realmId | GET | Retrieve | | nSubscriptions | }/{storageId}/ | | existing | | (Collection) | subs-to-notify | | subscriptions | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Individual | /{realmId}/{ | DELETE | Delete the | | Notificati | storageId}/sub | | subscription | | onSubscription | s-to-notify/{s | | identified by | | (Document) | ubscriptionId} | | {su | | | | | bscriptionId}, | | | | | i.e. | | | | | unsubscribe to | | | | | notification | | | | | for change of | | | | | data | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PATCH | Update an | | | | | individual | | | | | Subscription | | | | | to | | | | | notification | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | PUT | Create or | | | | | update a | | | | | subscription | | | | | to | | | | | notification, | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | GET | Retrieve an | | | | | individual | | | | | Subscription | | | | | to | | | | | notification | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: RecordCollection (Collection)
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents the collection of records within a storage. It can be
used to search for specific records matching specific filter criteria.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 realmId Represents the realm Id. storageId Represents
the storage Id.
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.2.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Name | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | supported | Supporte | O | 0..1 | see | | | -features | dFeatures | | | 3G | | | | | | | PP TS 29. | | | | | | | 500 [4] | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 6.6 | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | filter | SearchE | O | 0..1 | The | | | | xpression | | | filter | | | | | | | criteria | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | searching | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | records | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | storage. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | li | Uinteger | C | 0..1 | When set, | | | mit-range | | | | the | | | | | | | returned | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | most the | | | | | | | number of | | | | | | | record | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eferences | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | value. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | | count- | | | | | | | indicator | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | is set in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | request, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | ignored. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | count- | boolean | O | 0..1 | If this | | | indicator | | | | parameter | | | | | | | is set, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | number of | | | | | | | records | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | matched | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | criteria | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | returned | | | | | | | and no | | | | | | | record | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eferences | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | returned. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Recor | M | 1 | 200 OK | The search | | dSearchResult | | | | result | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the record | | | | | | references | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | filter. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The search | | | | | Content | did not | | | | | | result in any | | | | | | matching | | | | | | record | | | | | | references. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.3.3 Resource: Record (Document)
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Description
This resource represents a record within a storage.
##### 6.1.3.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 realmId Represents the realm Id where the record is
stored storageId Represents the storage Id where the record is stored recordId
Represents the record Id of the record
##### 6.1.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.3.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RecordBody | M | 1 | 200 OK | A response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the record. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -RECOR | | | | | | D_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.3.3.2 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6  
get-previous boolean O 0..1 Request to return the previous record content if a
record already exists in the targeted storage for the same record identifier.
* * *
When creating or replacing the record, meta and zero or more blocks shall be
included. The record meta information shall be the first part and is
mandatory. The remaining parts of the body (if any) shall be the blocks to be
updated or created. See clause 6.1.2.4 for details on the encoding.
If the operation updates an existing record, then the existing record and its
blocks shall be discarded and replaced by the meta and blocks supplied with
the request. This also applies to the case when no new blocks are included,
i.e. the old blocks (if any) shall be deleted from the record.
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.3.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description Record M 1 The record that is to be
created including meta and zero or more blocks.
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RecordBody | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon | | | | | | successful | | | | | | update of a | | | | | | record, a | | | | | | response body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | record value | | | | | | (if | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, and | | | | | | if one | | | | | | exists) will | | | | | | be returned | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RecordBody | O | 0..1 | 201 Created | Upon | | | | | | successful | | | | | | creation of a | | | | | | record, a | | | | | | response body | | | | | | of the | | | | | | created | | | | | | record shall | | | | | | be returned. | | | | | | If due to | | | | | | operator\'s | | | | | | policy the | | | | | | value of the | | | | | | ttl (if any) | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request | | | | | | exceeded a | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | allowed ttl | | | | | | value with | | | | | | the ttl set | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | applied by | | | | | | the UDSF. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Upon | | | | | Content | successful | | | | | | update of a | | | | | | record, an | | | | | | empty | | | | | | response is | | | | | | returned or | | | | | | if no | | | | | | previous | | | | | | record value | | | | | | was | | | | | | requested. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 FORBIDDEN | If the UDSF | | roblemDetails | | | | (based on | | | | | | operator | | | | | | policy), | | | | | | determines to | | | | | | apply a ttl | | | | | | value of the | | | | | | recordMeta | | | | | | different | | | | | | from the ttl | | | | | | value (if | | | | | | any) of the | | | | | | request, the | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | qu | | | | | | ery-parameter | | | | | | is present in | | | | | | the request | | | | | | and the | | | | | | request | | | | | | applies to a | | | | | | record that | | | | | | already | | | | | | exists in the | | | | | | UDSF, the | | | | | | \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -TTL_VALUE\ | | | | | | _NOT_ALLOWED | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RecordBody | O | 0..1 | 412 | If one or | | | | | Precondition | more | | | | | Failed | conditions | | | | | | given in the | | | | | | request | | | | | | header fields | | | | | | evaluated to | | | | | | false and | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, the | | | | | | UDSF shall | | | | | | include the | | | | | | RecordBody in | | | | | | the response. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.3.3.3 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6  
get-previous boolean O 0..1 Request to return the record content if a record
exists in the targeted storage for the same record identifier.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.3.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.3.3.3-3.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.3.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RecordBody | O | 0..1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | | | | | and a | | | | | | response body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the record | | | | | | value with | | | | | | meta and | | | | | | associated | | | | | | blocks (if | | | | | | any), if | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Upon success | | | | | Content | and no | | | | | | response body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the record | | | | | | was | | | | | | requested. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RecordBody | O | 0..1 | 412 | If one or | | | | | Precondition | more | | | | | Failed | conditions | | | | | | given in the | | | | | | request | | | | | | header fields | | | | | | evaluated to | | | | | | false and | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, the | | | | | | UDSF shall | | | | | | include the | | | | | | RecordBody in | | | | | | the response. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -RECOR | | | | | | D_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.3.4 Resource: Meta (Document)
##### 6.1.3.4.1 Description
This resource represents the meta associated with a record.
##### 6.1.3.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}/meta**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.4.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 realmId Represents the realm Id where the record is
stored storageId Represents the storage Id where the record is stored recordId
Represents the record Id of the record
##### 6.1.3.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.4.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | RecordMeta | M | 1 | 200 OK | A response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the record | | | | | | meta will be | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -RECOR | | | | | | D_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.4.3.2 PATCH
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PATCH method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.4.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PATCH Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description array(patchItem) M 1..N A collection of
patch items to apply on the record meta.
* * *
Table 6.1.3.4.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PATCH Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Upon | | | | | Content | successful | | | | | | modification, | | | | | | there is no | | | | | | body in the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | PatchResult | M | 1 | 200 OK | If one or | | | | | | more | | | | | | modification | | | | | | instructions | | | | | | have been | | | | | | discarded, | | | | | | the execution | | | | | | report is | | | | | | returned. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | maybe used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -RECOR | | | | | | D_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | addition | | | | | | common data | | | | | | structures as | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1are | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If | | | | | | all the | | | | | | modification | | | | | | instructions | | | | | | in the PATCH | | | | | | request have | | | | | | been | | | | | | implemented, | | | | | | the UDSF | | | | | | shall respond | | | | | | with 204 No | | | | | | Content | | | | | | response; if | | | | | | some of the | | | | | | modification | | | | | | instructions | | | | | | in the PATCH | | | | | | request have | | | | | | been | | | | | | discarded, | | | | | | the UDSF | | | | | | shall respond | | | | | | with | | | | | | PatchResult. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.3.5 Resource: BlockCollection (Collection)
##### 6.1.3.5.1 Description
This resource represents the collection of blocks of associated with a record.
##### 6.1.3.5.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}/blocks**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.5.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.5.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 realmId Represents the realm Id where the record is
stored storageId Represents the storage Id where the record is stored recordId
Represents the record Id of the record
##### 6.1.3.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.5.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.5.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.5.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | array(Block) | M | 1..N | 200 OK | A response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | blocks. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | The | | | | | Content | Bl | | | | | | ockCollection | | | | | | did not | | | | | | contain any | | | | | | blocks. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.3.6 Resource: Block (Document)
##### 6.1.3.6.1 Description
This resource represents a record within a storage.
##### 6.1.3.6.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}/blocks/{blockId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.6.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.6.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 realmId Represents the realm Id where the record is
stored storageId Represents the storage Id where the record is stored recordId
Represents the record Id of the record blockId Represents the block Id of the
block
##### 6.1.3.6.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.6.3.1 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.6.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.6.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.6.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.6.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.6.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.6.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BlockBody | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | | | | | a response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the requested | | | | | | block is | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | maybe used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -RECOR | | | | | | D_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -BLOC | | | | | | K_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.6.3.2 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.6.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.6.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6  
get-previous boolean O 0..1 Request to return the previous block content if a
block already exists in the targeted storage for the same block identifier.
* * *
If the operation updates an existing block, then the existing block shall be
discarded and replaced by the block supplied with the request.
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.6.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.6.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.6.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description Block M 1 The block definition that shall
be created. A Content-Type http header can be set to specify the media type of
the block\'s opaque content. If the media-type is not included, the media-type
shall be set to application/octet-stream.
* * *
Table 6.1.3.6.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BlockBody | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon | | | | | | successful | | | | | | update of a | | | | | | block, a | | | | | | response body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | record value | | | | | | ((if | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request and | | | | | | if one | | | | | | exists) will | | | | | | be returned | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 201 Created | Upon | | | | | | successful | | | | | | creation of a | | | | | | record, an | | | | | | empty | | | | | | response | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Upon | | | | | Content | successful | | | | | | update of a | | | | | | record, an | | | | | | empty | | | | | | response is | | | | | | returned if | | | | | | no previous | | | | | | record value | | | | | | was | | | | | | requested. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -RECOR | | | | | | D_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BlockBody | O | 0..1 | 412 | If one or | | | | | Precondition | more | | | | | Failed | conditions | | | | | | given in the | | | | | | request | | | | | | header fields | | | | | | evaluated to | | | | | | false and | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, the | | | | | | UDSF shall | | | | | | include the | | | | | | BlockBody in | | | | | | the response. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the PUT | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.6.3.3 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.6.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.3.6.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6  
get-previous boolean O 0..1 Request to return the previous block content (if
any).
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.6.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.6.3.3-3.
Table 6.1.3.6.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.6.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BlockBody | O | 0..1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | | | | | and a | | | | | | response body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the block was | | | | | | requested. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | Upon success, | | | | | Content | and no | | | | | | response body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the block was | | | | | | requested. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | BlockBody | O | 0..1 | 412 | If one or | | | | | Precondition | more | | | | | Failed | conditions | | | | | | given in the | | | | | | request | | | | | | header fields | | | | | | evaluated to | | | | | | false and | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, the | | | | | | UDSF shall | | | | | | include the | | | | | | BlockBody in | | | | | | the response. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -RECOR | | | | | | D_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -BLOC | | | | | | K_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.3.7 Resource: NotificationSubscriptions
##### 6.1.3.7.1 Description
This resource is used to represent notification subscriptions.
##### 6.1.3.7.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\ /{realmId}/{storageId}/subs-
to-notify**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.7.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.7.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 realmId Represents the realm Id. storageId Represents
the storage Id.
##### 6.1.3.7.3 Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.7.3.2 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.7.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.7.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
supported-features SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6
limit-range Uinteger C 0..1 When set, the returned response shall contain at
the most the number of Notification Subscriptions specified by the parameter
value.
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.7.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.7.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.7.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
n/a
Table 6.1.3.7.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | array | M | 0..N | 200 OK | Upon success, | | (Notification | | | | a response | | Subscription) | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the | | | | | | individual | | | | | | subscriptions | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 NOT FOUND | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.3.8 Resource: IndividualNotificationSubscription
##### 6.1.3.8.1 Description
This resource is used to represent an individual subscriber data subscriptions
to notifications.
##### 6.1.3.8.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\ /{realmId}/{storageId}/subs-
to-notify/{subscriptionId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.8.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.8.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 realmId Represents the realm Id. storageId Represents
the storage Id. subscriptionId The subscriptionId identifies an individual
NotficiationSubscription.
##### 6.1.3.8.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.8.3.1 DELETE
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
client-id ClientId M 1 The client-id is used by the UDSF to guard against
deletion of notification subscriptions that do not belong to the same NF or
NFSet. supported-features SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]
clause 6.6 get-previous boolean O 0..1 Request to return the associated
NotificationSubscription if it exist.
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.8.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
n/a The request body shall be empty.
Table 6.1.3.8.1-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | Notificatio | O | 0..1 | 200 OK | Upon | | nSubscription | | | | successful | | | | | | delete of a | | | | | | Notification | | | | | | Subscription, | | | | | | a response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the | | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | | nSubscription | | | | | | value before | | | | | | the delete | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned if | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 NO | Upon success, | | | | | CONTENTt | an empty | | | | | | response body | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 FORBIDDEN | If the | | roblemDetails | | | | client-id | | | | | | query | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | does not | | | | | | match the | | | | | | clientId of | | | | | | the existing | | | | | | resource, 403 | | | | | | FORBIDDEN | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned and | | | | | | the \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | SUBSCRI | | | | | | PTION_EXISTS | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 NOT FOUND | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -SUBSCRIPTIO | | | | | | N_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Notificatio | O | 0..1 | 412 | 412 | | nSubscription | | | PRECONDITION | PRECONDITION | | | | | FAILED | FAILED is | | | | | | returned if | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | given in the | | | | | | request | | | | | | header fields | | | | | | evaluated to | | | | | | false. If | | | | | | get-previous | | | | | | was indicated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, the | | | | | | UDSF shall | | | | | | include the | | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | | nSubscription | | | | | | in the | | | | | | response. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.8.3.2 PATCH
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the PATCH method on
this resource
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
supported-features SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.8.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the PATCH Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
array(PatchItem) M 1..N Contains the delta data of the Notification
Subscription to be updated.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the PATCH Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | n/a | | | 204 NO | Upon | | | | | CONTENT | successful | | | | | | modification, | | | | | | there is no | | | | | | body in the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | PatchResult | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | | | | | the execution | | | | | | report is | | | | | | returned. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 NOT FOUND | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -SUBSCRIPTIO | | | | | | N_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | addition | | | | | | common data | | | | | | structures as | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1are | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If | | | | | | all the | | | | | | modification | | | | | | instructions | | | | | | in the PATCH | | | | | | request have | | | | | | been | | | | | | implemented, | | | | | | the UDSF | | | | | | shall respond | | | | | | with 204 No | | | | | | Content | | | | | | response; if | | | | | | some of the | | | | | | modification | | | | | | instructions | | | | | | in the PATCH | | | | | | request have | | | | | | been | | | | | | discarded, | | | | | | the UDSF | | | | | | shall respond | | | | | | with 200 OK | | | | | | and include | | | | | | the | | | | | | PatchResult. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.8.3.3 GET
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.3-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
supported-features SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6.
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.3-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.8.3.3-3.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.3-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
n/a The request body shall be empty.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.3-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | Notificatio | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | nSubscription | | | | a response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the | | | | | | individual | | | | | | subscriptions | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 NOT FOUND | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -SUBSCRIPTIO | | | | | | N_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
###### 6.1.3.8.3.4 PUT
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.4-1.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.4-1: URI query parameters supported by the PUT method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability supported-features
SupportedFeatures O 0..1 see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.8.3.4-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.8.3.4-3.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.4-2: Data structures supported by the PUT Request Body on this
resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
NotificationSubscription M 1 The Notification Subscription.
Table 6.1.3.8.3.4-3: Data structures supported by the PUT Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | Notificatio | M | 1 | 201 CREATED | Upon success, | | nSubscription | | | | the created | | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | | nSubscription | | | | | | is returned. | | | | | | | | | | | | The HTTP | | | | | | response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a | | | | | | \"Location\" | | | | | | HTTP header | | | | | | that contains | | | | | | the resource | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | created | | | | | | resource. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Notificatio | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | nSubscription | | | | the updated | | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | | nSubscription | | | | | | is returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 NOT FOUND | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | -REAL | | | | | | M_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | -STORAG | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 FORBIDDEN | If the | | roblemDetails | | | | clientId of | | | | | | the PUT | | | | | | request does | | | | | | not match the | | | | | | clientId of | | | | | | the existing | | | | | | resource, 403 | | | | | | FORBIDDEN | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned and | | | | | | the \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | SUBSCRI | | | | | | PTION_EXISTS | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | array(Uri) | O | 1..N | 409 CONFLICT | If one or | | | | | | more | | | | | | monitore | | | | | | dResourceUris | | | | | | from the | | | | | | request | | | | | | don\'t exist | | | | | | in the UDSF, | | | | | | 409 CONFLICT | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned | | | | | | together with | | | | | | the | | | | | | non-existing | | | | | | monitored | | | | | | ResourceUris. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None.
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and clause
4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
#### 6.1.5.2 Timer Expiry Notification
##### 6.1.5.2.1 Description
The Timer Expiry Notification is used by the NF service producer to report to
an NF Consumer that the Record has expired as indicated by the ttl attribute
(if set) of RecordMeta and if a callbackReference was set in the RecordMeta.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Target URI
The Callback URI **\"{callbackReference}\"** shall be used with the callback
URI variables defined in table 6.1.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.2-1: Target URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
callbackReference string formatted as URI with the Callback Uri
##### 6.1.5.2.3 Standard Methods
###### 6.1.5.2.3.1 POST
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.5.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
RecordBody M 1 The RecordBody of the record that was deleted.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description
* * *
n/a 204 No Content Upon success, an empty response body shall be returned.
NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in
Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] also apply.
#### 6.1.5.3 Notification due to Data Change
##### 6.1.5.3.1 Description
The Notification due to Data Change is used by the UDSF to report to an NF
Consumer that a Record that is part of a NotificationSubscription has been
updated or deleted.
##### 6.1.5.3.2 Target URI
The Callback URI **\"{callbackReference}\"** shall be used with the callback
URI variables defined in table 6.1.5.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.3.2-1: Callback URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
callbackReference String formatted as URI with the Callback Uri
##### 6.1.5.3.3 Standard Methods
###### 6.1.5.3.3.1 POST
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.5.3.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.5.3.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.5.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
RecordNotification M 1 The notification with the record information.
Table 6.1.5.3.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description
* * *
n/a 204 NO CONTENT Upon success, an empty response body shall be returned.
NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in
Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] also apply.
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the N~udsf~ service based
interface protocol. For simple data types defined for the Nudsf_DataRepository
service API see table 6.1.6.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: N~udsf~ specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
RecordSearchResult 6.1.6.2.2 Record Search Result  
RecordMeta 6.1.6.2.3 Record Meta  
RecordBody 6.1.6.2.4 Record Body  
Record 6.1.6.2.5 Record  
BlockBody 6.1.6.2.6 Block Body  
Block 6.1.6.2.7 Block  
SearchCondition 6.1.6.2.8 Search Condition  
SearchComparison 6.1.6.2.9 Search Comparison  
ComparisonOperator 6.1.6.3.3 Comparison Operator  
ConditionOperator 6.1.6.3.4 Condition Operator  
SearchExpression 6.1.6.4.1 Search Expression  
NotificationSubscription 6.1.6.2.10 Notification Subscription  
RecordNotification 6.1.6.2.11 Record Notification  
NotificationDescription 6.1.6.2.12 Notification Description  
SubscriptionFilter 6.1.6.2.13 Subscription Filter  
ClientId 6.1.6.2.14 Client Identity  
RecordOperation 6.1.6.3.5 Record Operation
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the N~udsf~ service based
interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within the N~udsf~ service based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: N~udsf~ re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [19] see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] clause 6.6.  
PatchItem 3GPP TS 29.571 [19] Data structure used for JSON patch.  
PatchResult 3GPP TS 29.571 [19]  
Uri 3GPP TS 29.571 [19]  
DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571 [19]  
NfInstanceId 3GPP TS 29.571 [19]  
NfSetId 3GPP TS 29.571 [19]
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: RecordSearchResult
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type RecordSearchResult
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
count Uinteger M 1 The number of records found by the search.  
references array(Uri) O 1..N The Record references found by the search.  
supportedFeatures SupportedFeatures O 0..1 See clause 6.1.8
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: RecordMeta
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type RecordMeta
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
tags map(array(string)) O 1..N(1..M) A map of tag name/values pairs, where the
tag name is a unique string name that is the primary key of the map and is
paired with an array of string values.  
ttl DateTime O 0..1 ttl refers to the lifetime of the record. After the
expiry, the record shall be deleted.  
callbackReference Uri O 0..1 The Uri where the NF Service Consumer shall
receive notification on the expiry of the Record as indicated by the ttl
attribute if desired.
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: RecordBody
Table 6.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type RecordBody
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
record Record M 1 The record.
##### 6.1.6.2.5 Type: Record
Table 6.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type Record
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
meta RecordMeta M 1 The meta of a record.  
blocks array(Block) O 1..N The block(s) (if any) making up the record.
##### 6.1.6.2.6 Type: BlockBody
Table 6.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type BlockBody
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
n/a Block M 1 The block.
##### 6.1.6.2.7 Type: Block
Table 6.1.6.2.7-1: Definition of type Block
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
value Any Type M 1 The block value of any data type.
##### 6.1.6.2.8 Type: SearchCondition
Table 6.1.6.2.8-1: Definition of type SearchCondition
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | cond | Conditio | M | 1 | Logical | | | | nOperator | | | operator | | | | | | | (\"AND\", | | | | | | | \"OR\" or | | | | | | | \"NOT\") | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | units | array | M | 1..N | For the | | | | (SearchEx | | | logical | | | | pression) | | | \"NOT\" | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute, | | | | | | | only one | | | | | | | member | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | array. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | \"AND\" | | | | | | | or \"OR\" | | | | | | | operators | | | | | | | indicated | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute, | | | | | | | at least | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | members | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | array and | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | members | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | array | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terpreted | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | logically | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | catenated | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | operator. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.9 SearchComparison
Table 6.1.6.2.9-1: Definition of type SearchComparison
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
op ComparisonOperator M 1 Comparison operator  
tag string M 1 This attribute contains the tag name of an array of strings.  
value string M 1 The array of strings indicated in the tag attribute compares
to the value of this attribute.
##### 6.1.6.2.10 Type: NotificationSubscription
Table 6.1.6.2.10-1: Definition of type NotificationSubscription
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | clientId | ClientId | M | 1 | Identity | | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | | or NFSet | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | applies. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | callback | Uri | M | 1 | I | | | Reference | | | | dentifies | | | | | | | the NF or | | | | | | | NF pool | | | | | | | where the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | sent. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | expiry | DateTime | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | response, | | | | | | | if, based | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | policy | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | taking | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | account | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | expiry | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | request, | | | | | | | the UDSF | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | an expiry | | | | | | | time. The | | | | | | | expiry | | | | | | | time, | | | | | | | based on | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | policy, | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | a value | | | | | | | that is | | | | | | | sooner | | | | | | | than the | | | | | | | NF | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | absence | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | response | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | have an | | | | | | | expiry | | | | | | | time. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | subFilter | Subscript | O | 0..1 | If not | | | | ionFilter | | | included, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to all | | | | | | | Create, | | | | | | | Delete | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | Update | | | | | | | events of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | storage. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | supporte | Supporte | O | 0..1 | Used to | | | dFeatures | dFeatures | | | negotiate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | icability | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | optional | | | | | | | features | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.11 Type: RecordNotification
Table 6.1.6.2.11-1: Definition of type RecordNotification
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
descriptor NotificationDescription M 1 The block value of any data type.  
meta RecordMeta M 1 The meta of a record.  
blocks array(Block) O 1..n The block(s) (if any) making up the record.
##### 6.1.6.2.12 Type: NotificationDescription
Table 6.1.6.2.12-1: Definition of type NotificationDescription
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
recordRef Uri M 1 The reference of the record triggering the Notification.  
operationType RecordOperation M 1 The operation type.  
subscriptionId string O 0..1 This IE shall contain the subscriptionId that
uniquely identifies the subscription to notification within a storage when
present.
##### 6.1.6.2.13 Type: SubscriptionFilter
Table 6.1.6.2.13-1: Definition of type SubscriptionFilter
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | mon | a | O | 1..N | A set of | | | itoredRes | rray(Uri) | | | URIs that | | | ourceUris | | | | identify | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | records | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | repre | | | | | | | sentation | | | | | | | triggers | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fication. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The URI | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | take the | | | | | | | form of | | | | | | | either an | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | URI or an | | | | | | | abso | | | | | | | lute-path | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | IET | | | | | | | F RFC 398 | | | | | | | 6 [22], | | | | | | | also see | | | | | | | NOTE 1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | monitored | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | existing | | | | | | | record. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If not | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | scription | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | to all | | | | | | | records | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | storage | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | repre | | | | | | | sentation | | | | | | | of any | | | | | | | record | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | storage | | | | | | | triggers | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fication. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | o | arra | O | 0..3 | The | | | perations | y(RecordO | | | o | | | | peration) | | | perations | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | generate | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fication. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | | mon | | | | | | | itoredRes | | | | | | | ourceUris | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | UPDATED\" | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | DELETED\" | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | values, | | | | | | | any other | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | ignored. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perations | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The UDSF | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | handle | | | | | | | only the | | | | | | | rela | | | | | | | tive-path | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | apiSpecif | | | | | | | icResourc | | | | | | | eUriPart, | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | 3G | | | | | | | PP TS 29. | | | | | | | 501 [5] | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 4.4.1) | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | ignore | | | | | | | possible | | | | | | | incons | | | | | | | istencies | | | | | | | (caused | | | | | | | by e.g. | | | | | | | an SCP) | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | base URI | | | | | | | part. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.14 Type: ClientId
Table 6.1.6.2.14-1: Definition of type ClientId
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | nfId | NfI | C | 0..1 | The NF | | | | nstanceId | | | Instance | | | | | | | Id | | | | | | | uniquely | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifying | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | Consumer. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | nfSetId | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | absent. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | nfSetId | NfSetId | C | 0..1 | The NF | | | | | | | Set Id of | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | Consumer. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | nfId is | | | | | | | absent. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability
* * *
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: ComparisonOperator
The enumeration ComparisonOperator represents the comparison of an array of
strings to a string value. The comparison shall be based on lexicographical
order. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.1.6.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration ComparisonOperator
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"EQ\" The array contains the string value.  
\"NEQ\" The array does not contain the string value. AdvancedQuery \"GT\" The
array contains a string that is greater than the string value. AdvancedQuery
\"GTE\" The array contains a string that is greater than or equal to the
string value. AdvancedQuery \"LT\" The array contains a string that is less
than the string value. AdvancedQuery \"LTE\" The array contains a string that
is less than or equal to the string value. AdvancedQuery
NOTE: It\'s recommended to use GT/GTE/LT/LTE on single value tags. If not, the
logical operator \"NOT\" applied over the comparison operator \"GT\" evaluates
to \"true\" if **there are no members** in the array that are greater than the
value.
##### 6.1.6.3.4 Enumeration: ConditionOperator
Table 6.1.6.3.4-1: Enumeration ConditionOperator
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"AND\" Logical \"AND\"  
\"OR\" Logical \"OR\"  
\"NOT\" Logical \"NOT\"
##### 6.1.6.3.5 Enumeration: RecordOperation
Table 6.1.6.3.5-1: Enumeration RecordOperation
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"CREATED\" Indicates a Create record operation  
\"UPDATED\" Indicates an Update record operation  
\"DELETED\" Indicates a Delete record operation
#### 6.1.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
##### 6.1.6.4.1 Type: SearchExpression
Table 6.1.6.4.1-1: Definition of type SearchExpression as a list of mutually
exclusive alternatives
Data type Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
SearchCondition 1 A search expression with logic operators AdvancedQuery
SearchComparison 1 A minimum unit of the search expression
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nudsf_DataRepository API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nudsf_DataRepository API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol errors handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.7 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nudsf_DataRepository service are listed
in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
TTL_VALUE_NOT_ALLOWED 403 Forbidden The ttl value indicated in the request
exceeds the maximum value allowed in the UDSF. SUBSCRIPTION_EXISTS 403
Forbidden The subscription indicated in the HTTP/2 request is not authorized
to be operated. REALM_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The realm indicated in the
HTTP/2 request is unavailable in the UDSF. STORAGE_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The
storage indicated in the HTTP/2 request is unavailable in the UDSF.
RECORD_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The record indicated in the HTTP/2 request is
unavailable in the UDSF. BLOCK_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The block indicated in
the HTTP/2 request is unavailable in the UDSF. SUBSCRIPTION_NOT_FOUND 404 Not
Found The subscription indicated in the HTTP/2 request is unavailable in the
UDSF.
## 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the
Nudsf_DataRepository API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility
mechanism defined in clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
+----------------+---------------+-----------------------------------+ | Feature number | Feature Name | Description | +================+===============+===================================+ | 1 | AdvancedQuery | If an NF consumer detects that | | | | the UDSF supports the | | | | AdvancedQuery feature, it may use | | | | values of the ComparisonOperator | | | | besides \"EQ\" and may also use | | | | the cond attribute of the | | | | SearchCondition. | | | | | | | | If an NF consumer detects that | | | | the UDSF does not support the | | | | AdvancedQuery feature, it shall | | | | only use a value of \"EQ\" of the | | | | ComparisonOperator and shall not | | | | use the cond attribute of the | | | | SearchCondition. | +----------------+---------------+-----------------------------------+
## 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nudsf_DataRepository API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol
(see IETF RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the \ API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization
server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS
29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nudsf_DataRepository service.
The Nudsf_DataRepository API defines a single scope \"nudsf-dr\" for the
entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource or
operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
## A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 5.3.1
and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
## A.2 Nudsf_DataRepository API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Nudsf_DataRepository
version: 1.0.4
description: \|
Nudsf Data Repository Service.
© 2021, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.598 UDSF Services, V16.6.0.
url: \'http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.598/\'
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nudsf-dr
paths:
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records:
summary: Access to all Records of a Storage
description: >-
root of all Records of a Storage
get:
summary: Records search with get
description: Retrieve one or multiple Records based on filter
operationId: SearchRecord
tags:
\- Record CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: limit-range
in: query
description: The most number of record references to fetch
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
\- name: filter
in: query
description: Query filter using conditions on tags
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SearchExpression\'
\- name: count-indicator
in: query
description: Indicates whether the number of records that matched the criteria
shall be returned.
schema:
type: boolean
default: false
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Successful case. Response contains result of the search.
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RecordSearchResult\'
\'204\':
description: >-
The search condition does not match any Record.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}:
summary: Access to a specific Record, identified by its RecordId
description: >-
Access to a specific Record
get:
summary: Record access
description: retrieve one specific Record
operationId: GetRecord
tags:
\- Record CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'UserRecordValue000000001\'
\- name: If-None-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: If-Modified-Since
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.3
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\' : #result ok
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/RecordBody\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
summary: Create/Modify Record
description: Create or Modify a Record with a user provided RecordId
operationId: CreateOrModifyRecord
tags:
\- Record CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier(name) of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: UserRecordValue000000001
\- name: If-None-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Record validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC
7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: get-previous
in: query
description: Retrieve the Record before update
required: false
schema:
type: boolean
default: false
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
requestBody:
\$ref: \'#/components/requestBodies/RecordBody\'
callbacks:
recordExpired:
\'{\$request.body#/callbackReference}\':
post:
parameters:
\- name: Content-Location
in: header
description: The expired record URI
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
requestBody:
\$ref: \'#/components/requestBodies/RecordBody\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: Callback executed successfully
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
responses:
\'200\' : # Update with return
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/RecordBody\'
\'201\':
description: >-
Create case. The resource has been successfully created, location header
indicates
the URI of the created Record.
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/RecordBody\'
headers:
Location:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Location\'
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'204\': # Update without return
description: >-
Update case. The resource has been successfully updated and no
additional content is included in the response message.
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'412\': # Return Record value if get-previous=true
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/RecordBody\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: Delete a Record with an user provided RecordId
operationId: DeleteRecord
tags:
\- Record CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier(name) of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: UserRecordValue000000001
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Record validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC
7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: get-previous
in: query
description: Retrieve the Record before delete
required: false
schema:
type: boolean
default: false
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/RecordBodyDelete\'
\'204\':
description: Successful case.
headers:
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'412\': # Return return value if get-previous=true
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/RecordBody\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}/meta:
summary: Access to the meta of a specific Record, identified by its RecordId
description: >-
Access to the meta of a specific Record
get:
summary: Record\'s meta access
description: retrieve meta of a specific Record
operationId: GetMeta
tags:
\- Record CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'UserRecordValue000000001\'
\- name: If-None-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: If-Modified-Since
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.3
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RecordMeta\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
patch: # patch meta data
summary: Record\'s meta update
description: update meta of a specific Record
operationId: UpdateMeta
tags:
\- Record CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'UserRecordValue000000001\'
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Record validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC
7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
requestBody:
description: Meta data to patch
content:
application/json-patch+json:
example: \'[{ \"op\": \"replace\", \"path\": \"/tags/ueId\", \"value\":
\"450005\" }, { \"op\": \"remove\", \"path\": \"/tags/recordId\" }]\'
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PatchItem\'
minItems: 1
required: true
responses:
\'200\':
description: >-
One or more modification instructions have been discarded, the execution
report is returned in response PatchResult.
content:
application/json:
example:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PatchResult\'
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'204\':
description: >-
Successful case. The meta has been successfully updated and no return is
expected.
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}/blocks:
summary: Access to the Blocks of a specific Record, identified by its RecordId
description: >-
Access to the Blocks of a specific Record
get:
summary: Record\'s Blocks access
description: retrieve all Blocks of a specific Record
operationId: GetBlockList
tags:
\- Block CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'UserRecordValue000000001\'
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a successful request
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
content:
multipart/parallel:
schema:
type: object
properties:
blocks:
type: array
description: >-
an array of Block parts, can be empty
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Block\'
encoding:
blocks:
contentType: \'*/*\' # Block content type can be of any type.
headers:
Content-ID: # Block identifier is defined by the Content-Id header.
schema:
type: string
required: true
Content-Transfer-Encoding:
schema:
type: string
required: true
\'204\':
description: Successful response, the record contains no blocks
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/{realmId}/{storageId}/records/{recordId}/blocks/{blockId}:
summary: Access to a Block of a specific Record, identified by its BlockId
description: >-
Access to a specific Block of a specific Record
get:
summary: Retrieve a specific Block
description: retrieve a specific Block
operationId: GetBlock
tags:
\- Block CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'UserRecordValue000000001\'
\- name: blockId
in: path
description: Id of the Block
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'userDefjson01\'
\- name: If-None-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: If-Modified-Since
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.3
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/BlockBody\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
summary: Create or Update a specific Block in a Record.
description: Create or update a specific Block, related to a Record
operationId: CreateOrModifyBlock
tags:
\- Block CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'UserRecordValue000000001\'
\- name: blockId
in: path
description: Id of the Block
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'userDefjson01\'
\- name: get-previous
in: query
description: Retrieve the Block before update
required: false
schema:
type: boolean
default: false
\- name: If-None-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Record validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC
7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
requestBody:
description: information on the Block to create
required: true
content:
\'*/*\':
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Block\'
responses:
\'200\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/BlockBody\'
\'201\':
description: >-
Creation case. The Block has been successfully created. Location header
indicates the URI of the created Block.
headers:
Location:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Location\'
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'204\':
description: >-
Successful case. The resource has been successfully updated.
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'412\': # Return previous Block value if get-previous=true
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/BlockBody\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: Delete a specific Block. Then update the Record
description: delete a specific Block, related to a Record
operationId: DeleteBlock
tags:
\- Block CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: recordId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Record
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'UserRecordValue000000001\'
\- name: blockId
in: path
description: Id of the Block
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: \'userDefjson01\'
\- name: get-previous
in: query
description: Retrieve the Block before delete
required: false
schema:
type: boolean
default: false
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Record validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC
7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/BlockBodyDelete\'
\'204\':
description: >-
Successful case. The Block has been successfully deleted.
headers:
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'412\': # Return previous Block value if get-previous=true
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/BlockBody\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/{realmId}/{storageId}/subs-to-notify:
summary: The notification subscription collection resource
description: >-
Access to the subscription resource
get:
summary: Notification subscription retrieval
description: retrieve all notification subscriptions of the storage
operationId: GetNotificationSubscriptions
tags:
\- NotificationSubscriptions CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: limit-range
in: query
description: The maximum number of NotificationSubscriptions to fetch
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationSubscription\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/{realmId}/{storageId}/subs-to-notify/{subscriptionId}:
summary: The notification subscription resource
description: >-
Access to the subscription resource
get:
summary: Notification subscription retrieval
description: retrieve a single notification subscription of the storage
operationId: GetNotificationSubscription
tags:
\- NotificationSubscription CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Identifier of the NotificationSubscription
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Subscription01
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
\- name: If-None-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: If-Modified-Since
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.3
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationSubscription\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
delete:
summary: Delete a Notification Subscription of the storage
description: delete a single subscriptions of the storage
operationId: DeleteNotificationSubscription
tags:
\- NotificationSubscription CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Identifier of the NotificationSubscription
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Subscription01
\- name: client-id
in: query
description: Identifies the NF or NFSet
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ClientId\'
\- name: get-previous
in: query
description: Retrieve the NotificationSubscription before delete
required: false
schema:
type: boolean
default: false
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Record validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC
7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Deleted NotificationSubscription if requested with get-previous
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationSubscription\'
\'204\':
description: >-
Successful case. The SubscriptionNotification has been successfully deleted.
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'412\':
description: Return previous NotificationSubscription value if get-
previous=true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationSubscription\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
patch: # patch NotificationSubscription data
summary: NotificationSubscription update
description: update a specific NotificationSubscription
operationId: UpdateNotificationSubscription
tags:
\- NotificationSubscription CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Identifier of the NotificationSubscription
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Subscription01
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
requestBody:
description: data to patch
content:
application/json-patch+json:
example: \'TBD\'
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PatchItem\'
minItems: 1
required: true
responses:
\'200\':
description: >-
One or more modification instructions have been discarded, the execution
report is returned in response PatchResult.
content:
application/json:
example:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PatchResult\'
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'204\':
description: >-
Successful case. The meta has been successfully updated and no return is
expected.
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
put:
summary: NotificationSubscription Create/Update
operationId: CreateAndUpdateNotificationSubscription
tags:
\- NotificationSubscription CRUD
parameters:
\- name: realmId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Realm
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Realm01
\- name: storageId
in: path
description: Identifier of the Storage
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Storage01
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Identifier of the NotificationSubscription
required: true
schema:
type: string
example: Subscription01
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: Features required to be supported by the target NF
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
\- name: If-None-Match
in: header
description: Validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC 7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
\- name: If-Match
in: header
description: Record validator for conditional requests, as described in RFC
7232, 3.2
schema:
type: string
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationSubscription\'
required: true
responses:
\'200\' : # Update
description: Expected response to a valid update request
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationSubscription\'
\'201\':
description: Expected response to a valid create request
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationSubscription\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource according to the
structure: {apiRoot}/nudsf-dr/\/{realmId}/{storageId}/subs-to-
notify/{subscriptionId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'304\':
\$ref: \'#/components/responses/304\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'408\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/408\'
\'409\':
description: Conflict
content:
application/json:
schema:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
\'412\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/412\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
description: Unexpected error
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
callbacks:
onDataChange:
\'{request.body#/callbackReference}\':
post:
requestBody:
\$ref: \'#/components/requestBodies/RecordNotificationBody\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: Callback executed successfully
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nudsf-dr: Access to the nudsf-dr API
schemas:
RecordSearchResult:
description: Count and collection of Record references matching the providing
filter.
type: object
properties:
count: # The total number of elements found.
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
references: # The Record references found. If count-indicator is true, no
references are sent back.
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
minItems: 1
supportedFeatures:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- count
RecordMeta:
description: Meta data of a Record
type: object
properties:
ttl:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
callbackReference:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
tags:
type: object # dictionary type
description: >-
A dictionary of {\"tagName\": [ \"tagValue\", ...] }. A tag name can be used
to retrieve a Record. The tagValue are unique.
additionalProperties:
type: array
items:
type: string
uniqueItems: true
minItems: 1
minProperties: 1
example: \'{\"ueId\" : [ \"455345\", \"455346\" ], \"recordId\" : [
\"1000106\" ] }\'
example: >-
{ \"tags\" : {\"ueId\" : [ \"455345\", \"455346\" ], \"recordId\" : [
\"1000106\" ] }}
Record:
description: Definition of a Record
type: object
properties:
meta:
# json representation of the Meta Data
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RecordMeta\'
blocks:
# List of multipart data
type: array
description: list of opaque Block\'s in this Record
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Block\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- meta
example: >-
{\"meta\": { \"tags\" : {\"tag1\" : [\"value1\"], \"tag2\" :[\"value2\"] } },
\"blocks\": [{\"Content-ID\": \"userDefBinaryBlob\", \"Content-Type\":
\"text/plain\", \"content\": \"QmxvY2sgY29udGVudA==\"}, {\"Content-Id\":
\"userDefJsonBlob\", \"Content-Type\": \"application/json\", \"content\":
\"{\"key\": \"ftsimpletype-999550000000002\", \"value\":
\"A3E71A78377179B5B91A;imsi-999550000000123\"}]}
Block:
description: A Block can be of any type
example: >-
\"QmxvY2sgY29udGVudA==\"
NotificationSubscription:
description: Definition of a notification subscription
type: object
properties:
clientId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ClientId\'
callbackReference:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
expiry:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
subFilter:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubscriptionFilter\'
supportedFeatures:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
required:
\- clientId
\- callbackReference
RecordNotification:
description: Definition of a notification on a record
type: object
properties:
descriptor:
# json representation of the notification description
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationDescription\'
meta:
# json representation of the Meta Data
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RecordMeta\'
blocks:
# List of multipart data
type: array
description: list of opaque Block\'s in this Record
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Block\'
required:
\- descriptor
\- meta
example: >-
{\"descriptor\": { \"recordRef\" : \"...\", \"operationType\" : \"DELETED\"},
\"meta\": { \"tags\" : {\"tag1\" : [\"value1\"], \"tag2\" :[\"value2\"] } },
\"blocks\": [{\"Content-ID\": \"userDefBinaryBlob\", \"Content-Type\":
\"text/plain\", \"content\": \"QmxvY2sgY29udGVudA==\"}, {\"Content-Id\":
\"userDefJsonBlob\", \"Content-Type\": \"application/json\", \"content\":
\"{\"key\": \"ftsimpletype-999550000000002\", \"value\":
\"A3E71A78377179B5B91A;imsi-999550000000123\"}]}
NotificationDescription:
description: Description of a record notification
type: object
properties:
recordRef:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
operationType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RecordOperation\'
subscriptionId:
# unique identifier of the NotificationSubscription
type: string
required:
\- recordRef
\- operationType
example: >-
{ \"record\" : \"...\", \"operationType\" : \"DELETED\"}
SubscriptionFilter:
description: A subscription filter
type: object
properties:
monitoredResourceUris:
type: array
description: list of resources applicable to the subscription
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
minItems: 1
operations:
type: array
description: list of resources applicable to the subscription
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RecordOperation\'
maxItems: 3
ClientId:
description: Defines the identity of the NF Consumer
type: object
properties:
nfId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/NfInstanceId\'
nfSetId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/NfSetId\'
RecordOperation:
description: Indicate operation made on a record
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- CREATED
\- UPDATED
\- DELETED
\- type: string
ConditionOperator:
description: TBD
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- AND
\- OR
\- NOT
\- type: string
ComparisonOperator:
description: TBD
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
# Equals
\- EQ
# Not Equal
\- NEQ
# Greater Than
\- GT
# Greater Than or Equal
\- GTE
# Less Than
\- LT
# Less Than or Equal
\- LTE
\- type: string
SearchExpression:
description: A logical expression element
type: object
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SearchCondition\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SearchComparison\'
example:
{ \"cond\": \"OR\", \"units\": [ { \"op\": \"EQ\", \"tag\" : \"ueId\",
\"value\" : \"455345\" }, { \"op\": \"EQ\", \"tag\" : \"supi\", \"value\" :
\"imsi-999559807001001\" } ] }
SearchCondition:
description: A logical condition
type: object
properties:
cond:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ConditionOperator\'
units:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SearchExpression\'
minItems: 1
required:
\- cond
\- units
example:
{ \"cond\": \"OR\", \"units\": [ { \"op\": \"EQ\", \"tag\" : \"ueId\",
\"value\" : \"455345\" }, { \"op\": \"EQ\", \"tag\" : \"supi\", \"value\" :
\"imsi-999559807001001\" } ] }
SearchComparison:
description: A comparison to apply on tag/values pairs.
type: object
properties:
op:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ComparisonOperator\'
tag:
type: string
value:
type: string
required:
\- op
\- tag
\- value
example:
{ \"op\": \"EQ\", \"tag\" : \"supi\", \"value\" : \"imsi-999559807001001\" }
headers:
Cache-Control:
description: Cache-Control containing max-age, as described in RFC 7234, 5.2
schema:
type: string
ETag:
description: Entity Tag, containing a strong validator, as described in RFC
7232, 2.3
schema:
type: string
Last-Modified:
description: Timestamp for last modification of the resource, as described in
RFC 7232, 2.2
schema:
type: string
Location:
description: Contains the URI of the newly created resource
required: true
schema:
type: string
Retry-After:
description: \'Indicates the time the NF Consumer has to wait before making a
new request. It can be a non-negative integer (decimal number) indicating the
number of seconds the NF Consumer has to wait before making a new request or
an HTTP-date after which the AF can retry a new request.\'
schema:
anyOf:
\- type: integer
\- type: string
requestBodies:
RecordBody:
description: The record multipart request body. The meta part shall be the
first part and is mandatory but can be empty and zero or more block parts may
follow the meta part.
required: true
content:
multipart/mixed:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Record\'
encoding:
meta: # The meta part shall be the first part and is mandatory but can be
empty
contentType: application/json
headers:
Content-ID:
schema:
type: string
required: true
blocks: # 0 or more block parts may follow the meta part
contentType: \'*/*\' # Block part can be of any type
headers:
Content-ID: # Block identifier is defined by the Content-ID header.
schema:
type: string
required: true
Content-Transfer-Encoding:
schema:
type: string
required: true
RecordNotificationBody:
description: The record notification multipart request body. The descriptor
part shall be the first one, followed by record meta part and by zero or more
block parts.
required: true
content:
multipart/mixed:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RecordNotification\'
encoding:
descriptor: # The descriptor part shall be the first part and is mandatory
contentType: application/json
headers:
Content-ID:
schema:
type: string
required: true
meta: # The meta part shall be the second part and is mandatory but can be
empty
contentType: application/json
headers:
Content-ID:
schema:
type: string
required: true
blocks: # 0 or more block parts may follow the meta part
contentType: \'*/*\' # Block part can be of any type
headers:
Content-ID: # Block identifier is defined by the Content-ID header.
schema:
type: string
required: true
Content-Transfer-Encoding:
schema:
type: string
required: true
responses:
\'304\': # Etag response if the value might differ from that sent
description: Not Modified
content:
application/problem+json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ProblemDetails\'
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Retry-After:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Retry-After\'
\'RecordBody\': # Record value with associated headers
description: >-
\- 200 Update. The resource has been successfully updated and previous value
must be sent in the response message if requested.
\- 200 Get. The resource exists, its value must be sent in the response
message
\- 412 Precondition Failed, the previous value must be sent in response
message if requested.
content:
multipart/mixed:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Record\'
encoding:
meta: # The meta part shall be the first part and is mandatory but can be
empty.
contentType: application/json
headers:
Content-Id: # The meta part is identified by the \'meta\' Content-Id header.
schema:
type: string
required: true
blocks: # Zero or more block parts may follow the meta part
contentType: \'*/*\' # Block parts can be of any type.
headers:
Content-Id: # Block identifier is defined by the Content-Id header.
schema:
type: string
required: true
Content-Transfer-Encoding:
schema:
type: string
required: true
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'RecordBodyDelete\': # Record value with associated headers
description: >-
\- 200 Delete. The resource has been successfully delete and previous value
must be sent in the response message if requested.
content:
multipart/mixed:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Record\'
encoding:
meta: # The meta part shall be the first par and is mandatory but can be
empty.
contentType: application/json
headers:
Content-ID: # The meta part is identified by the Content-Id header.
schema:
type: string
required: true
blocks: # Zero or more block parts may follow the meta part.
contentType: \'*/*\' # Block parts can be of any type.
headers:
Content-ID: # Block identifier is defined by the Content-Id header.
schema:
type: string
required: true
Content-Transfer-Encoding:
schema:
type: string
required: true
headers:
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'BlockBody\': # Block value with associated headers
description: >-
\- 200 Update: The resource has been successfully updated and previous value
must be sent in the response message if requested.
\- 200 Get: The resource exists, its value must be sent in the response
message
\- 412 Precondition Failed: the previous value must be sent in response
message if requested.
content:
\'*/*\':
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Block\'
headers:
Cache-Control:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Cache-Control\'
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
\'BlockBodyDelete\': # Block value with associated headers
description: >-
\- 200 Delete: The resource has been successfully delete and previous value
must be sent in the response message if requested.
content:
\'*/*\':
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Block\'
headers:
ETag:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/ETag\'
Last-Modified:
\$ref: \'#/components/headers/Last-Modified\'
###### ## Annex B (informative): Search Examples
The conditional expression is defined by the following Extended Backus-Naur
Form (EBNF) [18].
Figure B-1: Search Expression
Search_Expression ::= Search_Comparison \| Search_Condition
Figure B-2: Search Comparison
Search_Comparison ::= Tag ( \'EQ\' \| \'NEQ\' \| \'GT\' \| \'GTE\' \| \'LT\'
\| \'LTE\' ) Value
Figure B-3: Search Condition
Search_Condition ::= Search_Expression ( ( \'AND\' \| \'OR\' )
Search_Expression )+
Figure B-4: Search ConditionNot
Search_ConditionNot ::= \'NOT\' Search_Expression
Example:
Find all records where the tag \"ueId\" is equal to \"455345\" OR the tag
\"supi\" is equal to \"imsi-999559807001001\":
{
\"cond\": \"OR\",
\"items\": [
{
\"op\": \"EQ\",
\"tag\" : \"ueId\",
\"value\" : \"455345\"
},
{
\"op\": \"EQ\",
\"tag\" : \"supi\",
\"value\" : \"imsi-999559807001001\"
}
]
}
###### ## Annex C (informative): HTTP Multipart Examples
## C.1 General
This clause provides examples of the HTTP multipart messages. The examples do
not aim to be a complete representation of the HTTP message, e.g. additional
information or headers can be included.
This Annex is informative and the normative descriptions in this specification
prevail over the description in this Annex if there is any difference.
## C.2 Example HTTP multipart Record
Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=partboundary
\--partboundary
Content-ID: meta
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
{\"tags\": { \"ueId\" : [\"455345\"], \"supi\" : [\"imsi-999559807001001\"] }
}
\--partboundary
Content-ID: block1
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
{ \"firstName\": \"John\", \"lastName\": \"Doe\"}
\--partboundary
Content-ID: block2
Content-Type: image/png
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
\
\--partboundary--\'
## C.3 Example HTTP multipart BlockCollection
Content-Type: multipart/parallel; boundary=partboundary
\--partboundary
Content-ID: block1
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
{ \"firstName\": \"John\", \"lastName\": \"Doe\"}
\--partboundary
Content-ID: block2
Content-Type: image/png
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
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
\--partboundary--\'
## C.4 Example HTTP multipart RecordNotification
Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=partboundary
\--partboundary
Content-ID: recordnotification
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
{\"recordRef\" : \"...\", \"operationType\" : \"DELETED\" }
\--partboundary
Content-ID: meta
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
{\"tags\": { \"ueId\" : [\"455345\"], \"supi\" : [\"imsi-999559807001001\"] }
}
\--partboundary
Content-ID: block1
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
{\"firstName\": \"John\", \"lastName\": \"Doe\"}
\--partboundary
Content-ID: block2
Content-Type: image/png
Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
\
\--partboundary--\'
#