# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study of a service based interface to the
UDSF. It also evaluates the latency/performance of an SBI based Nudsf and non-
SBI based alternatives (if any).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"Principles and Guidelines for Services Definition\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"Technical Realization of Service Based Architecture\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
Void.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
KVP Key-Value Pair
NF Network Function
UDSF Unstructured Data Storage Function
UDR Unified Data Repository
# 4 Architecture and Requirements
## 4.1 Reference Architecture
### 4.1.1 General
The Data Storage architectures are defined in clause 4.2.5 of 3GPP TS 23.501
[2]:
As depicted in Figure 4.1.1-1, the 5G System architecture allows any NF to
store and retrieve its unstructured data into/from a UDSF (e.g. UE contexts).
The UDSF belongs to the same PLMN where the network function is located. CP
NFs may share a UDSF for storing their respective unstructured data or may
each have their own UDSF (e.g. a UDSF may be located close to the respective
NF).
NOTE 1: Structured data in this specification refers to data for which the
structure is defined in 3GPP specifications. Unstructured data refers to data
for which the structure is not defined in 3GPP specifications.
Figure 4.1.1-1: Data storage architecture for unstructured data from any NF
In addition, clause 6.2.12 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] indicates:
NOTE 2: Deployments can choose to collocate UDSF with UDR.
### 4.1.2 UDSF Services
The UDSF Services are defined in clause 5.2.14 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]:
The following table illustrates the UDSF Services.
Table 4.1.2-1: NF Services provided by UDSF
NF service Service Operations Operation Semantics Example Consumer(s)
* * *
Unstructured Query Request/Response Any NF Data Create Request/Response Any NF
Management Delete Request/Response Any NF Update Request/Response Any NF
## 4.2 General Requirements
The requirements to the UDSF function are described below.
\- Data management requirements:
\- The NF shall be able to store and retrieve the data with the following
basic operations:
\- Create data.
\- Read data.
\- Update data.
\- Delete data.
\- In addition the solution should support the following capabilities:
\- Transactional integrity.
\- Pessimistic and or optimistic locking.
\- If multiple instances of the same NF type and same vendor can read and
write the same data, the following additional operations may be considered:
\- Subscribe to notifications of data change.
\- Notification of a data change.
\- Performance requirements:
\- The UDSF may be used to store data with very different characteristics and
with different real time performance requirements ranging from low to very
high ones.
\- The protocol used over N18 shall provide latency as low as possible.
\- Multiple logical storage spaces:
\- NFs of the same type and same vendor may need to store different data in
different repositories. The UDSF shall support multiple logical storage
spaces. Each logical storage unit shall have a unique identifier.
\- UDSF sharing:
\- NFs may share a UDSF for storing their respective unstructured data. NFs of
the same type and vendor shall have one or more different logical storage
spaces and it shall be possible to prevent NFs of another type or another
vendor from accessing it. NFs of different types or of different vendors shall
use different access keys.
\- Collocation with UDR:
\- UDSF may be collocated with the UDR.
\- Load and overload requirement:
\- The solution shall support load control mechanisms to allow an automatic
distribution of the traffic load amongst the different instances of the UDSF.
\- The solution shall support overload control mechanisms to protect UDSF
instance when they reach a congestion state and to request the NFs to throttle
the requests sent to the UDSF.
\- The usage of intermediaries (e.g. SCP) for these load and overload control
purposes shall also be evaluated.
\- Security requirements:
\- Transport of messages between the NFs and UDSF should be protected to
provide privacy and data integrity. Client applications should be
authenticated.
\- NF independent:
\- The architecture is applicable to any NF. The solution shall be independent
from the NF type.
\- Types of Data:
\- In addition to common data types, the UDSF shall support binary type of
data.
# 5 Solutions for the Nudsf SBI
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause describes the solution(s) for the Nudsf SBI.
## 5.2 Solution #1 -- SBI based solution with Key-Value Pair
### 5.2.1 Introduction
#### 5.2.1.1 General
The service based Nudsf in this solution follows the principles for a 5GC SBI
API as defined in 3GPP TS 29.501 [4].
The solution utilizes key-value pair (KVP) principles and provides a flexible
structure for partitioning the space within the UDSF so that a multitude of
applications and types of data can be managed independently with minimum risk
of e.g. namespace collisions.
The Nudsf storage model relies on structural abstractions with elements
referred to as Realms, Storages, Record and Block.
Figure 5.2.1.1-1: Nudsf storage model example
### 5.2.2 Resources
#### 5.2.2.1 Resource Structure
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nudsf-dr API
#### 5.2.2.2 Realms
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Description
A realm is an area or a domain of the UDSF; a storage location where the
actual underlying data objects can be organized.
The realm provides a layer of abstraction allowing for physical and logical
data segregation if needed. An application could utilize one or more realms
for its data. Two applications could share the same realm in order to share
common data.
The realm is identified with a unique realmId and is of the archetype
Collection.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Operations
The Realms resource does not support any operations, i.e. realms are created
in the UDSF through the means of O&M operations.
#### 5.2.2.3 Storages
##### 5.2.2.3.1 Description
A storage defines a data model within the Realm for a specific application or
purpose.
The storage is used to store records of the same or similar type and is
identified with a storageId and is of the archetype Collection.
##### 5.2.2.3.2 Operations
The Storages resource does not support any operations, i.e. storages are
created in the UDSF through the means of O&M operations.
#### 5.2.2.4 RecordReference
##### 5.2.2.4.1 Description
A RecordReference represents the collection of records within a storage. It
can be used to search for specific records matching certain criteria.
The RecordReference is of the archetype Collection.
##### 5.2.2.4.2 Operations
The RecordReference will support the following standard operations:
\- GET: retrieves one or more records.
The GET operation returns the (possible empty) list of references to records
within the collection matching the specified filter criteria. The criteria is
based on record tags in the associated meta resource. More specifically, it
searches for records having in the metadata a tag matching the conditional
expression set in the filter criteria definition.
The search criteria for EQ a meta tag and a value is mandatory to support.
Optionally NEQ, GT, GTE, LT, LTE, and search conditions, e.g., AND, OR, and
NOT may be supported. It is optional for a tag within the meta resource to
have a unique value.
Since the search can return a large set of matching record references, a
\"limit-range\" (max number of records returned) and \"page-number\" (the
first record to be returned) can be indicated.
#### 5.2.2.5 Record
##### 5.2.2.5.1 Description
A record is comprised of a single key-value pair (KVP) where the key, which is
a unique identifier for some item of data, and the value, which is the data
that is identified by the key.
The Record is an abstract data type that includes a key identifier and a set
of associated values (blocks).
The Record is identified with a recordId and is of the archetype Document.
##### 5.2.2.5.2 Operations
The Record will support the following standard operations:
\- GET: retrieves the list of blocks and meta (if present) associated with the
recordId.
\- PUT: create the recordId and associated block(s) (if any).
\- DELETE: delete the record and any associated blocks.
\- HEAD: check record existence.
#### 5.2.2.6 Blocks
##### 5.2.2.6.1 Description
The blocks resource supports the retrieval of all blocks associated with the
record.
The blocks resource is of the archetype Collection.
##### 5.2.2.6.2 Operations
\- GET: retrieves all blocks associated with the recordId.
#### 5.2.2.7 Block
##### 5.2.2.7.1 Description
The Block represents the value part of the Record and is made up of opaque
arbitrary content.
The content part can be of a simple data type, structured data type, array,
map, enumeration, data type describing alternative data types, data type
describing combinations of data types or \"Any Type\".
The Block is identified with a blockId and is of the archetype Document.
##### 5.2.2.7.2 Operations
\- GET: retrieves the block keyed with the blockId.
\- PUT: creates a block with blockId if blockId doesn\'t exist; otherwise
updates the block associated with the blockId.
\- DELETE: delete the block associated with blockId.
\- HEAD: check block existence.
#### 5.2.2.8 Meta
##### 5.2.2.8.1 Description
The Meta is an optional resource that supports the storage of tags and values
associated with the record.
Tags and values are described in a JSON representation and are populated by
the NF service consumer. The meta is used in GET operations to allow filtering
of records.
The Meta is of the archetype Document.
##### 5.2.2.8.2 Operations
\- GET: retrieves a record meta data.
\- PATCH: partial update of the record meta data.
#### 5.2.2.9 Subscriptions Collection
##### 5.2.2.9.1 Description
The Subscriptions Collection represents the collection of subscriptions within
a storage for triggering notifications.
The Subscriptions Collection is of the archetype Collection.
NOTE: The subscription to notifications is an optional capability.
##### 5.2.2.9.2 Operations
\- POST: Creates a subscription.
#### 5.2.2.10 Subscription
##### 5.2.2.10.1 Description
The Subscription resource represents a subscription for triggering
notifications on storage records.
The Subscription is of the archetype Document.
##### 5.2.2.10.2 Operations
\- GET: Retrieves the subscription keyed by the SubsId.
\- PUT: Updates the subscription for the supplied SubsId. If a subscription
does not exist, the request will fail.
\- DELETE: Delete the subscription associated with the supplied SubsId.
\- HEAD: Check subscription existence.
### 5.2.3 Latency and Performance Analysis
#### 5.2.3.1 Introduction
For deployments where the UDSF stores state information for the purpose of
stateless deployments of e.g. AMF/SMF/PCF NFs, the transaction rate towards an
UDSF instance can be significant. Further, to minimize core network latency,
the response time must be kept at a minimum.
In general, response time can be expressed as:
Wait Time = Network Roundtrip Latency + Wait in Queue + Service (processing)
Time.
To reduce the wait time, the network latency, the wait in queue time and the
service time all play a role in the overall perceived latency.
The following clauses describes techniques that allows for a high throughput
and low latency when a UDSF is deployed with a service based interface.
#### 5.2.3.2 Deployment Topology
The UDSF instance should be close to the NF service consumer, i.e. in the same
data center to allow for maximum bandwidth and to reduce the Network Roundtrip
Latency to a minimum.
A cloud native deployment of the UDSF allows for distributing the function
across many compute nodes and thus allows for massive parallelism in
processing requests.
#### 5.2.3.3 Caching
A stateless NF service consumer can maintain a local cache which will reduce
the requests to the UDSF and the response time significantly.
If the NF service consumer is mainly exporting state info for the purpose of
allowing another NF service consumer instance to take over in case of an
outage of the original NF service consumer instance, there is little risk that
the cache is outdated if all transactions for a given UE are processed by a
single NF service consumer instance.
#### 5.2.3.4 Parallel Access
If an NF service consumer is representing its state info in multiple
resources, it may request multiple resources at the same time from the UDSF,
as opposed to requesting them one at a time. The stream concept in HTTP/2
allows for multiplexed messages through a single connection. When the UDSF is
deployed in a cloud native distributed cluster, a single UDSF instance has
capacity to handle a large number of transactions in parallel and thus the
Wait time for two or more requests may not be much greater than the wait time
of a single request.
#### 5.2.3.5 Database Schema
This solution allows the \"value\" part of the KVP to be represented with
multiple blocks allowing the NF service consumer designer to design a data
model that optimizes Read vs Update info.
For example, if an NF service consumer stores 80kB of state info, it may
periodically have a need to update e.g. a time stamp that is e.g. only 4 bytes
in length. Using a PUT with the complete updated payload of 80k vs 4 bytes is
obviously significantly more expensive from a consumption of network and
compute node resources.
#### 5.2.3.6 HTTP/2 Protocol
HTTP/2 supports a number of performance improving (compared to HTTP/1.1)
capabilities, such as:
\- Interleave of multiple requests in parallel.
\- Interleave of multiple responses in parallel.
\- Use of a single connection to deliver multiple requests and responses in
parallel.
\- Deliver lower page load times by eliminating unnecessary latency and
improving utilization of available network capacity.
\- Optimization with request and response header compression (HPACK).
#### 5.2.3.7 Conclusion
As described in this clause, an SBI based UDSF can support high throughput and
low latency when architected and deployed in an optimal manner.
## 5.3 Evaluation and Conclusion
The following table provides the analysis of the requirements from clause 4.2
with the solution described in clause 5.2:
Table 5.3-1: Requirements Analysis of the Solution
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Requirement | Analysis | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Data management requirements: | The proposed solution supports | | | the basic operations. | | The NF shall be able to store | | | and retrieve the data with the | Transactional Integrity is the | | following basic operations: | responsibility of the UDSF | | | vendor. | | - Create data. | | | | The optimistic locking mechanism | | - Read data. | using the eTag header as | | | described in | | - Update data. | 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] applies to | | | the Nudsf interface. | | - Delete data. | | | | | | In addition the solution should | | | support the following | | | capabilities: | | | | | | - Transactional integrity. | | | | | | - Pessimistic and or optimistic | | | locking. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | If multiple instances of the | The solution describes a | | same NF type and same vendor can | Subscribe to Notify mechanism. | | read and write the same data, | | | the following additional | | | operations may be considered: | | | | | | - Subscribe to notifications of | | | data change. | | | | | | - Notification of a data | | | change. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Performance requirements: | Clause 5.2.3 describes solutions | | | on how this can be accomplished. | | The UDSF may be used to store | | | data with very different | | | characteristics and with | | | different real time performance | | | requirements ranging from low to | | | very high ones. | | | | | | The protocol used over N18 shall | | | provide latency as low as | | | possible. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Multiple logical storage spaces: | The solution supports the | | | concept of a UDSF supporting one | | NFs of the same type and same | or more realms. Within a realm, | | vendor may need to store | one or more storages are | | different data in different | supported. | | repositories. The UDSF shall | | | support multiple logical storage | | | spaces. Each logical storage | | | unit shall have a unique | | | identifier. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UDSF sharing: | The solution supports the | | | concept of a UDSF supporting one | | NFs may share a UDSF for storing | or more realms. Within a realm, | | their respective unstructured | one or more storages are | | data. NFs of the same type and | supported. | | vendor shall have one or more | | | different logical storage spaces | Access control is outside the | | and it shall be possible to | scope of standardization, but | | prevent NFs of another type or | the current resource structure | | another vendor from accessing | allows for it. | | it. NFs of different types or of | | | different vendors shall use | | | different access keys. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Collocation with UDR: | An SBI based UDSF is ideal to be | | | co-located with the UDR. | | UDSF may be collocated with the | | | UDR. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Load and overload requirement: | The rel-16 work item on \"Load | | | and Overload Control of 5GC | | The solution shall support load | Service Based Interfaces\" | | control mechanisms to allow an | applies to the Nudsf interface. | | automatic distribution of the | | | traffic load amongst the | | | different instances of the UDSF. | | | | | | The solution shall support | | | overload control mechanisms to | | | protect UDSF instance when they | | | reach a congestion state and to | | | request the NFs to throttle the | | | requests sent to the UDSF. | | | | | | The usage of intermediaries | | | (e.g. SCP) for these load and | | | overload control purposes shall | | | also be evaluated. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Security requirements: | The usage of TLS for transport | | | security as described in | | Transport of messages between | 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] applies to | | the NFs and UDSF should be | the Nudsf. | | protected to provide privacy and | | | data integrity. Client | The usage of OAuth2 for | | applications should be | Authorization of NF service | | authenticated. | access as described in | | | 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] applies to | | | the Nudsf. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NF independent: | The proposed solution applies to | | | any NF of any NF type. | | The architecture is applicable | | | to any NF. The solution shall be | | | independent from the NF type. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Types of Data: | Binary data is supported by the | | | proposed solution. | | In addition to common data | | | types, the UDSF shall support | | | binary type of data. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The solution as proposed in clause 5.2 is well suited for a 3GPP defined Nudsf
interface and shall be the basis for a normative Nudsf interface.
#