# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies key requirements for the load and overload
control on the service based interfaces, identifies the deployment topologies
to consider for analysing the solutions for the load and overload control,
analyses the 3GPP Release 15 overload control mechanism for the service based
interfaces and identifies solutions for addressing the requirements for load
and overload control on the service based interfaces.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TR 23.742: \"Study on Enhancements to the Service-Based
Architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.502: \"5G System; Session Management Services; Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TR 23.843: \"Study on Core Network Overload Solutions\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.527: \"5G System; Restoration Procedures\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
OCI Overload Control Information
SCP Service Communication Proxy
# 4 Architectural Baseline
3GPP Release 15 Service Based Architecture as specified in TS 23.501 [2] and
the Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture as specified in TS
29.500 [3] shall be taken as the baseline for the study on load and overload
control in service based interfaces. Further the conclusions from 3GPP release
16 FS_eSBA study as specified in TR 23.742 [4] shall be taken into account.
# 5 Service Based Architecture Deployment Topologies
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause identifies the various deployment models possible with Release 15
service based architecture. These deployment models are used to evaluate the
various load and overload control mechanisms.
## 5.2 Direct Interaction Models without Intermediaries
### 5.2.1 Direct NF to NF Interaction
In this topology, each NF and correspondingly the NF services interact
directly with its peer NF and the NF services. The following are the key
characteristics of this topology:
\- TCP connection is directly between the interacting NF services.
\- For https scheme URIs, the TLS connection is direct between the interacting
NF services.
\- Detection of overload of the peer NF/NF service can be done based on the
direct interaction with the peer.
\- Any new overload conveyance mechanism need not be concerned about the
issues related to presence of intermediaries (i.e proxies).
### 5.2.2 NF Services as Distributed Collection
In this topology, an NF / NF service instance can provide an API URI root
which is used by the NF service consumers for initiating the creation of
resources. The initial HTTP/2 messages from the NF service consumers for the
creation of resources are handled by an origin server that is authoritative
for this API URI, while the resource is created at a backend processing
instance of the NF service instance. The authority part of the API may be
changed due to this and the exact resource URI is returned in the Location
header of the resource creation response. Subsequent interactions with the
resource happen towards the resource URI returned in the Location header. This
is illustrated in figure 5.3-1.
Figure 5.2.2-1: NF Services as Distributed Collection
This topology is specified in release 15 in TS 29.501 [5] and is currently
used by the SMF services as specified in TS 29.502 [6]. The following are the
key characteristics of this topology:
\- HTTP/2 connection for the initial create request terminates at the initial
origin server that handles the resource create requests.
\- HTTP/2 connection for the subsequent interaction (e.g update resource
methods) with the created resource terminates at the origin server where the
resource was created.
\- The authority part of the resource URI is changed during resource creation,
and hence the initial create request and subsequent requests are handled by
two different origin servers.
### 5.2.3 Interpretation of Overload
For the direct interaction topologies specified above, the following points
apply for the interpretation of the detected overload condition.
\- For the Release 15 overload detection mechanism, whether the detected
overload is associated with the NF service instance or with the origin server
is upto HTTP/2 client implementations.
\- If the HTTP/2 client implementations associate the overload with an origin
server, then for the model specified in clause 5.2.2, overload detection will
happen independently for the initial origin server that handles resource
create requests and the origin servers where the resources are actually
created.
\- Any new overload conveyance mechanism may consider associating the overload
with a NF service instance instead of per origin server, if required.
## 5.3 Indirect Interaction Models through Intermediaries
### 5.3.1 NF Service Instances behind a Service Communication Proxy without
delegated NF Service discovery
In this deployment model, a NF Service Consumer first discovers the API
endpoint (service URI) of the NF Service Producer by querying the NRF. The NF
Service Consumer then routes the request to the NF Service Producer through a
Service Communication Proxy (SCP, e.g a HTTP forward and reverse proxy). SCPs
may be deployed in a distributed manner in which case, a SCP on the side of
the NF Service Consumer acts as a HTTP forward proxy while a SCP on the side
of the NF Service Producer acts as a HTTP reverse proxy. The SCP routes the
request to appropriate instance of the NF Service Producer. This topology is
specified in Annex C of TR 23.742 [4] as model C. In this deployment model,
the \"authority\" part of the URI used by the NF service consumer to access
the NF service producer may be:
\- the FQDN / IP address representing the NF service producer, if the NF
service consumer does the NF service producer discovery and selection but is
not aware of the number of backend instances behind the SCP in which case the
SCP (acting as a HTTP reverse proxy) selects an instance; or
\- the FQDN / IP address representing the NF service producer instance, if the
NF service consumer does NF service producer instance discovery and selection.
### 5.3.2 NF Service Instances behind a Service Communication Proxy with
delegated NF Service discovery
In this deployment model, a NF Service Consumer does not discover the API
endpoint (service URI) of the NF Service Producer by itself. Instead, the NF
Service Consumer routes the request to a SCP and the SCP based on the contents
of the request URI and/or HTTP headers performs a NF service discovery either
by configuration or optionally by querying the NRF that has been assigned for
the set of slices or the slice instance corresponding to NF services involved
in the indirect communication. SCPs may be deployed in a distributed manner in
which case, a SCP on the side of the NF Service Consumer acts as a HTTP
forward proxy while a SCP on the side of the NF Service Producer acts as a
HTTP reverse proxy. An SCP in the communication path does the NF service
producer instance selection. The SCP(s) then routes the request to a selected
instance of the NF Service Producer. This topology is specified in Annex C of
TR 23.742 [4] as model D. In this deployment model, the \"authority\" part of
the URI used by the NF service consumer to access the NF service producer may
be:
\- for initial requests, the FQDN representing the NF type if a deployment
delegates the discovery of NF service producer instance or NF service producer
set and corresponding instance within the set to the SCP (see clause 6.3.1.x
of 3GPP 23.501 [2]); or
\- for subsequent requests, the FQDN representing the NF service producer set
if a deployment delegates NF service provider instance selection within a set
to the SCP (i.e. concept of a set is visible to the consumer and the NF
service consumer delegates the NF service producer instance selection within
the set to the SCP and there is no binding between a NF service consumer and a
particular NF service producer instance); or
\- the FQDN / IP address representing the NF service producer if a deployment
delegates NF service producer instance selection to the SCP (i.e. NF service
consumer is not aware of the number of backend instances behind the SCP in
which case the SCP acting as a HTTP reverse proxy selects an instance, and
there is no binding required between a NF service consumer and a particular NF
service producer instance).
### 5.3.3 Interpretation of Overload
For the indirect interaction topologies specified above, the following points
apply for the interpretation of the detected overload condition.
\- For the Release 15 overload detection mechanism, whether the detected
overload is associated with the NF service instance or the NF service instance
set or the SCP depends on what the authority part of the request URI contains.
\- Any new overload conveyance mechanism may consider associating the overload
with a specific scope (e.g. at NF service instance level or NF service set
level).
# 6 Overload Scenarios
## 6.1 Introduction
3GPP has done a detailed study of scenarios leading to overload in the core
network elements in 3GPP Release 12, available in TR 23.843 [7]. Many of the
scenarios are applicable to 5GC as well, while some scenarios like overload
due to frequent IDLE-CONNECTED state transition can be mitigated in 5GC by
using solutions like RRC-INACTIVE state. The following clauses provide a list
of scenarios that may lead to overload situation in the 5GC service based
interfaces.
## 6.2 Overload Caused due to UE Initiated Signalling
The following different UE initiated and/or UE induced signalling events can
cause overload in the 5GC service based interfaces.
1\. Large number of UEs performing mobility registration procedure. In densely
populated areas, mass rapid transport systems transport large number of people
from one location to another at high speeds. This will lead to a large number
of UEs doing mobility registrations simultaneously after they move from one
registration area to another. In the case of 5G this problem can be further
aggravated since it is not only the smartphones that get transported along
with the humans that travel, but there will be a lot of IoT devices like
wearables, V2X UEs and sensors monitoring and transmitting active vehicle
diagnostic information that will be generating signalling towards the core
network due to rapid mobility.
2\. Large number of UEs generating application signalling that induces
signalling at the 3GPP 5GC elements
\- An example scenario is large number of people watching a live sports event
at a stadium and trying to catch the action replay videos, videos of player
profiles, use of Augmented Reality (AR) glasses or headsets to get augmented
information at real time related to the event and players. These scenarios can
create or update or delete QoS flows which can lead to massive signalling in
the 5GC service based interfaces.
\- Another example is the application level heartbeat messages from large
number of UEs in a region, causing frequent IDLE-CONNECTED state transitions
leading to NG-RAN to AMF to SMF to UPF signalling. Though this can be
mitigated in 5GC by use of RRC-INACTIVE state, such scenarios may still cause
a core network overload if RRC-INACTIVE is not used.
3\. Large number of UEs generating application layer broadcasts which results
in signalling flood towards each member of that application layer broadcast
domain. For example, when a large number of UEs is part of an Ethernet DN and
they run IP above the Ethernet PDU session, ARP or IPv6 Neighbour Discovery
can generate huge signalling if ARP proxying / IPv6 ND proxying are not
implemented. As per TS 23.501 [2], clause 5.6.10.2
> _NOTE 4: Entities on the LAN connected to the 5GS by the UE may have an IP
> address allocated by the DN but the IP layer is considered as an application
> layer which is not part of the Ethernet PDU Session._
and
> _Neither a MAC nor an IP address is allocated by the 5GC to the UE for a PDU
> Session._
Since IP address allocation to entities on the LAN (including the UE which is
part of the LAN) is considered as an application layer functionality, it is
possible that 3GPP 5GC NFs like UPF and SMF have no visibility into the MAC
address to IP address mapping and hence ARP / IPv6 ND proxying cannot be
effectively implemented. In such cases, an ARP / IPv6 Neighbour Solicitation
request may result in being broadcasted to every Ethernet entity (including
UEs) that are part of the DN. If many UEs are in CM-IDLE state, this will
result in N11 signalling for triggering N3 tunnel setup which would further
lead to massive paging and subsequent service request leading to N11
communication again.
TS 23.501 [2], clause 5.6.10.2 specifies mechanisms to avoid overloads due to
such broadcast / multicast traffic over Ethernet PDU sessions.
## 6.3 Overload Caused due to Failure and Restart of Network Functions
The following different scenarios related to failure and restart of network
functions can cause overload in the 5GC service based interfaces.
1\. Restart of a network function, indicated by its recovery timestamp, can
lead to:
\- re-creation of resources at the restarted NF, if the peer NFs decide to
restore the resources; or
\- it can lead to clean-up of resources, which would likely lead to the
deregistration or release of PDU sessions towards a large number of UEs.
> See TS 23.527 [8], clause 6. In all cases, restart of a network function can
> result in large number of signalling messages on the 3GPP 5GC service based
> interfaces within a short interval of time.
2\. When the FTEID allocation is done by the UPF, upon restart of a V-UPF,
then restoration of the PFCP sessions as specified in clause 4.3.4 of TS
23.527 [8], can result in large number of signalling messages on the N16
interface for Home Routed PDU sessions, if the V-UPF allocated different
FTEIDs.
## 6.4 Overload Caused due to Notifications
The following different scenarios related to notifications can cause overload
in the 5GC service based interfaces. Notifications may be at per UE level or
per PDU session level or per UE group level or per NF level.
1\. Some of the 5GC NFs support EventExposure service. This allows any
authorized NF to subscribe for event notifications. Depending on the type of
event, some events may occur very frequently for a large number of UEs.
Examples are: Location change, UE presence in an area of interest report. This
can lead to a lot of event notifications on the service based interfaces
leading to overload.
2\. NRF supports subscribing for NF status reports at an NF type level. Any
change of NF profile of NFs of the subscribed type can lead to a notification.
3GPP Release 15 has specified mechanisms to filter such notifications based on
monitored and unmonitored attributes of NF profile. When such filtering
mechanisms are not used, then, if there are large number of instances of a
particular NF type, this may result in frequent notifications leading to
overload in the service based interfaces.
# 7 Key Requirements for Load Control
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause contains the key requirements to be addressed for load control of
service based interfaces.
## 7.2 Key Requirement #1: Load Information Conveyance
As identified in clause 9.3.2, the release 15 load control mechanism has some
limitations. Consequently solutions for conveying the load information of NF
service producer to NF service consumers need to be identified.
This key issue shall study solutions for:
\- Sub-Issue#1: Alternative mechanisms for conveying the load information of
NF service producers to NF service consumers apart from the Rel-15 mechanism.
\- Sub-Issue#2: Content of the conveyed load information.
\- Sub-Issue#3: Frequency of inclusion / conveyance.
\- Sub-Issue#4: Where to include the conveyed load information (e.g. HTTP
headers, payload)
## 7.3 Key Requirement #2: Co-existence with Rel-15 Load Control
Even if new mechanisms for conveying load information is agreed in Rel-16 it
is expected that it has to co-exist with existing Rel-15 deployments using the
Rel-15 load conveyance and control mechanism.
This key issue shall study solutions for:
\- Sub-issue#1: How an NF service producer discovers an NF service consumer\'s
support for new Rel-16 load conveyance mechanism.
\- Sub-issue#2: Recommendations for NF service producers on the use of Rel-15
mechanism to update the load information in NRF when there are NF service
consumers supporting Rel-16 mechanism.
\- Sub-issue#3: How an NF service consumer discovers an NF service producer\'s
support for new Rel-16 load conveyance mechanism.
## 7.4 Key Requirement #3: Regulation of Load Information Reception and
Conveyance in the NRF
As highlighted in clause 9.3.2, Rel-15 load control mechanism has some
limitations with regards to the frequency of load information change
notifications sent by the NRF to the subscribed NFs, which might lead in some
scenarios to overload situations in these NFs. In a similar way, defining a
highly frequent load information update by NFs in the NRF might also lead in
some cases to overloading the NRF itself, e.g. due to the associated
processing load. Therefore, this key requirement aims at addressing these two
identified issues and opens for potential solutions.
This key issue shall hence study solutions for:
\- Sub-Issue#1: Defining a mechanism that enables to control and manage the
frequency of load information change from the NRF to the subscribing NFs.
\- Sub-Issue#2: Defining a mechanism that enables to control and manage the
frequency of load information updates by NFs in the NRF.
# 8 Key Requirements for Overload Control
## 8.1 Introduction
This clause contains the key requirements to be addressed for overload control
of messages sent over the service based interfaces.
## 8.2 Key Requirement #1: Overload Conveyance
As identified in clause 9, the time to detect overload condition and the ease
of overload situation at a NF service producer by a NF service consumer
depends on the value of W and K. It is identified that low values of W would
lead to false positives. Hence with larger values of W, the number of rejects
taken to identify overload condition and/or the ease of overload condition
increases. This requires alternate solutions to be studied for conveying the
current overload situation at a NF service producer to a NF service consumer
so that the NF service consumer can react immediately.
This key issue shall study solutions for the following:
\- Sub-Issue#1: Solutions for conveying current overload situation at a NF
service producer to a NF service consumer
\- Sub-Issue#2: Information to be included in the conveyed overload
information. Information used to associate the conveyed overload information
with a particular scope (e.g. NF service level, NF service instance level,
specific DNN and/or S-NSSAI level, upstream NF services like PCF, H-SMF etc.)
\- Sub-Issue#3: Frequency of inclusion.
\- Sub-Issue#4: Where to include the conveyed overload information (e.g. HTTP
headers, payload)
## 8.3 Key Requirement #2: Mechanisms for avoiding and mitigating overload
Since the architecture of 5GC allows virtualized deployment of NF services, it
is possible to avoid and/or mitigate overload situations by scaling the
virtualized instances of the NF service in some deployments. In addition, the
Release 16 eSBA architecture allows NF services to be deployed as a set
allowing incoming requests to be routed to any NF service instance within a
set. This mechanism also allows for horizontally scaling the number of
instances within a set and avoid overload situations.
This key issue shall study the following:
\- Mechanisms for avoiding overload scenarios at NF services;
\- Mechanisms for mitigating overload situation when they arise at NF
services, without impacting ongoing signalling and without any reactive
behaviour from the NF Service Consumers (HTTP Clients);
\- Deployment scenarios where such mechanisms are applicable.
## 8.4 Key Requirement #3: Overload Control
In Release-15, once a HTTP client learns that a HTTP Service is overloaded
based on the \"503 Service Unavailable\" or \"429 Too Many Requests\" status
codes as specified in clause 6.4 of TS 29.500 [3], the client applies an
adaptive throttling mechanism as specified in Annex A of TS 29.500 [3].
Assuming that solutions for feeding back exact overload status of HTTP server
(NF Service Producer) are identified in Release-16, this key issue shall study
solutions for:
\- How an NF Service Consumer (HTTP Client) reacts based on the information
received in Overload Control Information.
\- How intermediaries (e.g. V-SMF, SCP) react
# 9 Evaluation of Release 15 Load and Overload Control
## 9.1 Introduction
The release 15 overload control behaviour is based on the HTTP/2 client side
doing adaptive throttling of requests based on the number of requests sent and
the number requests accepted. This is specified in Annex A of TS 29.500 [3].
The following clauses analyze the behavior of release 15 mechanism.
Release 15 also supports NF / NF service selection based on the load
information provided by NRF during NF / NF service discovery procedure. This
clause also analyses the Release 15 load control mechanism.
## 9.2 R15 Overload Control
### 9.2.1 Behaviour
The Release 15 HTTP client determines that the HTTP server is overloaded by
keeping track of the number of requests sent vs the number of requests
accepted. In order to be meaningful in determining the overload condition
without false positives, it is suggested to keep a window for tracking the
number of requests sent vs number of requests accepted and apply the
congestion detection algorithm only after the window is full.
NOTE: If the client side overload detection is applied as soon as the first
reject is received from the server even before the window is full at the
client side, it will result in showing up as number of accepts vs number of
requests sent as minimal triggering a false state of congestion at server even
though the reject received could be just one off.
The detection is based on the following formula as specified in Annex A of TS
29.500 [3].
{width="3.071527777777778in" height="0.5298611111111111in"}
where K. determines how agressively the HTTP client detects and applies the
adaptive throttling. Assuming the following:
\- Client side signalling rate is X requests per T time units;
\- Window size, W, as a multiple \"N\" of X (where N can be integer or
fractional).
Table 9.2-1 provides a calculation of the number of rejects up to which the
client can tolerate before detecting an overload condition at the server, for
various values of K and N. The reject tolerance calculation formula is derived
as follows:
\- (requests - K * accepts) > 0
\- requests > (K * accepts)
\- requests > (K * (requests - rejects))
\- (requests/K) > (requests - rejects)
Therefore, rejects > (requests - (requests / K)
Using a window size of W, the reject tolerance point at which overload is
detected can be written as:
\- **C~T~** = Ceiling (W - W/K)
Table 9.2-1: Reject Tolerance before Detecting Overload by HTTP Client using
Release 15 Overload Control Algorithm
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Sl.No** | **Value of |** Number of | **Client |** Number of | | | K**| requests | side window | rejects | | | | sent within | size | client can | | | | a time | multiplier | tolerate | | | | interval | N.** | until | | | | \"t\" - X**| | detecting | | | | |** Window | overload at | | | | | size W = N | the server, | | | | | times X**| C~T~ = | | | | | | Ceiling | | | | | | (W-W/K).** | +===========+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1 | 1.2 | 1500 | 1 (= 1500) | 250 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | 1.2 | 1500 | 2 (=3000) | 500 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | 1.3 | 1500 | 1 (= 1500) | 347 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | 1.3 | 1500 | 2 (=3000) | 693 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | 1.4 | 1500 | 1 (= 1500) | 429 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | 1.4 | 1500 | 2 (=3000) | 858 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | 1.5 | 1500 | 1 (= 1500) | 500 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | 1.5 | 1500 | 2 (=3000) | 1000 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9 | 1.6 | 1500 | 1 (= 1500) | 563 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | 1.6 | 1500 | 2 (=3000) | 1125 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | 1.8 | 1500 | 1 (= 1500) | 667 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | 1.8 | 1500 | 2 (=3000) | 1334 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | 2 | 1500 | 1 (= 1500) | 750 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | 2 | 1500 | 2 (=3000) | 1500 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | 1.5 | 1500 | 0.01 (=15) | 5 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The following observations can be made from the table:
\- The larger the window size W, the greater is the reject tolerance and hence
greater is the time taken to detect overload;
\- The larger the value of K, the greater is the reject tolerance and hence
greater is the time taken to detect overload;
\- Very small window sizes could lead to false positives;
\- Once the overload is detected, the number of rejects should fall below the
tolerance point **C~T,\ ~** in order for the client to detect that overload
condition has eased and not apply any client side throttling;
\- Hence the time required to detect that overload condition has eased at the
server depends on W and K.
Once a HTTP client detects that the number of rejects is below the tolerance
point **C~T,\ ~** the client stops throttling and allows all the request
messages be sent to the server. However the server may still be in overload,
albeit to a lesser degree, and will continue rejecting messages at a lesser
rate.
### 9.2.2 Evaluation and Conclusion
The Rel-15 Overload Control Mechanism (Adaptive Throttling at the client side)
as specified in clause 6.4 and Annex A of TS 29.500 [3] has the following
deficiencies:
a) Latency for converging to optimal output traffic the sever can handle, when
overload increases or alleviates
Clients have to send a certain number of requests before detecting that the
server is overloaded, which causes additional load on the server.
With a bigger K value throttling is more permissive resulting in increased
latency to reduce traffic when overload increases but faster convergence when
overload alleviates, and vice versa.
When the client throttling rate reaches a high value, latency may happen for
client\'s traffic to increase when overload alleviates.
b) Client parameters may result in too aggressive or too permissive behaviour
towards the overloaded server.
c) The mechanism is less optimal for bursty traffic and rapid increase of
traffic. When highly overloaded the server cannot request clients to stop
sending requests. The mechanism does not enable server feedback for rapid
adaption when traffic level increase.
d) Clients have to keep track of traffic history (requests accepted/rejected)
per API.
e) Different clients can behave very differently, depending on the algorithm
implemented, parameters K and window size, and frequency of requests sent.
This can result in unfair server resource usage by clients.
f) Adoptive throttling parameters (e.g. K, window size) need to be configured
in all clients.
## 9.3 R15 Load Control Analysis
### 9.3.1 Analysis
Release 15 supports the following mechanisms for controlling the load on an NF
/ NF service:
\- Register an NF or NF service load percentage (0-100) and capacity with NRF
(see clause 6.1.6.2.2 and 6.1.6.2.3 of TS 29.510 [9]).
\- Update the dynamic load and capacity of an NF or NF service with NRF (see
clause 5.2.2.3.2 of TS 29.510 [9]) using heartbeat messages or dedicated
update requests.
\- Notification of change of dynamic load of an NF or NF service to the
consumers that are subscribed for that notification (see clause 6.1.6.2.43 of
TS 29.510 [9]).
\- NF / NF service instance selection based on the load information provided
by NRF during NF / NF service instance discovery (see clause 6.3.2 of TS
23.501 [2]).
The following are the characteristics of the Release 15 load control
mechanism:
\- Dynamic load information of NFs / NF services are discovered via NRF.
\- Any subsequent updates to the already discovered load information requires
subscription to NRF for notification about NF status.
\- For home routed roaming scenarios, NF service consumers (e.g. AMF) may need
to subscribe for notifications about NF / NF service status from HPLMN (e.g.
H-SMF).
\- The NRF can take dynamic load and capacity of NFs / NF services into
account when processing NF discovery requests.
### 9.3.2 Evaluation and Conclusion
The following are the issues identified with Rel-15 load control mechanism:
\- Learning of the current load of a NF service producer is based on
notifications from NRF. This could potentially lead to a massive number of
notifications in a network if all the NF service consumers subscribe for
notifications about the current load of NF service producers as the load will
keep changing dynamically.
\- The periodicity of notifications depends on the periodicity of the
heartbeat mechanism between NF service consumer and the NRF. In order to avoid
stale load information in the NRF, an NF service producer has to update its NF
status in the NRF more frequently using this heartbeat mechanism, thus leading
to frequent large number of notifications from the NRF to all NF service
consumers that have subscribed to this service producer\'s NF status change
notifications.
\- If NF service consumers wish to avoid frequent notifications by not
subscribing to the NF status notifications from the NRF, then they will not be
aware of the NF service producer\'s actual load at a given point of time. This
would lead to NF service consumers incorrectly selecting an NF service
producer instance that is loaded more than another lightly loaded instance.
\- NRF becomes the single point of contact for learning load information of NF
service producers and hence has the risk of becoming a single point of
failure. High availability of the NRF is hence required.
\- depends on the NRF supporting this Rel-15 load control mechanism.
# 10 Solutions for Load Control
## 10.1 Introduction
## 10.2 Solution #1: Direct Load Information Conveyance
This solution addresses key requirement#1, sub-issues #1 and #2 specified in
clause 7.2.
While in the existing Rel-15 solution load and capacity information is
conveyed between NFs indirectly via the NRF, it is proposed for Rel-16 as an
option (making use of the supported feature mechanism) to allow in addition to
the existing Rel-15 solution also direct signalling of Load Control
Information (LCI) between NFs piggybacked on existing messages.
Information conveyed directly between NFs shall contain the identity of the
LCI reporting NF/ NF service (i.e. the scope of the load information), a
static capacity value, a load percentage value indicating the percentage of
the static capacity that is actually not available for new requests, a
timestamp or sequence number used to identify stale information.
The conveyed LCI shall be used for load balancing among a set of candidate NF
/ NF service instances.
Direct LCI conveyance piggybacked on existing messages allows clients to
detect a server\'s current load
\- without the need for potentially massive notification traffic from the NRF;
clients can avoid massive notification traffic by unsubscribing from
notifications, but then they are not aware of the server\'s actual load.
\- in a timely manner independent from heartbeat frequency;
\- at a finer granularity;
\- independent from NRF deployments;
\- frequently, as the reporting frequency naturally increases with the NF
load;
\- without relying on the NRF (single point of failure) that may fail and lose
information after restart.
## 10.3 Solution #2: Load Control Co-Existence
This solution addresses key requirement#2 specified in clause 7.3.
It is proposed that the Supported Features mechanism specified in Rel-15 be
used to discover the support of Rel-16 load control mechanism. A NF service
producer may convey the load information to a NF service consumer, using a
Rel-16 mechanism only if the NF service consumer has included in the Supported
Features that it supports Rel-16 load conveyance / control mechanism.
A Rel-16 NF service producer is still required to update its load information
periodically to the NRF since the load information is returned in NF discovery
response and based on that a NF service consumer performs the selection of NF
service producer instances.
However to avoid frequent notifications of the load from NRF to NF service
consumers, it shall be possible, based on operator policy, to configure the
NRF to not notify changes in the \"load\" parameter and subscriptions for NF
status notifications be restricted only to changes in the other parameters
(e.g. not allow subscriptions for \"/load\" attribute \"monitoredAttributes\"
parameter, see clause 6.1.6.2.43 of TS 29.510 [9]) of the NF / NF service
profile.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how and when to restrict the sending of \"load\"
parameter (e.g. not allow subscriptions for \"/load\" attribute
\"monitoredAttributes\" parameter).
It is recommended to apply such restrictions in the NRF as given below:
\- For intra PLMN cases, apply only if it is known that all NF service
consumers in the PLMN support Rel-16 load conveyance / control mechanism.
\- For inter PLMN cases, apply based on operator policy.
## 10.4 Solution #3: Regulation of Load Information Change Notifications
Conveyance by the NRF
This solution addresses key requirement#3, sub-issue#1 specified in clause
7.4.
As clearly highlighted in clause 9.3.2 and clause 7.4, it might be possible
that the frequency of load information change notifications increases for some
reason (e.g. a NF producer load increases rapidly in a short timeframe) in
such a way that leads to overload situations in the subscribed NFs.
This solution proposes thus to define a threshold-based mechanism to enable a
NF (e.g. NF consumer) to regulate the frequency of change notifications of
load information of another NF (NF consumer) it has subscribed to in order to
protect itself from getting to overload situations due to a potential rapid
increase of the traffic associated to these notifications. The operation of
this mechanism is described hereinafter:
\- When subscribing with the NRF to notifications of changes in load
information of another NF, a NF shall be able to specify a set of conditions
on the frequency of reception of these notifications;
\- This set of condition can consist on:
\- The definition of one or several thresholds, e.g. the subscribing NF
requests the NRF to send notifications only when certain specific load
level(s) is/are reached and/or when the load level has increased/decreased by
a certain amount, and/or;
\- The specification of some periodicity parameters and/or timers, e.g. the
subscribing NF requests the NRF to send notifications with respect to a
certain periodicity and not systematically each time there is a change in the
load information of the concerned NF, and/or;
\- Any other relevant parameter, e.g. other conditions defined by the
operator;
\- The mechanism used to manage the logical combinations of the above
mentioned conditions that control the triggering of notifications is operator
specific, e.g. notifications are sent by the NRF if one of the conditions is
satisfied;
\- NFs shall be able to modify these conditions settings anytime in the NRF;
\- If no conditions are present in the subscription to notifications request,
the NRF shall behave as in Rel-15 and hence send notifications each time there
is a change of load information in the concerned NF.
## 10.5 Solution #4: Regulation of Load Information Updates Reception at the
NRF
This solution addresses key requirement#3, sub-issues#2 specified in clause
7.4.
As clearly highlighted in clause 9.3.2 and clause 7.4, it might be possible
that the frequency by which NFs update their load information in the NRF
becomes high for some reason (e.g. a configuration error or NFs load increases
rapidly in a short timeframe) in such a way that leads to overload situations
in the NRF, e.g. due to the necessary associated processing load.
This solution proposes thus to define a threshold-based mechanism to enable a
NRF to regulate the frequency of load information updates it receives from a
NF so as to protect itself from getting to overload situations due to a
potential rapid increase of the traffic related to these updates. The
operation of this mechanism is described hereinafter:
\- The NRF shall be able to configure and indicate to a NF a set of conditions
that have to be respected for the communication of load information updates;
\- This set of condition can consist on:
\- The definition of one or several thresholds, e.g. the NRF requests the NF
to send load information updates only when certain specific load level(s)
is/are reached and/or when the load level has increased/decreased by a certain
amount, and/or;
\- The specification of some periodicity parameters and/or timers, e.g. the
NRF requests the NF to send load information updates with respect to a certain
periodicity and not systematically each time there is a change in the load
information of the concerned NF, and/or;
\- Any other relevant parameter, e.g. other conditions defined by the
operator;
\- The mechanism used to manage the logical combinations of the above
mentioned conditions that control the triggering of load information updates
is operator specific, e.g. load information updates are sent if one of the
conditions is satisfied;
\- If no conditions are set by the NRF, the NF shall behave as it is currently
described in Rel-15.
## 10.6 Evaluation and Conclusion
As documented in clause 9.3.2, the release 15 load control mechanism has some
limitations. This clause proposes an evaluation of the proposed solutions for
Rel-16 load control improvements. The following recommendations are hence made
as a conclusion for this study:
\- It is recommended that the solution for key issue #1 described in clause
10.2, i.e. to enable direct signalling of Load Control Information (LCI)
piggybacked on existing signalling messages between NFs, will be used as a
basis for further normative work.
\- To avoid frequent notifications of the load from NRF to NF service
consumers (key Issue #2), the following will be addressed in the normative
work:
\- the NF consumer supporting Rel-16 load control mechanism should unsubscribe
from notifications of load information updates of a NF producer with the NRF
as soon as it discovers the support of the same Rel-16 load control mechanism
by this NF producer.
\- the NRF and 5G NFs may also be configured, e.g. based on exchanged
conditions for regulating notifications and/or on operator policy, and/or may
consider the service consumer requested regulations of Load Information Change
Notifications e.g.as documented in solution 10.x.1, in order to reduce
regulate the frequency of traffic related to notifications of changes in the
\"load\" parameter.
Editor\'s note: The above bullet for reducing/regulating load change updates
and notifications is ffs.
# 11 Solutions for Overload Control
## 11.1 Introduction
This clause identifies the solutions for the key requirements identified in
clause 8 for overload control. Each solution specifies the key issues and the
specific aspects of those key issues it addresses.
## 11.2 Principles of Overload Control
Reactive overload control based on HTTP reject status codes by HTTP clients is
already specified in 3GPP release 15 in TS 29.500 [3]. The high level
principles of new overload control mechanisms to be adopted in Release 16 are
summarized below:
a) Any new overload conveyance and overload control mechanism shall co-exist
with release 15 mechanism;
b) Conveyance of overload control information by any means is optional;
c) If a receiving NF / NF service consumer instance does not understand the
conveyed overload control information it shall ignore it. The overload control
adopted by such receiving NF / NF service instances shall be the release 15
mechanism;
d) An NF / NF service producer (instance) compliant to R16 overload control
mechanism, shall also return the specific HTTP status codes specified in TS
29.500 [3], clause 6.4 when the overload condition has not eased even after
conveying overload control information (i.e the sending NF / NF service
(instance) assumes that the receiving NF / NF service instance only supports
release 15 overload control mechanism);
e) It shall be possible to associate the conveyed overload control information
with a specific scope. The scopes shall be identified as part of the study;
f) The overload control mechanism shall allow preferential treatment of
priority users (eMPS) and emergency services;
g) It shall be possible for an NF / NF service consumer to know the overload
status of an NF / NF service producer even if they are not directly
interacting (i.e interacting via an intermediary). Example use cases are AMF
sending a PDU session establishment request to H-SMF via a V-SMF and SMF
communicating with AMF via a I-SMF.
Editor\'s Note: Other principles, if any, are FFS.
## 11.3 Solution #1: Conveying Overload Information via Signalling
This solution addresses the subissue#1 in Key Issue#1 specified in clause 8.2
\- Solutions for conveying current overload situation at a NF service producer
to a NF service consumer
In this solution, the following principles are followed
\- The NF Service Producer shall be able to provide the current overload
situation via an Overload Control Information (OCI) IE in existing signaling
messages;
\- Generation and inclusion of Overload Control Information is implementation
specific.
\- The contents of the Overload Control Information are not addressed in this
solution. They shall be addressed through solutions for key issue#1
subissue#2, specified in clause 8.2;
\- The frequency of inclusion of the Overload Control Information is not
addressed in this solution. It shall be addressed through solutions for key
issue#1 subissue#3, specified in clause 8.2.
\- How a NF Service Consumer that receives the OCI IE reacts is not addressed
in this solution. It shall be addressed through solutions for key issue#3.
Consequently aspects related to how intermediaries like HTTP proxies or SCP
react to OCI shall also be addressed through solutions for key issue#3.
The overload control information of the NF service producer is conveyed to the
NF service consumer as follows:
Figure 11.3-1 Conveying Overload Information via Signalling
1\. The NF Service Producer determines that it is overloaded.
2\. The NF Service Producer receives a HTTP request from the NF Service
Consumer for any NF service that the NF Service Producer exposes.
3\. The NF Service Producer includes an Overload Control Information (OCI) in
the HTTP response. For deployments where the NF Service Consumer Instance and
NF Service Producer Instance interact directly, the OCI information is
provided by the NF Service Producer Instance. For deployments where the NF
Service Producer instance is deployed behind a SCP and the SCP exposes the API
endpoints on behalf of the NF Service Producer, the SCP shall include the OCI
information after considering the overall overload situation of all the
instances of the NF Service Producer that the SCP is acting on behalf.
4\. The NF Service Consumer receives the OCI information and starts applying
the overload control procedures specified as solutions for keyissue#3 in
clause 8.x.
5\. The NF Service Producer may piggyback OCI information in the notification
messages (i.e., existing notification messages).
6\. The NF Service Consumer responds to the notification.
7\. If the NF Service Consumer received OCI information in a notification, it
shall apply the overload control mechanisms for the subsequent request message
it is going to generate towards the NF Service Producer.
## 11.4 Solution #2: Explicit Overload Control Information Conveyance
This solution addresses Key-Requirement #1 and proposes to convey Overload
Control Information (OCI) explicitly between NFs (addressing Sub-Issue#1)
within 3GPP custom headers (addressing Sub-Issue#4). The OCI may be
piggybacked on existing HTTP response signalling in order not to add
additional signalling load to the involved NFs.
Editor\'s note: OCI handling at the SCP is ffs.
Addressing Sub-Issue#2, the information conveyed within the OCI shall contain
the identity of the overloaded NF/ NF service, a requested traffic reduction
or limitation, a validity period and a sequence number used to identify stale
OCIs.
This solution addresses Key-Requirement #3 as follows: NF service consumers
shall act on received OCIs by reducing the number of API invocations according
to the requested reduction or limitation metric value during the validity
period, taking into account message priority considerations.
The traffic reduction (throttling) shall rely on the Loss Algorithm with
similar principles as have been defined for Diameter and GTP-C overload
control.
Support of solution #2 is proposed to be optional in Rel-16 and its use may be
based on deployment/operator policy. The feature negotiation mechanism shall
be used to detect/advertise support of solution #2 by NFs/NF services.
The proposed overload control mechanism based on explicit OCI conveyance
achieves the following advantages:
a) Clients have the accurate server overload information to determine how to
throttle traffic resulting in immediate convergence of output traffic to the
amount of traffic the overloaded server allows.
b) Clients do not need to send requests that are rejected to detect the
server\'s overload.
c) Clients do not need to keep track of traffic history.
d) Burst traffic is well addressed with low latency.
e) Homogenous client behaviour results in fair usage of the overloaded
server\'s resources.
f) In high overload situations the overloaded server can request clients to
stop traffic.
## 11.5 Solution #3: Overload Control Information
The following information shall be considered for inclusion in the Overload
Control Information
Table 11.5-1: Overload Control Information
+-------+----------------------+------------+----------------------+ | Sl.No | Information | Type | Purpose | +=======+======================+============+======================+ | 1 | Overl | enumerated | Contains the | | | oad-Reduction-Metric | | reduction metric to | | | | | be applied for the | | | | | experienced overload | | | | | situation. This | | | | | Overl | | | | | oad-Reduction-Metric | | | | | can either be a | | | | | percentage of | | | | | traffic reduction | | | | | (e.g. loss | | | | | algorithm), a | | | | | specific message | | | | | traffic rate (e.g. | | | | | rate algorithm), or | | | | | any other relevant | | | | | reduction or | | | | | limitation metric | | | | | type that the sender | | | | | of the overload | | | | | control information | | | | | requests the | | | | | receiver to apply. | | | | | | | | | | The computation of | | | | | the exact value for | | | | | this parameter is | | | | | left as an | | | | | implementation | | | | | choice at the | | | | | sending node. | | | | | | | | | | This IE is mandatory | | | | | within the | | | | | Overload- | | | | | Control-Information. | +-------+----------------------+------------+----------------------+ | 2 | Period-of-Validity | DateTime | The | | | | | Period-Of-Validity | | | | | indicates the time | | | | | upto which, the | | | | | overload condition | | | | | specified by the | | | | | Overload Control | | | | | Information IE is to | | | | | be considered valid | | | | | (unless overridden | | | | | by a subsequent | | | | | Overload Control | | | | | Information IE for | | | | | the same scope). | | | | | | | | | | This IE is mandatory | | | | | within the | | | | | Overload- | | | | | Control-Information. | +-------+----------------------+------------+----------------------+ | 3 | Over | integer | Due to availability | | | load-Sequence-Number | | of multiple paths / | | | | | multiple TCP | | | | | connections to reach | | | | | a API endpoint or to | | | | | deliver | | | | | notifications, it is | | | | | possible that an | | | | | overload control | | | | | information received | | | | | at once instance may | | | | | be less recent than | | | | | an information | | | | | received at a | | | | | previous instance in | | | | | another path. The | | | | | Over | | | | | load-Sequence-Number | | | | | aids in sequencing | | | | | the overload | | | | | information received | | | | | from an overloaded | | | | | NF service. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Over | | | | | load-Sequence-Number | | | | | contains a value | | | | | that indicates the | | | | | sequence number | | | | | associated with the | | | | | Overload Control | | | | | Information IE. This | | | | | sequence number is | | | | | used to | | | | | differentiate two | | | | | Overload Control | | | | | Information IEs | | | | | generated at two | | | | | different instants | | | | | by the same NF | | | | | service for the same | | | | | scope. | | | | | | | | | | The sender of this | | | | | information shall | | | | | increment the | | | | | Over | | | | | load-Sequence-Number | | | | | associated to a | | | | | particular overload | | | | | scope whenever | | | | | modifying some | | | | | information in the | | | | | Overload | | | | | -Control-Information | | | | | IE. The | | | | | Over | | | | | load-Sequence-Number | | | | | shall not be | | | | | incremented | | | | | otherwise. | | | | | | | | | | This IE is mandatory | | | | | within the | | | | | Overload- | | | | | Control-Information. | +-------+----------------------+------------+----------------------+ | 4 | Scope | OCIScope | The conveyed OCI | | | | | information is | | | | | associated with the | | | | | HTTP signalling that | | | | | is in the same | | | | | scope. | +-------+----------------------+------------+----------------------+
The high level content of OCIScope is shown in table 11.5-2 below.
Table 11.5-2: OCIScope content
Number Information Description
* * *
1 Uri This identifies the API URI. The NF service consumer uses it to identify
whether the OCI is associated with the NF it is directly communicating with
(e.g. V-SMF) or with the NF it is communicating with via an intermediary (e.g.
H-SMF). 2 NfInstanceId The OCI is associated with a specific NF instance. 3
nfServiceInstanceIdList The OCI is associated with a specific list of NF
service instances. 4 Dnn list) The OCI is associated with a specific list of
DNNs. 5 sNssaiSmfInfoList List of S-NSSAIs See 1 29.510 [9] clause 6.1.6.2.29
6 NF Set ID To be updated during normative phase depending on the data type
chosen for NF Set ID in eSBA work. NOTE: The more precise and detailed the
information provided in the OCI Scope, the more precise the parts of the
concerned NF for which overload control should be applied.
When scope information is not included, the overload control information
conveyed shall be associated with the \"authority\" part of the NF service
API.
## 11.6 Solution #4: Overload Avoidance and Mitigation
This solution addresses keyissue#2. In deployments where NF services are
deployed as instances (virtual) behind an API endpoint that terminates the API
URI (e.g. SCP instance), the following mechanisms can be used to avoid and
mitigate overload situations:
NOTE: For ease of understanding the entity that terminates the NF Service API
endpoint is called a \"Reverse Proxy\" here onwards.
Figure 11.6-1: Overload Avoidance and Mitigation via OAM and Service Instance
Scaling
1\. OAM or a monitoring entity can monitor the resource usage (e.g. CPU,
memory, link utilization etc.,.) of the NF Service instances.
2\. If the monitored resource usage is nearing a configured threshold, the OAM
system can spawn off new instances of the NF service, with the same API
endpoint as the rest of the instances (e.g. API endpoint terminating at the
Reverse Proxy).
3\. The Reverse Proxy is made aware of the availability of new NF Service
instance(s).
4\. The Reverse Proxy routes subsequent new resource creation requests to
lightly loaded NF Service instances.
5\. When the overload situation eases, the OAM may shutdown some of the NF
Service Instances, if the resource state in those NF Service instances are
shared with other NF Service instances through UDSF or if the session contexts
can be transferred by R16 eSBA solutions.
6\. In order to avoid signaling overload of the Reverse Proxy itself, the
following deployment options may be considered:
\- The Reverse Proxy is deployed with multiple interfaces / IP links all
having the same anycast IP address;
\- The Reverse Proxy has a large CPU pool and memory to handle signalling
surges, to handle those signalling requests in parallel and to distribute them
to backend NF Service instances
7\. If the frequency and the quantum of signalling messages crosses beyond the
capacity upto which the Reverse Proxy can handle, scaling of service instances
cant help avoid / mitigate the overload. Either Release-15 based Overload
control or new overload control mechanisms are required.
## 11.7 Solution #5: Frequency of Inclusion - Piggyback in every HTTP
signalling message
This solution addresses key requirement#1, sub-issue#3 specified in clause
8.2.
The following are the key principles of this solution:
\- NF service producer monitors its overload situation and identifies when to
start communicating the overload control information to NF service consumers,
depending on configured thresholds or implementation specific triggers;
\- Once the NF service producer decides to include OCI towards NF service
consumer, it shall piggyback it in every HTTP response message and may also
piggyback it in every HTTP notification message that the NF service producer
would normally send towards the NF service consumer (for the already
subscribed notifications).
\- The OCI information contains a sequence number. The sequence number shall
be incremented whenever the overload reduction percentage value changes from a
previously communicated value.
\- OCI IEs carrying the same sequence number shall have the same content.
\- If an NF service consumer has already received an OCI with sequence
number#n it shall ignore the subsequent OCI IEs that it receives with the same
or lower sequence number#n (except when there is rollover of sequence number).
NOTE: How to avoid that a receiver uses only actual and not out of date OCI
information is left to the normative work,
**[Advantages]{.underline}** :
\- NF service producer implementation is simple as it can include the OCI
information in every message without taking any additional considerations.
\- Resiliency against message losses. The NF service consumer will know the
current overload situation of the NF service producer even if some of the
messages to NF service consumer are lost in the network.
\- Since the OCI IE is included in HTTP response messages and in the
notification messages for which the NF service consumer subscribed, an NF
service consumer that has indicated support for Rel-16 overload control will
be able to process the OCI IE.
**[Disadvantages:]{.underline}**
\- Since OCI IE is included in every message, an unnecessary increase in the
size of every message, especially considering that except the first occurrence
of OCI IE with the sequence number#n, all other occurrences of the same or
lower sequence number are ignored by the NF service consumer.
## 11.8 Solution #6: Conveying Overload Information via NRF
This solution addresses the subissue#1 in Key Issue#1 specified in clause 8.2
\- Solutions for conveying current overload situation at a NF service producer
to a NF service consumer
In this solution, the following principles are followed
\- The NFProfile in NRF shall be able to store the Overload Control
Information related to an NF Service Producer;
\- The contents of the Overload Control Information are not addressed in this
solution. They shall be addressed through solutions for key issue#1
subissue#1, specified in clause 8.2;
\- It shall be possible to get the Overload Control Information of an NF
Service Producer through NF discovery and NF status notification procedures;
The overload control information of the NF service producer is conveyed to the
NF service consumer as follows:
Figure 11.8-1 Conveying Overload Information via NRF
1\. NF Service Consumers may use the Nnrf_NFManagement_NFStatusSubscribe
service operation to subscribe for notifications on the change of overload
control information of a NF Service Producer. The NotifCondition attribute as
specified in clause 6.1.6.2.43 may be used to set the monitoredAttributes IE
to the Overload Control Information IE.
2\. The NRF creates the resource for the NF status subscription and responds
to the NF Service Consumer.
3\. When the NF Service Producer considers itself overloaded, it updates the
Overload Control Information in the NFProfile in NRF using the
Nnrf_NFManagement_NFUpdate service operation. The frequency of inclusion is
based on operator policy.
4\. NRF responds to the NF Service Producer.
5\. [Optional] If the NF Service Consumer has subscribed for NF Status
notification in step 1, the NRF notifies the NF Service Consumer providing the
Overload Control Information of the NF Service Producer.
6\. [Optional] The NF Service Consumer responds to the notification.
7\. [Conditional] If the NF Service Consumer has received the notification in
step 6 and if the NF Service Consumer has active HTTP/2 signalling interaction
with the NF Service Producer, it shall use the Overload Control Information
received to apply overload control behaviors.
For scenarios, where the NF service consumer has been already instructed to
use a specific instance of an NF service producer but the NF service consumer
has to discover the API endpoint of the AMF service:
\- If the NF Service Consumer gets NF profile of an NF Service Producer (e.g.
AMF) before it communicates with the NF Service Producer and if the NF profile
has Overload Control Information, then the NF Service Consumer uses the
Overload Control Information to apply overload control behaviors.
8\. [Conditional] If a NF Service Consumer is discovering the NF Service
Producer, it requests the NRF with Nnrf_NFDiscovery_NFDiscover service
operation.
9\. [Conditional] The NRF responds to the NF Service Consumer providing the
NFProfile of the NF being discovered. The NFProfile shall contain the Overload
Control Information, with the information updated in step 3.
10\. The NF Service Consumer shall consider the Overload Control Information
for the NF Service Producer instance selection. If the NF Service Producer is
experiencing signalling overload, it is beneficial if new resource creations,
which may lead to further increased signalling later, are not sent to the
overloaded NF Service Producer instance.
In deployments using the Release-16 eSBA mechanism with delegated discovery,
the role of NF Service Consumer in this solution is played by the SCP.
## 11.9 Solution #7: Converying OCI via Overload Control Service
This solution addresses Key Issue#1 as documented in clause 8.2.
This solution includes the following aspects:
\- Introduce a new NF service, Overload Control Service, which shall compliant
to the requirement as specified in clause 7.1 \"Network Function Service
Framework\" in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], i.e. the Overload Control service shall be
registered to the NRF, and discoverable and the service shall only be
authorized to be used by the eligible NFs.
\- The Overload Control Service may be supported by any existing 3GPP NFs.
e.g. for AMF, the Overload Control Service may be supported in addition to the
existing NF services, i.e. Namf_Communication, Namf_Eventexposure, Namf_MT and
Namf_Location services.
\- The Overload Control Service may provision an OCI on NF level and
optionally on the NF Service level.
\- The Service Operations supported by the Overload Control Service includes
Subscribe, Unsubscribe and Notify.
\- The Overload Control Service may support Subscribe-Notify communication
pattern.
\- Any 3GPP NF entity (e.g. an AMF, a SCP), and/or any network entity (e.g.
OAM or a 3rd party service), regardless whether it is a service consumer of
another service offered by an overloaded NF service producer, as long as being
authorized, may subscribe to receive Overload Control Information
notifications from the overloaded NF service producer.
\- A NF A, if it is consuming an NF service (other than Overload Control
Service) offered by a NF B, shall subscribe to the Overload Control Service if
it is offered by the NF B, to receive OCI notification for NF B and/or that NF
service. The NF A shall be considered as the Overload Enforcement node, i.e.
shall take actions, e.g. throttling signaling traffic sent from NF A to NF B,
to mitigate the Overload situation in the NF B if the NF B is overloaded.
\- When subscribing to receive OCI notification, the consumer may request to
be notified with certain conditions, e.g. frequency of notifications, though
the Overload Control Service producer takes final decision.
\- The OCI information is sent via Notifications towards all subscribed
entities and included in the message body.
The following figure illustrates the population of OCI via a new NF service -
Overload Control Service.
Figure 11.9-1 Conveying OCI via Overload Control Service
1\. The NF B (as Service Producer) register offered services including the
Overload Control Service on the NRF.
2\. The NF A (as Service Consumer) perform a Service Discovery procedure, and
the NF B is selected.
3\. The NF A consume a service (other than the Overload Control service)
offered by the NF B.
4\. The NF A consume the Overload Control Service offered by NF B by
subscribing to get OCI notifications.
5\. If the NF B or a service on NF B is overloaded, and according to the
subscription.
6\. The NF B sends a notification to NF A includes its OCI.
7\. The NF B sends further notification if the OCI information is changed.
## 11.10 Solution #8: Overload Control enforcement behaviour
This solution addresses key requirement#3 specified in clause 8.4.
The following are the key aspects of this solution to depict an NF service
consumer behavior during overload situations:
\- The NF service consumer shall reduce the number of messages it would
normally generate towards the NF service producer, in accordance with the
overload reduction percentage requested by the NF service producer in the OCI
IE. For example, if the NF service producer has requested an overload
reduction percentage of 20%, then out of 100 messages that the NF service
consumer generates towards the NF service producer it shall drop 20 messages.
This mechanism is called message throttling.
\- Since the OCI IE is communicated end to end, the enforcement of the
overload control based on overload reduction percentage shall be applied by
the NF service consumer. SCPs are not expected to react on OCI IE in the scope
of this solution.
\- However SCPs can help mitigate overload as specified in solution#4 in
clause 11.6.
\- When applying message throttling, the NF service consumer shall give
preference to messages related to priority users (eMPS) and emergency services
and shall avoid throttling the messages related to such users / services.
\- A prioritization for not throttling messages based on the system procedure
the message is related to and parameters in the message (e.g. DNN, S-NSSAI)
shall be employed.
\- The following table provides a suggested prioritization of system
procedures. Messages related to system procedures of higher priority (lower
number indicates higher priority) shall be given lower preference for
throttling. This priority mechanism should be used in combination with the
existing 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority (SMP) mechanism, see TS 29.500 [3], clause
6.8.
Table 11.10-1: Priority of System Procedures
+----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | Priority | System Procedure | Related Service | Description | | | | Operations | | +==========+==================+==================+==================+ | 1 | Service Request | Nsmf_PDU | Service request | | | and Handover | Session_UpdateS | and handover | | | | MContext,request | procedures are | | | | / response | expected to | | | | | finish under | | | | Nsmf_PD | tight time | | | | USession_Update | deadlines (less | | | | request request | than 20 ms) and | | | | / response | hence messages | | | | | related to those | | | | N | | | | | smf_PDUSession\ | | | | | _CreateSMContext | | | | | request / | | | | | response and | | | | | Nsmf_PD | | | | | USession_Create | | | | | request/response | | | | | for EPS to 5GS | | | | | Handover | | | | | Procedure | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 2 | PDU session | Any service | Resource | | | release, Any | operation using | deletions would | | | procedure | DELETE method | lead to lesser | | | causing a DELETE | | number of | | | on a HTTP | | resource related | | | resource | | signalling and | | | | | hence should be | | | | | treated on | | | | | priority to ease | | | | | the overload | | | | | situation. | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 3 | Other procedures | Any service | | | | that don\'t fall | operation not | | | | under category | falling under | | | | 1, 2 and 4 | category 1,2 and | | | | | 4 (e.g. | | | | | Nam | | | | | f_Communication | | | | | service | | | | | operations, | | | | | Nam | | | | | f_EventExposure | | | | | service | | | | | operations, | | | | | Nudm_UECM | | | | | service | | | | | operations | | | | | etc,.,) | | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 4 | Any procedure | Any service | Resource | | | causing new | operation using | creations will | | | resource | POST or PUT | result in more | | | creation (e.g. | method to create | signalling in | | | PDU session | a resource | future on those | | | establishment) | | resources | | | | | leading to | | | | | overload. Hence | | | | | these messages | | | | | should be | | | | | throttled more. | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
## 11.11 Solution #9: Location of OCI
This solution addresses key requirement#1, sub-issue#4 specified in clause
8.2.
There are two possible locations within a HTTP message to include the Overload
Control Information (OCI).
1\. Include OCI as a JSON object within the payload of HTTP messages.
\- Provides flexibility to expand OCI in future releases as payloads can be
larger when compared to HTTP headers.
2\. Include OCI encoded within a custom HTTP header.
\- Can be used on all messages (including responses carrying 204 No Content
status code).
\- Does not require OpenAPI updates every time a new API / method to an
existing API is added.
## 11.12 Solution#10: Overload control by redirecting requests to another NF
within a NF set
This solution addresses the Key Issue#3 specified in clause 8.4
In this solution, the following principles are followed
\- The OCI includes an indication on whether the NF service Consumer can
select another NF service producer from the same NF Set, if the scope of the
OCI is at NF service producer level (and not at NF set level)
\- If it is allowed, the NF service Consumer selects a new NF service producer
from the same NF set, and send the request message to the new NF service
producer instance.
\- The newly selected NF service producer instance is expected to have the
resource context information related to the request message. How the selected
NF service producer instance gets it from the previous NF service producer
instance will be addressed as part of eSBA solutions for context transfers
within a NF set.
\- This solution does not address SCP with delegated discovery deployment
scenario.
The overload control is handled as follows:
Figure 11.12-1 Overload control by redirecting requests to another NF within a
NF set
1a. [Optional] NF Service Consumers has received a response message which
includes OCI reflecting the overload of the NF Service Producer.
1b. [Optional] NF Service Consumer has received Nnrf_NFDiscovery Response or
Nnrf_NFManagement_NFStatusNotify, in which OCI is included, refelecting the
overload of the NF Service Producer.
2\. [Optional] If the OCI reflects the scope at NF instance Id level or NF
service instance Id level and also includes an indication saying that a new NF
Service Producer from the same NF Set can be selected to replace the original
NF Service Producer, the NF Service Consumer triggers
Nnrf_NFDiscovery_NFDiscover Request (NF Set ID) to discover a new NF Service
Producer from the NF Set.
3\. [Optional] The NRF responds with Nnrf_NFDiscovery_NFDiscover Response. The
Message includes a list of NF profiles of NF Instance that have no OCI in
their profile from the requested NF Set.
4\. The NF Service Consumer then selects one NF Service Producer from the list
of NF Instances provided by NRF, and sends the request to this new NF Service
Producer Instance.
The NF Service Consumer replaces the authority part of the resource URI of the
original request message with the FQDN or IP address of the new NF Service
Producer Instance.
## 11.13 Solution #11: Overload Control Enforcement by SCPs
This solution addresses key requirement#3 specified in clause 8.4.
The main characteristic of this solution is that the SCP is considered here as
the overload control enforcement entity. SCP is considered in this solution as
deployed in either option C (Indirect communication without delegated
discovery) or option D (Indirect communication with delegated discovery)
communication models defined in annex E of TS 23.501 [2]. In this sense, the
SCP is terminating the TLS connection on both sides of the communication path.
\- At reception of OCI information from a NF producer, the SCP shall reduce
the number of messages it would normally send towards the NF service producer,
in accordance with the overload reduction percentage requested by the NF
service producer in the OCI IE;
\- When performing this throttling mechanism, the behaviour of the SCP with
regards to the concerned NF service consumers is to be specified by this
solution, e.g. an appropriate error message could be sent to the concerned NF
consumer(s) with an error code and error details that are in accordance with
the overload situation that is experienced;
\- The SCP shall also be able to select another NF service producer, e.g. from
the same NF Set, if it is allowed, and send the request message to the new NF
service producer instance. This solution shall also specify how and when the
SCP performs this reselection;
\- Depending on the ongoing overload situation and the efficiency of the
overload control mechanisms that are applied by the SCP and not involving
upstream NFs, the SCP shall also be able to send (e.g. derived or simply
relayed) upstream OCI information to the concerned NF consumer(s) if it
considers it beneficial for the overall management of the overload situation;
\- For example:
\- If the NF service producer has requested an overload reduction percentage
of 20%, then out of 100 messages that the SCP has to route to this NF service
producer, only 80 messages would be maintained and the remaining 20 messages
would if possible rather be routed to another NF service Producer from the
same NF Set. If no NF service producer could be identified / is available e.g.
from the same NF set, then the SCP shall drop the extra messages in accordance
with the overload reduction percentage requested by the NF service producer in
the OCI IE;
\- The SCP shall apply a proper message prioritization mechanism when applying
throttling, e.g. the same message prioritization mechanisms described in
solution#8 in clause 11.10.
## 11.14 Conveyance of Overload Information with hyperlink
This solution addresses the subissue#1 and subissue#4 in Key Issue#1 specified
in clause 8.2
\- Solutions for conveying current overload situation at a NF service producer
to a NF service consumer.
\- Where to include the conveyed overload information (e.g. HTTP headers,
payload).
In this solution, the following principles are followed
\- The NF service producer stores the overload control information (when
necessary) in a dedicated storage, the storage may either collocate with the
NF service producer or be standalone storage. The NF service producer may
update the overload control information in the storage periodically or when
the load status exceeds a threshold;
\- The interface between NF service producer and overload information storage
is not covered in this solution;
\- When overload information is to conveyed to the service consumer, the
service producer includes a hyperlink in the response message and the
hyperlink points the relevant overload information stored in the overload
control information storage;
\- Upon receiving the response containing the hyperlink described as above,
the service consumer retrieves the overload control information according to
the hyperlink, this mechanism is based on HATEOAS as described in clause 4.7
of TS 29.501 [5];
The overload control information of the NF service producer is conveyed to the
NF service consumer as follows:
Figure 11.14-1 Conveying Overload Control Information via hyperlink
1\. NF Service Producer stores its overload control information on the
dedicated OCI storage.
2\. The NF Service Consumer invokes service towards the NF Service Producer,
the NF service Consumer shall indicate support of HATEOAS related features as
described in clause 4.7.6 of TS 29.501 [5].
3\. When needed, the NF Service Producer responds to the service invoking
request, in addition it includes in the response message the hyperlink
pointing to its overload control information on the OCI storage. Based on
overload control strategy the NF Service Producer may:
\- always include the hyperlink in response messages if possible; or
\- include the hyperlink in response messages when it is under overload
condition.
4\. If the NF Service Consumer receives a hyperlink pointing to the overload
control information in step 3, then it retrieves the overload control
information based on the hyperlink.
NOTE: The NF Service Consumer retrieves the overload control information only
once for each time it receives a hyperlink pointing to the overload control
information.
5\. The OCI storage sends the overload control information which previously
stored by the NF Service Producer to the NF Service Consumer.
## 11.15 Evaluation and Conclusion
### 11.15.1 Evaluation of the Solutions
In the following, an evaluation of all the proposed solutions is made with
regards to each key requirement and associated sub-issues defined in clause 8.
For addressing Key Requirement #1, Sub-Issue#1:
\- A combination of Solution #1 and Solution #2 should be used. Overload
control information is signaled from the concerned NF service producer to the
NF service consumer either in a response or in a notification. This enables to
mitigate most of the limitations identified for the Rel-15 overload control
mechanism and depicted in clause 9.2.2.
\- Solution #7 can also be considered as a complementary solution. Indeed,
assuming that the overload control service is supported by a different service
instance than the one providing the overloaded service of the NF producer,
this service can be useful in case the concerned service producer instance is
overloaded to a point that it cannot react to received requests (construct and
send responses) or send notifications that can be used to include OCI towards
NF consumers. This solution enables the overloaded service producer to signal
OCI to all concerned network entities (who have subscribed) intermediately and
at the same time without waiting until signalling exchanges (to consume the
overloaded services) takes place. Other network entities (other than the
concerned NF consumers), e.g. O&M, SCP and/or a 3rd party service can also
make use of this new service to retrieve OCI information if required. However,
it also implies a tight coupling in the implementation between this overload
service and the other services supported by the NF service producer.
\- Also alternatively, Solution #6 can be considered. However, it is to be
noted that this solution can have the same limitations as the Rel-15 load
control mechanism (see clause 9.3.2) in the sense that it can lead to
additional overload situations in the NRF and NF consumers if there is no
possibility to regulate the frequency of overload control updates (from NFs to
the NRF) and notifications (from the NRF to subscribing consumer NFs).
For addressing Key Requirement #1, Sub-Issue#2 on the content of OCI:
\- Solution #3 is advised. The information conveyed within the OCI shall
contain the identity of the overloaded NF/ NF service, a requested reduction
or limitation metric, a validity period, a sequence number used to identify
stale OCIs and the scope of the conveyed OCI.
For addressing Key Requirement #1, Sub-Issue#3 on the frequency of OCI
conveyance:
\- Solution #5 ought to be used. OCI is included in every signalling message,
HTTP response message and also notifications, sent by the NF producer to the
NF consumer.
\- If Solution #7 is used as described above, frequency of notifications of
OCI towards subscribed NF consumers is suggested by the service consumer, and
the concerned service producer takes that into account, together with its
local policy when setting up this frequency.
For addressing Key Requirement #1, Sub-Issue#4 on where to include the
conveyed OCI.- 3 variants are described in the different solution on how to
signal OCI information in this TR:
\- OCI is signaled by Subscription/Notification via a new service offered by
the NF service producer (see clause 11.9 Solution #7)
\- OCI is signaled by being piggybacked in the existing signalling messages
sent between the NF producer and the NF consumer (see clause 11.11 Solution
#1)
\- OCI is retrieved by the service consumer using a HATEOAS links provided by
the overloaded NF service producer. This solution has the following
advantages:
a) this solution is inline with the service based architecture, with this
solution the overload control component can be decoupled from the service
logic component in the NF, thus more flexibility is provided for network
deployments;
b) the burden of conveying OCI can be offloaded from the server;
c) the client is able to make the decision whether to retrieve the OCI (the
client may not continue to contact that server thus the OCI may be useless),
this can save the unnecessary OCI conveyance and provide more flexibility to
the overall overload control solution.
Table 11.15-1: Comparison of the solutions on location of signalling OCI
information
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Method | Pros | Cons | +======================+======================+======================+ | OCI included in HTTP | 1. Provides | 1. Most off the | | messages payload | flexibility to | shelf HTTP proxies | | | expand OCI in future | do not have | | | releases as payloads | readymade solutions | | | can be larger when | for inserting | | | compared to HTTP | content into HTTP | | | headers. | payload. | | | | | | | | 2. Some response | | | | messages (204 No | | | | Content) do not have | | | | any payload. | | | | | | | | 3. Every time a new | | | | API is added and/or | | | | a HTTP method is | | | | added to an existing | | | | API, the OCI IE | | | | needs to be included | | | | in the payload of | | | | the messages in | | | | OpenAPI. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | OCI included in HTTP | 1. Can be used on | 1. Headers should | | custom headers | all messages | be generally short | | | (including responses | for better | | | carrying 204 No | performances. | | | Content status | Including OCI in | | | code). | headers would | | | | restrict the size | | | 2. Does not require | available for OCI | | | OpenAPI updates | IE. | | | every time a new API | | | | / method to an | | | | existing API is | | | | added. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
\- OCI included in HTTP custom headers has the least impact on the openAPI, as
it is expected that OCI information will not increase much and thus the size
restriction in the header may not be an issue, given that the contents of OCI
as identified in clause 11.5 are limited.
\- Alternatively and in case Solution #7 is used as described above, it should
hence not be precluded to use the associated notification mechanism to convey
OCI.
For addressing Key Requirement #2:
\- Solution #4 can be considered depending on the deployment scenarios.
For addressing Key Requirement #3 on Overload Control enforcement:
\- A combination of Solution #8 and Solution #10 for Overload Control
enforcement should be followed. The NF consumer is expected to take actions
(throttling, reselection, etc.) taking into account the information provided
by the overloaded NF producer in the OCI IE.
\- Alternatively and in case an SCP is used with communication options C or D
(refer to annex E of TS 23.501 [2]), Solution #y (Overload Control Enforcement
by SCPs), should be used as it provides a centralized overload control
management for all 5G NFs and enables to have the least impact on NF consumers
and service delivery in general. Indeed, the SCP is in charge of managing the
overload situation of a NF producer for all concerned NF consumers by taking
into consideration all the available parameters that it has (e.g. OCI, other
available NF instances, overall load distribution among NF instances, etc.).
The following considerations should also be taken into account:
\- When applying throttling, the message prioritization scheme should be
defined as described in Solution #8 and in accordance with the mechanisms
already defined in Rel-15.
\- Also when applying throttling, the error message type and content to be
sent upstream should be defined and is hence left for the normative phase.
# 12 Selected solutions
## 12.1 Selected solution for Overload Control
Based on the provisions in clause 11.15 \"Evaluation and Conclusion\", CT
shall study how to combine the following solutions to address all requirements
with one unified solution:
\- Key requirement #1.1 (meaning requirement #1, sub-issue #1): Solutions 1
and 2.
\- Key requirement #1.2: Solution 3.
\- Key requirement #1.3: Solution 5.
\- Key requirement #1.4: Solutions 2 and 9 (solution #9 offers two
alternatives, but only the second one, i.e.OCI conveyed via an HTTP custom
header should be adopted.
\- Key requirement #2: Solution 4.
\- Key requirement #3: Solutions 8, 10 and 11.
## 12.2 Solution outline and implications on SBI specifications
Below is a higher level summary of the overload control solution. Potential
impacts on normative SBI specs are also identified.
### 12.2.1 Overload Conveyance - General (key requirement #1.1)
How to meet key requirement #1.1 is defined in solution #1:
\- The overloaded NF Service Producer includes an Overload Control Information
(OCI) in the HTTP response messages.
\- For deployments where the NF Service Consumer Instance and the NF Service
Producer Instance interact directly, the OCI information is provided by the NF
Service Producer Instance.
\- For deployments where the NF Service Consumer Instance and the NF Service
Producer Instance do not interact directly, i.e. the NF Service Producer
instance is deployed behind a SCP and the SCP exposes the API endpoints on
behalf of the NF Service Producer, the SCP shall include the OCI information
after considering the overall overload situation of all the instances of the
NF Service Producer that the SCP is acting on behalf.
\- The NF Service Producer may also piggyback OCI information in the
notification messages (i.e., existing notification messages).
Editor\'s note: This will likely impact the following 3GPP specs under CT4
responsibility: TS 29.500, 29.502-505, 29.509-511, 29.518, 29.531and 29.572
(use this info in the new WID, when specifying the list of impacted normative
specs).
See more details in clause 11.3.
### 12.2.2 Overload Conveyance - Semantics (key requirement #1.2)
How to meet key requirement #1.2 is defined in solution #3. The following
information shall hence be included in the Overload Control Information (OCI):
\- Overload-Reduction-Metric
\- Period-of-Validity
\- Overload-Sequence-Number
\- Scope
Editor\'s note: This will likely impact at least TS 29.571 (use this info in
the new WID, when specifying the list of impacted normative specs).
See more details in clause 11.5.
### 12.2.3 Overload Conveyance - Frequency (key requirement #1.3)
How to meet key requirement #1.3 is defined in solution #5:
\- The NF service producer monitors its overload situation and identifies when
to start communicating the overload control information to NF service
consumers, depending on configured thresholds or implementation specific
triggers;
\- Once the NF service producer decides to include OCI towards NF service
consumers, it may piggyback it in every HTTP response message (the decision is
implementation dependent) and may also do the same in every HTTP notification
message that the NF service producer would normally send towards upstream NF
service consumers (for the already subscribed notifications).
Editor\'s note: How to handle the absence of the OCI in subsequent messages
will be addressed during the normative work.
Editor\'s note: This will likely impact the following 3GPP specs under CT4
responsibility: TS 29.500, 29.502-505, 29.509-511, 29.518, 29.531and 29.572
(use this info in the new WID, when specifying the list of impacted normative
specs).
See more details in clause 11.7.
### 12.2.4 Overload Conveyance - Where to include OCI (key requirement #1.4)
How to meet key requirement #1.4 is defined in solutions #2 and #9, which
propose to convey Overload Control Information (OCI) explicitly between NFs
within 3GPP custom headers (solution #9 offers two alternatives, but only the
header based alternative should be adopted).
Editor\'s note: This will likely impact the following 3GPP specs under CT4
responsibility: TS 29.500, 29.502-505, 29.509-511, 29.518, 29.531and 29.572
(use this info in the new WID, when specifying the list of impacted normative
specs).
See more details clauses 11.4 and 11.11.
### 12.2.5 Overload Conveyance - HATEOAS (key requirements #1.1 and #1.4)
For deployments where HATEOAS is used, solution #12 may be used.
Editor\'s note: Summary of the solution for HATEOAS option will be addressed
by a separate pCR.
See more details in clause 11.14.
### 12.2.6 Overload - Avoiding and mitigating (key requirement #2)
How to meet key requirement #2 is defined in solution #4. If NF services are
deployed as virtual instances behind an API endpoint that terminates the API
URI (e.g. SCP instance), the following mechanisms can be used to avoid and
mitigate overload situations:
\- OAM or any other monitoring entity monitors the resource usage (e.g. CPU,
memory, link utilization etc.) of the NF Service instances.
\- If the monitored resource usage is nearing a configured threshold, the
monitoring system initiates new instances of the NF service, with the same API
endpoint, which terminates at the Reverse Proxy.
\- The Reverse Proxy routes subsequent new resource creation requests to
lightly loaded NF Service instances.
\- When the overload situation ceases, the OAM may shutdown some of the NF
Service Instances, if the resource state in those NF Service instances are
shared with other NF Service instances through UDSF or if the session contexts
can be transferred by 3GPP Rel-16 eSBA solutions.
Editor\'s note 1: This solution should be aligned with the outcome of the
5G_eSBA work, which is still ongoing at SA2.
Editor\'s note 2: This will likely impact the following 3GPP specs under CT4
responsibility: TS 29.500, 29.502-505, 29.509-511, 29.518, 29.531and 29.572
(use this info in the new WID, when specifying the list of impacted normative
specs).
See more details in clause 11.6.
### 12.2.7 Overload Control (key requirement #3)
How to meet key requirement #3 is defined in solutions #8, 10 and 11.
\- For deployments where SCPs are not used and direct communication models are
implemented:
\- The NF service consumer shall reduce the number of messages it would
normally generate towards the NF service producer (message throttling), in
accordance with the overload reduction or limitation metric requested by the
NF service producer in the OCI IE (solution #8).
\- When applying message throttling, the NF service consumer shall give
preference to messages related to priority users (eMPS) and emergency services
and shall avoid throttling the messages related to such users / services
(solution #8). This priority mechanism should be used in combination with the
existing 3gpp-Sbi-Message-Priority (SMP) mechanism, see TS 29.500 [3], clause
6.8.
\- The OCI may include an indication on whether the NF service consumer can
select another NF service producer from the same NF Set, if the scope of the
OCI is at NF service producer level (solution #10).
\- For deployments where SCPs are used to implement indirect communications
between NF consumers and NF producers, the SCP is the overload control
enforcement entity and shall perform the following functions (solution #11):
\- Message throttling;- Message prioritization;
\- If allowed by the service producer, selection of another NF service
producer, e.g. from the same NF Set.
Editor\'s note: This will likely impact the following 3GPP specs under CT4
responsibility: TS 29.500, 29.502-505, 29.509-511, 29.518, 29.531and 29.572
(use this info in the new WID, when specifying the list of impacted normative
specs).
See more details in clauses 11.10, 11.12, 11.13.
#