# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies possible candidate protocols for the user plane
in 5GC based on Rel-16 stage 2 requirements.
This technical report covers the following analysis:
\- List architectural requirements and key issues;
\- Identify the possible candidate protocols for user-plane including GTP-U as
existing protocol, specified for Rel-15;
\- Define a list of evaluation criteria based on Rel-16 stage 2 architecture
and procedures to evaluate the candidate protocols;
\- Evaluate the candidate solutions against the list of requirements and the
potential benefits against the existing user plane solution in 5GS.
The N3 and N6 user plane interfaces are out of the scope of this study. N3
uses GTP-U (see clause 4.3.1 of 3GPP TS 38.300 [12]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[3] IETF RFC 2460: \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification\".
[4] IETF RFC 8200: \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification\".
[5] IETF RFC 8402: \"Segment Routing Architecture\".
[6] IETF draft-ietf-6man-segment-routing-header-18: \"IPv6 Segment Routing
Header (SRH)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.244: \"Interface between the Control Plane and the User Plane
Nodes; Stage 3\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.415: \"NG-RAN; PDU Session User Plane Protocol\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.527: \"5G System; Restoration Procedures\".
[12] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[13] IETF RFC 6437: \"IPv6 Flow Label Specification\".
[14] IETF draft-ali-spring-srv6-oam-01: \"Operations, Administration, and
Maintenance (OAM) in SRv6\".
[15] IETF RFC 1027: \"Using ARP to Implement Transparent Subnet Gateways\".
[16] IETF RFC 4861: \"Neighbor Discovery for IP version 6 (IPv6)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"GPRS Tunnelling Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp
interface\".
[18] IETF RFC 2401: \"Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol\".
[19] IETF RFC 4301: \"Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol\".
[20] IETF RFC 6935: \"IPv6 and UDP Checksums for Tunneled Packets\".
[21] IETF RFC 6936: \"Applicability Statement for the Use of IPv6 UDP
Datagrams with Zero Checksums\".
[22] 3GPP TR 23.725: \"Study on enhancement of Ultra-Reliable Low-Latency
Communication (URLLC) support in the 5G Core network (5GC)\".
[23] 3GPP TR 23.726: \" Study on Enhancing Topology of SMF and UPF in 5G
Networks\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.214: \"Architecture enhancements for control and user plane
separation of EPC nodes; Stage 2\".
[25] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"Network Function Repository Services, Stage 3\".
[26] IETF RFC 4213: \"Basic Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and
Routers\".
[27] IETF RFC 5969: \"IPv6 Rapid Deployment on IPv4 Infrastructures (6rd)
Protocol Specification\".
[28] IETF draft-geng-detnet-dp-sol-srv6-00: \"DetNet SRv6 Data Plane
Encapsulation\".
[29] 3GPP TS 29.502: \"Session Management Services, Stage 3\".
[30] IETF draft-ietf-spring-segment-routing-policy-02: \"Segment Routing
Policy Architecture\".
[31] IETF RFC 6438: \"Using the IPv6 Flow Label for Equal Cost Multipath
Routing and Link Aggregation in Tunnels\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Core network service slice:** network slice created within the 5GC as
defined in TS 23.501 [7]. This does not refer to any slice in the transport
network.
**Forwarding Entity:** Any entity that is explicitly encoded in the user plane
packet header to process and forward the packet. Transport layer entities that
are agnostic to the user plane protocol being used in a 3GPP network are not
considered as forwarding entity within the scope of this TR.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BP Branching Point
I-UPF Intermediate UPF
I-SMF Intermediate SMF
SR Segment Routing
SRv6 Segment Routing IPv6
SRH Segment Routing Header
SID Segment ID
DA Destination Address
NPU Network Processing Unit
PSA PDU Session Anchor
UL CL Uplink Classifier
UP User Plane
UPF User Plane Function
URLLC Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication
VM Virtual Machine
# 4 Introduction
# 5 User Plane Architecture in 5GC
## 5.1 Architectural Requirements for User Plane
### 5.1.1 General
The system architecture requirements specified in TS 23.501 [7] and TS 23.502
[8] shall apply.
Editor\'s Note: the stage 2 work for Rel-16 is on-going in 3GPP SA2. The
following requirements are derived from the Rel-15 stage 2 specifications and
the Rel-16 stage 2 requirements that are currently available. More
requirements may be captured in this clause based on the outcomes of the
Rel-16 stage 2 work.
Figure 5.1.1-1 depicts the 5G System architecture, where N3, N6 and N9 are
user plane interfaces, and N4 is the control plane interface to control the
user plane functionalities in the UPF.
Figure 5.1.1-1: 5G System architecture
Figure 5.1.1-2 depicts the 5G System architecture (non-roaming architecture)
with the insertion of an I-SMF and UL-CL/BP, for PDU sessions where the SMF
cannot control the UPF terminating the N3 interface and communicate via the
N16a interface with an I-SMF that is inserted to control the UPF(s) that the
SMF cannot directly control.
Figure 5.1.1-2: 5G System architecture with I-SMF insertion and UL-CL/BP.
The following architectural requirements apply to the user plane:
1) IPv4, IPv6, IPv4v6, Ethernet and Unstructured PDU sessions shall be
supported.
2) The User Plane protocol shall be able to run over IPv4 and IPv6.
3) 3GPP specifications support deployments with a single UPF or multiple UPFs
for a given PDU session.
4) A UPF that terminates a N6 interface is said to support a PDU Session
Anchor (PSA) functionality. A PDU session may support one or multiple PSAs.
5) A UPF may be inserted to support the UL Classifier (UL CL) functionality
(see clause 5.6.4.2 of TS 23.501 [7]) or the Branching Point functionality
(see clause 5.6.4.3 of TS 23.501 [7]) to forward the traffic of the PDU
session to/from different PSAs. It is possible for a UPF to support both the
UL CL or Branching Point functionalities and PSA functionalities.
6) The SMF shall control the user plane functionalities in the UPF using the
N4 reference point. This includes controlling all the functionalities
specified in clause 5.8 of TS 23.501 [7] and in TS 29.244 [9], e.g.
\- Establishing and releasing user plane tunnels;
\- Detecting, forwarding, buffering, duplicating (for Lawful Interception) or
dropping user plane packets;
\- Enforcing PCC and QoS policies (e.g. gating control, QoS control, packet
marking, traffic steering);
\- Detecting and reporting user plane events (e.g. receipt of DL packets for a
PDU session without user plane connectivity in 5G-AN, application start/stop,
user plane inactivity);
\- Measuring and reporting traffic counts for PCC or charging;
\- Other functionalities (e.g. tracing, framed routing).
7) End Marker user plane packets shall be supported to assist packets
reordering in the target RAN during mobility scenarios (see Annex A of TS
29.281 [2]), e.g. handovers, QoS flows mobility with dual connectivity. End
markers may be generated in the SMF or in the UPF. End Marker user plane
packets origination from an Intermediate UPF (I-UPF) and from the PSA UPF
shall be supported. Transfer of End Marker user plane packets by an I-UPF
shall be supported.
8) The PDU Session User Plane Protocol (see TS 38.415 [10]) shall be supported
to transfer 5GS information over N3 and N9 (e.g. QoS Flow Identifier,
Reflective QoS Indicator, Paging Policy Indicator) together with user plane
packets.
9) It shall be possible to detect and handle user plane path failures as
specified in clause 5 of TS 23.527 [11].
10) The user plane protocol shall be applicable to home routed roaming
scenarios as well.
11) It shall be possible to detect and handle the loss of a user plane context
in a peer UPF as specified in clause 5 of TS 23.527 [11].
NOTE: Other user plane requirements need to be supported in the RAN, e.g. to
transport PDCP PDU Number or RAN Containers, but this is out of scope of this
study.
12) When multiple UPFs are chained, the change in RAN node shall only create
N4 signaling towards its immediate next hop UPF (in scenarios where the I-UPF
with the N9 interface with the PSA does not need to be changed). The anchor
UPF shall not be aware of the change of RAN node.
13) In the case of home routed roaming, the PSA UPF in HPLMN shall not be
aware of the topology of the VPLMN. In other words, the IP addresses of the
RAN nodes in the VPLMN are not known to the HPLMN.
14) If the user plane protocol on N9 is different from the user plane protocol
on N3, then interworking of user plane packets from one protocol to the other
shall be well specified and have the least processing impacts.
15) Data forwarding shall be supported between the SMF and UPF, see clause 5.3
of TS 29.244 [9].
16) For non-roaming or LBO roaming cases, and PDU sessions not using SSC mode
2 or 3, an I-SMF may be inserted to control the UPF terminating the N3
interface. Based on PCC rules received from PCF and DNAI list reported by the
I-SMF, the SMF provides the I-SMF with information that allows the I-SMF to
make traffic routing related decisions and I-UPF selection decisions (among
others), e.g. to add, replace or remove a UPF in the data path. See TR 23.726
[23].
17) Redundant transmission may be supported on N9 (and N3) via two independent
tunnels associated with a single PDU session, for Ultra Reliable Low Latency
Communications (URLLC). See TR 23.725 [22]. If the SMF decides to perform
redundant transmission for one or more Qos flows of a PDU session, the SMF
allocates two CN tunnels and indicates the UPF to perform redundant
transmission of packets of the QoS flow(s) in the downlink direction, or to
eliminate duplicate packets for the Qos flow(s) in the uplink direction, via
the N4 interface.
Two Intermediate UPFs (I-UPFs) between the PSA UPF and the NG-RAN may be used
to support the redundant transmission based on two N3 and N9 tunnels between a
single NG-RAN mode and the UPF.
Figure 5.1.1-3: Two N3 and N9 tunnels between NG-RAN and UPF for redundant
transmission
The PSA UPF duplicates the downlink packet of the QoS Flow from the DN and
assigns the same GTP-U sequence number to them. These duplicated packets are
transmitted to I-UPF1 and I-UPF2 via N9 Tunnel 1 and N9 Tunnel 2 separately.
Each I-UPF forwards the packet with the same GTP-U sequence number as received
from the UPF to NG-RAN via N3 Tunnel 1 and N3 Tunnel 2 respectively. The NG-
RAN eliminates the duplicated packet based on the GTP-U sequence number. For
uplink traffic, the NG-RAN duplicates the packet of the QoS Flow for the UE
and the UPF eliminates the duplicated packet based on the GTP-U sequence
number.
### 5.1.2 User Plane Functionality
This clause lists the main UP functionalities required to be supported by UPF
as per stage 2 specified in clause 6.2.3 of TS 23.501 [7] as following:
\- Anchor point for Intra-/Inter-RAT mobility (when applicable);
\- External PDU Session point of interconnect to Data Network;
\- Packet routing & forwarding (e.g. support of Uplink classifier to route
traffic flows to an instance of a data network, support of Branching point to
support multi-homed PDU Session);
\- Packet inspection (e.g. Application detection based on service data flow
template and the optional PFDs received from the SMF in addition);
\- User Plane part of policy rule enforcement, e.g. Gating, Redirection,
Traffic steering);
\- Lawful intercept (UP collection);
\- Traffic usage reporting;
\- QoS handling for user plane, e.g. UL/DL rate enforcement, Reflective QoS
marking in DL;
\- Uplink Traffic verification (SDF to QoS Flow mapping);
\- Transport level packet marking in the uplink and downlink;
\- Downlink packet buffering and downlink data notification triggering;
\- Sending and forwarding of one or more \"end marker\" to the source NG-RAN
node;
\- ARP proxying as specified in IETF RFC 1027 [15] and / or IPv6 Neighbour
Solicitation Proxying as specified in IETF RFC 4861 [16] functionality for the
Ethernet PDUs. The UPF responds to the ARP and / or the IPv6 Neighbour
Solicitation Request by providing the MAC address corresponding to the IP
address sent in the request;
\- Packet duplication in downlink direction and elimination in uplink
direction by the UP protocol.
NOTE: Not all of the UPF functionalities are required to be supported in an
instance of user plane function of a Network Slice.
### 5.1.3 Support for Error Recovery and Restoration
As per the 5GC architecture specified in TS 23.501 [7] and TS 23.502 [8], the
packet detection and forwarding rules at the UPF are installed and controlled
on a per PDU session basis over the N4 interface. This results in the creation
of packet detection and forwarding state on a per PDU session basis at the
UPF. 3GPP currently specifies the path failure detection, error detection and
recovery mechanism when GTPU is used as the user plane protocol, in TS 23.527
[11].
Any user plane protocol to be used for 5GC shall then correspondingly have:
\- Mechanisms for the detection of loss of \"packet forwarding state\"
associated with a user plane packet at the receiving UPF;
\- Mechanisms for detecting loss of connectivity towards a destination UPF;
\- Mechanisms for detection of loss of connectivity towards transport layer
forwarding entities, if the user plane protocol explicitly encodes the
transport path;
\- Mechanisms for the recovery of packet detection and forwarding state after
the failure of a forwarding entity that is explicitly encoded in the user
plane protocol to process the packet.
## 5.2 Key Issues for User Plane Protocol
This clause will identify key issues which the candidate protocols can solve,
or could be improved.
### 5.2.1 IP Connectivity for N9 and Network Slicing
#### 5.2.1.1 Description of Key Issue
The N9 interface requires IP connectivity between UPFs. IP networking issues
may affect the user plane of 3GPP system. The data path between UPFs may
consist of various links and IP routing nodes so that multiple paths may be
available for the N9 interface. The bandwidth, latency and reliability of
those paths may differ.
The 5GC supports the concept of network slicing. The Network Instance ID
supported over N4 enables to provide information to the UPF about the network
slice of the PDU session (see clause 5.6.12 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [7], which
indicates that the Network Instance ID can be selected based on the S-NSSAI of
the PDU session). The UPFs need to have information on the transport network
slice to allow the user plane packet of PDU sessions of 5GC network slices to
be sent via appropriate transport networks. There is no one to one mapping
between 5GC slices and transport network slices, i.e. several 5GC slices may
use the same transport network slice.
NOTE: How network slicing is supported in transport networks is out of scope
of 3GPP.
It is proposed to study the following aspects:
\- whether there is a requirement to pass information about the network slice
or the required QoS for the data path in the user plane packets.
#### 5.2.1.2 Considerations on Key Issue
This clause provides considerations for the Key Issue documented in clause
5.2.1.1 on whether there is a requirement to pass information about the
network slice or the required QoS for the data path in user plane packets.
The following considerations apply:
1) 3GPP UP entities (UPFs for the N9 interface) get information about the core
network service slice of the PDU session, via the Network Instance ID received
from the SMF over N4 for UPFs, as specified in clause 5.2.1; there is thus no
need to carry service slice information in UP packets, for 3GPP UP entities of
the core network;
2) To support network slicing, 3GPP UP entities (UPFs for the N9 interface)
are expected to be configured with local information to map core network
service slices (Network Instance IDs) to transport links or VPNs (or
\"transport slices\");
3) There is no one to one mapping between core network service slices and
transport slices, i.e. several service slices may use the same transport
slice.
4) How network slicing is supported in transport networks to support QoS and
traffic segregation is out of scope of 3GPP. It is expected that transport
slicing can be implemented with any existing technologies, e.g. using
different types of L2 or L3 VPNs, MPLS-based services or segment routing,
relying on service level agreement with the transport network operator.
NOTE: This is consistent with earlier conclusion at TSG SA#75 not to do any
work on transport aspects, see TSG SA Reply LS (SP-170276) to SA5 LS
(SP-170173) and RAN3 LS (SP-170299).
5) Network slicing is already supported in 3GPP Rel-15, without any newly
defined service slice or transport slice information in the user plane and
relying on existing means to identify transport slices in the user plane such
as VLAN tags or MPLS service labels and IP addresses.
There is no existing 3GPP requirement to:
\- pass any new information about the service slice in UP packets;
\- define and pass any new identifier in UP packets to identify transport
slices or the required QoS for the data path.
### 5.2.2 \
### 5.2.x \
### 5.2.y Summary of Key Issues
# 6 Candidate User Plane Protocols
This clause will describe each candidate protocol.
## 6.1 GTP-U
### 6.1.1 Description
#### 6.1.1.1 General
GTP-U is a tunneling protocol between given a pair of GTP-U tunnel endpoints.
A Tunnel Endpoint ID (TEID) value allocated on each end point indicates which
tunnel a particular T-PDU belongs to. That is described in clause 4.2.1 of TS
29.281 [2].
The receiving endpoint individually allocates the TEID and the sender tunnel
endpoint encapsulates the packet from/to the UE with the TEID at the receiving
endpoint in GTP-U header on top of UDP and IPv4 or IPv6.
#### 6.1.1.2 IP Transport for GTP-U
GTP-U supports both IPv4 and IPv6 as underlying transport layer protocol. As
for IPv6, GTP-U specification refers to IETF RFC 2460 [3], which is described
in clause 4.2.3 of TS 29.281 [2]. An analysis of the differences in the latest
IETF RFC 8200 [4] for IPv6 and their impact on GTPU protocol is specified in
clause 6.1.2.
UDP is utilized for GTP-U encapsulation and UDP destination port is 2152 which
is assigned by IANA. Allocation of UDP source port depends on sender tunnel
endpoint node.
GTP-U can be transported using transport technologies, such as L2 or L3 VPNs,
MPLS-based services or segment routing (SR-MPLS or SRv6), as described in
clause 5.2.1.2.
For some specific transport protocols of GTP-U (e.g. SR-MPLS or SRv6), the
intended path in the transport networks is encoded in the transport protocol
header corresponding to Network Instance.
UDP checksum can be used to detect packet corruptions, if required.
#### 6.1.1.3 Path/Tunnel Management functions
GTP-U supports in-band signaling for path and tunnel management. Currently
GTP-U supports the following messages:
\- Echo Request;
\- Echo Response;
\- Supported Extension Headers Notification;
\- Error Indication;
\- End Marker.
A GTP-U tunnel endpoint node sends an Echo Request message to another node for
keep-alive and the receiving node sends an Echo Response message to sender
node as acknowledgment. Echo Request message and Echo Response message are
described in clause 7.2.1 and clause 7.2.2 of TS 29.281 [2] respectively.
The Supported Extension Headers Notification message indicates supported
extension header by the tunnel endpoint node. This message is sent only in
case a tunnel endpoint node receives GTP-U packet with unsupported extension
header.
GTP-U has the Error Indication message to notify the sending endpoint that the
receiving endpoint has discarded packets for which no session exists. The
Error Indication message is described in clause 7.3.1 of TS 29.281 [2].
GTP-U has End Marker message to indicate the end of the payload stream that
needs to be sent on a GTP-U tunnel. End Marker message is described in clause
7.3.2 of TS 29.281 [2].
#### 6.1.1.4 Load Balancing
A GTP-U tunnel endpoint node can utilize UDP source port for load balancing
purpose. The specification of this dynamic allocation is described in clause
4.4.2.0 of TS 29.281 [2]. The logic of source port number calculation is not
described in the document and it depends on the implementation of GTP-U tunnel
endpoint node.
#### 6.1.1.5 Multicast
GTP-U allows one tunnel endpoint node to send out a G-PDU to be received at
multiple tunnel endpoints by utilizing IP multicast capability of underlay IP
networks. It is used for MBMS (Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service) through
GTP-U tunnel that is described in clause 4.2.6 of TS 29.281 [2]. It means that
GTP-U has Point-to-Multipoint (P2MP) tunneling capability.
### 6.1.2 Analysis of IETF RFC 8200 Impacts
IETF RFC 8200 [4], Appendix B specifies the changes in IPv6 protocol since
IETF RFC 2460 [3]. Table 6.1.2-1 provides an analysis of the impact of each of
these specified changes on the GTPU protocol.
Table 6.1.2-1 Analysis of Impacts on GTPU due to IETF RFC 8200 [4]
+-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Sl.No | Change in | Impact on GTPU | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] from | | | | IETF RFC 2460 [3] | | +=======+=============================+=============================+ | 1 | Removed IP Next Generation | Editorial correction. No | | | from the Abstract. | impact on GTPU. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 2 | Added text in Clause 1 that | This is just a | | | the data transmission order | clarification to resolve | | | is the same as IPv4 as | ambiguity. | | | defined in RFC 791 | 3GPP TS 29.281 [2], | | | | clause 4.5 refers to | | | | 3GPP TS 29.060 [17], | | | | clause 5 which describes | | | | the transmission order as | | | | network byte order starting | | | | from octet 1. Hence GTPU | | | | specifications are already | | | | aligned with this | | | | clarification. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 3 | Clarified the text in | In IETF RFC 2460 [3] | | | Clause 3 about decrementing | clause 3, the text read as: | | | the Hop Limit. | | | | | _\"Decremented by 1 by each | | | | node that forwards the | | | | packet. The packet is | | | | discarded if Hop Limit is | | | | decremented to zero.\"_ | | | | | | | | In IETF RFC 8200 [4] this | | | | was clarified as: | | | | | | | | _\"Decremented by 1 by each | | | | node that forwards the | | | | packet. When forwarding, | | | | the packet is discarded if | | | | Hop Limit was zero when | | | | received or is decremented | | | | to zero. A node that is the | | | | destination of a packet | | | | should not discard a packet | | | | with Hop Limit equal to | | | | zero; it should process the | | | | packet normally.\"_ | | | | | | | | Even if a legacy GTPU | | | | entity interpreted | | | | IETF RFC 2460 [3] | | | | verbatim and had dropped | | | | packets that had a hop | | | | limit of 0, upgrading that | | | | entity to support | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] could | | | | only make sure unnecessary | | | | packet drops are not done | | | | and would improve the | | | | overall KPI / performance | | | | of the system. Upgrading to | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] does | | | | not cause any specific | | | | interoperability issue with | | | | respect to this specific | | | | hop limit clarification. | | | | | | | | Hence it is safe to update | | | | the behaviour of a GTPU | | | | entity to align with | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] with | | | | respect to hop limit | | | | interpretation. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 4 | Clarified that extension | 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] does | | | headers (except for the | not specify insertion IPv6 | | | Hop-by-Hop Options header) | extension headers by GTPU | | | are not processed, | entities. Hence this does | | | inserted, or deleted by any | not impact GTPU. | | | node along a packet\'s | | | | delivery path. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 5 | Changed requirement for the | IETF RFC 2460 [3] | | | Hop-by-Hop Options header | required that all nodes | | | to a \"may\", and added a | must examine and process | | | note to indicate what is | the Hop-by-Hop Options | | | expected regarding the | header. But | | | Hop-by-Hop Options header. | IETF RFC 8200 [4] | | | | specifies that nodes along | | | | a packet\'s delivery path | | | | only examine and process | | | | the Hop-by-Hop Options | | | | header if explicitly | | | | configured to do so. | | | | | | | | The hop-by-hop headers are | | | | a IPv6 level information. | | | | As mentioned above GTPU | | | | does not expect any hop by | | | | hop headers. So this change | | | | in the RFC does not impact | | | | the GTPU protocol | | | | specification. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 6 | Added a paragraph to Clause | GTPU does not use any IPv6 | | | 4 to clarify how extension | extension header and this | | | headers are numbered and | clarification has no impact | | | which are upper-layer | to GTPU. | | | headers. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 7 | Added a reference to the | GTPU does not use any IPv6 | | | end of Clause 4 to the | extension header and this | | | \"IPv6 Extension Header | clarification has no impact | | | Types\" IANA registry. | to GTPU. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 8 | Incorporated the updates | GTPU does not use any IPv6 | | | from RFCs 5095 and 5871 to | extension header and this | | | remove the description of | clarification has no impact | | | RH0, that the allocations | to GTPU. | | | guidelines for routing | | | | headers are specified in | | | | RFC 5871, and removed RH0 | | | | from the list of required | | | | extension headers. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 9 | Revised Clause 4.5 on IPv6 | See below. | | | fragmentation based on | | | | updates from RFCs 5722, | | | | 6946, 7112, and 8021. See | | | | rows below for the specific | | | | changes made. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 10 | Revised the text to handle | This is a clarification to | | | the case of fragments that | the IPv6 layer of the stack | | | are whole datagrams (i.e., | on how to do the | | | both the Fragment Offset | fragmentation. This does | | | field and the M flag are | not impact GTPU protocol. | | | zero). If received, they | | | | should be processed as a | | | | reassembled packet. Any | | | | other fragments that match | | | | should be processed | | | | independently. The revised | | | | Fragment creation process | | | | was modified to not create | | | | whole datagram fragments | | | | (Fragment Offset field and | | | | the M flag are zero). | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 11 | Changed the text to require | This is a clarification to | | | that IPv6 nodes must not | the IPv6 layer of the stack | | | create overlapping | on how to do the | | | fragments. Also, when | fragmentation. This does | | | reassembling an IPv6 | not impact GTPU protocol. | | | datagram, if one or more | | | | its constituent fragments | | | | is determined to be an | | | | overlapping fragment, the | | | | entire datagram (and any | | | | constituent fragments) must | | | | be silently discarded. | | | | Includes a clarification | | | | that no ICMP error message | | | | should be sent if | | | | overlapping fragments are | | | | received. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 12 | Revised the text to require | The new error case added is | | | that all headers through | about the silent discarding | | | the first Upper-Layer | of overlapping fragments | | | header are in the first | during re-assembly. This is | | | fragment. This changed the | a clarification to the IPv6 | | | text describing how packets | layer of the stack on how | | | are fragmented and | to do the reassembly. This | | | reassembled and added a new | does not impact GTPU | | | error case. | protocol. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 13 | Added text to the Fragment | The clarification added is: | | | header process on handling | | | | exact duplicate fragments. | \"It should be noted that | | | | fragments may be duplicated | | | | in the network. Instead of | | | | treating these exact | | | | duplicate fragments as | | | | overlapping fragments, an | | | | implementation may choose | | | | to detect this case and | | | | drop exact duplicate | | | | fragments while keeping the | | | | other fragments belonging | | | | to the same packet.\" | | | | | | | | This is an IPv6 level | | | | clarification for | | | | implementation. This does | | | | not impact GTPU protocol. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 14 | Updated the Fragmentation | No impact to GTPU. | | | header text to correct the | | | | inclusion of an | | | | Authentication Header (AH) | | | | and noted No Next Header | | | | case. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 15 | Changed terminology in the | No impact to GTPU. | | | Fragment header clause from | | | | \"Unfragmentable Headers\" | | | | to \"Per-Fragment | | | | headers\". | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 16 | Removed the paragraph in | No impact to GTPU. | | | Clause 5 that required | | | | including a Fragment header | | | | to outgoing packets if an | | | | ICMP Packet Too Big message | | | | reports a Next-Hop MTU less | | | | than 1280. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 17 | Changed the text to clarify | No impact to GTPU. | | | MTU restriction and 8-byte | | | | restrictions, and noted the | | | | restriction on headers in | | | | the first fragment. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 18 | In Clause 4.5, added | No impact to GTPU. | | | clarification noting that | | | | some fields in the IPv6 | | | | header may also vary across | | | | the fragments being | | | | reassembled, and that other | | | | specifications may provide | | | | additional instructions for | | | | how they should be | | | | reassembled. See, for | | | | example, Clause 5.3 of | | | | [RFC3168]. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 19 | Incorporated the update | No impact to GTPU. | | | from RFC 6564 to add a new | | | | Clause 4.8 that describes | | | | recommendations for | | | | defining new extension | | | | headers and options. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 20 | Added text to Clause 5 to | This is just a | | | define \"IPv6 minimum link | clarification. No impact to | | | MTU\". | GTPU. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 21 | Simplified the text in | IETF RFC 2460 [3], | | | Clause 6 about Flow Labels | Appendix A specified the | | | and removed what was | semantics and usage of the | | | Appendix A (\"Semantics and | flow label field. Current | | | Usage of the Flow Label | implementations of GTPU | | | Field\"); instead, pointed | entities rely on this. This | | | to the current | did not specify any | | | specifications of the IPv6 | behaviour for the IPv6 | | | Flow Label field in | forwarding nodes on whether | | | [RFC6437] and the Traffic | they are permitted to | | | Class field in [RFC2474] | modify the flow label if it | | | and [RFC3168]. | was set to zero by the | | | | source of the IPv6 packet. | | | | | | | | However, | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] removed | | | | this Appendix and instead | | | | is referring to | | | | IETF RFC 6437 [13] which | | | | specifies in clause 3: | | | | | | | | > _A node that forwards a | | | | > flow whose flow label | | | | > value in arriving packets | | | | > is zero MAY change the | | | | > flow label value. In that | | | | > case, it is RECOMMENDED | | | | > that the forwarding node | | | | > sets the flow label field | | | | > for a flow to a uniformly | | | | > distributed value as just | | | | > described for source | | | | > nodes._ | | | | | | | | providing the flexibility | | | | for GTPU entities that | | | | forward user plane packets | | | | to set the flow label if | | | | the incoming packet has a | | | | zero value for the flow | | | | label. | | | | | | | | If 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] is | | | | updated to refer to | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] then | | | | new implementations of GTPU | | | | entities may use this | | | | flexibility at the IPv6 | | | | level even though it does | | | | not impact GTPU protocol | | | | specification as such. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 22 | Incorporated the update | IETF RFC 2460 [3], clause | | | made by | 8.1 specifies | | | IETF RFC 6935 [20] | | | | (\"IPv6 and UDP Checksums | > _Unlike IPv4, when UDP | | | for Tunneled Packets\") in | > packets are originated by | | | Clause 8. Added an | > an IPv6 node, the UDP | | | exception to the default | > checksum is not optional. | | | behavior for the handling | > That is, whenever | | | of UDP packets with zero | > originating a UDP packet, | | | checksums for tunnels. | > an IPv6 node must compute | | | | > a UDP checksum over the | | | | > packet and the | | | | > pseudo-header, and, if | | | | > that computation yields a | | | | > result of zero, it must | | | | > be changed to hex FFFF | | | | > for placement in the UDP | | | | > header. IPv6 receivers | | | | > must discard UDP packets | | | | > containing a zero | | | | > checksum, and should log | | | | > the error._ | | | | | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] refers | | | | to IETF RFC 6936 [21] | | | | which in turn refers to | | | | IETF RFC 6935 [20] and | | | | allows the following | | | | exceptions to the above | | | | rule: | | | | | | | | - Allows tunneling | | | | protocol entities (e.g. | | | | GTPU entities) to use UDP | | | | zero checksum; | | | | | | | | - Allows a receiving IPv6 | | | | tunneling protocol entity | | | | (e.g. GTPU entity) not to | | | | discard a packet with a | | | | zero UDP checksum. | | | | | | | | Due to the addition of | | | | these exceptions, if | | | | 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] is | | | | updated to refer to | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] then it | | | | is possible that a | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] | | | | compliant GTPU entity | | | | includes UDP zero checksum | | | | while a receiving | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] | | | | non-compliant GTPU entity | | | | will keep rejecting the | | | | packets. | | | | | | | | In order to avoid such | | | | inter-operability issues, a | | | | solution shall be | | | | identified to negotiate the | | | | GTPU entity\'s capabilities | | | | via the 3GPP control plane | | | | protocol. | | | | | | | | Also the requirements on | | | | the usage of the zero UDP | | | | checksum specified in | | | | clause 5 of | | | | IETF RFC 6936 [21] needs | | | | to be taken into account. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 23 | Added instruction to Clause | No impact to GTPU. | | | 9, \"IANA Considerations\", | | | | to change references to | | | | IETF RFC 2460 [3] to this | | | | document. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 24 | Revised and expanded Clause | IETF RFC 2460 [3] | | | 10, \"Security | referred to | | | Considerations\". | IETF RFC 2401 [18] | | | | whereas IETF RFC 8200 [4] | | | | refers to | | | | IETF RFC 4301 [19] which | | | | has updated a number of | | | | security considerations for | | | | IPSec use over IPv6. Hence | | | | if 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] is | | | | updated to refer to | | | | IETF RFC 8200 [4] then | | | | the requirements in | | | | IETF RFC 4301 [19] would | | | | apply. However this does | | | | not bring any change to the | | | | GTPU protocol specification | | | | as such. | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 25 | Added a paragraph to the | Editorial. No impact to | | | Acknowledgments clause | GTPU. | | | acknowledging the authors | | | | of the updating documents. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | 26 | Updated references to | Editorial. No impact to | | | current versions and | GTPU. | | | assigned references to | | | | normative and informative. | | +-------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
### 6.1.3 Solutions for Impacts due to IETF RFC 8200
#### 6.1.3.1 General
This clause addresses solutions for the impacts to GTP-U identified in clause
6.1.2 due to IETF RFC 8200 [4].
#### 6.1.3.2 Addressing UDP Zero Checksum Issue
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Solution Description
When a GTP-U entity is upgraded to support IETF RFC 8200 [4], then in order to
use the UDP Zero Checksum capability, it has to be ensured that the path from
the GTP-U entity to its peer GTP-U entity supports this capability, i.e all
the on path IPv6 middleboxes should also be supporting UDP zero checksum (see
IETF RFC 6936 [21]). In order to ensure that the following building block
information is needed
\- When a GTP-U tunnel over IPv6 is setup between two GTP-U entities, via 3GPP
control plane signaling, the 3GPP control plane entities shall signal each
other that a UDP zero checksum handling capable path that ensures integrity of
the packet, is available for the GTP-U tunnel over IPv6.
The following steps provide the mechanism for a GTP-U entity to know the
support for UDP zero checksum capable path towards a peer GTP-U entity.
1\. Before a GTP-U tunnel is established between two GTP-U entities, the
control plane function will get to know the peer GTP-U endpoint FTEID as part
of control plane signalling. It is proposed that as part of this FTEID
exchange over control plane, the following information is also exchanged
between the control plane entities:
\- Based on operator policies, whether a UDP zero checksum over IPv6 capable
path that ensures integrity of the packet exists between the peer GTP-U
entities.
NOTE: Whether this requires signalling 2 information over N4 - the UDP zero
checksum support capability by peer GTP-U entities and the allowance to use
the same based on operator policies as separate IEs or whether they can be
combined into a single IE / bit can be determined during the normative phase.
2\. For example, during PDU session establishment scenario, when the SMF
establishes the N4 session in step 10 of the call flow specified in clause
4.3.2.2.1 of TS 23.502 [8],
\- Either the UPF shall signal to the SMF, the availability of a UDP zero
checksum support capable path that ensures the integrity of the packet, from a
particular outbound network interface, based on operator policies; or
\- The UPF shall signal to the SMF its UDP zero checksum support capability
during the PFCP Association Setup Request / Response, and the SMF, based on
operator policies, determines if a UDP zero checksum over IPv6 capable path
that ensures the integrity of the packet, exists between the UPF and the peer
GTP-U entity.
Then when the SMF initiates the N2 PDU session request towards the 5G-AN via
the AMF in step 11, it shall include the information about the availability of
a UDP zero checksum over IPv6 capable path between the UPF and the 5G-AN. This
enables the 5G-AN to decide whether to send GTP-U packets with UDP zero
checksum or not towards the UPF in the uplink direction.
3\. When the 5G-AN responds to the N2 request, it shall include the
information about the availability of UDP zero checksum over IPv6 capable path
that ensures the integrity of the packet, between the 5G-AN and the UPF, based
on operator policies at the 5G-AN. The SMF will get to know of this in step 15
and will inform it to UPF in step 16. This enables the UPF to decide whether
to send GTP-U packets with UDP zero checksum or not towards the 5G-AN in the
downlink direction.
4\. Similarly the UDP zero checksum support capability can be signalled
between the NG-RAN nodes for the use of GTP-U on the Xn and F1-U interfaces as
well.
5\. Once a UP function entity is informed that UDP zero checksum can be used
e.g. when it is allowed by operator policies and when the peer GTP-U entity
supports UDP zero checksum, it should send an Echo Request to the GTP-U peer
periodically in order to check the aliveness of the GTP-U path with UDP zero
checksum, as specified in IETF RFC 6935 [20].
6\. The support for IETF RFC 8200 [4] and consequently the support for UDP
zero checksum may be restricted to 5G UP functions only in order to avoid
signalling protocol changes to EUTRA and EPC entities.
The interfaces carrying GTP-U traffic may be protected by NDS / Physical
security and hence any packet corruption can be detected. Also the use of UDP
zero checksum for GTP-U is controlled by operator policy and the operators can
enable it, e.g. if it is known that packet corruptions between the two GTP-U
entities are not possible. Correspondingly it is not required to address the
requirements specified in clause 5 of IETF RFC 6936 [21] natively in GTP-U
when UDP zero checksum over IPv6 is used. If NDS / Physical security is not
used for the interfaces carrying GTP-U traffic and packet corruptions may
occur, then the use of UDP zero checksum over IPv6 should not be enabled in
the operator policy.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Identified Impacts
The following are the impacts identified due to the solution proposed in
clause 6.1.3.2.1.
\- Potential addition of a UDP Zero Checksum for IPv6 support bit in UP
Function Features IE of TS 29.244 [9].
\- Addition of a \"UDP Zero Checksum for IPv6 IE\" in PFCP Session
Establishment Request and PFCP Session Modification Request messages of TS
29.244 [9].
\- Addition of UDP Zero Checksum for IPv6 IE in N2 SM information exchanged
between SMF and 5G-AN.
\- Addition of UDP Zero Checksum for IPv6 IE in Nsmf_PDUSession_Create /
Update request and response over N16 (between V-SMF and H-SMF) and over N16a
(between I-SMF and SMF).
\- Addition of UDP Zero Checksum for IPv6 IE in Xn, F1 and E1 signalling
messages to indicate the support of the corresponding UP function in the NG-
RAN for the UDP zero checksum capability and its use as per operator policies.
This will require liaising with RAN3.
\- Changes to TS 29.281 [2] to add reference to IETF RFC 8200 [4] and to
specify that periodic echo request should be done to check the aliveness of
the path when sending UDP zero checksum over IPv6.
### 6.1.4 System Impacts
GTP-U is already supported in the 5G System.
No impacts are identified, other than those listed in clause 6.1.3.2.2 for the
optional support of UDP zero checksum for GTP-U over IPv6.
## 6.2 Segment Routing IPv6 (SRv6)
### 6.2.1 General SRv6 Description
#### 6.2.1.1 General
SRv6 is the IPv6 dataplane instantiation of Segment Routing, defined in IETF
RFC 8402 [5]. Segment Routing is a network architecture based on source-
routing. Thus confining flow states to the ingress nodes in the SR domain.
The SRv6 dataplane consists on leveraging the IPv6 extension headers, defined
in IETF RFC 8200 [4], to include in the IPv6 header a new routing extension
header called \"Segment Routing Header\" (SRH), defined in IETF draft-
ietf-6man-segment-routing-header-15 [6].
SRv6 has support for IPv4, IPv6, IPv4v6, Ethernet and Unstructured PDUs.
#### 6.2.1.2 Packet Processing
SRv6 encodes segments (SIDs) as IPv6 addresses in the Segment List of SRH.
Source SR node of the SR domain creates SRH in the outer encapsulating IPv6
packet. Figure 6.2.1.2-1 shows SRH format, defined in IETF draft-ietf-6man-
segment-routing-header-15 [6]. The Segment Left in the SRH points an index
number of the Segment List that specifies the active segment. The IPv6
Destination Address (DA) is updated with the IPv6 address of the active
segment so that the packet is routed to the node which has the active segment
along the shortest path in the network.
Once the packet has reached the node, called SR Segment Endpoint Node
decrements Segment Left and updates IPv6 DA with the active segment indicated
by the updated Segment Left. Then the node forwards the packet along the
updated DA. When the packet reaches the last segment of the Segment List,
which means Segment Left becomes zero, the node pops out the SRH and forward
the packet along the last segment.
The nodes between Source SR node and SR Endpoint Nodes, called Transit Nodes,
neither inspect the SRH nor process it. Thus Transit Nodes only need to be
IPv6 routing and forwarding capable.
* * *
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 Next Header  
2 Header Extension Length = n  
3 Routing Type = 0x04  
4 Segment Left  
5 Last Entry = m  
6 Flags  
7 Tag (1^st^ Octet)  
8 Tag (2^nd^ Octet)  
p to (p+15) Segment List [0] (128 bits IPv6 Address)  
... ...  
q to (q+15) Segment List [m] (128 bits IPv6 Address)  
(q+16) to (8n+8) Optional Type Length Value objects (variable)
* * *
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: IPv6 Segment Routing Extension Header Format
where:
\- Next Header: 8-bit selector. Identifies the type of header immediately
following the Routing header, defined in IETF RFC 8200 [4];
\- Header Extension Length: 8-bit unsigned integer. Length of the Routing
header in 8-octet units, not including the first 8 octets, defined in IETF RFC
8200 [4];
\- Routing Type: 8-bit identifier of a particular Routing header variant. 0x04
is suggested value for Segment Routing Header;
\- Segments Left: 8-bit unsigned integer. Number of route segments remaining,
i.e., number of explicitly listed intermediate nodes still to be visited
before reaching the final destination, defined in IETF RFC 8200 [4];
\- Last Entry: contains the index (zero based), in the Segment List, of the
last element of the Segment List;
\- Flags: 8 bits of flags. Currently no flags are defined;
\- Tag: tag a packet as part of a class or group of packets, e.g., packets
sharing the same set of properties. When tag is not used at source it MUST be
set to zero on transmission. When tag is not used during SRH Processing it
SHOULD be ignored. Tag is not used when processing the SID as defined in
Clause 4.3.1 of IETF draft-ietf-6man-segment-routing-header-18 [6], which
means the Tag value will not be touched by intermediate routers in SRv6
Enhanced mode solution;
\- Segment List[n]: 128 bit IPv6 addresses representing the nth segment in the
Segment List. The Segment List is encoded starting from the last segment of
the SR Policy. i.e., the first element of the segment list (Segment List [0])
contains the last segment of the SR Policy, the second element contains the
penultimate segment of the SR Policy and so on;
\- Type Length Value (TLV) objects are optional and are described in IETF
draft-ietf-6man-segment-routing-header-15 [6].
#### 6.2.1.3 Network Programmability
SRv6 introduces the concept of Network Programming. This implies that an SRv6
segment can be bound to any function/service in a router or compute instance.
An SRv6 segment is an IPv6 address, which is divided into
Locator:Function:Arguments.\ The Locator routes the packet up to a given node
in the network. Once the packet has arrived to this node, the Function is
executed. The function might or might not take additional arguments specific
to that function.
The 128 bit SRv6 SID consist of following components:
\- Locator: routed to the node performing the function;
\- Function: any possible function, either local to Network Processing Unit
(NPU) or applications in Virtual Machine (VM)/Container;
\- Arguments: optional argument bits to be used only by that SID.
Figure 6.2.1.3-1: SRv6 SID Structure
Editor\'s Note: How Network Programmability applies for 5GS is FFS.
### 6.2.2 Description of SRv6 solution in 5GC
#### 6.2.2.1 General
This clause studies SRv6 for User Plane in 3GPP 5GC.
It requires UPFs in 5GC to support SRv6.
#### 6.2.2.2 Principles
To derive the principle for SRv6 User Plane in 5GC, the following
considerations apply:
\- As 128-bits IPv6 address and the capability to accumulate it in SRH, all
information user plane needs could only use IPv6 header, or IPv6 with SRH. It
enables IP layer only user plane (i.e, w/o UDP/GTP-U);
\- The UP function follows the forwarding model defined in TS 23.214 [24];
\- The SMF controls each UPF for the user plane path per PDU Session.
The following principles are proposed:
1) No additional header other than IPv6 (Traditional mode), or IPv6 with SRH
(Enhanced mode) to encapsulate all type of PDU session packet and user plane
messages required to N9 interface (Traditional and Enhanced modes).
2) A SID of Locator:Function (see clause 6.2.1.3) shall consist of a IPv6
prefix assigned to user plane IP resource of UPF, and the Argument shall
encode the identifiers of tunnel and QoS. (e.g; TEID, QFI and RQI)
In 5GC, there is only one function defined as the UP function which all
instructions shall be configured through N4.
3) UPF shall lookup N4 session based on active SID as the destination address
in the IPv6 header of receiving user plane packet.
4) SMF or UPF shall allocate a SID which enables UPF to be able to lookup the
corresponding N4 session for each uplink and/or downlink.
5) N4 interface shall enable SMF to configure incoming and outgoing SID for a
N4 session in each N9 UPF.
6) N4 interface shall enable UPF to notify SRv6 User Plane capability to SMF.
7) UPF shall be allowed to encapsulate T-PDU without SRH (i.e; Traditional
mode).
8) UPF shall be allowed to add SIDs mapping to corresponding Network Instance
into a SRH to encapsulate T-PDU (i.e; Enhanced mode).
> 9) N16/N16a/N38 interfaces shall enable V-SMF, H-SMF, I-SMF and SMF to
> negotiate the use of SRv6 and notify the capability of SRv6 in N9 with a SID
> for each corresponding PDU session.
#### 6.2.2.3 SRv6 SID Encoding
##### 6.2.2.3.1 General
In 5GC, SRv6 128-bits SID encoding shall follow the principle 2. This clause
discusses what SID encoding looks like for user plane in 3GPP 5G System.
##### 6.2.2.3.2 Discussion
SRv6 takes SID in the format of \"Locator:Funcition:Argument\" in IPv6 address
as described in clause 6.2.1.3. In 5GC architecture, one UP Function has been
defined while multiple user plane IP resources will be available on a UPF. To
follow the 5GC architecture, the Locator:Function part can turn out to be IPv6
prefix assigned to user plane IP resource of UPF.
The Argument bits consist of TEID, QFI and RQI bits. These bits help UPF to
lookup N4 session by the active SID as the destination IP address in the IPv6
header of the receiving user plane packet.
The argument of which those bits embedded (TEID/QFI/RQI) requires at least
39-bits in total.
Figure 6.2.2.3.2-1 illustrates an example of SRv6 SID encoding. An IPv6 Prefix
of the user plane IP resource consists of the IPv6 Prefix allocated to the UPF
and some bits allocated to the IP resource. For example, an UPF allocated a
prefix of 2001:db8::/32 assigns 0x39bb from 16-bits space from the user plane
IP resources, 2001:db8:39:bb::/48 shall be the prefix for the IP resource.
The length of the IPv6 Prefix for the user plane IP resource shall be shorter
than (128-39) bits. And the argument may be required that would be placed
right after the IP resource prefix. In case that the total length of the all
IPv6 Prefix and the argument shorter than 128 bits, the SID shall be right
padded.
Figure 6.2.2.3.2-1: An example of SRv6 SID Encoding for 5GC
Editor\'s Note: More detail SID encoding for 5GC is FFS.
Editor\'s Note: The argument is encoded in a limited number of bits. Future
extensibility to support more UP features in future release is FFS.
#### 6.2.2.4 User Plane packet flow
##### 6.2.2.4.1 SRv6 in Traditional Mode
SRv6 in traditional mode for 3GPP System works with a hop by hop model over N9
as follows:
\- UPFs over N9 are SRv6 capable;
\- when sending a packet on one N9 hop, the UPF creates one single SID in the
destination address of the outer IPv6 header, that is set to the IP address of
the next UPF and the SID identifying the PDU N4 session at the next UPF, and
forwards the packet. No SRH header is included to encapsulate T-PDU;
\- the UPF receiving the packet on the N9 hop identifies the PDU N4 session
using the SID received in the Destination Address;
\- packet processing functions in each UPF are controlled by the SMF
provisioning packet processing rules (PDR/FAR/QER/URR) to the UPF over N4,
using existing PFCP protocol;
\- for End Marker and Error Indications the SRH header will contain a single
segment that is the DA.
The Figure 6.2.2.4.1-1 shows how SRv6 in traditional mode could be used as
user plane protocol over N9 with the current 5G System Architecture.
Figure 6.2.2.4.1-1: Uplink packet flow in SRv6 Traditional Mode
NOTE 1: UPF2 in the figure is PSA and UPF1 is I-UPF.
The PDU arrives from the gNB in GTP-U encapsulation at UPF1. The UPF1 removes
the GTP-U header and encapsulates the PDU with an outer IPv6 header and then
send out the packet to UPF2, based on the rules (PDR/FAR) associated to the
corresponding N4 session provisioned by the SMF in UPF1 over N4. The IPv6
Source address will be set to the U1 of UPF1 address and the IPv6 Destination
Address will be set to the U2 of UPF2.
The IPv6 Flow Label is computed as per IETF RFC 6437 [13].
All the PDU session types defined by TS 23.501 [7] are supported, since the
original packet is encapsulated with a new IPv6 header.
Once the packet arrives at U2, the UP functions (e.g. packet forwarding) are
executed by UPF2, based on the rules (PDR/FAR/QER/URR) associated to the
corresponding N4 session provisioned by the SMF in UPF2 over N4. As UPF2
behaves as PSA, the PDU is decapsulated and forwarded over the N6 interface.
Note that the downlink packet flow is the similar, except for a simple
reversal of the source for the destination IP addresses. This is shown in the
Figure 6.2.2.4.1-2.
Figure 6.2.2.4.1-2: Downlink Packet Flow in the SRv6 Traditional Mode
NOTE 2: UPF2 in the figure is PSA and UPF1 is I-UPF.
##### 6.2.2.4.2 SRv6 in Enhanced mode
SRv6 in enhanced mode works over N9 as follows:
\- UPFs over N9 are SRv6 capable;
\- the N9 path may integrate transport slice of underlay network mapping to
Network Instance based on local information;
\- when sending a packet on N9, the UPF processes Network Instance that the
packet created after FAR processing to insert one or multiple SIDs in a SRH
between IPv6 header and to encapsulate T-PDU. Both packet processing are as
following:
a. During FAR processing, the IPv6 Destination Address is set as the next hop
UPF address with the arguments part carrying the TEID.
b. During Network Instance processing, the IPv6 Destination Address set by FAR
is moved as the last SID in the SID list and the topmost SID in the list
configured for the Network Instance is copied to the IPv6 Destination
Address.\ \ What those SIDs represent is out of scope of 3GPP. The last SID
contains the IPv6 address of the next UPF and the TEID encoded as argument
identifying the PDU N4 session at the next UPF;
\- the UPF receiving the packet on the N9 hop identifies the PDU N4 session
using the IPv6 address received in the Destination Address.
\- as same as Traditional mode, packet processing functions in each UPF are
controlled by the SMF provisioning packet processing rules (PDR/FAR/QER/URR)
to the UPF over N4, using existing PFCP protocol.
> \- For End Marker and Error Indications an additional outer SRH header with
> the SIDs will be added by UPF after the processing by network instance.
###### 6.2.2.4.2.1 Uplink
The Figure 6.2.2.4.2.1-1 shows how SRv6 in Enhanced mode can be used as a user
plane protocol over N9 uplink in the current 5G System Architecture with an
end-to-end transport network slice (and an associated ultra-low-latency SLA).
Figure 6.2.2.4.2.1-1: Uplink Packet flow using SRv6 Enhanced Mode
Note: C1 and C2 in the diagram are non-3GPP functions/entities.
The PDU arrives from the UE. The gNB encapsulates the PDU, adding an IPv6, UDP
and GTP-U headers. The packet is destined towards the UPF U1.
Upon packet arrival, the UPF U1 processes the packet, removing the IPv6, UDP
and GTP headers and it will then re-encapsulate it with an outer IPv6 header
based on the rules (PDR/FAR) with an SRH mapping to the Network Instance in
the rules associated to the corresponding N4 session provisioned by the SMF in
UPF1 over N4.
The SRH contains the set of SIDs mapping to the provisioned Network Instance
in the FAR based on local information. The last SID in the SRH shall be the
SID identifying the N4 session at the next UPF, I-UPF U2.
The IPv6 Source address will be set to the UPF U1 IP address. The IPv6
Destination Address will be set to the first SRv6 segment. The IPv6 Flow Label
is computed as per IETF RFC 6437 [13].
One simple transport slice example here is used as an example to explain the
packet flow. The packet leaves the UPF1 and is forwarded on the N9 interface
up to the node C1. Once the packet arrives to C1, the function 1 is going to
be executed, which is fundamental SRv6 endpoint function described in clause
6.2.1.2. The IPv6 Destination Address is updated to the next segment,
U:2:TEID, the last SID in the SRH. The SRH Segment Left value is decremented,
and since now the value is at zero the router pops the SRH.
The packet is forwarded through the intended path up to the next segment
U:2:TEID, which identifies the N4 session on the I-UPF U2. Once the packet
arrives at U2, the UP functions are executed by U2, based on the rules
(PDR/FAR/QER/URR) associated to the corresponding N4 session provisioned by
the SMF in U2 over N4. Note that the I-UPF behaves as an _Intra/Inter-RAT
anchor point._
The I-UPF U2, after packet processing based on the provisioned rules, will
insert again an SRH that will contain the set of SIDs mapping to the
provisioned Network Instance in the FAR based on local information. The last
SID in the SRH shall be the SID identifying the N4 session at the next UPF,
A-UPF U3.
The IPv6 Source address will be set to the UPF U2 IP address. The IPv6
Destination Address will be set to the first SRv6 segment, C2 in this example.
The IPv6 Flow Label is computed as per IETF RFC 6437 [13].
Packet is forwarded up to the node C2. Again, this node executes the function
1 which belongs to the endpoint function. The IPv6 Destination Address is
updated with the next segment (U:3:TEID) , the last SID in the SRH. The node
pops the SRH out since the decremented Segment Left in the SRH becomes zero.
Packet is forwarded through the intended path up to the next segment U:3:TEID,
which identifies the N4 session on the UPF U3 (PSA). Once the packet arrives
at U3, the UP functions are executed by U3, based on the rules
(PDR/FAR/QER/URR) associated to the corresponding N4 provisioned by the SMF in
U3 over N4. As the UPF U3 behaves as a PSA, the PDU is decapsulated and
forwarded over the N6 interface.
The Network Instance process of UPF will validate the intended path encoded in
the SRH. IETF draft-ietf-spring-segment-routing-policy-02 [30] specifies the
validation for segment routing policy of the intended path and packet steering
to the path. By that, the Network Instance process of UPF should declare the
intended path when the reachability for all SIDs in the path can\'t be
resolved with the means of routing mechanisms in the SRv6 transport.
###### 6.2.2.4.2.2 Downlink
The downlink packet flow is depicted in the Figure 6.2.2.4.2.2-1.
Figure 6.2.2.4.2.2-1: Downlink Packet Flow in SRv6 Enhanced Mode
NOTE: C1 and C2 in the diagram are non-3GPP functions/entities.
In this case the UPF U3 (PSA), upon packet reception, classifies and
encapsulates the incoming packets with an outer IPv6 header based on the rule
(PDR/FAR) with a SRH mapping to the Network Instance in the rules associated
to the corresponding N4 session provisioned by the SMF. The SRH contains the
set of SIDs mapping to the provisioned Network Instance in the FAR based on
local information. This last SID identifies the N4 session on the I-UPF.
Nodes C1 and C2 process the packet based on the SRH as same as the uplink
case.
Upon packet reception, the I-UPF imposes a new SRH containing the SIDs up to
the next UPF, U1. Upon packet reception, U1 processes the packet and forwards
it over the N3 interface.
As the N3 interface is unmodified (IPv6/GTP), the packet is IPv6, UDP, GTP.
##### 6.2.2.4.3 Hand-over
In mobility scenarios with a change of I-UPF, the PSA shall send one or more
End-Marker packet towards the old I-UPF upon switching the user plane path.
This End-Marker is configured through the Tag field in SRH (as explained in
clause 6.2.1.2). The Figure 6.2.2.4.3-1 shows the hand-over packet flow.
Figure 6.2.2.4.3-1: HO illustration using SRv6
Subsequent traffic is sent to the new I-UPF. This is done by simply updating
the SR segment list on the PSA to match the new I-UPF location. This traffic
does not have the End Marker bit set in the Segment Routing Header.
The End-Marker based mobility procedure is unmodified.
#### 6.2.2.5 Discovery of SRv6 supported UPF
##### 6.2.2.5.1 General
The SMF needs to discover the UPF which supports SRv6 before selecting the
right UPF for handling SRv6 based user plane traffic. SMF can use following
methods to discover the SRv6 supported UPF.
##### 6.2.2.5.2 Use PFCP protocol at N4 to pass SRv6 Capability
The PFCP protocol used at N4 interface can be extended to allow SMF to learn
the UPF capability. Adding the SRv6 capability information in \"UP function
feature\", clause 8.2.25 of 3GPP 29.244 [9], to indicate node level SRv6
capability and \"User Plane IP Resource Information\" IE, clause 8.8.82 of
3GPP 29.244 [9], to indicate interface level capability, can be used to allow
SMF to learn SRv6 capability during PFCP Association Request procedure. The
diagram below shows the details.
                  Bits
* * *
     Octets       8                                                            7   6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1 to 2       Type = 43 (decimal)                                                                      
     3 to 4       Length = n                                                                               
     5 to 6       Supported-Features                                                                       
     7 to (n+4)   These octet(s) is/are present only if explicitly specified
Figure 6.2.2.5.2-1: UP Function Feature
The spare bits of Supported features (Octet 5 to 6) can be used to indicate
SRv6.
                   Bits
* * *
     Octets        8                                                            7                  6        5        4    3    2   1   
     1 to 2        Type = 116 (decimal)                                                                                                
     3 to 4        Length = n                                                                                                          
     5             Spare                                                        ASSOSI             ASSONI   TEIDRI   V6   V4           
     6             TEID Range                                                                                                          
     m to (m+3)    IPv4 address                                                                                                        
     p to (p+15)   IPv6 address                                                                                                        
     k to l        Network Instance                                                                                                    
     r             Spare                                                        Source Interface                                       
     s to (n+4)    These octet(s) is/are present only if explicitly specified
Figure 6.2.2.5.2-2: User plane IP Resource Information
The spare bit of octet 5 can be used to indicate if UPF supports SRv6 or not.
The default value 0 indicates UPF does not support SRv6 and value 1 indicates
that UPF does support SRv6.
##### 6.2.2.5.3 Use Local Configuration at SMF
SMF may be locally configured with the information about UPF, e.g by OAM
system, when a new UPF instantiated or removed. Clause 6.3.3.2 of TS 23.501
[7] mentions about UPF provisioning in SMF.
##### 6.2.2.5.4 Discovery of UPF using NRF
In the 5GC SBA architecture, the NRF acts as NF repository where every NF
register or deregister itself. A consumer NF uses NRF Discovery Service before
selecting a producer NF as mentioned in clause 5.2.7 of TS 23.502 [8]. The UPF
function may indicate SRv6 capability in the NF Profile while registering with
NRF. The attribute UpfInfo, clause 6.1.6.2.13 of TS 29.510 [25] can be
extended to indicate SRv6 capability of UPF. SMF can then use the NRF
Discovery service to know if the UPF supports SRv6 or not. This method can be
used by SMF to choose UPF during PDU session creation.
#### 6.2.2.6 IPv4 Transport Support for SRv6 User Plane
##### 6.2.2.6.1 General
As the architectural requirements states that the User Plane protocol shall be
able to run over IPv4 and IPv6, described in clause 5.1.1. Since a SRv6 User
Plane packet is an IPv6 packet with a SRH, this clause studies whether it is
possible or not that SRv6 User Plane is able to run over IPv4 transport
networks.
##### 6.2.2.6.2 IPv4 Encapsulation and Decapsulation for IPv6 packet
IPv6 in IPv4 encapsulation and forwarding manipulations (e.g., handling packet
markings, checksum verification, etc.) is performed as specified in Clause 3.5
of \"Basic Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and Routers\" in IETF RFC 4213
[26]. ICMPv4 errors are handled as specified in Clause 3.4 of IETF RFC 4213
[26]. By default, the IPv6 Traffic Class field MUST be copied to the IPv4 ToS
(Type of Service) field. This default behavior may be overridden by
configuration. Since IPv4 node shall not be expected as SRv6 node, there is no
impact of SRH to that specified IPv6 over IPv4 encapsulation.
##### 6.2.2.6.3 Routing IPv6 packet over IPv4 Transport Network
An efficient solution for IPv6 encapsulated packets is to be routed based on
the destination IPv6 address as standardized in IETF RFC 5969 [27].
##### 6.2.2.6.4 Mapping SRv6 User Plane IP Resource to IPv4 Transport
As the study result in this clause, SRv6 is able to run over IPv4 transport
networks. It is expected that Network Instance can be used to mapping to IPv4
Transport based on local information. How that mapping depends on local
information is out of scope of 3GPP.
#### 6.2.2.7 Security Considerations for SRv6
The security consideration related to SRv6 is detailed in IETF draft-
ietf-6man-segment-routing-header-18 [6]. The security mechanisms described in
that document only allow securing an SRv6 network within a single domain. 5GC
requires security mechanisms for nodes communicating in different domains
(e.g. inter-PLMN).
In order to secure inter-domain scenarios, 3GPP extends the security
requirements defined by IETF as follows:
In the enhanced mode, for SR nodes outside of the domain HMAC can be used.
Alternatively, if anti-replay protection is required, IPSec with AH can be
used as a substitute of HMAC. In the traditional mode, IPSec with AH can be
used.
Editor\'s Note: All the SRv6 security considerations needs to be reviewed and
assessed by SA3 Group.
#### 6.2.2.8 Using SRH for User Plane Messages
##### 6.2.2.8.1 General
The Figure 6.2.1.2-1 shows the Segment Routing Header format. In the SR
Extension Header there is 16 bits Tag field, which is explained in IETF draft-
ietf-6man-segment-routing-header-18 [6]. IETF does not define the format or
use of the Tag field. Hence the format of Tag field can be defined by 3GPP
independently of IETF and only the UPF will process the Tag field in the SR
Header. Tag can be used to indicate user plane messages, Echo Request, Echo
Reply, End Marker and Error Indication. Any other transport router that
implements SRv6 must ignore this field upon SRH processing.
Upon presence of user plane messages, the UPF cannot encode any segment in the
SRH whose function modifies the Tag value.
##### 6.2.2.8.2 Tag Encoding
The Tags field can be encoded as described in Figure 6.2.2.8.2-1.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit 4 of | Bit 3 | Bit 2 | Bit 1 | Bit 0 | | Octet [1] | [Octet-1] | [Octet-1] | [Octet-1] | [Octet1] | | to Bit 7 of | | | | | | Octet [1] | Echo Reply\ | Echo | Error | End Marker | | are | Bit | Request Bit | Indicator | bit | | | | | Bit | | | Reserved | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Octet[2] | | | | | | of Tag is | | | | | | reserved | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit 0 | End Marker | | | | | | Bit. When | | | | | | set to 1, | | | | | | this | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | End Marker. | | | | | | Default | | | | | | value is | | | | | | set to 0 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit 1 | Error | | | | | | Indicator | | | | | | Bit. When | | | | | | set to 1, | | | | | | this | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | Error. | | | | | | Default | | | | | | value is | | | | | | set to 0. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit 2 | Echo | | | | | | Request | | | | | | Bit. When | | | | | | set to 1, | | | | | | this | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | Echo | | | | | | Request. | | | | | | Default | | | | | | value is | | | | | | set to 0. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit 3 | Echo Reply | | | | | | Bit. When | | | | | | set to 1, | | | | | | this | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | Echo Reply. | | | | | | Default | | | | | | value is | | | | | | set to 0. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit 4- | Reserved. | | | | | Bit15 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Figure 6.2.2.8.2-1 Tags Encoding Details
Additional information elements for Error Indication, e.g Tunnel Endpoint
Identifier Data I, GSN Address etc, can be encoded in the SRH TLV as explained
in clause 6.2.2.13.
#### 6.2.2.9 Packet forwarding between SMF and UPF
The PFCP-u tunnel, one PFCP tunnel per UPF or PDN, as explained in clause
5.3.4 of 3GPP TS 29.281 [2], shall be used between SMF and UPF. The T-PDU
packet received at UPF from N9 or N6 shall be forwarded to SMF as G-PDUs with
the GTP-U header set to the IP address and TEID uniquely assigned in the SMF
for the PFCP-u tunnel corresponding to the UPF or PDN. Similarly, the G-PDU
packets received from the UE on N3 interface shall be forwarded to the SMF on
PFCP-u tunnel with new GTP-U header.
Even when SRv6 is used for user plane forwarding for N9, the forwarding of
data between SMF and UPF still uses GTP-U. UPF will always construct a G-PDU,
as defined above, from T-PDU received on N3 or N6 or N9 interface.
#### 6.2.2.10 Roaming Support
As home-routed roaming procedure defined in TS 23.502 [8], the following are
the impacts on SMF PDU Session Service of TS 29.502 [29] over N16 (between
V-SMF and H-SMF) and over N16a (between I-SMF and SMF) identified due to the
principle proposed in clause 6.2.2.2.
\- Addition of \"SRv6 Capable IE\" in Nsmf_PDUSession Create Request /
Response.
\- Addition of \"SRv6 SID IE\" in Nsmf_PDUSession Create Request / Response /
Update.
Based on roaming agreement, operators may configure the UPFs to use
Traditional mode or Enhanced mode. The V-SMF and H-SMF do not need to
distinguish both two modes over N16 due to the both modes are configured in
UPF based on local information.
Security consideration shall be applied for the SRv6 user plane in roaming as
described in clause 6.2.2.7.
#### 6.2.2.11 Failure Detection and Recovery
##### 6.2.2.11.1 General
This clause describes failure detection and recovery in SRv6 user plane as per
clause 5 of TS 23.527 [11] defined.
##### 6.2.2.11.2 Failure Detection
###### 6.2.2.11.2.1 Loss of SRv6 SID contexts
An SRv6 user plane enabled UPF may lose its SRv6 SID contexts upon a failure
or restart.
When an UPF receives a SRv6 User Plane packet for which no corresponding SID
exists, the UPF shall discard the SRv6 User Plane packet and return an Error
Indication encoded in SRH to the sending UPF, as specified in clause 6.2.2.8.
The receipt of an Error Indication in SRH is an indication for the sending UPF
that the peer UPF entity cannot receive any more user plane traffic on the
corresponding SID.
###### 6.2.2.11.2.2 User Plane Path Failure
An UPF may detect a user plane path failure by using Echo Request and Echo
Response encoded in SRH, as specified in clause 6.2.2.8.
In addition to that, when a Network Instance detects user plan path failure as
per IETF draft-ietf-spring-segment-routing-policy-02 [30], the UPF with the
Network Instance is able to detect the user plane path failure.
##### 6.2.2.11.3 Restoration Procedure
###### 6.2.2.11.3.1 SRv6 Error Indication received by another UPF
Upon receipt of an Error Indication in SRH, the UPF shall identify the related
PFCP session and send an Error Indication Report to the SMF, as specified in
clause 5.10 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [9].
Upon receipt of an Error Indication Report from the UPF, the SMF shall
identify the PDU session for which the Error Indication is received using the
remote SID included in the report.
For an Error Indication received from another UPF, the SMF shall delete the
PFCP session and PDU session, unless the UPF from which the Error Indication
was received is controlled by the same SMF and the SMF is able to restore the
user plane connectivity of the PDU session (e.g. Error Indication received
from an Intermediate UPF controlled by the same SMF).
NOTE: The procedure for Error Indication received from 5G-AN case is out of
scope of this study.
###### 6.2.2.11.3.2 Restoration Procedures upon User Plane Path Failure
Upon detecting a SRv6 user plane path failure as specified in clause
6.2.2.11.2, the UPF shall report the user plane path failure to the SMF, by
sending a PFCP Node Report Request (see TS 29.244 [9]) including a User Plane
Path Failure Report with the SID of the remote SRv6 peer(s) towards which a
failure has been detected. The UPF should also notify the SRv6 user plane path
failure via the Operation and Maintenance system.
The procedure of how the SMF processes the reported failure is described in
clause 5.4 of TS 23.527 [11].
##### 6.2.2.11.4 Restoration Procedure for User Plane Related Entities
The restoration procedure of UPF and SMF are all identical with the GTP-U case
described in clause 4.3 and 4.4 of TS 23.527 [11] except the user plane
protocol is SRv6.
#### 6.2.2.12 SRv6 Guaranteed Packet Delivery
##### 6.2.2.12.1 General
There is a requirement for sending redundant transmission of user plane
packets on N9 (and N3). SRv6 provides mechanisms for both packet duplication
and dropping the duplicate packet. This mechanism shall be applied to either
only the N9 interface, or to both the N3 and N9 interface when interworking
with GTP-U.
##### 6.2.2.12.2 Redundant packet transmission for downlink traffic
At the source UPF, the traffic associated with the ultra-low latency, jitter,
and loss requirement is steered into the new type of SR-TE (SRv6 Traffic
Engineering) policy called Spray Policy. The Spray policy replicates the
packets over SID lists that encode a disjoint path in the network. Typically,
the packets are replicated over two disjoint SR paths, but replication over
more than two paths is also possible. Each packet is tagged with a flow ID and
a sequence number in the SRH TLV.
The TLV has the format defined in IETF draft-geng-detnet-dp-sol-srv6 [28].
Clause 5.1 \"TLV Based SRv6 Data Plane Solution\" details the data replication
function.
NOTE: The intermediate SRv6 routers neither process nor inspect the TLV unless
explicitly instantiated to do so. clause 2.1 of IETF draft-ietf-6man-segment-
routing-header-18 [6] mentions \"While processing the SID defined in clause
4.3.1, all the TLVs are ignored unless local configuration indicate
otherwise\"
Figure 6.2.2.12.2-1: Redundant downlink packet transmission for URLCC use case
##### 6.2.2.12.3 Removal of Redundant packet for uplink traffic
The endpoint of the Spray policy is represented by the last SID. At the
endpoint, the UPF removes duplicate packet arriving with the same SRv6 SID.
Upon reception of a packet with active SID bounded to a duplicate removal
function, the node checks whether a packet with same (SA, FlowID, SeqNumber)
has been delivered. In case another replica of this packet has indeed been
delivered then the current packet is dropped. Otherwise, the packet is
delivered and state is recorded.
The TLV has the format defined in IETF draft-geng-detnet-dp-sol-srv6 [28].
Clause 5.1, \'TLV Based SRv6 Data Plane Solution\', details the packet
elimination function.
Figure 6.2.2.12.3-1: Removal of Redundant packets for uplink traffic for URLCC
case
#### 6.2.2.13 SRv6 extensibility using SRH TLVs
The SRv6 SID carries TEID, QFI and RQI bits which is explained in clause
6.2.2.3. But SRv6 SID has limited space and it cannot carry many information
elements which requires additional bits.
For sending more information element, SRv6 shall leverage the SRH TLVs, as
explained in clause 6.2.1.2. This document proposes a new SRH TLV that is the
\"5GS container\", which should be allocated by IANA. This new 3GPP specific
\"Type\" can contain additional 3GPP IEs in the nested TLVs within the \"5GS
container\". The number of 3GPP IEs could be one or many, depending on the use
case. The diagram below shows an example with only one additional 3GPP IE.
Figure 6.2.2.13-1: Using TLV to send one 3GPP specific IEs in SRH
The diagram below shows an example with multiple additional 3GPP IEs.
Figure 6.2.2.13-2: Using TLV for sending multiple 3GPP specific IEs in SRH
The current list of objects of PDU Session User Plane Protocol, as defined in
TS 38.415 [10], are supported as parts of Argument of SRv6 user plane, except
PPI which is not applicable for N9. TLV of SRH is a generic format which can
be used to encode all the current list of objects of PDU Session User Plane
protocol as defined in TS 38.415 [10] and it also allows encoding of any new
IEs that may get added in the future.
TS 38.415 [10] specifies that PDU session information are encoded together in
user plane protocol. But SRv6 solution does not comply with the PDU definition
of this user plane protocol. In SRv6 solution some of the information elements
like QFI, RQI etc are encoded in SID and remaining information elements are
encoded in SRH TLV, which follows SID in the SRH.
### 6.2.3 System Impacts
#### 6.2.3.1 General
This clause studies SRv6 impact on 3GPP 5GC system.
#### 6.2.3.2 Common System Impacts of SRv6
See clauses 7.1.3.1.4 and 7.1.3.2.4.
##### 6.2.3.2.1 System Impact on N4 interface
###### 6.2.3.2.1.1 General
This clause studies the impact on PFCP protocol on N4 interface for supporting
SRv6. The PFCP procedures, messages and IEs along with the PFCP protocol is
defined in TR 29.244 [9].
###### 6.2.3.2.1.2 Impact on PFCP procedure
The existing PFCP protocol, used for N4 interface between SMF and UPF, may be
extended in case SMF wants to send some SRv6 specific information to UPF and
vice versa. The table below lists the possible changes in the existing PFCP
messages.
Table 6.2.3.2.1.2-1: Impact on N4 Procedures
PFCP Procedure Expected Impacts
* * *
**Node related procedures** Heartbeat N/A Load Control N/A Overload Control
N/A PFD Management N/A Association Setup SMF needs to be indicated about SRv6
capability of UPF. Association Update Same as Association Setup. Association
Release N/A Node Report N/A **Session Related Procedures** Session
Establishment SMF needs to indicate UPF about SRv6 session for every PDU
session that is getting established. Session Modification Same as Session
Establishment. Session Deletion N/A Session Report UPF needs to report SMF
about Error Indication for SRv6 SID context and/or user plane path.
Editor\'s Note: Any additional impact on N4 procedure is FFS.
###### 6.2.3.2.1.3 Impact on PFCP IEs
It is expected that N4 interface protocol shall be able to bring SRv6 related
information in the following PFCP IEs. Note that SRv6 leverages IPv6 addresses
to represent segments so that the N4 interface protocol does not need to
support any new ID type for SRv6 user plane in addition to the existing IPv4
and IPv6 ID format.
Table 6.2.3.2.1.3-1: SRv6 Impacts on PFCP IEs
PFCP IE Expected Impacts
* * *
**PDR related IEs** PDI The Local F-TEID IE and Traffic End point needs
changes to indicate SRv6 capability. Outer Header Removal Outer Header Removal
ID needs changes to indicate SRv6 capability **FAR related IEs** Forwarding
Parameters The Outer Header Creation IE and Linked Traffic Endpoint ID IE need
changes to indicate SRv6 capability. **URR related IEs** N/A **QER related
IEs** N/A **BAR related IEs** Error Indication Report The Remote F-TEID IE
needs changes to indicate error on SRv6 SID.
Editor\'s Note: Any additional impact on PFCP IEs is FFS.
##### 6.2.3.2.2 System Impact on N16/N16a/N38 interfaces
The following list shows the impacts for N16, N16a and N38.
\- N16:
\- impacts V-SMF and H-SMF to negotiate the use of SRv6 during PDU session
establishment, and during EPS to 5GS idle mode and connected mode mobility;
\- N16a:
\- impacts I-SMF and SMF to negotiate the use of SRv6 during PDU session
establishment, or insertion of an I-SMF to an existing PDU session;
\- N16a and N38:
\- impacts V-SMF or I-SMF to include support of SRv6 in SM contexts exchange,
and for setting up forwarding tunnels using SRv6 upon insertion or change of
V-SMF or I-SMF.
#### 6.2.3.3 System Impacts of Traditional Mode
See clause 7.1.3.1.4.
#### 6.2.3.4 System Impacts of Enhanced Mode
See clause 7.1.3.2.4.
# 7 Evaluations and Comparison
## 7.1 Evaluation
### 7.1.1 Evaluation Points
The candidate user plane protocol solutions are evaluated in this clause on
the following aspects:
1) Whether they fulfil the architectural requirements for User Plane specified
in clause 5.1;
2) Key issues identified in clause 5.2;
3) System impacts.
### 7.1.2 GTP-U
#### 7.1.2.1 General
This clause evaluates the GTP-U solution described in clause 6.1.
#### 7.1.2.2 Architectural requirements for User Plane
GTP-U supports all the 3GPP architectural requirements specified in clause
5.1. GTP-U supports in particular the following capabilities:
\- GTP-U can run over IPv4 and IPv6 networks;
\- the PFCP protocol over N4 supports the establishment, modification and
release of GTP-U tunnels;
\- GTP-U supports signalling messages, such as End Marker to assist packets
reordering in the target RAN during mobility scenarios;
\- GTP-U extension headers can be defined to convey information together with
GTP-PDU; the PDU Session User Plane Protocol (defined in TS 38.413 [10] and
containing 5GS information) is conveyed in such a GTP-U extension header;
\- GTP-U is supported on roaming interface between VPLMN and HPLMN since
Rel-99 onwards;
\- GTP-U supports error detection and error reporting capabilities, to detect
and handle the loss of a user plane context in a peer UPF and to detect and
handle the loss of a user plane context associated with a user plane packet at
the receiving UPF.
#### 7.1.2.3 Key issues
Regarding IP connectivity for N9 and Network Slicing, GTP-U can use existing
transport technologies, such as L2 or L3 VPNs, MPLS-based services or segment
routing (SR-MPLS, SRv6), as described in clause 5.2.1.1.
#### 7.1.2.4 System impacts
GTP-U is already supported in the RAN and Core Network, in the 5G System, EPS
and GPRS networks.
No impacts are identified, other than those listed in clause 6.1.3.2.2 for the
optional support of UDP zero checksum for GTP-U over IPv6.
### 7.1.3 SRv6
#### 7.1.3.1 Traditional Mode
##### 7.1.3.1.1 General
This clause evaluates the SRv6 Traditional Mode solution described in clause
6.2.
##### 7.1.3.1.2 Architectural requirements for User Plane
SRv6 in Traditional Mode supports the 3GPP architectural requirements
specified in clause 5.1, with the following limitations as per the current
solution:
1) Requirement 8 of clause 5.1.1: the solution does not support the PDU
Session User Plane Protocol over N9 as specified in Annex A of TS 29.281 [2]
and in TS 38.415 [10]:
\- the solution described in clause 6.2.2.3.2 does only enable to encode the
RQI and QFI, which are only two specific parameters of the PDU Session User
Plane Protocol;
\- the PDU Session User Plane Protocol is a protocol that defines PDU types
(e.g. UL PDU SESSION INFORMATION, DL PDU SESSION INFORMATION) and parameters;
more PDU types and parameters may be defined in future.
Editor\'s Note: a solution to support the above requirement is FFS.
2) Requirement 10 of clause 5.1.1: for home routed roaming, security
requirements and tentative 3GPP extensions to existing IETF security
requirements for use of SRv6 across SR Domain (e.g. inter-PLMN) needs to be
reviewed and assessed by SA3 (see clause 6.2.2.7).
##### 7.1.3.1.3 Key issues
Regarding IP connectivity for N9 and Network Slicing, SRv6 in Traditional Mode
does not encode any SRH header and therefore has to rely on the IPv6 transport
network technologies, or underlay transport technologies such as L2 or L3
VPNs, as described in clause 5.2.1.1.
##### 7.1.3.1.4 System impacts
The solution impacts the following 3GPP system entities:
\- UPF:
\- N9 impacts to support SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U, including support of
T-PDUs (i.e. user data packets) and GTP-U functionality parity with End
Markers, Error Indication, Echo Request/Response and Sequence Number;
\- N4 impacts to support use of SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U (i.e.
advertising capabilities of the UPF and establishing N4 sessions using ingress
and/or egress SRv6 as replacement of GTP-U);
\- support of Interworking between GTP-U and SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U,
i.e. conversion between GTP-U packets and SRv6 packets including conversion
between the GTP-U PDU Session Container extension header and the PDU Session
Container information in SRv6 packets;
\- support of static IPv4 tunnelling or 6rd over N9, if SRv6 is run over IPv6
over IPv4;
\- SMF, V-SMF, H-SMF and I-SMF:
\- N4 impacts to support use of SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U (i.e. learn
capabilities of the UPF and establish N4 sessions using ingress and/or egress
SRv6 as replacement of GTP-U);
\- N16 impacts for the V-SMF and H-SMF to negotiate the use of SRv6 as a
replacement of GTP-U during the PDU session establishment and during EPS to
5GS idle mode and connected mode mobility;
\- N16a impacts for the I-SMF and SMF to negotiate the use of SRv6 as a
replacement of GTP-U during the PDU session establishment or during the
insertion of an I-SMF to an existing PDU session;
\- N4 impacts to support Interworking between GTP-U and SRv6 as a replacement
of GTP-U;
\- SMF impacts for SMF constructing End Marker packets (see clause 5.8.2.9.2
of TS 23.501 [7]), requiring the SMF to support SRv6 SRH;
\- N38 (between two V-SMFs or two I-SMFs) and N16a (for insertion of an I-SMF
to an existing PDU session) impacts for exchange of SM contexts including
support of SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U, and for setting up forwarding
tunnels using SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U upon insertion or change of V-SMF
or I-SMF;
\- Impacts for discovery and selection of UPFs supporting SRv6 as a
replacement of GTP-U;
\- NRF:
\- Impacts to the NF Management and NF Discovery APIs to support the
registration and discovery of SMF and UPF supporting SRv6 as a replacement of
GTP-U;
\- N27 impacts (between vNRF and hNRF) for discovering a H-SMF that supports
SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U;
\- AMF:
\- AMF impacts for discovering and selecting SMFs supporting SRv6 as a
replacement of GTP-U when not all SMFs in the serving or home PLMN support
SRv6, e.g. for preferentially selecting a V-SMF and a H-SMF supporting SRv6 as
a replacement of GTP-U for a Home Routed PDU session.
The solution requires impacts to the following interfaces (see above for the
description of the impacts):
\- N9 (between UPFs and between V-UPF and H-UPF);
\- N4 (between SMF and UPF);
\- N16 (between V-SMF and H-SMF);
\- N16a (between I-SMF and SMF);
\- N38 (between two V-SMF or I-SMF);
\- Nnrf (between AMF, SMF, UPF and NRF);
\- N27 (between V-NRF and H-NRF).
Editor\'s Note: the complete list of impacts is still FFS until the solution
is fully described.
Editor\'s Note: Potential impacts to Lawful Interception should be assessed by
3GPP SA3-LI.
#### 7.1.3.2 Enhanced Mode
##### 7.1.3.2.1 General
This clause evaluates the SRv6 Enhanced Mode solution described in clause 6.2.
##### 7.1.3.2.2 Architectural requirements for User Plane
SRv6 in Enhanced Mode supports the 3GPP architectural requirements specified
in clause 5.1, with the following limitations as per the current solution:
1) same limitations as defined for SRv6 in Traditional Mode in clause
7.1.3.1.2;
2) in roaming scenarios, SIDs in SRv6 packets may be limited to segments of
one PLMN since information about the transport network topology from one PLMN
is not exposed to a roaming partner.
##### 7.1.3.2.3 Key issues
Regarding IP connectivity for N9 and Network Slicing, SRv6 in Enhanced Mode
would allow to encode SRH headers to force the data path to go through
intermediate SRv6 routers between two UPFs.
##### 7.1.3.2.4 System impacts
All the impacts to the 3GPP system entities and interfaces described in clause
7.1.3.1.4 also apply to SRv6 Enhanced Mode. The following additional impacts
also apply:
\- UPF:
\- configuration of SIDs per Network Instance and insertion of SIDs in egress
SRv6 packets;
\- the IPv6 DA set by FAR needs to be moved as the last SID in the list and
the topmost SID in the SID list configured for the network instance needs to
be put as the IPv6 DA of the packet.
Editor\'s Note: the complete list of impacts is still FFS until the solution
is fully described.
## 7.2 Additional Considerations
### 7.2.1 Consideration Points
Additional considerations for the candidate user plane protocol solutions are
identified in Table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2.1-1: Additional Considerations
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Additional Considerations | Description | +==================================+==================================+ | A1. Proven technology / Time of | Proven technology and the date | | Availability of used standards | of availability of related | | | standards will be indicated. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A2. Enabling separation between | Mobile and transport network | | 3GPP User Plane and Transport | operators may be different. Even | | | when the same operator operates | | | the mobile and transport | | | networks, both networks may be | | | managed by different | | | organizations and systems. | | | | | | This criterion evaluates whether | | | the solution allows to keep the | | | mobile and transport networks | | | separate. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A3. Transport network | This criterion evaluates whether | | requirements | the solution imposes specific | | | requirements on the transport | | | networks. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A4. Co-existence with existing | This criterion evaluates the | | User Plane solution | coexistence with network | | | entities implementing the | | | existing solution. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A5. Interworking with RAN | This criterion evaluates how the | | | solution interworks with the | | | RAN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A6. Interworking with EPS | This criterion evaluates how the | | | solution interworks with the | | | EPS. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A7. Impacts to GSMA GRX/IPX | This criterion evaluates whether | | | the solution may impact GRX/IPX. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A8. Security | GSMA has specified user plane | | | security solution for GTP-U in | | | EPC (based on GTP-U firewall). | | | GSMA and 3GPP SA3 are further | | | studying GTP-U security in 5G | | | System. See Study on Security | | | Aspects of the 5G Service Based | | | Architecture and Inter-PLMN | | | Communication in S3-190464. | | | | | | This criterion evaluates whether | | | the solution may impact GSMA and | | | require SA3 work for user plane | | | security across roaming | | | interfaces. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A9. Minimize number of protocols | It is desirable to minimize the | | in network | number of protocols in the | | | network, when possible. | | | | | | This criterion evaluates the | | | impact of the solution on the | | | resulting number of protocols in | | | the network. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A10. Reusability of existing | This criterion evaluates whether | | 3GPP implementations | the solution allows reuses of | | | existing 3GPP implementations, | | | e.g. reuse of UPF. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A11. Protocol Extensibility | This criterion evaluates the | | | extensibility of the User Plane | | | protocol to support additional | | | features in future. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A12. Protocol Overhead | This criterion evaluates the | | | user plane protocol stack / | | | overhead of the solution. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A13. Resource-efficiency | This criterion evaluates whether | | | the solution allows to remove | | | states from the UPF. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A14. Routing capabilities | This criterion evaluates the | | | solution in terms of routing | | | capabilities and whether the | | | solution allows to support fast | | | rerouting if a failure affects | | | the user plane path between | | | UPFs. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A15. Scalability | This criterion evaluates whether | | | the solution meets the | | | scalability requirements of 5G | | | to support massive number of | | | connected devices. Both scale in | | | and out should be evaluated. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A16. Performance | This criterion evaluates whether | | | the user plane protocol can | | | easily meet the diverse | | | performance requirement of | | | different network slices. E.g | | | the performance requirement for | | | URLCC slice can be very | | | different from any other slice. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A17. Programmability | SMF needs to handle a large | | | number of UPFs in large | | | deployments. This criterion | | | evaluates how easy or difficult | | | is to program network | | | instructions between SMF and | | | UPF. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A18. Signalling Optimisation | The current N4 interface between | | | SMF and UPF is very chatty and | | | there is a need to optimise the | | | N4 interface signalling. This | | | criterion evaluates which | | | solution offers better | | | signalling optimisation. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A19. Load Balancing | There could be multiple | | | transport path between ingress | | | and egress UPFs. This criterion | | | evaluates the load balancing | | | capability of user plane | | | protocol among multiple paths. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A20. Entropy support | The transport network routers | | | use standard fields of the IP | | | headers to perform hashing of | | | packets. | | | | | | In the case of IPv4 based | | | protocols, this is a standard | | | 5-tuple based on the IP SA, DA, | | | Transport header type, Transport | | | header protocol source and | | | destination. | | | | | | In the case of IPv6 based | | | protocols, this is a standard | | | 3-tuple based on the IP SA, DA | | | and FlowLabel. This criterion | | | evaluates which user plane | | | protocol is better suited for | | | Entropy support. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.2.2 GTP-U
Table 7.2.2-1 describes the GTP-U solution on the additional considerations
defined in clause 7.2.1.
Table 7.2.2-1: Additional Considerations for the GTP-U solution
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Additional Considerations | Description | +==================================+==================================+ | A1. Proven technology / Time of | GTPv1 has been specified by 3GPP | | Availability of used standards | from Rel-99 onwards. | | | | | | GTP-U has been used extensively | | | in the 3GPP system, in the RAN | | | and Core Network in 5G System, | | | EPS and earlier generation\'s | | | mobile networks. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A2. Enabling separation between | The 3GPP User Plane and | | 3GPP User Plane and Transport | Transport are decoupled, | | | allowing different operators, | | | organization and systems to | | | operate the mobile and the | | | transport networks. | | | | | | The 3GPP User Plane and | | | Transport can evolve in parallel | | | without restricting either | | | technology (e.g. GTP-U over IP, | | | MPLS, SR-MPLS, SRv6). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A3. Transport network | GTP-U runs over IPv4, IPv6 and | | requirements | existing transport network | | | technologies. | | | | | | GTP-U supports heterogenous | | | transport network and segment | | | optimized transport options | | | (e.g. MPLS or SR MPLS in | | | Backhaul, SR MPLS or SRv6 in | | | Aggregation/Core, SR MPLS or | | | VxLAN/GRE in Data Center). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A4. Co-existence with existing | This is the existing solution. | | User Plane solution | | | | Use of UDP zero checksum over | | | IPv6 is negotiated via control | | | plane signalling during the | | | setup of the GTP-U tunnel. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A5. Interworking with RAN | Same solution as supported in | | | the RAN. | | | | | | Use of UDP zero checksum over | | | IPv6 is negotiated via control | | | plane signalling during the | | | setup of the GTP-U tunnel. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A6. Interworking with EPS | Same solution as supported in | | | EPS. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A7. Impacts to GSMA GRX/IPX | No impact. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A8. Security | GSMA has specified user plane | | | security solution for GTP-U in | | | EPC. GSMA and 3GPP SA3 are | | | further studying GTP-U security | | | in 5G System. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A9. Minimize number of protocols | Same protocol as in existing | | in network | solution in RAN and CN in 5GS, | | | EPS and earlier mobile network | | | generations. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A10. Reusability of existing | Existing SMF and UPF | | 3GPP implementations | implementations can be reused, | | | with the only optional addition | | | of UDP zero checksum negotiation | | | for IPv6. | | | | | | Transport remains agnostic of | | | the number of PDU sessions setup | | | in the network (number of | | | 5-tuple flows visible in | | | transport layer is relatively | | | low as PDU sessions are | | | aggregated). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A11. Protocol Extensibility | GTP-U supports the capability to | | | define new extension headers. | | | This has been used in past | | | releases to support several | | | features, e.g. RAN containers, | | | PDU Session Container (5GS | | | information) over N9 and N3, | | | Service Class Indicator, PDCP | | | PDU numbers. | | | | | | GTP-U does not place any | | | constraint on the size of the | | | GTP-U extension headers, and | | | therefore allows future | | | extensions of the PDU Session | | | Container Protocol used over N9 | | | and N3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A12. Protocol Overhead | GTP-U header: 12 octets. | | | | | | GTP-U Extension Header (PDU | | | Session Container): 4 octets | | | | | | UDP header: 8 octets. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A13. Resource-efficiency | Per 3GPP system architecture | | | requirements, 3GPP user plane | | | functionalities are controlled | | | in UPF by the SMF over the N4 | | | interface; the UPF shall keep | | | states for the established PFCP | | | associations and PFCP sessions. | | | | | | A GTP-U tunnel endpoint is | | | identified by an IP address and | | | a TEID (4 octets). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A14. Routing capabilities | Routing capabilities supported | | | by IPv4, IPv6 or the underlying | | | transport technologies (e.g. | | | MPLS, SR-MPLS, SRv6). | | | | | | GTP-U in addition to the basic | | | routing capabilities supported | | | by IPv4, IPv6 or the underlying | | | transport technologies, exposes | | | session and QoS flow in GTP-U | | | header which allows to provide | | | routing differentiation by look | | | up of the corresponding header. | | | Routers in 3GPP systems can | | | support look up of GTP-U | | | headers, but this may not be | | | supported by basic IP routing | | | nodes. | | | | | | GTP-U supports error detection | | | and error reporting | | | capabilities. | | | | | | MPLS Fast Reroute is supported | | | (if MPLS is used). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A15. Scalability | No difference between both | | | solutions: UPF functionalities | | | are controlled by the SMF over | | | N4 and UPFs keep the same states | | | for PFCP associations and PFCP | | | sessions. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A16. Performance | No difference expected between | | | both solutions. There is an | | | extra UDP layer. Most | | | implementations are expected to | | | process 5-tuple with UDP header | | | as standard function with | | | negligible impact on | | | performance. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A17. Programmability | No difference between both | | | solutions: UPF functionalities | | | are controlled by the SMF over | | | N4. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A18. Signalling Optimisation | No difference between both | | | solutions: UPF functionalities | | | are controlled by the SMF over | | | N4. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A19. Load Balancing | Load sharing can be achieved in | | | multiple levels: | | | | | | On GTP-U protocol level, per | | | tunnel-session based load | | | sharing is supported as the | | | destination IP address and | | | Tunnel Endpoint ID is allocated | | | by the receiver. This mechanism | | | is complemented by lower layer | | | load balancing mechanism. See | | | A20 for other levels using | | | entropy bits in protocol | | | headers. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A20. Entropy support | On UDP/IP level, Entropy for | | | load balancing is also permitted | | | but not mandated by the GTP-U | | | protocol. | | | | | | Use of dynamic source UDP port | | | for entropy support is | | | documented in the GTP-U | | | specification (the algorithm to | | | set the dynamic source UDP port | | | is implementation specific). | | | Flow Label can also be used for | | | entropy support with IPv6. | | | | | | Additionally, when GTP-U is | | | transported over IPv6/SRv6, | | | entropy for load balancing is | | | recommended using | | | IETF RFC 6438 [31]. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.2.3 SRv6
Table 7.2.3-1 describes the SRv6 Traditional Mode on the additional
considerations defined in clause 7.2.1.
Table 7.2.3-2 evaluates the SRv6 Enhanced Mode on the additional
considerations defined in clause 7.2.1.
Table 7.2.3-1: Additional Considerations on SRv6 in Traditional Mode
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Additional Considerations | Description | +==================================+==================================+ | A1. Proven technology / Time of | IETF work on SRv6 related | | Availability of used standards | improvements is still in | | | progress. | | | | | | SRv6 as a replacement of GTP-U | | | would require new 3GPP | | | standardization work. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A2. Enabling separation between | 3GPP User Plane and IP transport | | 3GPP User Plane and Transport | are collapsed/integrated, with | | | the IP destination address | | | encoding the IP address of the | | | peer UPF, the TEID of the | | | specific user plane tunnel and | | | other 3GPP related information | | | (e.g. QFI, RQI). | | | | | | With SRv6 as a GTP-U | | | replacement, 3GPP User Plane and | | | Transport are tied in one | | | technology. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A3. Transport network | SRv6 essentially relies on IPv6. | | requirements | IPv4 networks might be | | | considered but at the expense of | | | extra signalling overhead and | | | operational costs. | | | | | | The length of the IPv6 prefix is | | | constrained to keep enough bits | | | to the Function and Arguments of | | | the SID (see Figure | | | 6.2.2.3.2.1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A4. Co-existence with existing | Co-existence with 3GPP user | | User Plane solution | plane entities supporting only | | | GTP-U is required. | | | | | | Use of SRv6 in Traditional Mode | | | needs to be negotiated via | | | control plane signalling during | | | the setup of the user plane | | | tunnel (in a backward compatible | | | manner to take into account | | | implementations that do not | | | support SRv6 and corresponding | | | negotiation signalling). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A5. Interworking with RAN | The solution requires | | | interworking GTP-U over N3 and | | | SRv6 over N9, including | | | interworking the PDU Session | | | User Plane Protocol (in GTP-U | | | extension header over N3, and in | | | the Destination IP address in | | | SRv6 in Traditional Mode), | | | causing impacts in UPF. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A6. Interworking with EPS | GTP-U is supported on user plane | | | interfaces in the EPS. | | | | | | The solution requires the | | | UPF/PGW-U to support different | | | user plane protocols and to | | | switch from one to the other as | | | the PDU session moves between | | | EPS and 5GS. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A7. Impacts to GSMA GRX/IPX | GSMA would need to study the | | | support of SRv6 in GRX/IPX as a | | | replacement of GTP-U (including | | | security aspects, see A8). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A8. Security | Due to security considerations | | | mentioned in clause 8.2 of | | | IETF RFC 8402 [5], packets | | | sent over SRv6 from one PLMN to | | | another across N9 in home routed | | | roaming cases will be | | | filtered/dropped. Security | | | requirements and proposed 3GPP | | | extensions to existing IETF | | | security requirements for use of | | | SRv6 across SR Domain (e.g. | | | inter-PLMN) need to be reviewed | | | and assessed by SA3 (see clause | | | 6.2.2.7). | | | | | | GSMA has specified user plane | | | security solution for GTP-U in | | | EPC (based on GTP-U firewall). | | | GSMA and 3GPP SA3 are further | | | studying GTP-U security in 5G | | | System. GSMA and 3GPP SA3 would | | | need to be involved to study | | | SRv6 user plane security in 5G | | | System. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A9. Minimize number of protocols | The solution would add one new | | in network | 3GPP user plane protocol | | | solution, for use over the N9 | | | interface. Other interfaces | | | would continue to support GTP-U, | | | e.g. N3, N4-u, S5/S8. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A10. Reusability of existing | SMFs and UPFs need to be | | 3GPP implementations | modified to implement SRv6 as a | | | replacement of GTP-U and | | | reproduce existing GTP-U | | | functionalities (e.g. End | | | Markers, PDU Session User Plane | | | Protocol). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A11. Protocol Extensibility | The SRv6 extensibility is | | | explained in clause 6.2.1.2. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A12. Protocol Overhead | No UDP (8 octets) and GTP-U (12 | | | octets) headers. | | | | | | If SRv6 is supported over IPv4: | | | extra IPv6 header (40 octets). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A13. Resource-efficiency | Per 3GPP system architecture | | | requirements, 3GPP user plane | | | functionalities are controlled | | | in UPF by the SMF over the N4 | | | interface; the UPF shall keep | | | states for the established PFCP | | | associations and PFCP sessions, | | | like for GTP-U. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A14. Routing capabilities | SRv6 in Traditional Mode does | | | not encode any SRH header and | | | therefore has to rely on the | | | IPv6 transport network or | | | underlay transport technologies. | | | | | | SRv6 in addition to the basic | | | routing capabilities supported | | | by IPv6 or the underlying | | | transport technologies, exposes | | | session and QoS flow in IPv6 DA | | | to IP transport to provide | | | routing differentiation by | | | fundamental IP forwarding | | | mechanism (i.e. longest prefix | | | match). The solution supports | | | error detection and error | | | reporting capabilities. Fast | | | Rerouting is also supported. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A15. Scalability | No difference between both | | | solutions: UPF functionalities | | | are controlled by the SMF over | | | N4 and UPFs keep the same states | | | for PFCP associations and PFCP | | | sessions. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A16. Performance | No difference expected between | | | both solutions. There is no UDP | | | layer. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A17. Programmability | No difference between both | | | solutions: UPF functionalities | | | are controlled by the SMF over | | | N4. SRv6 network programmability | | | is not used in the 3GPP system. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A18. Signalling Optimisation | No difference between both | | | solutions: UPF functionalities | | | are controlled by the SMF over | | | N4. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A19. Load Balancing | See A20. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A20. Entropy support | Entropy for load balancing is | | | mandated by the SRv6 protocol | | | (using the Flow Label field in | | | the IPv6 header, see clause 5.5 | | | of | | | IETF draft-ietf-6man-s | | | egment-routing-header-18 [6]). | | | This is identical to GTP-U over | | | SRv6. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 7.2.3-2: Additional Considerations on SRv6 in Enhanced Mode
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Additional Considerations | Description | +==================================+==================================+ | A1. Proven technology / Time of | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | Availability of used standards | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A2. Enabling separation between | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | 3GPP User Plane and Transport | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | | | | | | In addition, SRH headers also | | | encode IP addresses of | | | intermediate IP routers on the | | | path, requiring the UPF (mobile | | | network) to be configured with | | | information about the SIDs and | | | thus topology of the transport | | | network. | | | | | | This essentially assumes mobile | | | and transport networks from a | | | same operator. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A3. Transport network | To use the full set of | | requirements | functionalities, the solution | | | relies on IPv6 and SRv6 capable | | | networks. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A4. Co-existence with existing | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | User Plane solution | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1), but | | | with negotiating the use of SRv6 | | | in Enhanced Mode. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A5. Interworking with RAN | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A6. Interworking with EPS | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A7. Impacts to GSMA GRX/IPX | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A8. Security | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A9. Minimize number of protocols | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | in network | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A10. Reusability of existing | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | 3GPP implementations | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A11. Protocol Extensibility | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A12. Protocol Overhead | _No UDP (8 octets) and GTP-U (8 | | | to 12 octets) headers._ | | | | | | Generic Routing Extension | | | header: 4 octets | | | | | | SRH header: 4 octets + 16 octets | | | per SID + optional objects (if | | | any) | | | | | | If SRv6 is supported over IPv4: | | | extra IPv6 header (40 octets). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A13. Resource-efficiency | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A14. Routing capabilities | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | | | However, routing differentiation | | | by fundamental IP forwarding | | | mechanism (i.e. longest prefix | | | match) on intermediate routing | | | segments is only possible if | | | 3GPP specific information (TEID, | | | QFI) can be embedded in the | | | intermediate SIDs of the | | | transport network, i.e. if the | | | prefix length of the | | | intermediate SIDs provide enough | | | bits space and the encoding of | | | the 3GPP session and QoS flow | | | information does not collide | | | with the structure of the | | | intermediate SIDs (e.g. | | | Function, Arguments). | | | | | | In addition, SRv6 in Enhance | | | Mode enables to route packets | | | through intermediate IP routers | | | on the path between two UPFs. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A15. Scalability | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A16. Performance | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A17. Programmability | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A18. Signalling Optimisation | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A19. Load Balancing | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A20. Entropy support | Same as for SRv6 in Traditional | | | Mode (see Table 7.2.3-1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 7.3 Comparison
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Description | GTP-U | SRv6 as a | | | | replacement of GTP-U | +======================+======================+======================+ | A. Common aspects | 1) UPF | | | | functionalities are | | | | controlled by the | | | | SMF over the N4 | | | | interface (PFCP | | | | protocol), i.e. SRv6 | | | | network | | | | programmability (see | | | | clause 6.2.1.3) is | | | | not used in the 3GPP | | | | system; | | | | | | | | 2) As a result of | | | | 1), the UPF shall | | | | keep the same states | | | | for PFCP | | | | associations and | | | | PFCP sessions in | | | | both solutions; | | | | | | | | 3) User plane | | | | tunnels are | | | | established hop by | | | | hop between UPFs, | | | | i.e. source based | | | | routing of SRv6 is | | | | not used beyond the | | | | possibility for the | | | | UPF to force packets | | | | to go through | | | | intermediate routers | | | | between the 2 UPFs | | | | using the Network | | | | Instance | | | | information, in SRv6 | | | | Enhanced Mode or | | | | with GTP-U over | | | | SRv6. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | B. Architectural | All requirements are | Requirements are | | requirements for | supported. | supported with | | User Plane | | following | | | | restrictions or | | | | comments: | | | | | | | | 1) the PDU Session | | | | User Plane Protocol | | | | over N9 as specified | | | | in Annex A of | | | | 3GPP TS 29.281 [2] | | | | and in 3GPP TS | | | | 38.415 [10] is not | | | | supported; | | | | | | | | Editor\'s Note: a | | | | solution to support | | | | the above | | | | requirement is FFS. | | | | | | | | 2) security | | | | requirements and | | | | proposed 3GPP | | | | extensions to | | | | existing IETF | | | | security | | | | requirements for use | | | | of SRv6 across SR | | | | Domain (e.g. | | | | inter-PLMN) need to | | | | be reviewed and | | | | assessed by SA3 (see | | | | clause 6.2.2.7). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | C. IP connectivity | Not supported by the | SRv6 in Enhanced | | for N9 and network | GTP-U protocol | Mode allows to | | slicing | itself but supported | encode SRH headers | | | by existing | to force the data | | | underlying transport | path to go through | | | technologies, | intermediate SRv6 | | | including GTP-U over | routers between two | | | SRv6. | UPFs, but the same | | | | can be achieved with | | | | GTP-U over SRv6. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | D. System Impacts | No impacts are | Impacts several 3GPP | | | identified for GTP-U | system entities | | | other than those | (UPF, SMF, V-SMF, | | | identified for the | H-SMF, I-SMF, NRF, | | | optional support of | AMF) and several | | | UDP zero checksum | interfaces (N9, N4, | | | for GTP-U over IPv6. | N16, N16a, N38, | | | | Nnrf, N27) including | | | | roaming interfaces. | | | | | | | | Editor\'s Note: | | | | Potential additional | | | | impacts to lawful | | | | interception need to | | | | be assessed by | | | | SA3-LI. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E. Key additional | GTP-U enables | 3GPP User Plane and | | considerations | separation between | IP transport are | | | 3GPP user plane and | c | | | IP-based transport, | ollapsed/integrated, | | | e.g. when mobile and | with the IP | | | transport network | destination address | | | are different. | encoding the IP | | | | address of the peer | | | | UPF, the TEID of the | | | | specific user plane | | | | tunnel and other | | | | 3GPP related | | | | information (e.g. | | | | QFI, RQI). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | GTP-U runs over | To use the full set | | | existing transport | of functionalities, | | | network technologies | the solution relies | | | and enables segment | on IPv6 and, for | | | optimized transport | Enhanced Mode, on | | | options. | SRv6 capable | | | | networks. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Same solution as | Interworking | | | used in RAN, EPS and | required with GTP-U | | | Rel-15 5GC. | supported in RAN, | | | | EPS and Rel-15 5GC, | | | | causing impacts in | | | | UPF. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | The protocol is | Editor\'s Note: | | | fully extensible by | protocol | | | defining new GTP-U | extensibility of the | | | extension headers. | solution is FFS. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Transport remains | Number of flows | | | agnostic of the | visible in transport | | | number of PDU | layer is function of | | | sessions setup in | the number of PDU | | | the network (number | sessions. | | | of 5-tuple flows | | | | visible in transport | | | | layer is relatively | | | | low as PDU sessions | | | | are aggregated). | | | | | | | | Entropy for load | | | | balancing is | | | | permitted but not | | | | mandated by the | | | | GTP-U protocol. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Protocol overhead: | Protocol overhead: | | | 24 octets (*) | | | | | - Traditional Mode: | | | _(GTP-U header + | none | | | GTP-U Extension | | | | header + UDP | - Enhanced Mode: | | | header)_ | 24/40/56 octets for | | | | e.g. 1/2/3 SIDs | | | MPLS Label stack | (*). | | | header: 4 octets per | | | | MPLS label (if | _(Generic Routing | | | SR-MPLS transport is | Extension header + | | | used). | SRH header + 16 | | | | octets per SID)_ | | | SRv6 overhead: see | | | | SRv6 solution (if | (not counting IPv6 | | | SRv6 transport is | header and transport | | | used) | layer headers, nor | | | | SRH optional | | | Protocol overhead is | objects, if any) | | | not an issue for CN | | | | internal interfaces. | Protocol overhead is | | | | not an issue for CN | | | (*) not counting IP | internal interfaces. | | | header and transport | | | | layer headers | (*) not counting IP | | | | header and transport | | | | layer headers | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 7.3-1: Comparison of solutions
# 8 Conclusion
## 8.1 General
This technical report presents the detailed analysis of the following
candidate user plane protocols, based on 5GC architectural requirements, key
issues, system impacts and additional considerations:
1) GTP-U protocol over IP-based transport (including SRv6) - see clause 6.1;
2) SRv6 user plane protocol (without GTP-U) - see clause 6.2.2.
Both solutions rely on the same 5GS architecture principles, with UPF
functionalities controlled by the SMF over N4 using the PFCP protocol, with
the same states in UPF for PFCP associations and PFCP sessions, and with user
plane tunnels established hop by hop between UPFs.
## 8.2 GTP-U over IP-based transport (including SRv6)
GTP-U can run over various transports (such as IPv4, IPv6, SR-MPLS or SRv6)
and enables to separate the 3GPP user plane from the transport layer as
required e.g. when mobile and transport network are different. This protocol
has been used over all the user plane interfaces in the 3GPP system since
Rel-99 onwards, in the RAN and Core Network, in the 5GS, EPS and earlier
generation\'s mobile networks, including roaming interfaces between VPLMN and
HPLMN. It supports all the 3GPP architectural requirements for user plane
specified in Rel-16.
Existing transport technologies (e.g. SR-MPLS, SRv6) allow forcing the GTP-U
traffic to go through specific intermediate routers between two UPFs by
referencing a specific Network Instance, e.g. for network slicing, exactly
like the SRv6 user plane protocol (without GTP-U) solution.
GTP-U is fully extensible, by allowing new extension headers to be defined as
this has been done in Rel-15 and earlier releases to support several features,
e.g. RAN containers, PDU Session Container (5GS information).
TS 29.281 [2] currently refers to IETF RFC 2460 [3] for the IPv6 protocol,
which has been obsoleted by IETF RFC 8200 [4]. The analysis in clause 6.1.2
shows that the changes in IPv6 protocol in the latest RFC do not impact the
GTP-U protocol, other than the need to negotiate the optional use of UDP zero
checksum during the setup of GTP-U tunnel over IPv6 as described in clause
6.1.3.2.
It is recommended to update the GTP-U specification in Rel-16 to:
\- update the IPv6 protocol reference to IETF RFC 8200 [4] and to enable the
optional use of the UDP zero checksum over IPv6;
\- recommend the use of dynamic source UDP port or the Flow Label field to
ease load balancing of the traffic in the transport network.
## 8.3 SRv6 user plane protocol (without GTP-U)
The SRv6 user plane protocol (without GTP-U) solution proposes to remove the
GTP-U/UDP headers, which saves 24-bytes, by placing 3GPP user plane
information (e.g. Tunnel Endpoint Identifier, QoS Flow Identifier, Reflective
QoS Indicator, Echo Request/Response, Error Indication, End Marker) within
3GPP specific extensions in the SRH header (e.g. 3GPP specific tags and TLV
objects) and in the SID/IP Destination Address.
The solution supports all the 3GPP architectural requirements for user plane
specified in Rel-16, except the architectural requirement 8) from clause
5.1.1, where the solution results in splitting the contents of the PDU Session
User Plane PDUs into two places of the TLV and the SID in the SRv6 packets and
does not allow the PDU session user plane protocol to evolve without impacting
the SRv6 user plane packets:
\"8) The PDU Session User Plane Protocol (see TS 38.415 [10]) shall be
supported to transfer 5GS information over N3 and N9 (e.g. QoS Flow
Identifier, Reflective QoS Indicator, Paging Policy Indicator) together with
user plane packets.\"
SRv6 in Traditional Mode does not allow to force the data path to go through
intermediate routers between two UPFs, e.g. for network slicing. SRv6 in
Enhanced Mode allows to force the data path to go through intermediate routers
between two UPFs by referencing a specific Network Instance, e.g. for network
slicing, like e.g. GTP-U over SRv6 or GTP-U over SR-MPLS.
CT4 could not reach consensus on the final assessment and conclusion for the
SRv6 user plane protocol (without GTP-U) solution. A technical vote took place
during CT4#93 (26-30 August 2019) with the following question and results:
Question: Do you want to standardize SRv6 user plane protocol (w/o GTP-U) as
described in clause 6.2.2 of TR 29.892?
Results:\ YES: 13.924 %\ NO: 86.076 %\ The quorum was reached.
It was therefore concluded to not standardize the SRv6 user plane protocol
(without GTP-U) solution within the scope of this study (i.e. based on stage 2
requirements specified in Rel-16).
#