# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objectives of the Work Item on IMS-based Streaming and Download Delivery
Enhancements (IMS_SDE) include:
\- Identify use cases and recommended requirements based on Release 10/11
functionality included in the PSS and MBMS specifications to be addressed for
IMS-based streaming and download enhancements, and document the adopted use
cases.
\- Develop procedures towards enabling the IMS-based extensions of the
identified use cases in TS 26.237.
The present document is written in a form that the recommendations made and
assumptions stated are directed to authors and contributors to Technical
Specifications being affected as a result of the study presented here.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [2] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet Switched Streaming
> service (PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) based Packet Switch
Streaming (PSS) and Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) User
Service; Protocols\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BM-SC Broadcast-Multicast - Service Centre
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
eMBMS E-UTRAN MBMS
FDT File Description Table
FLUTE File deLivery over Unidirectional Transport
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MPD Media Presentation Description
PSI Public Service Identity
PSS Packet Switched Streaming Service
RTSP Real-Time Streaming Protocol
SCF Service Control Function (IN context), Service Capability Feature (VHE/OSA
context)
SDP Service Discovery Protocol (Bluetooth related)
SSF Service Selection Function
# 4 Use Cases, Recommended Requirements, Assumptions and Gap Analysis
## 4.1 Use Case#1: MBMS File Repair via Conventional HTTP Servers
### 4.1.1 Description
A mobile network operator wishes to use conventional HTTP servers as repair
servers for the MBMS File Repair feature as part of its IMS-based PSS and MBMS
service deployment. The operator wishes not to use specialized file-repair
servers and would prefer to use its existing conventional HTTP web servers for
the file repair service as well as for delivering other content.
### 4.1.2 Recommended Requirements
\- It is possible to use conventional HTTP web servers as file repair servers
for the MBMS File Repair feature of an IMS-based PSS and MBMS service.
\- As part of an IMS-based MBMS download service, it is possible for the UE to
employ SIP signalling procedures to initiate an HTTP-based file repair service
from an HTTP server through the use of an HTTP/SIP adapter.
\- Upon receiving a SIP modification request from the UE to tear down the
FLUTE-based MBMS download session from the BM-SC and activate an HTTP-based
repair service from an HTTP server, it is possible for SCF to:
\- check on available repair methods (byte range based, symbol based or
broadcast/multicast) and repair servers;
\- if broadcast/multicast repair is offered, reject the SIP modification
request and reply with the URI for the SDP of the broadcast/multicast repair
session;
\- check user rights and if granted, forward the SIP request to a HTTP/SIP
adapter;
\- tear down the FLUTE-based MBMS download session between the BM-SC.UPF and
UE;
\- reply to UE with the SDP including the URI of the file repair server.
\- Upon reception of the MBMS file repair activation request from SCF, it is
possible for a HTTP/SIP adapter to select an HTTP server for the file repair
service.
### 4.1.3 Gap Analysis
IMS-based procedures are present in TS 26.237 [5] to control MBMS download
sessions over FLUTE as well as perform reception reporting using SIP INFO. No
IMS-based procedures are present to control MBMS File Repair sessions,
including those for file repair using conventional HTTP servers.
IMS-based signalling procedures may be defined in [5] to initiate and manage
file repair sessions for symbol-based and byte-range based file repair over
HTTP/TCP/IP as well as for broadcast/multicast file repair over FLUTE. This is
for instance useful if UE receives one repair server URI from SCF in the SDP
at the beginning of the FLUTE session (as already present in [5]), while it
may also receive other repair server URIs from the user service announcement
or inband via FLUTE during MBMS download session (i.e. as FDT element for byte
range based file repair, as postFileRepair element of the
associatedProcedureDescription for symbol based file repair, and bmFileRepair
element of the associatedProcedureDescription for broadcast/multicast based
file repair), in which case IMS-based procedures can help the UE to check back
with the SCF and determine or get updated on the latest repair service
information.
### 4.1.4 Solution Space
A high-level exemplary sketch of the proposed SIP-based methods and signalling
procedures for MBMS file repair sessions controlled by IMS is provided as
follows:
**Step 1:** The UE generates an initial SIP INVITE message sent to the IM CN
Subsystem, indicating the chosen MBMS Download Service. A SDP offer is
included in the SIP INVITE message. The IM CN Subsystem forwards the SIP
INVITE message and SDP offer to the SCF.
**Step 2:** Upon receipt of SIP INVITE request, the SCF examines the SDP
parameters in the SDP offer and performs service authorization procedures to
check the service rights of requested MBMS download service according to the
user subscription information. In case of a successful examination, the SCF
answers with a SIP 200 OK including the SDP answer. The SDP answer could
contain the fdt_address:uri to indicate the address of the File Delivery
Table, the repair-server-address:uri to indicate the address of the repair
server or the address of the SDP for the broadcast/multicast repair session.
**Step 3:** Once the UE receives the SIP response, the UE examines the FLUTE
session parameters in the received SDP, and receive the MBMS download data
accordingly.
**Step 4:** In case of incomplete download, the UE executes the file repair
procedures towards the repair server. The UE handles this by tearing down the
FLUTE-based MBMS download session and activating HTTP-based delivery of the
repair service, by issuing a SIP Re-INVITE sent to the IM CN subsystem. An SDP
offer and Request-URI pointed to the repair server is included in the SIP Re-
INVITE message to activate the file repair. The IM CN subsystem forwards the
SIP Re-INVITE message to the SCF.
**Step 5:** When receiving the SIP modification request, the SCF will
determine if the program currently broadcasted has HTTP-based file repair
support. If this is not available for the UE, the session modification is
rejected and the old MBMS session (along with the previous reserved resources)
is maintained. Moreover, if broadcast/multicast repair is offered, SCF will
again reject the SIP modification request and reply with the URI for the SDP
of the broadcast/multicast repair session (in case this is different from the
current FLUTE session). The UE in this case uses this URI to fetch the
relevant SDP and executes SIP-based procedures to join the corresponding
broadcast/multicast repair session.
If HTTP-based file repair is available for the UE, the SCF acting as a B2BUA
can perform the following:
\- Upon reception of the SIP Re-INVITE from the UE, the SCF checks the user
rights for the requested content, identifies that the request is for MBMS file
repair procedures, selects a HTTP/SIP adapter and forwards the SIP INVITE
request to the HTTP/SIP adapter which is in charge of the file repair service.
\- The SCF tears down the FLUTE-based MBMS download session between the
BMSC.UPF and UE.
**Step 6:** Upon reception of the MBMS file repair activation request, the
HTTP/SIP adapter examines the content identifier present in the user-part of
the 'To' header and the media parameters in the SDP and selects a HTTP Server
according to the Request URI. The HTTP/SIP adapter sends an HTTP POST message
to the HTTP server, including the IP address of the UE.
**Step 7:** Upon reception of the HTTP POST message received from the HTTP/SIP
adapter, the HTTP server answers to the HTTP/SIP adapter with a HTTP 200 OK
response. The HTTP/SIP adapter returns the SIP 200 OK message to the SCF,
including the SDP answer. The SDP answer should describe the HTTP-based file
repair session including URI of the designated repair server.
**Step 8:** The SCF forwards the SIP 200 OK to the IM CN subsystem. The IM CN
subsystem forwards the SIP 200 OK to the UE.
**Step 9:** After receiving the SIP 200 OK, the UE leaves the multicast
channel and starts the MBMS file repair over HTTP/TCP/IP from the HTTP server.
These IMS-based procedures for MBMS file repair are depicted in Figure 1.
{width="5.660416666666666in" height="6.608333333333333in"}
Figure 1: Exemplary Procedures for IMS-based MBMS File Repair
## 4.2 Use Case#2: Combining IMS-based Presence and DASH
### 4.2.1 Description
An operator may wish to deploy IMS-based presence services in the context of
DASH-based streaming. In an example, the UE 2 (presentity), who is watching
DASH-formatted videos, is in the UE 1\'s (watcher) list of contacts and wants
to publish the DASH content that it is currently watching.
### 4.2.2 Recommended Requirements
\- It is possible for a DASH client (watcher) to subscribe for presence
information for a list of contacts which includes another DASH client
(presentity), by sending a SIP SUBSCRIBE message to the Presence Server.
\- After having initiated the DASH delivery, or after a DASH content switch,
it is possible for a DASH client (presentity) to publish what content is being
consumed by sending a SIP Publish message to the Presence Server, potentially,
including additional attributes specific to DASH such as the content being
consumed and the DASH media presentation description (MPD).
\- On reception of the SIP Publish, it is possible for the Presence server to
notify a DASH client (watcher) of what another DASH client (presentity) is
doing, by sending a SIP NOTIFY message.
\- It is possible to combine IMS-based presence and DASH for session
initiation and/or content switching over both HTTP-based unicast transport and
MBMS download delivery over FLUTE.
### 4.2.3 Gap Analysis
The following gaps are identified:
\- The UE acting as presentity may send a SIP PUBLISH in the following cases:
\- On receipt of a final SIP 200 OK concerning a 3GP-DASH session initiation
procedure.
\- On receipt of a final SIP 200 OK concerning a MBMS download session
initiation procedure.
\- During a streaming session (including DASH-formatted content delivery), the
UE may also send a PUBLISH request after having performed content switching.
This includes the cases of:
\- PSS content switching (for both PSS streaming and 3GP-DASH services).
\- MBMS content switching (for both MBMS streaming and MBMS download
services).
\- Switching from 3GP-DASH to MBMS download service with channel change.
\-- Switching from MBMS download to 3GP-DASH service with channel change.
## 4.3 Use Case#3: Combining MBMS and PSS Download Services
### 4.3.1 Description
A mobile network operator offers download and progressive download content as
part of its IMS-based PSS and MBMS service deployment. Some of this content
includes popular files, making MBMS download delivery the method of choice for
the operator. At the same time, the coverage for the MBMS infrastructure is
limited, necessitating the usage of PSS-based unicast download methods.
Enabling switching between PSS download and MBMS download delivery methods is
desired for ensuring access to content without interruption.
### 4.3.2 Recommended Requirements
It is possible for the UE to employ SIP signalling procedures to initiate an
IMS-based MBMS download session over FLUTE with the BM-SC and switch to HTTP-
based PSS download service from an HTTP server through the use of an HTTP/SIP
adapter.
It is possible for the UE to employ SIP signalling procedures to initiate an
IMS-based PSS download session with an HTTP server and switch to IMS-based
MBMS download service.
Upon receiving a SIP modification request from the UE to switch from FLUTE-
based MBMS download to HTTP-based PSS download delivery, it is possible for
SCF to:
\- check user rights and if granted, select a HTTP/SIP adapter to forward the
SIP request;
\- tear down the FLUTE-based MBMS download session between the BM-SC.UPF and
UE.
Upon receiving a SIP modification request from the UE to switch from HTTP-
based delivery to FLUTE-based MBMS download delivery, it is possible for SCF
to:
\- check user rights and if granted, initiate the FLUTE-based MBMS download
session between the BM-SC.UPF and UE;
\- tear down the HTTP-based delivery session by notifying the HTTP/SIP
adapter.
### 4.3.3 Gap Analysis
Toward meeting the use case and recommended requirements for the combined MBMS
and PSS download service, it is necessary to define SIP-based procedures for
the following:
\- IMS-based switching from MBMS download to PSS download
\- IMS-based switching from PSS download to MBMS download
### 4.3.4 Solution Space
#### 4.3.4.1 IMS-based Switching from MBMS Download to PSS Download
Figure 2 gives an overview of the procedures for IMS-based switching from MBMS
download to PSS download. The following steps are carried out:
\- Step 1: The UE initiates the PSS download session and tears down the MBMS
download session by sending a SIP Re-INVITE message to the IM CN subsystem
including an SDP offer.
\- Step 2: The IM CN subsystem forwards the SIP Re-INVITE message to the SCF.
\- Step 3: The SCF verifies the user rights for the requested PSS download
service. If HTTP-based PSS download is available for the UE, the SCF acting as
a B2BUA selects a HTTP/SIP adapter and sends the SIP INVITE request to the
HTTP/SIP adapter which is in charge of the PSS download service.
\- Step 4: The HTTP/SIP adapter selects a HTTP Server for the PSS download
service, and sends an HTTP POST message to the HTTP server, including the IP
address of the UE.
\- Step 5: The HTTP server answers to the HTTP/SIP adapter with a HTTP 200 OK
response.
\- Step 6: The HTTP/SIP adapter sends the SIP 200 OK answer to the SCF,
including the URI of the HTTP server in the SDP answer.
\- Step 7: The SCF forwards the SIP 200 OK to the IM CN subsystem.
\- Step 8: The IM CN subsystem forwards the SIP 200 OK to the UE.
\- Step 9: The UE leaves the MBMS download session and sends HTTP request(s)
to the URI obtained from the SIP 200 OK message to execute PSS download
procedures. The HTTP server delivers the requested content file(s) for PSS
download in the HTTP response(s) to the UE.
{width="6.490277777777778in" height="4.988888888888889in"}
Figure 2: Procedures for IMS-based switching from MBMS download to PSS
download
#### 4.3.4.2 IMS-based Switching from PSS Download to MBMS Download
Figure 3 gives an overview about the procedures for IMS based switching from
PSS download to MBMS download. The following steps are carried out:
\- Step 1: The UE sends a SIP Re-INVITE message to the IM CN subsystem
indicating the chosen MBMS download service. A SDP offer is included in the
SIP Re-INVITE message.
\- Step 2: The IM CN subsystem forwards the SIP Re-INVITE message to the SCF.
\- Step 3: Upon receipt of SIP Re-INVITE message, the SCF examines the
parameters in the SDP offer and verifies the user rights for the requested
MBMS download service. In case of a successful examination, the SCF acting as
B2BUA sends the SIP BYE message to the HTTP/SIP adapter in order to terminate
the PSS download session, and initiates the FLUTE-based MBMS download session
between the BM-SC.UPF and UE.
\- Step 4: The HTTP/SIP adapter sends an HTTP POST to the HTTP server.
\- Step 5: In case the HTTP Server is transmitting the content file(s) for the
PSS download service, it stops sending data for this session. The HTTP server
sends a HTTP 200 OK to the HTTP/SIP adapter.
\- Step 6: The HTTP/SIP adapter sends a SIP 200 OK answer to the SCF.
\- Step 7: The SCF sends a SIP 200 OK message to the UE via the IM CN
subsystem including the SDP answer to initiate the FLUTE-based MBMS download
session.
\- Step 8: The UE receives the MBMS download data using FLUTE.
{width="6.490277777777778in" height="4.988888888888889in"}
Figure 3: Procedures for IMS-based switching from PSS download to MBMS
download
# 5 Conclusion
This technical report provides the following results of the IMS_SDE work item:
\- Descriptions of the use cases and enhancements
\- Documentation of any associated recommended requirements, assumptions, and
gap analysis for each of the use cases
#