# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a study of existing scene description solutions for
3GPP services and an evaluation of HTML5 as an alternative and unified
solution for providing a presentation layer for 3GPP services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] W3C Candidate Recommendation 6 August 2013, HTML5: \"A vocabulary and
associated APIs for HTML and XHTML\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/[.]{.underline}
[2] W3C Candidate Recommendation 6 August2013: \"HTML Canvas 2D Context\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/2dcontext/.
[3] W3C Recommendation 24 October 2013: \"Geolocation API Specification\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/geolocation-API/.
[4] W3C Candidate Recommendation 11 December 2012: \"Server-Sent Events\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/eventsource/[.]{.underline}
[5] W3C Candidate Recommendation 20 September 2012: \"The WebSocket API\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/websockets/[.]{.underline}
[6] W3C Recommendation 30 July 2013: \"Web Storage\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/webstorage/[.]{.underline}
[7] W3C Working Draft 6 December 2012: \"XMLHttpRequest Level 1\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/XMLHttpRequest/[.]{.underline}
[8] W3C Candidate Recommendation 01 May 2012: \"Web Workers\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/workers/[.]{.underline}
[9] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
(3GP-DASH)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Sybsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony
Media handling and Interaction (MTSI)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Media formats and
codecs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.246: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); 3GPP SMIL language profile\".
[15] WAP Forum Specification: \"XHTML Mobile Profile\", October 2001.
[16] 3GPP TS 26.142: \"Dynamic and Interactive Multimedia Scenes (DIMS)\".
[17] W3C Candidate Recommendation 09 January 2014: \"Media Source
Extensions\", http://www.w3.org/TR/media-source/.
[18] Void
[19] ISO BMFF Byte Stream Format, http://www.w3.org/2013/12/byte-stream-
format-registry/isobmff-byte-stream-format.html
[20] W3C Working Draft 18 February 2014: \"Encrypted Media Extensions\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/encrypted-media/
[21] W3C Candidate Recommendation 09 May 2013: \"HTML Media Capture\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/2013/CR-html-media-capture-20130509/.
[22] W3C Recommendation 17 December 2012: \"Navigation Timing\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/navigation-timing/.
[23] Khronos Group, 01 March 2013, WebGL Specification, version 1.0.2,
https://www.khronos.org/registry/webgl/specs/1.0/.
[24] W3C Last Call Working Draft, _25 March 2014: \"Web Cryptography API\",
http://www.w3.org/TR/WebCryptoAPI/._
_[25] W3C Candidate Recommendation 04 July 2012: \"Indexed Database API\",\_
http://www.w3.org/TR/IndexedDB/
[26] IETF RFC 5261: \"_An Extensible Markup Language (XML) Patch Operations
Framework Utilizing XML Path Language (XPath) Selectors\"._
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
API Application Programming Interface
CSS Cascading Style Sheet
DIMS Dynamic and Interactive Multimedia Scenes
DOM Document Object Model
EME Encrypted Media Extensions
HTML5 Hyper-Text Mark-up Language
ISO BMFF ISO Base Media File Format
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MSE Media Source Extensions
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
RAP Random Access Point
RTC Real-Time Communications
RTP Real Time Protocol
SMIL Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language
SSE Server-Sent Events
SVG Scalable Vector Graphics
XML EXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 HTML5
### 4.1.1 Introduction
HTML5 was specified with the target of creating convergence among a wide range
of interoperable browsers, which resulted from proprietary extensions of
earlier HTML versions to fill identified gaps. HTML5 also defines and for the
first time error handling procedures to deal with document processing errors
to help circumvent minor but common syntactical mistakes. As part of the
simplicity goal, HTML5 aims at operating in a plugin-free environment by
providing APIs to fulfil most of the plugin needs. Finally, HTML5 aims at
simplifying the syntax to ease authoring of web applications.
### 4.1.2 New Tags
HTML5 defines a set of new elements that are discussed in the following list:
\- Video: a standard way to embed video content on a web page without using
browser plugins. The playback controls are provided through Javascript.
\- Audio: a standard way to embed audio content on a web page without using
browser plugins.
\- Canvas: a resolution-dependent bitmap canvas together with scripts that are
used for rendering graphs, game graphics, or other visual images on the fly.
\- Svg: HTML5 provides support for inline SVG fragments as well as a fallback
mechanism for browsers that do not support SVG.
\- Article: specifies independent self-contained content. An article should
make sense on its own and should be distributable independently from the rest
of the site.
\- Header: specifies a header for a document or section. This element should
be used as a container for introductory content or set of navigational links.
\- Footer: defines a footer for a document or section. A footer element should
contain information about its containing element.
\- Output: represents the result of a calculation.
\- Source: is used to specify multiple media resources for media elements such
as video and audio. The source tag allows to specific alternative video/audio
files, which the browser may choose from, based on its media type or codec
support.
\- Time: defines either a time or a date in the Gregorian calendar, optionally
with a time and time-zone.
\- Input/capture: although the \ tag is not new for HTML5, the capture
attribute is. This allows for media capture and file upload [21].
### 4.1.3 New HTML5 APIs
#### 4.1.3.1 Introduction
HTML5 can be considered as an umbrella set of specifications, that includes
the markup language specification and additionally a wide range of APIs. The
following sections briefly introduce the APIs that are currently part of
HTML5.
Only specifications that have reached Candidate Recommendation status in the
W3C are described. However, several specifications under development related
to areas such as local media capture, peer-to-peer real time communications
(WebRTC), sensors (proximity, gyroscope, etc.), rich audio processing, and
technologies impacting mobile devices should be considered for any 3GPP
presentation layer in the near future.
#### 4.1.3.2 Canvas API
The canvas API [2] defines a canvas element and a set of drawing operations. A
canvas element creates a rectangular area on the page. Javascript is used to
perform the drawing operations.
#### 4.1.3.3 Cross-document messaging API
HTML5 introduces an API [1] to enable safe communication between different
parts of the document (e.g. different frames). Additionally, HTML5 introduces
the security concept of origin. This is used to enable secure cross-
referencing between documents that are located on the same origin, identified
through a shared URL path.
#### 4.1.3.4 Geolocation API
The Geolocation API [3] allows the user to share their location with web
applications to receive location-aware, customized services. The geolocation
is provided by the browser as latitude and longitude coordinates.
The use of the geolocation API for emergency services requires careful
considerations to fullfil regulatory requirements.
#### 4.1.3.5 Audio and Video APIs
HTML5 introduces new media elements [1] to replace old media embedding
techniques such as through plugins. The new media elements are embedded
natively in the browser environment. The elements can be manipulated through a
common scriptable API. Additional APIs have been introduced to provide support
for different solutions for adaptive HTTP streaming as described by the
following two sections.
Any HTML5 Presentation Layer solution is expected to support the use of codecs
specified for 3GPP services.
#### 4.1.3.7 Media Source Extensions
The Media Source Extensions (MSE) API [17] was developed to allow for the
integration of media streaming into HTML5 documents. MSE relies on Javascript
to build media streams and feed them into a user agent built-in media pipeline
for playback. MSE was intentionally designed without restrictions on how the
acquisition of the media data is performed, resulting in high flexibility of
the solution to operate in different environments and applications.
MSE enables simple content splicing to enable use cases such as ad insertion
and media representation switching.
MSE currently supports three different byte stream formats as registered in
[17]. It is recommended that the ISO BMFF Byte Stream Format as described in
[19] has to be supported.
#### 4.1.3.8 Encrypted Media Extensions
Encrypted Media Extensions (EME) [20] aim at leveraging pre-installed DRM
platforms in a generic way and using an open Javascript API. EME can be seen
as complementary to MSE to enable a fully integrated media consumption
solution in the browser.
#### 4.1.3.9 Forms API
The HTML5 Forms API [1] enables more convenient handling of web forms. The new
Forms API adds new types of controls and new functions and attributes for
simplified form processing.
#### 4.1.3.10 Server-Sent Events (SSE)
The server-sent events [4] allow a web server to send events to the browser.
This achieved through the use of a new element, the EventSource. In SSE, the
client opens a long lived connection to the indicated source, sends an initial
request for the event stream, and keeps receiving newly incoming events as
soon as they become available. If the connection times out, the user agent
will automatically reconnect.
#### 4.1.3.11 WebSocket API and protocol
The websocket API [5] defines a full-duplex communication channel that
operates through a single socket over the web. Websockets have been introduced
to remove the need for steady polling. In addition, websockets save
significant bandwidth resources by omitting the transmission of the textual
HTTP headers in each request and response segment.
#### 4.1.3.12 Web Storage API and Indexed DB API
The web storage API [6] was defined to replace the widely used browser cookies
to overcome their limitations. Cookies are limited in size and they still have
to be exchanged between browser and server with every single request. The Web
Storage API allows the creation of storage objects at the browser side, where
the application can have access to them using Javascript.
#### 4.1.3.13 Indexed DB API
The Indexed DB [25] defines APIs for a database of records holding simple
values and hierarchical objects. Each record consists of a key and some value.
Moreover, the database maintains indexes over records it stores. An
application developer directly uses an API to locate records either by their
key or by using an index. A query language can be layered on this API. An
indexed database can be implemented using a persistent B-tree data structure.
#### 4.1.3.14 Drag and Drop API
The Drag and Drop API [1] introduces a long available feature for native
applications to HTML5-based web applications. Web applications have been using
scripting and basic mouse events to mimic the drag and drop behaviour. Those
efforts resulted in non-unified behaviour depending on the implementation. The
Drag and Drop API defines the relevant mouse events and standardizes the
browser behaviour during a drag and drop operation.
#### 4.1.3.15 XMLHttpRequest
XMLHttpRequest [7] is the API that is used for AJAX, which enables browsers to
send HTTP requests in the background. In its new version, XMLHttpRequest
enables cross-origin requests, progress events, and the exchange of binary
data.
#### 4.1.3.16 Web Workers
Web workers [8] were defined in HTML5 to enable multithreading for web
applications. This new feature comes to address performance issues with
executing scripts that also affect the responsiveness of web applications. Web
workers are enabled by introducing a new Worker object. Communication between
the application and the web worker is performed using messaging.
#### 4.1.3.17 Navigation Timing
Navigation [22] timing refers to a feature in HTML5 where developers can
measure the time for page loads or resource fetches, and can adapt their
application's behaviour accordingly.
#### 4.1.3.18 WebGL
The Khronos Group has defined the WebGL specification [23]. WebGL is a 3D
rendering context for the HTML5 Canvas specification. It can be considered as
a web binding for the OpenGL specification for native 3D rendering.
#### 4.1.3.19 WebCrypto
WebCrypto [24] specification describes a JavaScript API for performing basic
cryptographic operations in web applications, such as hashing, signature
generation and verification, and encryption and decryption. Additionally, it
describes an API for applications to generate and/or manage the keying
material necessary to perform these operations. Uses for this API range from
user or service authentication, document or code signing, and the
confidentiality and integrity of communications.
## 4.2 Current Scene Description Solutions
### 4.2.1 Introduction
3GPP services do not have a common solution for a presentation layer. This
fragmentation in the scene description landscape for 3GPP services complicates
content preparation and UE implementation. A common and modern scene
description solution is due in Release 12 to make use of the modern multimedia
capabilities of UEs.
Table 1 shows the different presentation solutions and in which 3GPP services
they are used.
Table 1: Status of Scene Description Solution
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | MBMS | PSS | DASH\ | MMS | MTSI | | | [10] | [9] | [11]\ | [13] | [12] | | | | | (see | | | | | | | note) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **SMIL | - | CM | - | CM | - | | 2.0 3GPP | | | | | | | SMIL | | | | | | | profile | | | | | | | [14]** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **DIMS | CM | CM | - | - | - | | Mobile | | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | | Level 10 | | | | | | | [16]** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **XHTML | - | - | - | R | - | | Mobile | | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | | [15]** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | DASH may | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nherited | | | | | | | a scene | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | PSS, but | | | | | | | this is | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | stated | | | | | | | anywhere | | | | | | | and may | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | omplete. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CM: | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | andatory | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R: | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -: no | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | dication | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 4.2.2 XHTML Mobile Profile
XHTML Mobile Profile was defined by the Open Mobile Alliance as a markup
language that is designed for resource-constrained web clients, such as the
ones on mobile phones and set-top boxes. The XHTML Mobile Profile is based on
the XHTML Basic profile.
XHTML Mobile Profile requires support for the following modules:
\- XHTML Structure module: defines the major structural elements for XHTML
(e.g. body, head, html, and title).
\- XHTML Text module: defines all the basic text container elements,
attributes and their content model (e.g. h1, br, and div).
\- XHTML Hypertext module: defines the \"a\" element to define hypertext links
to other resources.
\- XHTML List module: provides the elements that enable creating lists (e.g.
li).
\- XHTML Forms module: provides the form-related elements (e.g. form and
input).
\- XHTML Basic Tables module: defines the table-related elements (e.g. table,
tr, and td).
\- XHTML Image module: defines the \"img\" element to enable embedding images
in the document.
\- XHTML Object module: provides elements for general-purpose object
embedding.
\- XHTML Metainformation module: defines the \"meta\" element that describes
information within the declarative portion of a document.
\- XHTML Link module: defines the \"link\" element that can be used to link
external resources.
\- XHTML Base module: defines the \"base\" element that can be used to define
a base URI against which relative URIs in the document will be resolved.
\- XHTML Intrinsic module: defines a set of intrinsic events and attributes
that pertain to elements that fire those events (e.g. onload or onsubmit).
\- XHTML Style Sheet module: defines the \"style\" element to be used when
declaring internal style sheets.
\- XHTML Style Attribute module: defines the \"style\" attribute.
\- XHTML Scripting module: defines elements that are used to contain
information related to executable scripts (e.g. script element).
\- XHTML Presentation module: defines elements and attributes for simple
presentation-related markup (e.g. b and hr).
\- XHTML Target module: adds the \"target\" attribute to control the window
where the link is to be opened.
\- XHTML inputmode Attribute module: defines a new attribute that is used to
indicate the input mode to certain editable fields.
XHTML Mobile Profile supports the use of CSS styles to control the
presentation. Style information may be associated with a document as external
style sheets, internal style sheets, or as internal style information.
XHTML Mobile Profile supports scripting through the Scripting Module defined
by XHTMLMod. The Scripting Module defines elements and attributes used to
contain information pertaining to executable scripts. The syntax and semantics
of these elements and attributes are defined by HTML4. User agents complying
to this profile support ECMAScript and Javascript scripts.
The XHTML Mobile Profile defines a profile of the W3C DOM event model. In
particular, several events have been excluded in the Mobile Profile. For
instance, event capture and event dispatching have been excluded for
simplicity.
### 4.2.3 DIMS
Dynamic and Interactive Multimedia Scenes (DIMS) defines a scene description
framework that supports dynamic and interactive scenes. DIMS allows frame-
accurate media synchronization. DIMS services are comprised of a scene
description and a set of discrete and continuous media. DIMS defines means to
store and stream a media scene description, its updates, and the related
events. The scene description is based on the SVG Tiny 1.2 format. DIMS adds
several extensions on top of SVG Tiny 1.2 that are borrowed from other
specifications such as LASeR and SMIL. DIMS defines its own mechanism for
supporting scene updates. It defines the \"updates\" element as part of a DIMS
namespace to link the scene update stream to the main scene.
DIMS also defines two new events to signal orientation changes in mobile
devices. The signals may be used by the scene to adjust the content according
to the orientation. To enable tune-in at random points, the concept of RAPs in
scene updates is defined. Scene updates are a set of update commands that tell
the client how to modify the current DOM and at which time this modification
needs to be done. The commands include Insert, Delete, Replace, and Add
command, which apply directly to the DOM. In addition, some state management
command are also introduced. These are the Save, Restore, and Clean commands,
which are used to control persistent storage and caching of media scenes at
the client side. Finally, an Activate and a Deactivate command are defined to
temporarily enable or disable elements in the DOM tree.
DIMS supports scripting through the usage of the mobile profile of the
ECMAScript scripting language. DIMS events and event handling are inherited
from SVG and XML events.
To support streaming of dynamic media scenes, an RTP payload format is defined
in DIMS. The RTP payload format enables tune-in at RAPs as well as error
resilience tools to recover from lost update fragments.
### 4.2.4 3GPP SMIL Language Profile
3GPP SMIL is a markup language based on SMIL Basic and SMIL Scalability
Framework. In addition to the modules that are required by the SMIL Basic
profile, a set of additional modules are required by the 3GPP SMIL profile.
The following sets of modules are included in the 3GPP SMIL profile:
\- SMIL 2.0 Content Control Modules: BasicContentControl, SkipContentControl
and PrefetchControl
\- SMIL 2.0 Layout Module: BasicLayout
\- SMIL 2.0 Linking Module: BasicLinking, LinkingAttributes
\- SMIL 2.0 Media Object Modules: BasicMedia, MediaClipping, MediaParameter,
MediaAccessibility and MediaDescription
\- SMIL 2.0 Metainformation Module: Metainformation
\- SMIL 2.0 Structure Module: Structure
\- SMIL 2.0 Timing and Synchronization Modules: BasicInlineTiming,
MinMaxTiming, BasicTimeContainers, RepeatTiming and EventTiming
\- SMIL 2.0 Transition Effects Module: BasicTransitions
The Content Control Modules defines elements and attributes for content
control. The Layout module defines attributes to control the spatial layout.
The Linking module defines elements and attributes for providing hyperlinks
between documents and document fragments. The Media Object modules include the
basic media elements and the control attributes. The Metainformation module
defines the \"meta\" and \"metadata\" elements that are included as part of
the head element. The Structure module defines the top-level structure
elements of the SMIL document. The Timing and Synchronization modules define
attributes for timing and synchronizing the playback of media elements.
Finally, the Transition Effects module defines a set of transition effects for
images and media elements.
# 5 Feature Analysis
## 5.1 Presentation layer characteristics
While HTML5 may address the potential use cases, we may also want to consider
the differences between the various presentation languages.
Table 2: Comparison to Different Presentation Solutions
* * *
Features/Language HTML5 SVG SMIL Vector Graphics (native) NO (but possible via
embedding SVG or WebGL) YES NO (but possible via embedding SVG; though
limited) 3D Graphics NO (but possible with embedding WebGL) NO NO Animations
TBD YES YES Media Synchronization YES (but limited compared to SMIL?) YES
(based on SMIL) YES Application features (e.g. app cache, storage, etc.) YES
NO NO
* * *
## 5.2 Comparison of SVG Animation based on SMIL vs. JavaScript
Animations in SVG can be done via JavaScript or SMIL. In JavaScript, typically
the window object methods setTimeout() and setInterval() are used to create
animation. The animation author chooses the rate of change in an object
relative to the refresh rate of the graphic. If the rate of change is too
large relative to the refresh rate, the animation might appear to be jerky. On
the other hand SMIL lets the browser SW handle all of these decisions. The
SMIL code declares what the author would like to see happen and the
implementation details are left to the browser. For example, consider the code
below which uses SMIL to animate an ellipse when a user clicks on a button:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The attribute that is modified is the \"rx\" attribute. After the button is
clicked \"rx\" increases from 50 pixels to 150 pixels and then back to 50
pixels within a duration of 4 seconds. The refresh rate is not stated and is
left to the browser. The SMIL code itself is part of the \"animate\" element,
which is a child element of the object being animated. So the SMIL code is
closely integrated with the SVG element.
Below, consider the JavaScript code that accomplishes the same thing:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
function ellipse_animate(x,step)
{
document.getElementById(\"Ellipse\").setAttribute(\"rx\",x);
if (x>150\|\|x\
\
\
In this example the JavaScript code is at least slightly more complex and now
the animation script is no longer closely integrated with the SVG element
being animated. In addition, the animation author specifies how often the
graphic should be redrawn so that the animation is smooth, instead of leaving
this for the browser implementation. With SMIL, the programmer is freed from
have to script timed loops using the setTimeout() or setInterval() methods.
# 6 HTML5 Profile for 3GPP Services
## 6.1 Features in the 3GPP Profile
The current scene description solutions provide support for the following
features:
Table 3: Scene Description Features
+-------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | Spatial | Structure | Temporal, | | | | | Scripting, and | | | | | Media | +-------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | XHTML | Text module | Structure module | Intrinsic module | | | | | | | | Basic tables | Hypertext module | Scripting module | | | module | | | | | | List module | Target module | | | Presentation | | | | | module | Forms module | | | | | | | | | | Metainformation | | | | | module | | | | | | | | | | Link module | | | | | | | | | | Base module | | | | | | | | | | Style sheet | | | | | module | | | | | | | | | | Inputmode | | | | | attribute module | | +-------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | DIMS | Basic shapes, | Styling | Interactivity and | | | Text, Paths | | events | | | | Linking | | | | Painting | | Media Elements | | | | Fonts | | | | | | ECMAScript | | | | Metadata | | | | | | Scene Updates | +-------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | SMIL | Layout Module | Linking Module | Content Control | | | | | Modules | | | | Metainformation | | | | | | Media Object | | | | Structure Module | Modules | | | | | | | | | | Timing and | | | | | Synchronization | | | | | Modules | | | | | | | | | | Transition | | | | | Effects Module | +-------+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
Based on the above classification, we propose the following recommendations on
the HTML5 support in the 3GPP services (MBMS, PSS, DASH, and MMS):
\- All HTML5 tags
\- Audio and video APIs
\- Forms API
\- XMLHttpRequest
\- Canvas API
\- Javascript
\- CSS modules
\- Media Source Extensions
Support for the following APIs is recommended:
\- Encrypted Media Extensions
\- Server Sent Events (SSE)
Support for the following features is optional:
\- WebSockets
\- WebVTT
\- SVG
\- WebGL
\- WebCrypto
\- Indexed DB
In addition, the support for scene updates as provided by DIMS is discussed in
the next section.
## 6.2 Support for Scene Updates
### 6.2.1 Introduction
HTML5 provides an API for performing scene updates in the background.
XMLHttpRequest (usually named as AJAX) is used in a scripting environment to
load resources in the background. The information loaded may then be used to
update the scene using Javascript operations on the DOM. The new presentation
layer using HTML5 should require support for XMLHttpRequest.
In addition, for eMBMS services the delivery of scene updates through MBMS
download delivery needs to be enabled. In eMBMS services, it needs to be
possible to provide scene updates over the unidirectional channel as is the
case with DIMS over MBMS.
### 6.2.2 Scene Update Description
The scene updates are in fact DOM updates to the DOM tree of the HTML5
document, which constitutes the scene. The scene updates may be related to the
media, related to the spatial layout, or related to the presentation style of
particular parts of the document. The scene update solution should support all
three sorts of updates.
Scene updates can be described in different ways. A simple solution is to
programmatically hard-code all DOM tree updates using scripting, i.e.
Javascript (i.e. the scene updates are provided as Javascript instructions and
not as an external file). This has several drawbacks such as the inadequate
support for dynamic scenes as the updates would need to be known a-priori, the
complex scene authoring as it requires programming skills and a customized
script for every single program or presentation.
Javascript instruction itself may include HTTP requests that enable updates to
the DOM where the instruction format may remain proprietary. The open issue
here is that the delivery formats are transparent to the delivery and the
delivery through 3GPP user services such as in MBMS and PSS is to be defined.
Another way of describing DOM updates is to use XHTML and deliver the changes
to the actual XHTML as deltas, e.g. using XML patch as described in RFC 5261
[26]. This approach handles the HTML5 document as a regular XML document,
which results on restrictions on the subset of tools and features that can be
supported. This approach would also result in inefficiencies as the target is
not to update the HTML5 document itself, but instead to update the DOM that
results from parsing the HTML5. The receiver would have to first generate the
new HTML5 and then generate the updated DOM. In the worst case, this would
even refresh the whole scene as would be the case with updating the HTML5
document itself.
Another approach is to describe the DOM updates in a separate document that
can be updated and modified without having to update the actual HTML5
document. The update of the present document would also not require
programming skills and can be automated or supported by authoring tools fairly
easily.
We recommend that support for dynamic scene updates be provided for the 3GPP
services.
### 6.2.3 Scene Update Distribution
Once the scene update is authored, it has to be made available to the UEs. The
distribution of the update may happen in-band or out of band of the media
streaming session. One approach for doing in-band delivery is to handle the
scene updates as sparse timed media. In that case, the updates are streamed as
a component of the media session. This approach has been followed by the DIMS
solution.
In band channels may be a Representation that exclusively carries the scene
updates as timed metadata items or that are encoded as timed text (such as
WebVTT or 3GPP timed text). This solution may have implications on the client,
as it requires the client to dig into the media data to extract the scene
update and then pass it to the HtML5 application.
Another way is to send it in band as a separate file, as would be the case
when using FLUTE in MBMS environment. For the case of unicast, periodic
polling using HTTP where the scene update files are made available via regular
web servers is appropriate.
# 7 Conclusion
It is recommended that HTML5 with the features and APIs as provided in clause
6 of the present document to be adopted to replace all XHTML, DIMS, and SMIL
scene description solutions. For the new presentation layer, it is also
recommended to refer to the media codecs in the 3GPP services as the
recommended set of media codecs that HTML5 media elements and user agents have
to support.
It is also recommended that the necessary procedures to identify and deliver
scene updates be developed for both unicast and broadcast distribution of
dynamics scene updates in a fully compatible way with HTML5.
#