# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document describes the general aspects on how supplementary
services within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the general aspects on how supplementary
services in the 3GPP system are realised from a technical point of view.
Description of technical realisation for specific supplementary services can
be found in 3GPP TS 23.072, 230.8x and 230.9x‑series technical specifications.
All supplementary services may require signalling on the radio path.
Signalling procedures and messages used are defined in the 3GPP TS 24.072,
24.08x and 24.09x‑series of technical specifications.
For some supplementary services information needs to be transferred between
the Home Location Register (HLR), the Visitor Location Register (VLR), the
Mobile services Switching Centre (MSC) and the Serving GPRS Support Node
(SGSN). Signalling procedures for such information transfer are defined in
3GPP TS 29.002.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in the 3GPP
TS 22.072, 22.08x and 22.09x‑series of technical specifications.
Definitions are given in 3GPP TS 22.004..
NOTE: The technical specifications on the technical realisation of
supplementary services do not distinguish between subscriber, user and
customer, since all three do not fully cover the textual needs. Generally the
term \"subscriber\" is used, even if this person is not having the
subscription.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line Identification Supplementary Services - Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) Supplementary Services - Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) Supplementary
Service - Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) Supplementary Service - Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) Supplementary Service - Stage
2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Service - Stage
2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) Supplementary Service - Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) \- Stage
2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio Layer 3 Supplementary Service
specification - Formats and coding\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.081: \"Line Identification Supplementary Service - Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.082: \"Call Forwarding Supplementary Service - Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 24.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) Supplementary
Service - Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 24.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) Supplementary Service - Stage 3\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) Supplementary Service - Stage
3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 24.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Service - Stage
3\".
[19] 3GPP TS 24.088: \"Call Barring (CB) Supplementary Service - Stage 3\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) \- Stage
3\".
[21] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP)\".
## 1.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905.
# 2 Activation, deactivation, registration, erasure, interrogation and
invocation
## 2.1 General
Activation, deactivation, registration, erasure, interrogation and invocation
are defined independently from a particular supplementary service. Whether
they are applicable to a particular supplementary service or not is defined in
the corresponding 3GPP TS 23.08x and 23.09x‑series. Activation, deactivation,
registration, erasure and invocation are applicable for CS domain. For PS
domain o nly invocation of call barring of SMS is applicable.
The invocation of a supplementary service is executed as described in the
corresponding stage 2 description and always includes an MSC and a location
register for CS domain and an SGSN for PS domain.
When an MSC receives a request for either activation/deactivation or
registration/erasure or an interrogation, it invokes one of the following
procedures.
The MSC then can:
‑ contact only the current VLR (e.g. interrogation of a call forwarding
conditional supplementary service);
‑ contact only the HLR (e.g. interrogation of the supplementary service call
forwarding unconditional);
‑ contact the HLR, after which the HLR updates the VLR (e.g. registration of a
forwarding number for a conditional call forwarding supplementary service).
Which of the above listed procedures is applied for a call independent
supplementary service operation is described in the corresponding 3GPP TS
23.08x and 23.09x ‑series.
Successful activation, deactivation, registration and erasure change the
service state at the HLR. These transitions (if applicable to a particular
service) are defined in the 3GPP TS 23.08x and 23.09x ‑series. Note that the
HLR may also change the service state due to \"HLR Induction\" (see subclause
2.1.1).
In connection with supplementary service operations the served subscriber or
remote subscribers may get notifications from the network. .
If an SGSN receives a request for registration, erasure, activation,
deactivation, interrogation or change of password, it shall return an error to
the MS.
### 2.1.1 Definition of \"state vectors\"
In order to provide a tool to define service states the concept of a \"state
vector\" is introduced. The state vector is used to represent the state of the
service in terms of four variables:
1) Provisioning State,
possible values are \"Provisioned\" or \"Not Provisioned\";
2) Registration State,
possible values are \"Registered\", \"Erased\", or \"Not Applicable\";
3) Activation State,
possible values are \"Not Active\", \"Active and Operative\" or \"Active and
Quiescent\";
4) HLR Induction State,
possible values are \"Induced\" or \"Not Induced\".
The state vector represents the state of the service by using all four
variables together. The state vector is represented using the notation:
_(Provisioning State, Registration State, Activation State, HLR Induction
State)_
e.g.: (Provisioned, Registered, Not Active, Not Induced).
Note that the state vector is a logical (not a physical) representation of the
service state. Note also that though some parts of the state vector are
similar to elements of SS‑Status the mapping between the state vector and
SS‑Status is not one to one. The use of state vectors is not intended to
specify any particular implementation internally in a node. There is a
relationship specified between the state vector and parts of the transfer
syntax. This relationship is not a direct one‑to‑one mapping.
The following text specifies the semantics of each variable in the state
vector.
The three variables \"Provisioning State\", \"Registration State\" and
\"Activation State\" are used to represent the state of the service according
to the normal behaviour based on service provider and user actions.
The \"HLR Induction State\" records whether or not the HLR has temporarily
induced the service (e.g. if the VLR does not support CUG, the HLR may induce
an outgoing barring service). The Provisioning State, Registration State and
Activation State are not affected by HLR induction of a service.
**Provisioning State**
‑ has value \"provisioned\", if the subscriber has a subscription to the
service;
‑ has value \"Not Provisioned\" otherwise.
**Registration State**
‑ has value \"Not Applicable\", if registration is not applicable to the
service;
‑ has value \"Registered\", if registration is applicable, and there is
registration data available;
‑ has value \"Erased\" otherwise.
**Activation State**
‑ has value \"Active and Operative\", if the service is in a state where it
can be invoked (and this is not due to HLR induction);
‑ has value \"Active and Quiescent\", if the service is in a state where it
cannot be invoked, but where it will automatically move to the \"Active and
Operative\" state when conflicting conditions are removed;
‑ has value \"Not Active\" otherwise.
**HLR Induction State**
‑ has the value \"Induced\" if the HLR has induced the service (e.g. if the
VLR does not support CUG, the HLR may induce an outgoing barring service);
‑ has the value \"Not Induced\" otherwise.
For further information about how HLR induction applies to particular services
refer to the 3GPP TS 23.08x and 23.09x‑series.
### 2.1.2 Handling of service states at the HLR
Valid states (represented by state vectors) are defined on a
service‑by‑service basis in the 3GPP TS 23.08x and 23.09x ‑series. For each
service the set of valid states represents the logical states that can exist
in the HLR. The HLR contains the master copy of service state information.
#### 2.1.2.1 Encoding of SS‑Status
To send service state information to the VLR, the SGSN or the MS, the HLR
often uses the SS‑Status parameter. This parameter contains four bits
(referred to here as the \"P bit\", \"R bit\", \"A bit\" and \"Q bit\"). In a
phase 2 context the HLR shall encode the SS‑Status using the mapping defined
in this subclause from the service states to SS‑Status.
If the HLR Induction State is \"Not Induced\" then:
‑ If the Provisioning State is \"Provisioned\", then the P bit shall be 1,
otherwise the P bit shall be 0.
‑ If the Registration State is \"Registered\", the R bit shall be 1. If the
Registration State is \"Not Registered\" the R bit shall be 0. If the
Registration State is \"Not Applicable\" the R bit shall be either 0 or 1.
‑ If the Activation State is \"Active and Operative\" the A bit shall be 1 and
the Q bit shall be 0. If the Activation State is \"Active and Quiescent\" the
A bit shall be 1 and the Q bit shall be 1. If the Activation State is \"Not
Active\" the A bit shall be 0 and the Q bit shall be either 0 or 1.
If the HLR Induction State is \"Induced\" then the P bit shall be 1, the R bit
shall be 0 or 1, the A bit shall be 1 and the Q bit shall be 0.
Table 2.1: Encoding of the P, R, A and Q bits in the SS‑Status parameter
* * *
HLR Induction State \"Not Induced\" P bit R bit A bit Q bit
Provisioning State \"Provisioned\"\ 1\  
\"Not Provisioned\" 0
Registration State \"Registered\"\ 1\  
\"Not Registered\"\ 0\  
\"Not Applicable\" 0/1
Activation State \"Active and Operative\"\ 1\ 0\ \"Active and Quiescent\"\ 1\
1\ \"Not Active\" 0 0/1
* * *
* * *
                                    P bit   R bit   A bit   Q bit
HLR Induction State \"Induced\" 1 0/1 1 0
* * *
#### 2.1.2.2 Invocation of services at the HLR
If the service can be invoked at the HLR (e.g. to bar an incoming call) then
invocation is possible only if the Activation State is \"Active and
Operative\". Note that the concept of HLR induction does not apply to services
invoked at the HLR as the HLR can invoke the effect of these services without
needing to induce them first.
### 2.1.3 Handling of SS‑Status at the VLR or the SGSN
The VLR shall store sufficient information to support VLR based invocation,
interrogation and notifications from the VLR to the MS. The SGSN shall store
sufficient information to support SGSN based invocation.
The VLR or the SGSN shall not check the internal consistency of SS‑Status
values received from the HLR (i.e. it shall not impose any rules relating
values of some bits in SS‑Status to other bits). The VLR or the SGSN shall not
check that the SS‑Status received from the HLR is valid according to the VLR's
or SGSN\'s definition of the relevant service.
#### 2.1.3.1 Invocation of services at the VLR or the SGSN
The ability to invoke the service at the VLR (e.g. to forward a call, or
create an MPTY call) is based on the A and Q bits of SS‑Status. The service
can only be invoked if A=1 and Q=0. Other bits in SS‑Status are not relevant
to invocation at the VLR. .
The ability to invoke the service at the SGSN (i.e. to bar MO SMS submission)
is based on the A bit of SS-Status. The service can only be invoked if A=1.
Other bits in SS-Status are not relevant to invocation at the SGSN.
#### 2.1.3.2 Interrogation of the service at the VLR and notifications from
VLR
If the VLR sends a notification or an interrogation result that includes an
SS‑Status parameter the VLR shall set the P, R, A and Q bits to the same
values received from the HLR. Unless stated otherwise in individual service
specifications, it the service is not provisioned and the VLR has not received
a value for SS‑Status from the HLR then if the VLR has to send SS‑Status for
that service it shall set the P, R, A, and Q bits to 0.
### 2.1.4 Handling of SS‑Status at the MS
The MS has to interpret SS‑Status values received from the network. The
following information is provided as guidance as to how to treat the SS‑Status
information:
‑ The P, A and Q bits are relevant for all phase 2 supplementary services for
which the MS may receive SS‑Status information from the network.
‑ The value of the R bit is only relevant if registration is applicable to the
supplementary service the SS‑Status relates to.
‑ The A and Q bits shall be treated as a pair with the following meanings
assumed:
If A=1 and Q=0, then the service is \"Active and Operative\";
If A=1 and Q=1, then the service is \"Active and Quiescent\";
If A=0 and Q=0 or 1, then the service is deactivated.
‑ The MS may assume that if P=0 then the service is also deactivated (and if
registration is applicable erased).
‑ If registration is applicable to the service then the MS may assume that if
R=0 then the service is also deactivated.
## 2.2 Handling of call independent SS procedures with respect to basic
service groups
A request for registration, erasure, activation, deactivation or interrogation
of a supplementary service always refers to a basic service group.
The basic service group may be either an elementary basic service group
(defined in 3GPP TS 22.004) or a collective basic service group (defined in
3GPP TS 22.030).
The following text and figure 2.1 describe the general handling of call
independent SS procedures in the destination entity with respect to basic
service groups.
‑ The VLR or HLR (i.e. the destination entity) shall check the received
request for general problems (see figure 2.1 sheet 2 and sheet 3).
‑ In case of general error the procedure shall be terminated by sending an
error towards the MS (see figure 2.1 sheet 1).
‑ If there is no general problem, the HLR or VLR shall split the received
basic service group (BSG) into elementary basic service groups (EBSG) and
continue with separate handling of each elementary basic service group (see
figure 2.1 sheet 1).
Note that the received basic service group may be an elementary basic service
group. In this case splitting is not required.
‑ Elementary basic service groups shall be ignored if:
‑ there is no basic service provisioned in the group; or
‑ the supplementary service is not applicable for any basic service within
this elementary basic service group;
(see figure 2.1 sheet 4).
Note that in case the SS is either not provisioned or all the elementary basic
service groups were ignored a general error will be returned (see above).
For interrogation the following handling continues (see figure 2.1 sheet 4):
‑ For all other elementary basic service groups the information requested will
be returned to the MS and the procedure is terminated.
For registration/erasure and activation/deactivation the following handling
continues (see figure 2.1 sheet 4):
‑ For all other elementary basic service groups the requested procedure will
either be executed or rejected due to interaction with other supplementary
services.
‑ If the request cannot be accepted for any of these elementary basic service
groups due to interaction, the corresponding error will be returned and the
procedure is terminated.
‑ If the request was executed for all of these elementary basic service groups
an acknowledgement is returned towards the MS and the procedure is terminated.
Note that this acknowledgement will include the same basic service group as
received in the request.
‑ In case the request is accepted for some but not for all of these elementary
basic service groups, partial acceptance will be signalled towards the MS and
the procedure will be terminated.
The return errors for supplementary service operations and applicability of
these errors are defined in 3GPP TS 24.080. Detailed description of call
independent handling for a specific supplementary service is described in 3GPP
TS 23.08x and 23.09x ‑series of technical specifications.
## 2.3 Exceptional handling of basic service codes
When an individual teleservice code or bearer service code is sent by an MS
instead of an elementary basic service group the network shall treat such a
request as a request for the corresponding elementary basic service group.
The response to such a request shall include the elementary basic service
group code of this basic service code if this is required by the protocol or
application.
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.577083333333333in"}
Figure 2.1 (sheet 1 of 4): Handling of call independent SS procedures with
respect to basic service groups
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.577083333333333in"}
Figure 2.1 (sheet 2 of 4): Handling of call independent SS procedures with
respect to basic service groups
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.577083333333333in"}
Figure 2.1 (sheet 3 of 4): Handling of call independent SS procedures with
respect to basic service groups
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.577083333333333in"}
Figure 2.1 (sheet 4 of 4): Handling of call independent SS procedures with
respect to basic service groups
# 3 Password handling
## 3.1 General
Some supplementary services can be subscribed with the option \"control of
supplementary service by subscriber using password\" as described in the
corresponding 3GPP TS 23.08x and 23.09x ‑series of technical specifications.
This option is applicable only for the CS domain. These services are
referenced in the following as protected supplementary services.
The password is stored in the HLR only.
It has to be memorised by the network, if a wrong password has been used.
Therefore, the HLR stores the value of the Wrong Password Attempts counter
(WPA).
If a password check is done with an incorrect password, the WPA is incremented
by one. If a password check is passed, WPA is set to zero. If WPA exceeds the
value three, the subscription option \"control of supplementary service\" is
set to \"by the service provider\". This makes registration of password and
activation or deactivation of protected supplementary services impossible (see
3GPP TS 22.004).
When the service provider registers a password, the WPA is set to zero.
When an attempt to perform an operation requiring a password is received by
the network, the network has to check whether the requesting subscriber has
subscribed to the option \"control of supplementary service by subscriber
using password\". This is shown in figure 3.1 (function PW1).
If this option has the value \"by the service provider\" the WPA has to be
checked. When WPA exceeds three, then more than three attempts with a wrong
password have been made and the appropriate message will be sent to the user.
If the value of WPA is less than or equal to three, then the subscriber has
not subscribed to \"control of supplementary service by subscriber using
password\".
When a password is supplied, it has to be checked, whether it is identical to
the one stored. If this applies, then WPA is reset to zero. Otherwise WPA is
incremented by one and dependent of the value of the counter, the network
shall request the password again, or shall send and error message and update
the subscription option as shown in figure 3.2 (function PW2).
After the input of a wrong password more than three consecutive times, the
only possibility to reset the Wrong Password Attempts counter (WPA) is, to
register a new password by the service provider.
Figures 3.3 and 3.4 show the procedures executed by the network in order to
check the format (function PW3) and to check the new password (function PW4).
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.6in"}
Figure 3.1: PW1; Check of subscription option (HLR)
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.6in"}
Figure 3.2: PW2; Check of password input (HLR)
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.6in"}
Figure 3.3: PW3; Format check (HLR)
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.6in"}
Figure 3.4: PW4; Check of new password (HLR)
## 3.2 Registration of password
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of supplementary service by subscriber using
password\", the service provider has to register a password at provision time.
Furthermore the served mobile subscriber can change the password by an
appropriate control procedure at any time. The control procedure consists of
three steps: first, the old password has to be provided; secondly, the new
password has to be given, after which it has to be verified by providing it
once more (see figure 3.5).
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of supplementary service by the service
provider\" an attempt to register a password will be denied and the served
mobile subscriber should receive a notification.
The subscriber can register a new password, thus causing the previous
registration to be overridden (see figure 3.5).
## 3.3 Use of password
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of supplementary service by subscriber using
password\" the supplementary service is activated only if the subscriber
provides the correct password to the network.
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of supplementary service by the service
provider\", the supplementary service cannot be activated by the subscriber.
The activation has to be performed by the service provider. An attempt to
activate the service will be denied and the served mobile subscriber should
receive a notification.
If the served mobile subscriber at provision time has selected the
subscription option \"control of supplementary service by subscriber using
password\", and if a wrong password is entered to activate the service the
supplementary service will not be activated and the served mobile subscriber
is notified.
The information flow for activation of a protected supplementary service is
shown in figure 3.6.
Figure 3.5: Registration of a new password
NOTE: PW1, PW2 and PW3 indicate password handling programs.
Figure 3.6: Activation of protected supplementary service
NOTE: SS indicates any of the protected supplementary services.\ PW1 and PW2
indicate password handling programs.\ ICH indicates interaction checks if
necessary.
## 3.4 Deactivation
The procedure for activation, described in subclause 3.3, is valid also
correspondingly for deactivation.
The information flow for deactivation of protected supplementary service is
shown in figure 3.7.
Figure 3.7: Deactivation of protected supplementary service
NOTE: SS indicates any of the protected supplementary services. PW1 and PW2
indicate password handling programs.
# 4 Supplementary service data management
For the supplementary services that are considered \"activated as a result of
provision\", when the service is provisioned the following applies:
when subscription data is sent from the HLR to the VLR, and\ when an
interrogation is sent from the HLR or VLR to the MS:
‑ \"Provision status\" indicators shall be set to \"Provisioned\";
‑ \"Activation status\" indicators shall be set to \"Active\".
# 5 Format of description
The supplementary services are described according to the following format:
subclause x.1 Functions and information flows;
subclause x.2 Information stored in HLR;
subclause x.3 Information stored in VLR and SGSN;
subclause x.4 Handover.
#