# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the stage 2 description (architectural solution
and functionalities) for the Presence Service, which includes the elements
necessary to realise the stage 1 requirements in TS 22.141 [2].
The present document includes information applicable to network operators,
service providers and manufacturers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.141: \"Presence service; Stage 1\".
[3] IETF RFC 3863: \"Presence Information Data Format\", August 2004.
[4] IETF RFC 3856: \"A Presence Event Package for the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\", August 2004.
[5] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.218: \"IP Multimedia (IM) session handling; IM call model;
Stage 2\".
[11] IETF RFC 3265: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Event Notification\".
[12] Void.
[13] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting Packet Based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Location Services (LCS); Functional description; Stage
2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[16] IETF RFC 2778: \"A Model for Presence and Instant Messaging\".
[17] IETF RFC 2779: \"Instant Messaging / Presence Protocol Requirements\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; System description\".
[20] LIF TS 101: \"Mobile Location Protocol Specification\"(Location
Interoperability Forum 2001) [Available at http://www.openmobilealliance.org].
[21] 3GPP TR 23.981 \"Interworking aspects and migration scenarios for IPv4
based IMS implementations\".
[22] 3GPP2 X.S0027-004: \"Network Presence\".
[23] 3GPP2 X.S0004: \"Introduction to MAP\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
TR 21.905 [1] and TS 22.141 [2] and the following apply:
**Presence List Server:** functional entity that stores grouped lists of
watched presentities and enables a Watcher Application to subscribe to the
presence of multiple presentities using a single transaction.
**Presence Network Agent:** network located element that collects and sends
network related presence information on behalf of the presentity to a presence
server.
**Presentity Presence Proxy:** functional entity that provides presentity
related functionality such as determining the presence server associated with
a presentity.
**Presence Server:** network entity responsible for managing presence
information on behalf of a presence entity.
**Presence User Agent:** a terminal or network located element that collects
and sends user related presence information to a presence server on behalf of
a Principal.
**Watcher Presence Proxy:** a functional entity that provides watcher related
function such as authentication of watchers.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations in TR 21.905 [1]
and TS 22.141 [2] and the following apply:
AAA Authentication, Authorisation and Accounting
CAMEL Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CAP CAMEL Application Part
CGI Cell Global Identity
CS Circuit Switched
CSCF Call Session Control Function
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
HLR Home Location Register
HSS Home Subscriber Server
HTTP Hyper Text Transport Protocol
I-CSCF Interrogating CSCF
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
ISDN Integrated Service Digital Network
LIF Location Interoperability Forum
MAP Mobile Application Part
MSC Mobile Switching Center
MSISDN Mobile Subscriber ISDN Number
P-CSCF Proxy CSCF
PDG Packet Data Gateway
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PS Packet Switched
PUA Presence User Agent
RFC Request For Comments
SAI Service Area Identity
S-CSCF Serving CSCF
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SMS Short Message Service
UE User Equipment
URL Uniform Resource Locator
WAP Wireless Access Protocol
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
WML Wireless Markup Language
WV Wireless Village
# 4 Presence Architecture
## 4.1 Overview
The Presence Service provides the ability for the home network to manage
presence information of a user\'s device, service or service media even whilst
roaming. A user\'s presence information may be obtained through input from the
user, information supplied by network entities or information supplied by
elements external to the home network. Consumers of presence information,
watchers, may be internal or external to the home network.
## 4.2 Reference Architecture Model
The generic reference architectural model for providing presence service is
depicted in Figure 4.2-1 below. The details of the elements in the figure
(e.g. agents, proxies) are provided in clause 5.
The mapping of the Presence Service functional elements and reference points
to the functional elements and reference points in the 3GPP Network
Architecture TS 23.002 [18] (and additionally IMS) is defined in clauses 4.3
and clause 5.
Figure 4.2-1: Reference architecture to support a presence service
## 4.3 Reference points
### 4.3.1 Reference point Presence User Agent -- Presence Server (Peu)
This reference point shall allow the Presence User Agent to manage
subscription authorization policies.
IPv6 shall be supported for all functionalities required from a Presence User
Agent that supports the Peu reference point. An IPv6 capable 3GPP UE shall use
IPv6 when accessing Peu. However, early IMS implementations and deployments
may use IPv4;if IPv4 is used, the guidelines and recommendations in TR 23.981
[21] should be followed.
This reference point uses capabilities defined for the Ut reference point as
defined in TS 23.002 [18].
### 4.3.2 Reference point Presence Network Agent -- Presence Server (Pen)
This reference point shall allow a presentity\'s presence information to be
supplied to the Presence Server. The transport on this reference point shall
not impose any limitations to the size of the presence information.
Pen shall provide mechanisms for the Network Agent to manage subscription
authorisation policies.
Pen shall provide mechanisms for the Network Agent to supply or update only a
certain subset of the presentity\'s presence information to the Presence
Server.
Pen shall provide mechanisms for activating or deactivating the reporting of
Presence Information for a given presentity from the network entities within
the PLMN.
The Pen interface is an intra-operator interface. In order to provide the all
the functionalities required on this reference point, a combination of
multiple protocols may be used. In general the protocols used at the Pen
reference point are not standardised. However, for 3GPP2 systems this
reference point is defined in X.S0027-004 [x]. At least, this interface shall
support the transport of presence information under the PIDF format as
specified in IETF RFC 3863 [3].
### 4.3.3 Reference point Presence External Agent -- Presence Server (Pex)
This reference point shall allow a presentity\'s presence information to be
supplied to the Presence Server. The transport on this reference point shall
not impose any limitations on the size of the presence information.
Pex shall provide mechanisms for the Presence External Agent to supply or
update only a certain subset of the presentity\'s presence information to the
Presence Server.
In order to provide all the functionalities required on this reference point,
a combination of multiple protocols may be used. Presence information obtained
from an external network by the Presence External Agent is transferred across
the Pex reference point to the Presence Server. This interface shall support
the transport of presence information under the PIDF format as specified in
IETF RFC 3863 [3].
### 4.3.4 Reference point Watcher applications -- Presentity Presence Proxy
(Pw)
This reference point shall allow a Watcher application to request and obtain
presence information. This interface shall support the transport of presence
information under the PIDF format as specified in IETF RFC 3863 [3].
The transport shall not impose any limitations to the size of the presence
information.
In order to provide all the functionalities required on this interface, a
combination of multiple protocols may be used.
This reference point shall support both presence monitoring and fetching
modes. In the fetching mode, it shall be possible for the watcher to once
request all or only a subset of a presentity\'s presence information (e.g. one
or more tuples). The subset of the presence information is defined by the
filter that is carried in the presence information subscription.
In the monitoring mode, it shall be possible for the watcher to request
monitoring of all or a subset of a presentity\'s presence information (i.e.
one or more tuples) . Watcher shall be able to explicitly indicate the
capability to process partial updates. The subset of the presence information
is defined by the filter that is carried in the presence information
subscription. It shall be possible for the watcher to request the presence
server to filter out information when the watcher is equal to the publishing
Presence User Agent.
It shall be possible for the notifications containing the presentity\'s
presence information to contain only information as defined by filters. It
shall be possible for the notifications containing the presentity\'s presence
information to contain only the modified tuples, i.e. only those tuples which
have changed since the last notification.
This reference point may allow a Watcher application to use presence lists in
presence information subscriptions, and the Watcher Presence Proxy to
interface to a server that provides the functionality of Presence List Server.
IPv6 shall be supported for all functionalities required from a Watcher
application that supports the Pw reference point. An IPv6 capable 3GPP UE
shall use IPv6 when accessing Pw. However, early IMS implementations and
deployments may use IPv4; if IPv4 is used, the guidelines and recommendations
in TR 23.981 [21] should be followed.
### 4.3.5 Reference point HSS/HLR -- Presence Network Agent (Ph)
This reference point shall allow the Presence Network Agent to query HSS/HLR
about the state and status of a subscriber (associated with a presentity) from
the serving network (for 3GPP this is the CS domain or GPRS) and IMS
perspective.
This reference point permits the Presence Network Agent to activate and
deactivate the reporting of mobility management events from the serving
network (for 3GPP this is the CS domain or GPRS) and/or the IMS-specific
reports from the S-CSCF.
This reference point uses capabilities defined for the Sh reference point as
defined in TS 23.002 [14] as well as the MAP interface.
### 4.3.6 Reference point S-CSCF -- Presence Network Agent (Pi)
The S-CSCF may provide IMS-specific presence information (e.g. about IMS
registration state). This reference point shall use mechanisms defined for the
ISC reference point as defined in TS 23.002 [18].
### 4.3.7 Reference point Presentity Presence Proxy -- HSS (Px)
The Px interface is an intra-operator interface. This interface shall assist
locating the Presence Server of the presentity. This interface is implemented
using the mechanisms defined for the Cx and Dx reference points as defined in
TS 23.002 [18].
### 4.3.8 Reference point Presence Network Agent -- GMLC (Pl)
This reference point shall be used by the Presence Network Agent to retrieve
location information related to a subscriber (associated with the presentity).
This reference point is the interface to GMLC and it is an instance of the Le
reference point (defined in TS 23.271 [14] and TS 23.002 [18]). In the case of
Presence the LCS client (defined in TS 23.271) is the Presence Network Agent
and so the protocol implementing Pl needs to be defined. Though normally a
stage 3 responsibility in this case the protocol to be used is defined here
since it is a reference to an existing protocol. Thus, Pl shall conform to
OMA\'s LIF-MLP specification [20].
For 3GPP2 systems, the interface for this reference point is to the 3GPP2
Position Server and is not supported in the current release of the
specification.
### 4.3.9 Reference point Presence Network Agent -- SGSN (Pg)
This reference point shall allow the SGSN to report mobility management
related events (such as attach/not reachable for paging/detach/routing area
update) to the Presence Network Agent.
This reference point may allow the SGSN to report Mobility States (such as
Detached, Idle and Connected) and Session States (such as PDP context active
and inactive).
This reference point is implemented using the existing mechanisms of CAMEL
phase 4, 3GPP Release 5.
For 3GPP2 systems, this reference point is not supported.
### 4.3.10 Reference point Presence Network Agent --MSC Server/VLR (Pc)
This reference point shall allow the MSC Server/VLR to report the mobility
management related events to the Network Agent (such as attach/detach/location
area update) and may allow the MSC Server/VLR to report call related events
(such as call setup with the bearer information and call release).
This reference point may allow the MSC Server/ VLR to report Mobility States
(such as Detached, Idle and Connected) and Call States (such as Busy with
Bearer information and Idle).
This reference point is implemented using the existing mechanisms of CAMEL
phase 4, 3GPP Release 5.
For 3GPP2 systems, the interface to this reference point is defined in 3GPP2
X.S0004 [23].
### 4.3.11 Reference point Presence Network Agent -- GGSN (Pk)
This reference point shall allow the GGSN to report presence relevant events
to the Presence Network Agent (such as PDP context activation/de-activation).
This reference point is implemented using the mechanisms of the RADIUS
interface for reporting of access requests on Gi reference point as defined in
TS 29.061 [13].
For 3GPP2 systems, this reference point is not supported.
### 4.3.12 Reference point Presence Network Agent -- 3GPP AAA Server (Pr)
This reference point shall allow the 3GPP AAA Server to report IP-connectivity
related events to the Presence Network Agent (such as WLAN UE
attaching/detaching and tunnel establishment/removal). The Pr reference point
shall be as much as possible based on mechanisms of existing interfaces.
For 3GPP2 systems, the interface for this reference point is to the AAA server
and is defined in X.S0027-004 [22].
### 4.3.13 Reference point Presence Network Agent -- PDG (Pp)
This reference point shall allow the PDG to report presence relevant events to
the Presence Network Agent (such as tunnel establishment/removal, allocation
of the remote IP address for the WLAN UE). This reference point is based on
reusing of the Wi reference point.
For 3GPP2 systems, this reference point is not supported.
### 4.3.14 Reference point Presence User Agent -- Presentity Presence Proxy
(Pep)
This reference point shall allow a presentity\'s presence information to be
supplied to the Presence Server. The transport on this reference point shall
not impose any limitations on the size of the presence information. This
interface shall support the transport of presence information under the PIDF
format as specified in IETF RFC 3863 [3].
Pep shall provide mechanisms for the Presence User Agent to obtain information
on watcher subscriptions to the presentity\'s presence information.
Pep shall provide mechanisms for the Presence User Agent to supply or update
only a certain subset of the presentity\'s presence information to the
Presence Server. It shall also be possible for the Presence User Agent to
supply the complete presence document over Pep.
Pep shall support SIP-based communications for publishing presence
information.
IPv6 shall be supported for all functionalities required from a Presence User
Agent that supports the Pep reference point. An IPv6 capable 3GPP UE shall use
IPv6 when accessing Pep. However, early IMS implementations and deployments
may use IPv4; if IPv4 is used, the guidelines and recommendations in TR 23.981
[21] should be followed.
### 4.3.15 Reference point Presentity Presence Proxy -- Presence Server (Pwp)
The Pwp interface is an intra-operator interface. This reference point shall
allow all the functionalities provided by the Pw and Pep reference points.
### 4.3.16 Reference point Watcher Applications -- Presence List Server (Pet)
This reference point shall allow a Watcher application to manage presence list
information in the Presence List Server.
This reference point uses capabilities defined for the Ut reference point as
defined in TS 23.228 [9].
## 4.4 Support of OSA Presence Service Capability Server in the Presence
Architecture
An OSA API may be provided to allow external application to access presence
service features, details of which are found in TS 23.198 [15].
The OSA Presence SCS may act like a presentity or a watcher. The application
may then register as a presentity and/or watcher, to supply presence
information, to request presence information, to be notified of subsequent
changes, to request watcher information, and to manage subscription
authorisation policies.
# 5 Functional Entities To Support Presence Service
## 5.1 Presence Server
The Presence Server shall reside in the presentity\'s home network.
The Presence Server shall be able to receive and manage presence information
that is published by the Presence User/Network/External agents, and shall be
responsible for composing the presence-related information for a certain
presentity from the information it receives from multiple sources into a
single presence document. The composing process to create the single presence
document may involve complex transformations of presence information such as
modifying the presence information from one presence source based on
information from another presence source. In particular, the Presence server
shall be able to receive and manage presence information that is published
from multiple Presence User agents of the same presentity. The Presence Server
shall be able to process partial publications of information from Presence
User Agents. These partial publications contain the presence information of
the presentity that has been modified since the latest publication sent to the
Presence Server about this presentity.
These Presence User agents may be updating the same parts of the presence
information.
The mechanisms for combining the presence related information shall be defined
based on presence attributes, and according to certain policy defined in the
Presence Server. The Presence Server shall be capable of receiving and
composing the Presence information received in the standardized formats from
authorized sources regardless of the source of the information or the ability
to interpret the information contained in the presence tuples. The information
that the Presence Server is not able to interpret shall be handled in a
transparent manner.
The Presence Server shall also allow watchers to request and subscribe to
either the full set of presence information of a presentity, or only certain
information within. Watcher defines the subset of the presence information,
that he is interested in, by the filter that is carried in presence
information subscription. The Presence Server shall be able to generate
partial notifications to a watcher, which has indicated the capability to
process them. These partial notifications contain the presence information of
the presentity that has been modified since the latest notification sent to
the watcher about this presentity, and required additional information to be
able to link the partial notification to the information watcher has received
earlier. In case the watcher does not indicate the capability to process
partial notifications the presence server shall send only full updates.
Before the subscription to presence information is accepted, the Presence
Server should attempt to verify the identity of the watcher that subscribes to
Presentity\'s Presence information, except if the watcher has indicated his
desire to remain anonymous. The action taken by the Presence Server if the
verification fails may include notifying the Presentity.
The Presence Server shall support SIP-based communications for publishing
presence information.
The Presence Server shall support SIP-based communications with the Presentity
Presence Proxy. The Presence Server is a SIP Application Server as defined by
TS 23.228 [9], and is located using SIP URLs, standard SIP and existing IMS
mechanisms (SIP routing, HSS query, ISC filtering, etc...).
The Presence Server shall provide Subscription Authorization Policy. The
Subscription Authorization Policy determines which Watchers are allowed to
subscribe to a Presentity\'s Presence information.
The Subscription Authorization Policy also determines which tuples of the
Presentity\'s Presence information the watcher has access. It shall be
possible for the Presentity\'s Presence User Agent to provide the Subscription
Authorization Policy or it may be configured by the operator as part of the
service provisioning.
The Presence Server may provide a watcher configurable filtering function that
is used to limit the information that is delivered to a watcher. After
subscription the authorized watchers get notified of the actual Presence
Information based on the Subscription Authorization Policy and the filters set
by the watcher in the subscription. If the Presence Server does not support
the filters as requested by the watcher, this is indicated to the watcher. In
this case the notification shall contain the actual Presence information based
on the Subscription Authorization Policy and local policy in the Presence
Server. The Presence Server may support one or more of the following types of
filters: Filters, which allow watchers to define:
\- the tuples that the watcher is interested in;\ Watcher can define a
criteria which allows the complete tuple and all the information within the
tuple to be transmitted. E.g. watcher can define the filter to permit
notifying all the tuples (and all the information within those tuples) which
has \"tel:+16305551212\" as the contact address or \"Instant Messaging\" as a
communication means.
\- the attributes that the watcher is interested in; and\ Watcher can define a
criteria which result notifies to contain values only for defined attributes
(attributes are defined by the filter and values for other attributes are not
available in the notifications)
\- the triggers when a notification should be sent.\ Watcher can define a
criteria which specifies when to send a notification. E.g. every time the
communication means status attribute changes its value, a notification is sent
to the watcher. Another example: filter out and do not send the notifications
resulting from the publication of the Presence User agent that is equal to the
watcher.
The Presence Server shall collect watcher information to enable presentity to
obtain information of the watchers that are or have been requesting, fetching
or subscribing presentity\'s presence information. Service provider shall be
able to define the maximum time period over which information is collected and
stored. The watcher information list shall include:
\- identity of the watcher (unless anonymity was requested);\ In case of
anonymous watcher, the identity of the watcher shall not be provided to the
presentity. The presentity shall be able to determine that an anonymous
watcher has requested, fetched or subscribed presence information of the
presentity including related information as specified in this list without
revealing the watchers identity.
\- time of the request, fetch or subscription;
\- length of the subscription; and
\- state of the request or subscription.
The Presence Server shall be able to support the presentity obtaining the
above watcher information. The Presence Server shall be able to receive
watcher information fetches and subscriptions from the presentity. These
watcher information fetch and subscribe requests shall be able to contain
filters which define:
\- what watchers the presentity is interested in;
Possible categories are:\ \- all watchers;\ \- defined watchers;\ \- new,
unauthorised watchers; and\ \- defined and new, unauthorised watchers.
\- what information the presentity is interested in; and\ The information is
all or part of the watcher information list as defined above.
\- the length of the watcher information history collection period that the
presentity is interested in.
In response to watcher information fetches, the presence server shall be able
to provide requested watcher information to the presentity. In response to
watcher information subscriptions, the presence server shall provide
notification to the presentity of the current state of the subscribed watcher
information. When there are subsequent changes in the subscribed watcher
information, notifications of the changes in watcher information are sent to
the presentity.
The Presence Server may support rate-limiting or filtering of the presence
notifications based on local policy in order to minimize network load.
## 5.2 Presence Agent Elements
The Agent elements in the Presence Architecture are functionally distinct from
the Presence Server functional element. The generic function of the Agent
elements is to make presence information available to the Presence Server
element in standardized formats across standardized interfaces.
### 5.2.1 Presence User Agent
The Presence User Agent element shall provide the following functionality:
\- The Presence User Agent shall collect Presence information associated with
a Presentity representing a Principal.
\- The Presence User Agent shall assemble the Presence information in the
format defined for the Peu and Pep reference points.
\- The Presence User Agent shall send the Presence information to the Presence
Server element either via the Presentity Presence Proxy over the Pep reference
point or over the Peu reference point.- The Presence User Agent shall be
capable of managing the subscription authorisation policies.
\- The Presence User Agent shall handle any necessary interworking required to
support terminals that do not support the Peu and Pep reference points.
\- Presence User Agent shall uniquely identify itself (among the Presence User
Agents of the presentity) when publishing presence information.
From a conceptual view, the Presence User Agent (PUA) element resides between
the presence server and the user\'s equipment as illustrated in the reference
architecture in figure 4.2-1. In reality, a Presence User Agent may be located
in the user\'s terminal or within a network entity.
Where the PUA is located in UE, the UE shall support Pep and the Peu reference
point to the Presence Server as illustrated in Figure 5.2.1-1 below.
Figure 5.2.1-1: UE based Presence User Agent
The Network based Presence User Agent shall reside in the presentity\'s home
network.
Where the PUA is located within the network, the particular network entity
shall support the Pep and Peu reference point to the presence server as
illustrated in Figure 5.2.1-2.. In this case, additional functionality may be
required to provide routeing between UE and the Presence User Agent, and, for
the Presence User Agent to \"register\" the user within the \"Presence
network\".
In this case, the interface between the terminal and the Presence User agent
is outside of the scope of the present document.
Figure 5.2.1-2: Network based Presence User Agent
#### 5.2.1.1 Relationship of Presence User Agent with IMS entities
When the Presence User Agent is located in an IMS UE the Pep reference point
is implemented using the Gm, Mw and ISC reference points as defined in TS
23.002 [14].
\- The Gm, Mw, and ISC reference points allow a presentity\'s presence
information to be supplied to the Presence Server. These reference points also
allow for the Presence User Agent to obtain information on watcher
subscriptions to the Presentities Presence Information.
\- The Peu reference point is implemented using the Ut reference point as
defined in TS 23.002 [18]. The Ut reference point provides mechanisms for the
Presence User Agent to manage subscription authorisation policies.
Figure 5.2.1-3: Presence User Agent in IMS architecture
### 5.2.2 Presence Network Agent
#### 5.2.2.0 General
The Presence Network Agent shall reside in the presentity\'s home network.
#### 5.2.2.1 Functions of the Presence Network Agent
The Presence Network Agent element shall provide the following functionality:
\- The Presence Network Agent shall receive Presence information from network
elements within the HPLMN and VPLMN.
\- The Presence Network Agent shall be able to send requests to the HSS/HLR to
cause other network elements to send (or stop sending) Presence Information to
the Presence Network Agent. Note that this only applies where the other
network element has Presence Information subscriptions managed via the
HSS/HLR.
\- The Presence Network Agent shall associate Presence information with the
appropriate Subscriber/Presentity combination.
\- The Presence Network Agent shall convert the Presence information into the
format standardized for the Pen interface.
\- The Presence Network Agent shall publish the Presence information to the
Presence Server across the Pen reference point.
#### 5.2.2.2 Suppliers of Presence Information
The Presence Network Agent may receive Presence information from one or more
of the following 2G/3G network elements over the specified reference point:
* * *
Network Element supplying Presence Information Reference Point HSS/HLR Ph
S-CSCF Pi MSC Server/VLR Pc SGSN Pg GGSN Pk GMLC Pl 3GPP AAA Server Pr PDG Pp
* * *
It is a matter of implementation and operator choice which reference points
the Presence Network Agent supports towards suppliers of Presence information.
Where other reference points support such a capability, a Presence Network
Agent can use the Ph reference point to activate and deactivate publishing of
Presence information via those reference points.
#### 5.2.2.3 Relationship of Presence Network Agent with IMS entities
Figure 5.2.2.3-1 below presents the architecture for the S-CSCF and the HSS to
provide presence related information to the Presence Server.
NOTE: The architecture on Figure 5.2.2.3-1 is an IMS-specific simplification
of some of the interfaces of the generic Presence reference architecture
presented in clause 4.
Figure 5.2.2.3-1: IMS network elements supplying presence information
The ISC interface is used to convey presence information from the S-CSCF to
the Presence Network Agent. More specifically, the functions of the Pi
interface are taken care of by the ISC interface. As an example, the S-CSCF
can convey a user\'s IMS-registration status by generating and sending a 3^rd^
party REGISTER request to the Presence server.
The Sh interface is used to convey information from the HSS to the Presence
Network Agent. More specifically, the functions of the Ph interface are taken
care of by the Sh interface.
Since the Network Agent is introduced as a functional entity, which models the
abstraction from the different presence sources, the network agent and the
presence server may be collocated. In case of an IMS-only network environment
the Pen reference point is assumed to be realized by an internal interface.
### 5.2.3 Presence External Agent
The Presence External Agent element shall provides the following
functionality:
\- The Presence External Agent shall supply Presence information from external
networks;
\- The Presence External Agent shall send the Presence information across the
Pex reference point according to the format standardized for the Pex reference
point;
\- The Presence External Agent shall handle the interworking and security
issues involved in interfacing to external networks;
\- The Presence External Agent shall have functionality to resolve the
location of the Presence Server associated with the Presentity.
Examples of Presence Information that the Presence External Agent may supply,
include:
\- Third party services (e.g. calendar applications, corporate systems);
\- Internet Presence Services;
\- Other Presence Services.
Editor\'s Note: The mapping of Pex to IMS reference points is FFS.
## 5.3 Presence Proxies
### 5.3.1 Presence Proxies introduction
In order to support a presence service, in particular across PLMN borders,
generic network functions are needed, e.g. routing and security. The presence
proxies provide these functions. Presence proxies constitute the entry and
exit point for presence requests between PLMNs.
### 5.3.2 Watcher Presence Proxy
When a Watcher application intends to access some presence information of a
presentity, it first needs to contact its Watcher Presence Proxy which will
contact the Presentity Presence Proxy to find the Presence Server containing
this information.
The Watcher Presence Proxy shall provide the following functionality:
\- Address resolution and identification of target networks associated with a
presentity;
\- Authentication of watchers;
\- Interworking between presence protocols for watcher requests;
\- Generation of accounting information for watcher requests.
### 5.3.3 Presentity Presence Proxy
The Presentity Presence Proxy shall provide the following functionality:
\- Determination of the identity of the presence server associated with a
particular presentity;
\- Authentication of Watcher Presence Proxy;
\- Authentication of the Presence user Agent;
\- Generation of accounting information for updates to presence information.
### 5.3.4 Relationship of Presence Proxies with IMS entities
The functionalities of the Watcher Presence Proxy are then taken care of by
the P-CSCF and the S-CSCF:
\- The S-CSCF is responsible for authentication according to procedures
described in TS 33.203 [5].
\- The charging and accounting procedures are conducted as per procedures
defined by TS 32.240 [6], TS 32.260 [7].
\- The security mechanisms between the Watcher and the Presentity Presence
proxy are defined by TS 33.210 [8].
The functionality of the Presentity Presence Proxy is taken care of by the
P-CSCF, I-CSCF and the S-CSCF as defined in TS 23.228 [9].
The procedures for locating, routing to and accessing the Presence Server of
the presentity are defined in TS 23.228 [9] and TS 23.218 [10]. These
procedures also take care of routing and accessing the Presence Server of a
presentity that is associated with an unregistered UE.
The functionality of the Watcher Presence Proxy and the Presentity Presence
Proxy are allocated to the functional element CSCF as defined in TS 23.002
[18].
Figure 5.3.4-1 below presents the mapping of the Watcher and Presentity
Presence Proxy functionalities to IMS network elements when located within the
IMS along with the Watcher application. This mapping is based on and
restricted to reusing the existing IMS architecture mechanisms and can be
clearly seen in the detailed information flows show in annex A.
Figure 5.3.4-1: Both the Watcher application and the Presence Server located
within IMS
NOTE: The standard IMS (SIP) routing mechanisms define whether a certain CSCF
is indeed included in the path of a SUBSCRIBE or NOTIFY transaction.
As described in IETF RFC 3856 [4], the Watcher Application sends a SIP
SUBSCRIBE to Event: presence addressed to the presentity\'s SIP URL to
subscribe or fetch presentity\'s presence information. This SUBSCRIBE
transaction will be routed and handled by the IMS infrastructure according to
standard IMS routing and ISC procedures defined in TS 23.228 [9] and TS 23.218
[10].
The Presentity\'s S-CSCF is not mandated to insert itself into the Record-
Route header of the initial SUBSCRIBE request, in case the S-CSCF does not
execute any functions for the subsequent requests and responses of the dialog.
The presence document will be provided from the Presence Server to the Watcher
Application using SIP NOTIFY along the dialogue setup by SUBSCRIBE either
within the NOTIFY payload, or via a URL provided in the NOTIFY. The means to
fetch the content can be seen as part of the Pw interface.
## 5.4 Watcher Applications
### 5.4.1 Communication between Watcher and Presentity Proxy
Communications between the Presentity Presence Proxy and the Watcher Presence
Proxy shall be based on SIP as shown in figure 5.4.1-1 below. Other IP-based
mechanisms may also be needed to support the delivery of large amount of
presence information. Support for non-SIP based Watchers may be provided by
the use of an interworking functions co-located with the Watcher Presence
Proxy. In this case the Watcher Presence Proxy interworking function needs to
be able to support routing to the non-SIP based watcher.
Figure 5.4.1-1: Communications between the Presentity Presence Proxy and the
Watcher Presence Proxy for Watchers
### 5.4.2 Watcher application in an IMS UE
The Watcher application can be located within a UE registered in the IMS
network, it is registered to a S-CSCF via a P-CSCF according to standard IMS
procedures as specified in TS 23.228 [9].
Watcher application shall be able to handle full and partial notifications.
The capability to process partial notifications shall be indicated to the
presence server when making a presence subscription.
The Pet reference point is implemented using the Ut reference point.
### 5.4.3 Network based Watcher Application Server
The Watcher application can be located within an Application Server behind the
ISC reference point. This entity is the Network Based Watcher Application
Server.
Watcher application shall be able to handle full and partial notifications.
The capability to process partial notifications shall be indicated to the
presence server when making a presence subscription.
### 5.4.4 Watcher application located in the external Internet
If a Watcher application is located in the external Internet, then the Watcher
Presence Proxy shall reside in a network capable of executing security
functionalities as per procedures defined in TS 33.210 [8].
The interworking with Watcher Applications located in the external Internet
not supporting the standard Pw reference point is out of the scope of the
present document.
### 5.4.5 Presence Server located in the external Internet, Watcher
application located in the IMS
If a Watcher Application is located in the IMS, the functionalities of the
Watcher Presence Proxy shall be as described in clause 5.3.2. Depending on the
mechanisms and protocols supported by the external Presence Server, the
Watcher Presence Proxy may implement additional functionalities, e.g. protocol
mapping.
The interworking with Presence Servers located in the external Internet not
supporting the standard Pw reference point is out of the scope of the present
document.
## 5.5 Presence List Server
The Presence List Server stores grouped lists of watched presentities and
enables a Watcher Application to subscribe to the presence of multiple
presentities using a single SUBSCRIBE transaction. Presence List Server also
stores and enables the management of filters associated to presentities in the
presence list. Presence list server shall attach associated filter to each
individual SUBSCRIBE transaction. The Presence List Server is implemented as a
SIP Application Server function as defined in TS 23.228 [9]. For the case
where the Watcher Application resides in an IMS UE, the Presence List Server
may support the Ut reference point to allow the user to manage his presence
lists.
# 6 Presence attributes
## 6.1 Presence Attributes
Presence attributes describe the presentity. As the type of the presentity can
vary significantly the definition of generic attributes is practically
impossible. Attributes can be defined by the service providers and
manufacturers as part of the other presence markup as specified in IETF (e.g.
RFC 2778 [16], RFC 2779 [17]). The values (and process of generating them) and
value ranges for all attributes shall be kept relatively simple. It is
necessary for the 3GPP subscriber to understand how the values are
set/modified as it may have direct impact to whom the access to presence data
is given (as defined by the subscription authorisation policies).
### 6.1.1 Subscriber Presence Attributes and Values
A subscriber is described by attributes: _subscriber\'s status, communication
means status, one or more communication address(es)_ (containing
_communication means_ and _contact address_)_, location (subscriber provided
location and/or network provided location), priority, text._ The attributes
can be categorised as communication means and contact address specific
information or generic information. Generic information attributes shall be:
subscriber\'s status, location and text. Communication means and contact
address specific information attributes shall be: _communication means_
status, communication means, contact address, priority and text.
\- Generic information attributes, if these attributes are used as part of any
tuple they shall use following values (values in parenthesis) to enable
interoperability:
\- Subscriber\'s status (willing, willing with limitations, not willing, not
disclosed),
NOTE 1: Attribute name subscriber\'s status has been defined in stage 1 and it
does not imply any mapping to the IETF defined presence model e.g. IETF RFC
2778 [16], IETF RFC 2779 [17].
The subscriber\'s status attribute is not intended to be used when
interworking with IM clients. Subscribers are able to provide more detailed
willingness information as well as other information through the generic Text
attribute, and the communication means and contact address specific Text
attribute.
\- Location (e.g. Last known CGI/SAI and/or geographic co-ordinates and/or
free format text and timestamp),
\- Text (free format text).
\- Communication means and contact address specific information attributes, if
these attributes are used as part of any tuple they shall use following values
(values in parenthesis) to enable interoperability:
\- communication means status (online, offline),
\- communication means (Service type (e.g. telephony, SMS, email, multimedia
messaging service, instant messaging service)),
\- contact address (E.164 (e.g. MSISDN), SIP URL, Email, Instant message
address e.g. IM:name\@domain name),
\- Priority (Priority order for each of the defined communication means and
contact address),
\- Text (free format text).
NOTE 2: The mapping of these attributes and values to the IETF defined
presence model IETF RFC 2778 [16], IETF RFC 2779 [17] may result one or
several of the following:
\- using existing IETF defined attributes and values (or subset of them)
\- using existing IETF defined attributes but extending the value set
\- Creating new attributes to the tuples.
The mapping of these values for tuples and different fields of the tuple is
defined in stage 3. Furthermore, mechanisms to allow extensibility of the
presence information in order to ensure interoperability are defined in stage
3.
All these attributes shall be able to contain value NULL to enable polite
blocking.
### 6.1.2 Presence Structure to Support Multiple Values for Attributes
Attributes shall be mapped to separate tuples which have unique identifiers.
If the presentity wants to show different presence information concerning one
attribute to different watchers the presentity shall create more than one
tuple that contain the same attribute with different value. The association of
tuples to different watchers and watcher groups shall be based on the
subscription authorisation policies. The presentity controls the value of the
attribute by modifying the corresponding tuple. Figure 6.1.2-1 illustrates how
different values for different watchers are provided utilising subscription
authorisation policies.
NOTE: The figure 6.1.2-1 is illustrative only and it shall not mandate or
limit the server implementation options.
Figure 6.1.2-1: Illustration how subscription authorisation lists are utilised
to present different values of the same attribute to different watchers
## 6.2 Presence Information Model
**Presence information related to a particular communications means and
contact address shall be carried in a presence tuple dedicated to that
particular communications means and contact address.**
**Generic presence information that is not directly applicable to a particular
communications means and contact address shall be conveyed in a way that
conforms to the IETF presence model e.g. IETF RFC 2778 [16], IETF RFC 2779
[17] (to ensure interoperability) and preferably does not require multiple
instances of this information to be sent.**
**Generic information may be mapped to the tuples specific to each
communication means and contact address. In that case the information shall be
equal in each tuple. The stage 3 description should use a mechanism which
conforms to the IETF presence model.**
Application identifiers may be allocated to applications, which are using
presence capabilities. The conventions and the allocation mechanism for
application identifiers are subject to stage 3 specification. Application
identifier(s) are carried as part of the presence information. Application
identifier(s) may be added to published presence information on the presentity
side. In this case, the presence server shall include this application
identifier to the relevant tuple(s) in the presence document together with the
published information. On the watcher side the received application identifier
may be used e.g. for determining which application should receive and process
the related presence information. Details of processing the application
identifier(s) on the Presence User Agent and watcher side are out of scope of
this specification.
# 7 Subscription authorisation policies
Subscription authorisation policies shall define the watchers who can access
the presence information of the presentity. In addition to the watcher
identities, the subscription authorisation policies shall contain the presence
information or reference to the presence information that is allowed to be
accessed by the listed watchers. The subscription authorisation lists can be
logically arranged to be part of the presence server or a separate entity in
the network.
In case of presence information fetch or subscription from a watcher that has
not been authorised by the subscription authorisation policies, the presence
server shall put the fetch or subscription on hold until the watcher has been
authorised, added to the subscription authorisation lists or until a
preconfigured timer has expired.
Subscription authorisation lists can be divided into three different
categories: personal subscription authorisation lists, public subscription
authorisation lists and blocking subscription authorisation lists.
Personal and general subscription authorisation lists shall define which
watchers can access which information. Personal subscription authorisation
lists shall explicitly identify watchers, while general subscription
authorisation lists relate to groups of watchers whose exact identities are
not necessarily known by the presentity e.g. \"all watchers\".
Blocking subscription authorisation lists shall define watchers that are not
allowed to access any presence information related to the presentity.
A presentity shall be able to manage several personal and general subscription
authorisation lists as well as blocking subscription authorisation lists.
The three subscription authorisation list categories shall be evaluated in the
following order: blocking subscription authorisation lists, personal
subscription authorisation lists and general subscription authorisation lists.
The following shows an example where the presentity has defined a single
subscription authorisation list for each category.
In this particular example, once the hit is found the evaluation is halted and
presence information according to access is delivered.
1\. Is the watcher on the blocking subscription authorisation list?
2\. Is the watcher on the personal subscription authorisation list?
3\. Is the watcher on the general subscription authorisation list (created
e.g. by service provider containing all watchers)?
4\. Send a notification to the presentity of pending subscription
authorisation request.
Figure 7-1: Example of subscription authorisation list evaluation order for
presence service
# 8 Charging requirement
The following charging requirement for presence service is identified. The
requirements shall be realized by enhancements of the IMS charging mechanism
as specified in TS 32.240 [6] and TS 32.260 [7].
1) Watcher Presence Proxy shall be able to provide the charging information
for watcher requests per watcher for presence enquiry or subscription and
subsequent notifications.
2) Presentity Proxy shall be able to provide the charging information for
updates to presence information per watcher.
3) The Presence Server shall be able to provide the charging information for
notifying the watcher of updates to presence information. Presence Server
shall be able to provide the charging information for subscription to Watcher
Lists and receiving notification of Watcher Information. Presence Server shall
be able to provide the charging information for collecting the record of
watcher list information per presentity. The Presence Server shall be able to
provide the charging information for publishing presence information per
presentity.
4) Presence List Server shall be able to provide the charging information for
Watcher subscription to Presence Lists and receiving notification of Presence
Information.
5) It shall be possible to apply specific tariffs (e.g. zero rating) to the
bearer and/or signalling traffic associated with the above presence service
\"events\". Differentiating in the IP Connectivity access network between the
signalling traffic related to presence events and signalling traffic related
to other IMS SIP communications is not a requirement.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Information flows
# A.1 General information flow
Figure A.1-1 illustrates the message flow for user A requesting presence
information for user B in a different network.
Figure A.1-1: Presence enquiry message flow
1\. The A party sends a presence enquiry to Watcher Application A (WA-A). The
A party identifies B by B\'s address (e.g. MSISDN or URI). The enquiry can be
of various types, e.g.:
a) \"tell me the current state of B\"
b) \"tell me all state changes of user B for the next x hours\"
c) \"tell me when B next changes state\"
d) \"stop telling me about B\"
2\. Watcher Application A \'authenticates\' A and checks their credit status
(details of authentication and credit status are outside scope of this message
flow)
3\. Watcher Application A sends a \"Presence enquiry for B\" message to
Watcher Presence Proxy.
4\. The Watcher Presence Proxy derives B\'s network name from B\'s address
(details of how this is derived is outside the scope of this message flow).
5\. The Watcher Presence Proxy sends a \"Presence enquiry for B\" message to
B\'s network\'s Presentity Presence Proxy.
NOTE: Authentication may be necessary between A and B party networks in line
with techniques used in other instances of inter operator message flow;
precise details are outside the scope of this message flow.
6\. The Presentity Presence Proxy derives the address of B\'s Presence Server
7\. B\'s network Presentity Presence Proxy sends \"Presence enquiry for B\"
message to B\'s Presence Server.
8\. B\'s Presence Server processes the presence enquiry request (e.g. check A
is one of B\'s buddy\'s and B still wants A to watch him/her).
9\. B\'s Presence Server raises charge record for A against A\'s network
(precise details are for further study)
10\. B\'s Presence Server sends B\'s status back to Watcher Application A in
Originating PLMN (may be returned via Presentity Presence Proxy and Watcher
Presence Proxy).
11\. Watcher application returns B\'s presence to use A.
NOTE 1: Steps 10 and 11 are repeated as necessary if B party has been
requested to provide regular presence updates.
NOTE 2: In the event that the presence enquiry message is \"stop telling me
about B\" steps 8-11 are just an acknowledgement for watcher application A.
# A.2 Detailed information flows
## A.2.1 Overview of flows used
The messages used in this clause are representative and are not meant to
indicate any particular protocol as this is outside the scope of this
document. In this clause the following messages have been used:
_SubscribePres:_ This is a request by a watcher to obtain presence information
about a presentity. The message may be used to either request the current
presence information or to subscribe to updates of presence information for a
particular time period. This flow may also be used to un-subscribe to periodic
updates. The request needs to convey the presence related events that that the
watcher is be interested in. A presence server may accept or deny such a
request.
_MsgAck:_ This is a generic message acknowledgement for the message flows. It
may be used to indicate a positive or negative acknowledgement. In the latter
case, the message may convey an indication for the rejection.
_Query:_ This message is used by a Presentity presence proxy to request the
HSS/HLR to provide the necessary information to locate a presence server that
is associated with a presentity.
_Resp:_ This message is the reply by the HSS/HLR to provide the required
information to the Query message above.
_NotifyPresUp:_ This message is used to notify a watcher of updates to a
presentitiy\'s presence information. The watcher would have either requested
the current presence information or had previously subscribed to periodic
updates. The message may contain the presence information or a pointer to the
information.
_PresUpdateMsg:_ This message is used by a Presence user agent, the Network
agent, and the External agent to provide the presentity\'s presence
information to the Presence Server. This message shall be capable of conveying
the complete set of presence information associated with a presentity. This
message shall also be capable of conveying a subset of the presence
information associated with the presentity. to provide updates of a
presentity\'s presence information to a presence server. This message needs to
be able to convey the presence information associated with a presentity. The
message may contain the presence information or a pointer to the information.
(Note: there are similarities with the _NotifyPreseUp_ message listed above
since they both convey presence information. However for simplicity, different
message names are used).
## A.2.2 Flows demonstrating how watchers subscribe to presence event
notification
The clause covers the flows that show how watchers can request presence
information about a presentity.
### A.2.2.1 IMS Watcher and IMS Presentity in the same or different IM-CN
Figure A.2.2.1-1: IMS Watcher registering for event notification
Figure A.2.2.1-1 shows an IMS watcher subscribing to presence event
notification about an IMS based presentity. The presentity may either be in
the same IM-CN subsystem as the watcher or may be in a different IM-CN
subsystem. The flows for both these cases are the same.
_Note-i: The path of the SUBSCRIBE dialog may optionally include additional
I-CSCF(THIGs) in networks where network topology hiding is applied._
_Note-ii: The flow shows the case that the S-CSCF of the Presentity does not
remain in the path of the dialog._
The details of the flows as follows:
1\. A watcher agent in a UE wishes to watch a presentity\'s presence
information, or certain parts of the presentity\'s presence information
(defined by the filters included in _SubscribePres_). To initiate a
subscription, the UE sends a _SubscribePres_ message request containing the
presence related events that it wishes to be notified of, together with an
indication of the length of time this periodic subscription should last. The
UE sends the _SubscribePres_ information flow to the proxy (subscriber
identity, home networks domain name). The _SubscribePres may also include an
indication of the watcher\'s capability to handle partial notifications_.
2\. The P-CSCF remembers (from the registration process) the next hop CSCF for
this UE. In this case the _SubscribePres_ is forwarded to the S-CSCF in the
home network. In this case, the P-CSCF and the S-CSCF act as a Watcher
Presence Proxy.
3\. The S-CSCF is unable to resolve the presence server address of the
presentity that the UE is requesting to watch, and as a result forwards the
_SubscribePres_ message to the an I-CSCF offering part of the Presentity
Presence Proxy functionality. The S-CSCF shall examine the home domain of the
presentity associated with the request and if the request is for a presentitiy
outside the operator\'s domain, it determines the external I-CSCF. If the
request is for a presentity in the same domain, the S-CSCF forwards the
request to the local I-CSCF.
4\. The I-CSCF examines the presentity identity and the home domain identity
and employs the services of a name-address resolution mechanism to determine
the HSS address to contact. The I-CSCF shall query the HSS to obtain the
address of the S-CSCF associated with the Presentity. It shall query the HSS
via a Query message.
5\. The Query Resp message from the HSS provides the name of the S-CSCF
associated with the presentity.
6\. The I-CSCF, using name of the Presence Server shall determine the address
of the S-CSCF through a name-address resolution mechanism. The _SubscribePres_
message is forwarded to the S-CSCF.
7\. The S-CSCF using any necessary filtering criteria forwards the
_SubscribePres_ message to the appropriate Presence Server.
8\. At this stage the presence server performs the necessary authorisation
checks on the originator to ensure it is allowed to watch the presentity. Once
all privacy conditions are met, the presence server issues a _MsgAck_ to the
S-CSCF. (In the case where the privacy/authorisation checks fail, then a
negative acknowledgement is sent to the watcher).
9\. The S-CSCF forwards the to the I-CSCF.
10\. The I-CSCF forwards the _MsgAck_ to the originating S-CSCF.
11\. The S-CSCF forwards the _MsgAck_ message to the P-CSCF.
12\. The P-CSCF forwards the _MsgAck_ to the watcher agent in the UE.
13\. As soon as the Presence Server sends a _MsgAck_ to accept the
subscription, it sends a _NotifyPresUp_ message with the current full state of
the presentity\'s tuples that the watcher has subscribed and been authorised
to. The NotifyPresUp is sent along the path of the SUBSCRIBE dialog to the
S-CSCF allocated to the Watcher. Further notifications sent by the Presence
server may either contain the complete set of presence information, or only
those tuples that have changed since the last notification if the watcher has
indicated the capability to process partial notifications.
NOTE: If charging for updates to presence information per watcher is enabled,
then the presentity presence proxy will remain in the SUBSCRIBE dialogue path
and the NotifyPresUp is routed through the presentity presence proxy. The
presentity presence proxy (S-CSCF) will provide the charging update.
14\. The S-CSCF forwards the _NotifyPresUp_ to the P-CSCF.
15\. The P-CSCF forwards the _NotifyPresUp_ to the watcher application in the
UE.
16\. The UE acknowledges the receipt of the _NotifyPresUp_ message with a
_MsgAck_ sending this to the P-CSCF.
17\. The P-CSCF forwards the _MsgAck_ message to the S-CSCF.
18\. The S-CSCF allocated to the presentity forwards the _MsgAck_ to the
Presence Server.
## A.2.3 Flows demonstrating how presentities update Presence Information
### A.2.3.1 Updating presence information by terminals without support of the
Pep reference point
For the case of terminals that do not support the Pep reference point presence
information can be provided alternative mechanisms such as SMS, WAP etc. The
Presence User Agent provides the necessary interworking with the presence
server. As previously indicated, the PUA may be located with network entities
such as a WAP WML/HTTP server or SMS-C, however this is an implementation
issue and outside of the scope of technical report. This particular example is
illustrative and shows the case where a user updates presence information
through a WAP browser, where the Presence User Agent is located inside the WAP
WML/HTTP server and is illustrated in figure A.2.3.1-1 below. It is
acknowledged that other possibilities exist.
Figure A.2.3.1-1: Updating presence information via WAP WML/HTTP server
1\. The user opens a WAP session by requesting a WAP URL that is dedicated to
updates of presence information.
2\. Using a WAP browser, the user modifies aspects of \'user presence
information.
3\. The WML/HTML server, which in this example hosts the Presence User Agent
(although the PUA may be a separate entity, in which case the interface to the
PUA will be proprietary), sends a PresUpdateMsg to the Presence Server.
Additional functionality may be required to locate the presence server
associated by the presentity. In this particular example, it is assumed that
the PUA is configured with the appropriate address of the presence server.
4\. The Presence Server acknowledges the PresUpdateMag with a MsgAck to the
WAP WML/HTTP server.
### A.2.3.2 IMS Registration Notification process to the Presence Server
within IMS
The following flow describes how the presence server is notified of an IMS
registration event by the network elements.
Figure A.2.3.2-1: IMS Registration Notification procedure for the Presence
Server
1\. UE registration takes place with the S-CSCF as detailed in TS 23.228 [9].
As part of this process, the filtering criteria are downloaded to the S-CSCF
from the HSS. The filter criteria contains instructions that the registration
be sent to the presence network agent (e.g. registration, de-registration).
2\. The S-CSCF sends the registration to the Presence Network Agent via the
ISC interface.
3\. When the Presence Network Agent receives the notification of the IMS
registration event from the S-CSCF, it determines that this registration is an
event that the Presence Server is interested in and informs the Presence
Sever.
### A.2.3.3 CS/PS Notification process of the Presence Server
The following flow describes how the presence server is notified of an event
by the network elements for a CS/PS subscriber.
Figure A.2.3.3-1: CS/PS Notification procedure for the Presence Server
1\. For network event to be reported on behalf of a CS/PS subscriber, the
necessary triggers are armed in the MSC/SGSN. This takes place off-line and is
outside the scope of this TS as to how it is achieved.
2\. At the occurrence of an event between the HLR and the MSC/SGSN, (e.g. UE
detach) a notification message is generated.
3\. A MAP notification message (NOTE_MM_EVENT) is sent to the Network Agent
via Pc/Pg interface on the occurrence of an event, details of this are outside
the scope of this flow. There may be some address resolution needed by the
network agent to locate the presence server but details of this is also
outside the scope of this flow.
4\. The Network Agent informs the Presence Server. The Presence Server
notifies all authorised watchers and sends an acknowledgement to the Network
Agent.
5\. Network Agent sends an MM_Event_Ack to the MSC/SGSN.
### A.2.3.4 Updating presence information by terminals with Pep interface
support
{width="6.199305555555555in" height="3.436111111111111in"}
Figure A.2.3.4-1: Updating presence information via the Pep interface
1\. The PUA residing in the UE generates a _PressUpdateMsg_ message which
contains the new presence information. The means for the PUA to compose this
presence information is outside the scope of this specification.
2\. P-CSCF forwards the message to the user\'s S-CSCF.
3\. S-CSCF forwards message to the correct Presence Server based on ISC
filtering rules.
4\. Presence Server authorizes the presence update, and checks what
information the message contains. The Presence Server then processes the
updated presence information according to the client\'s request. The Presence
Server sends a _MsgAck_ response back to UE.
5\. S-CSCF forwards the response back to the P-CSCF
6\. P-CSCF forwards the response back to the UE.
## A.2.4 Presence Server notifying watcher of updates to presence information
### A.2.4.1 IMS based Watcher and presentity in the same or different IM-CN
subsystem
Figure A.2.4.1-1: Presence Server updating IMS watcher
Figure A.2.4.1-1 shows how an IMS based watcher is notified of updates to a
presentity\'s presence information. The flows are applicable to the case where
the Watcher and Presentity are in the same or in different IM-CN subsystems.
_Note-i: The path of the SUBSCRIBE dialog (i.e. also the NOTIFY transaction)
may optionally include additional I-CSCF(THIGs) in networks where network
topology hiding is applied._
_Note-ii: The flow shows the case that the S-CSCF of the Presentity does not
remain in the path of the dialog._
Details of the flows are as follows:
1\. The Presence Server determines which authorised watchers are entitled to
receive the updates of the presence information for this presentity. For each
appropriate watcher, the presence server sends a _NotifyPresUp_ message that
contains the full or partial updates to the presence information. This
_NotifyPresUp_ is sent along the path of the SUBSCRIBE dialog to the S-CSCFof
the Watcher.
2\. The S-CSCF forwards the _NotifyPresUp_ message to the P-CSCF of the
watcher.
3\. The P-CSCF forwards the _NotifyPresUp_ message to the UE.
4\. The UE acknowledges the _NotifyPresUp_ message with a _MsgAck_ to the
P-CSCF.
5\. The P-CSCF forwards the _MsgAck_ message to the S-CSCF.
6\. The S-CSCF of the Watcher forwards the _MsgAck_ to the Presence Server.
## A.2.5 Presence User Agent subscribing to watcher list and receiving
notification of a new watcher subscription
Figure A.2.5-1: Presence User Agent subscribing to watcher list and receiving
notification of a new watcher subscription
Figure A.2.5-1 shows a Presence User Agent subscribing to watcher list and
receiving notification of a new watcher subscription that is not contained in
the current subscription authorisation policies. The details of the flows are
as follows:
1) The Presence User Agent initiates a subscription to the Presence Server
requesting notification of any new watcher subscriptions.
2) The presence server issues a _MsgAck_ to the Presence User Agent.
3) A watcher wishes to watch the Presentity. To initiate a subscription, the
watcher sends a _SubscribePres_ message request containing the presence
related events that it wishes to be notified of, together with an indication
of the length of time this periodic subscription should last to the Watcher
Presence Proxy. The Watcher Presence Proxy sends the _SubscribePres_
information flow to the Presentity Presence Proxy.
4) The _SubscribePres_ is forwarded by the Presentity Presence Proxy to the
Presence Server.
5) The Presence Server checks the subscription authorisation policies and
determines that this is a new watcher subscription not contained in the
current subscription authorisation policies and so sends a notification to
inform the Presence User Agent of the request from the new watcher.
6) The presence server issues a _MsgAck_ to inform the watcher that the
Presence Server has received the watcher\'s request for Presence information.
The _MsgAck_ is sent to the Presentity Presence Proxy.
7) The _MsgAck_ is forwarded by the Presentity Presence Proxy to the watcher
via the Watcher Presence Proxy.
Steps 8 -- 10 depend on the actions of the Principal. The Principal can ignore
the notification sent in step 5 or can respond with an Update of the
subscription authorisation policies to Accept, Accept with conditions or Deny
the request.
8) The Presence User Agent sends an _UpdateSubscriptionAuthorisationPolicies_
to the Presence Server. (If the Presence User Agent decides to accept, block
or accept with conditions the Presence Information requested by the watcher an
appropriate _SubscriptionAccepted_ , _SubscriptionBlocked_ or
_SubscriptionAcceptedWithConditions_ is sent within the
_UpdateSubscriptionAuthorisationPolicies_ to the Presence Server).
9) If the _UpdateSubscriptionAuthorisationPolicies_ accepts the subscription
then the Presence Server sends a _NotifyPresUp_ message with the current state
of the Presence User Agent to the Presentity Presence Proxy. If the
_UpdateSubscriptionAuthorisationPolicies_ indicates that the subscription is
blocked then steps 9 and 10 are not performed.
10) The Presentity Presence Proxy forwards the _NotifyPresUp_ message to the
watcher via the Watcher Presence Proxy.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Void
#