# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document covers the architectural requirements for 3GPP systems based on
UTRAN, E-UTRAN and Iu mode GERAN. In particular it details the high level
requirements for the Circuit Switched (CS) Domain and the stage 2 procedures
that span more than one domain/subsystem. The reference model to which these
procedures apply can be found within TS 23.002 [1]. In addition, A mode to Iu
mode handover for CS services is addressed. Detailed architectural
requirements within the subsystems are contained within the remainder of the
23 series of specifications e.g. the requirements for the Packet Switched (PS)
domain are contained within TS 23.060 [2], TS 23.401 [27] and the requirements
for the Bearer Independent CS Core Network are contained in TS 23.205[14].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Service description;
Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.012: \"Location management procedures\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol Specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio interface protocol architecture\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.303: \"UE functions and inter-layer procedures in connected
mode\".
[8] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.410: \"UTRAN Iu Interface: General Aspects and Principles\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem -- Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 43.051: \"GERAN Overall Description\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.153: \"Out of Band Transcoder Control - Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.205: \"Bearer Independent CS Core Network -- Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TR 25.931: \"UTRAN Functions, examples on signalling procedures\".
[16] RFC 2766: \"Network Address Translation - Protocol Translation (NAT-
PT)\", G. Tsirtsis, P. Srisuresh. February 2000.
[17] RFC 2893: \"Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and Routers\", R.
Gilligan, E. Nordmark, August 2000.
[17a] RFC 3041: \"Privacy Extensions for Stateless Address Autoconfiguration
in IPv6\", T. Narten, R. Daves, January 2001.
[18] 3GPP TS 25.401 \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"UE Procedures in Idle Mode and Procedures for Cell
Reselection in Connected Mode\".
[20] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[21] RFC3316: \"IPv6 for Some Second and Third Generation Cellular Hosts\",
June 2002.
[22] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3 General aspects\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.229 \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP and
SDP\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organisation of subscriber data\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[26] 3GPP TR 23.981 \"Interworking aspects and migration scenarios for IPv4
based IMS implementations\".
[27] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[28] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2\".
[29] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[30] 3GPP TS 23.272: \"Circuit Switched Fallback in Evolved Packet System;
Stage 2\".
[31] 3GPP TS 23.292: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Centralized Services\".
[32] 3GPP TS 23.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity\".
[33] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms defined in TR 21.905 [8]
apply, in addition, the following terms apply:
**In Iu mode** : see TR 21.905 [8].
**In A/Gb mode** : see TR 21.905 [8].
**RAN:** within this document, the term RAN (Radio Access Network) is used to
refer to UTRAN and/or GERAN in Iu mode and/or E-UTRAN.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CM Connection Management
CN Core Network
CS Circuit Switched
CSCF Call/Session Control Function
CSFB Circuit Switched Fallback
CS-MGW Circuit Switched Media Gateway
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
HLR Home Location Register
IM IP Multimedia
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
IP Internet Protocol
IPSec IP Security protocol
LA Location Area
LAC Location Area Code
LAN Local Area Network
LLC Logical Link Control
LM Location Management
MAP Mobile Application Part
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MGW Media Gateway
MM Mobility Management
MME Mobility Management Entity
MRF Media Resource Function
MSC Mobile Switching Centre
NAT Network Address Translator
NGN Next Generation Networks
OoBTC Out of Band Transcoder Control
P-GW PDN Gateway
PDA Personal Digital Assistant
PDP Packet Data Protocol
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PS Packet Switched
RA Routing Area
RAC Routing Area Code
RAI Routing Area Identifier
RAN Radio Access Network
RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part
RLC Radio Link Control
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identifier
RRC Radio Resource Control
S-GW Serving Gateway
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SGW Signalling gateway
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SRNS Serving Radio Network Subsystem
SS7 Signalling System No. 7
STM Synchronous Transfer Mode
SRNS Serving Radio Network Subsystem
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TMSI Temporary Mobile Station Identifier
TrFO Transcoder Free Operation
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
URA UTRAN Registration Area
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VHE Virtual Home Environment
VLR Visited Location Register
# 4 3GPP system domains and subsystems
## 4.1 Allowed network and terminal configurations
A 3GPP network is divided into a radio AN and a CN, which are connected via an
open interface over the Iu or S1 or A/Gb reference point(s). The A/Gb mode is
not further described in this specification. Furthermore, the core network is
from a functional point of view divided into a PS Domain, IM Subsystem and a
CS Domain (see TS 23.002 [1]). Any deployment of the IM subsystem requires a
PS domain.
The following network configurations shall be allowed:
a) networks which provide the functionality of CS Domain and PS Domain (and
optionally IM Subsystem);
b) networks which only provide the functionality of the CS Domain (only with
GERAN or UTRAN access);
c) networks which only provide the functionality of the PS Domain (and
optionally IM Subsystem).
The following terminal configurations shall be allowed:
a) terminals which are able to access both to the CS Domain and PS Domain (and
optionally IM Subsystem);
b) terminals which are only able to access to the PS Domain (and optionally IM
Subsystem);
c) terminals which are only able to access to the CS Domain.
It shall be noted that a terminal which is only able to access to e.g. the PS
Domain supports only mobility management, protocols etc. of that domain. The
different configurations given above shall not prevent CS-type services from
being delivered over the PS domain.
## 4.2 Circuit switched (CS) core network domain
### 4.2.1 Iu mode to Iu mode handover for circuit switched services
For Iu mode to Iu mode Inter-MSC Hand-Over / SRNS relocation the MAP E
interface transporting RANAP messages shall be used. Alternatively, in the
case of intra-PLMN handover, the GSM to UMTS inter-system handover or SRNS
relocation between two MSC-areas may be executed as intra-MSC inter-system
handover or SRNS relocation respectively. In such a case this will be
performed by utilising a direct SCCP connection between the target RNC located
in the target MSC-area and the MSC server already involved in the call.
For handover of circuit-switched services involving the change of CN equipment
(only CS-MGW or CS-MGW and MSC-server) the anchor principle shall be applied.
\- The first MSC Server involved in a call will become the Anchor MSC Server
for this call during and after handover, and will remain in the call until the
call is released. Every subsequent handover (Intra and Inter) will be
controlled by this MSC Server.
\- The first CS-MGW involved in a call will become the Anchor CS-MGW for this
call during and after handover , and will remain in the call until the call is
released. The Nc interface is anchored in the CS-MGW, the correlation between
CS-MGW to PSTN and the CS-MGW to RAN remain fixed until the call is released.
### 4.2.2 A mode to Iu mode handover for CS services
For A mode to Iu mode inter-system Inter-MSC Hand-Over (GSM to UMTS) the MAP E
interface transporting BSSMAP messages shall be used. As a network option, in
the case of intra-PLMN inter-system handover from A mode to Iu mode, the
handover between two MSC-areas may be executed as:
\- intra-MSC handover, if the serving BSS is connected to the Anchor MSC; or
\- subsequent intra-MSC handover or subsequent inter-MSC handover back to the
Anchor MSC Server, if the serving BSS is connected to an MSC-B. The decision
between these two alternatives is implementation and network configuration
dependent.
The procedure will be performed by utilising a direct SCCP connection between
the target RNC located in the target MSC-area and the Anchor MSC or MSC-B,
respectively.
### 4.2.3 General principles for use of CS-MGW resources
The following principles for use of CS-MGW resources apply:
1\. it shall not be necessary to have the CS-MGW co-located with the MSC
Server;
2\. the CS-MGW resources need not be associated with any particular MSC Server
(see note 1);
3\. it shall be possible for any MSC Server to request resources of any CS-MGW
in the network (see note 1);
4\. it shall be possible for an RNC to connect to the CS-MGW indicated by the
MSC server;
Note 1: For points 2 and 3 above, issues related to O&M procedures such as
where notification of restart of a CS-MGW should be sent to, need to be
considered. Extensions to H.248 may be required.
The specification of the Bearer Independent CS CN which uses the CS-MGW is in
TS 23.205 [14].
### 4.2.4 Transcoder location
The transcoders are located in the core network. They may be located in the
CS-MGW at the border to the RAN (i.e. the CS-MGW at the Iu interface) or at
the CS-MGW at the edge of the core network (e.g. at the edge towards the
PSTN/ISDN), TS 23.153 [13].
## 4.3 Packet Switched (PS) core network domain
The requirements for the GPRS PS domain are in TS 23.060 [2] and for the EPS
PS domain in TS 23.401 [27].
## 4.4 IP Multimedia subsystem (IMS)
The requirements for the IMS are in TS 23.228 [11].
## 4.5 Cross Core Network Domain Requirements
The specifications shall support the option of IP transport for the MAP and
CAP based interfaces
## 4.6 UTRAN
The requirements for the UTRAN are in the 3GPP 25-series of specifications. An
overview can be found in TS 25.401 [18].
## 4.7 GERAN
The requirements for the GERAN are in TS 43.051 [12]
## 4.8 E-UTRAN
The requirements for the E-UTRAN are in the 3GPP 36-series of specifications.
An overview can be found in TS 36.300 [28].
# 5 IP addressing
## 5.1 IP version issues
The EPS/UMTS/GSM architecture shall support IPv4 / IPv6 based on the
statements below.
\- IP transport between network elements of the IP Connectivity services
(between RNC, SGSN, GGSN, eNodeB, MME, S-GW, and P-GW) and IP transport for
the CS Domain: both IPv4 and IPv6 are options for IP Connectivity.
\- IM CN subsystem elements (UE to CSCF and the other elements e.g. MRF):
\- The architecture should make optimum use of IPv6.
\- 3GPP specifications design the IM CN subsystem elements and interfaces to
support both IPv4 and IPv6. In the case the UE supports IPv4, the guidelines
and recommendations in TR 23.981 [26] should be followed.
\- The UE may support IPv4 only, IPv6 only or both for the connection to the
IM CN subsystem. In the case the UE supports IPv4, the guidelines and
recommendations in TR 23.981 [26] should be followed.
\- According to the procedures defined in TS 23.060 [2] and/or TS 23.401 [27],
when a UE is assigned an IPv6 prefix, it can change the global IPv6 address it
is currently using via the mechanism defined in RFC 3041 [16a], or similar
means.
\- Access to existing data services (Intranet, Internet,...):
\- The UE can access IPv4 and IPv6 based services.
## 5.2 Interoperability between IPv4 and IPv6 networks
Since the UE can access both IPv4 and IPv6 based services, situations may
arise where interworking is needed to interoperate with IPv4 and IPv6
networks. This clause describes three different interworking scenarios: UE is
IPv4 and IPv6 capable, IPv6 only UE, and IPv6 UE connected via IPv4 network to
an IPv6 device. These scenarios are examples of IPv6 and IPv4 interworking.
The scenarios presented below only considered cases of a Transition Gateway
(TrGW) for generic services and specialist services may require additional
functionally at the application level.
### 5.2.1 IPv4/IPv6 Mobile connecting to IPv4 and IPv6 networks
An installation where the UE has both IPv4 and IPv6 stacks is shown in Figure
5-1. As depicted, the terminal connects to the IPv4 device directly using an
IPv4 PDP or EPS Bearer Context. Hence, the UE appears to be a standard IPv4
node to the external IPv4 network. This scenario does not need any specific
transition support from the network. However, it requires both versions of IP
at the UE. The GGSN/P-GW in this scenario may be different for the IPv6 and
the IPv4 connections unless IPv4/v6 PDP or EPS Bearer Contexts are used. With
GGSN/P-GW is meant either a GGSN or a P-GW..
Figure 5-1: UE with IPv4 and IPv6 capability connecting to IPv4 and IPv6
networks
### 5.2.2 IPv6 only Mobile connecting to IPv4 network
{width="6.65625in" height="2.0305555555555554in"}
Figure 5-2: IPv6 only mobile connecting to IPv4 data services
Figure 5-2 shows an IPv6 only terminal connected to an IPv4 device. The UE us
using an IPv6 PDP or EPS Bearer Context for access to a Transition Gateway
(TrGW) that translates the IPv6 packets to IPv4 and vice versa. The TrGW may
be implemented as a Network Address Translation -- Protocol Translation (NAT-
PT) [16] to convert IPv6 traffic coming from the UE to IPv4 traffic and vice
versa.
NAT-PT is a combination of NAT-like address translation and IP header
conversion as described in [16]. NAT-PT uses a pool of IPv4 addresses for
assignment to IPv6 nodes on a dynamic basis as sessions are initiated across
v4-v6 boundaries. NAT-PT binds addresses in the v6 network with addresses in
the v4 network to provide transparent routing of packets traversing address
realms. This requires no changes to end nodes and IP packet routing is
completely transparent to them. It does, however, require NAT-PT to track the
sessions it supports and mandates that inbound and outbound packets pertaining
to a session traverse the same NAT-PT device.
### 5.2.3 IPv6 Mobile connected to an IPv6 Device via an IPv4 network
{width="6.665972222222222in" height="2.0722222222222224in"}
Figure 5-3: IPv6 mobile connected to an IPv6 device via an IPv4 network
Figure 5-3 shows a case where an IPv4 network lies between two IPv6 domains.
The IPv6 domains can be interconnected using IETF standard mechanisms such as
automatic or configured tunnelling of IPv6 over IPv4 [17].
## 5.3 Address management
A 3GPP network may be implemented as a number of logically separate IP
networks which contain different parts of the overall system. Each of these
elements is referred to as an \"IP Addressing Domain\". Within an \"IP
Addressing Domain\" it is required that the nodes within the domain are part
of a consistent non-overlapping IP-address space. It is also required that IP
packets may be routed from any node in the domain to any other node in the
domain using conventional IP routing. In a real implementation an IP
Addressing Domain may be a physically separate IP network or an IP VPN.
IP Addressing Domains may be interconnected at various points. At these points
of interconnect gateways, firewalls or NATs may be present. It is not
guaranteed that IP packets from one IP Addressing Domain can be directly
routed to any interconnected IP Addressing Domain. Rather inter-Domain traffic
may be handled via firewalls or tunnels. This implies that different IP
Addressing Domains can have different (and possibly overlapping) address
spaces.
Figure 5-4 below shows an example of the IP Addressing Domains involved in PS-
domain and IP-subsystem services.
{width="4.8125in" height="3.0930555555555554in"}
Figure 5-4: IP Addressing Domains Involved In PS-Domain and IM Services
Though 3GPP networks can use different IP Addressing Domains as shown above,
it is possible that several different IP Addressing Domains fall under a
common co-operative management regime. In this case the different IP
Addressing Domains may be implemented as a single administrative domain at the
operator\'s discretion, thus using a common IP-address space.
A UE accessing services in either an IM subsystem, the Internet, or an
external Intranet, or a combination of these service domains within the same
IP network, requires an IP address that is part of the target network\'s IP
Addressing Domain. For each of these IP networks, the IP address is linked to
a specific PDP or EPS Bearer context, or set of PDP or EPS Bearer contexts
sharing this IP address via a single APN.
When the UE establishes the PDP or EPS Bearer context to access an IP network,
it may use an existing PDP or EPS Bearer context if it has an active context
with a compatible IP addressing domain and quality of service profile.
## 5.4 IP addressing and routing for access to IM-subsystem services
This clause deals with a UE accessing IM CN subsystem services via EPS or
GPRS.
A UE accessing IM CN Subsystem services requires an IP address that is
logically part of the IM CN subsystem IP Addressing Domain. This is
established using an appropriate PDP or EPS Bearer context. It is possible to
connect to a P‑GW/GGSN either in the VPLMN or the HPLMN. For routing
efficiency this context may benefit from being connected through a P‑GW/GGSN
in the visited network. The connection between the UE and the IM CN subsystem
(where the P‑GW/GGSN is either in the Home or the Visited network) is shown
below:
Figure 5-5: UE Accessing IM Subsystem Services with P-GW/GGSN in the Visited
network via Visited Network IM subsystem
Figure 5-5a.1: UE Accessing IM Subsystem Services with P-GW/GGSN in the
Visited network
Figure 5-5a: UE Accessing IM CN subsystem Services with P-GW/GGSN in the Home
network
The ability of the User plane and the Control Plane for a single IMS session
being able to pass through different P‑GWs/GGSNs is not defined in this
release.
## 5.5 Simultaneous access to multiple services
A UE can have multiple services active simultaneously. When the services are
part of different IP addressing domains, separate EPS Bearer or PDP contexts
and IP addresses are required. The UE shall support multiple IP addresses when
simultaneous EPS Bearer or PDP contexts are activated that require separate IP
addresses for different addressing domains.
Figure 5-6 shows an example of a connection between a UE and an
Internet/Intranet service that is not available in the Visited Network with a
simultaneous connection to the Visited Network\'s IM Subsystem. In this
example, there may be two IPv6 addresses allocated, or one IPv4 address
allocated for internet/Intranet access and oneIPv6 address for IM subsystem
access.
Figure 5-6: UE Accessing Home Internet/Intranet Services and Visited Network
IM CN Subsystem Services
## 5.6 UE support of IPv6
The set of IPv6 functionality a 3GPP UE will require is dependent on the
services (IMS, Packet Streaming etc.) it will use.
As a minimum, a 3GPP UE shall comply with the Basic IP group of specifications
as defined in RFC 3316 [21]. This IPv6 functionality is sufficient to provide
compatibility towards IPv6 entities external to 3GPP.
A 3GPP UE shall follow the recommendations for the IP Security set of
functions in RFC 3316 [21] when a specific service requires such functions.
According to the procedures defined in TS 23.060 [2] and in TS 23.401 [27],
when a UE is assigned an IPv6 prefix, it can change the global IPv6 address it
is currently using via the mechanism defined in RFC 3041 [17a], or similar
means, without updating the PS domain. Any application that requires full IP
address knowledge shall provide a mechanism to get the latest IPv6 address
when the IPv6 address in the UE has been changed. An example of such means is
defined in TS 23.228 [11].
NOTE: RFC 3316 [21] does not make any recommendations on preferred transition
and interoperability mechanisms between IPv4 and IPv6.
# 6 Mobility management
## 6.1 Introduction
From a Mobility Management point of view, the CN encompasses two domains, a CS
domain and a PS domain. The UTRAN and the GERAN can be connected either to
both these CN domains or to one of the CN domains. The E-UTRAN connects with
the PS domain only.
A single RRC connection (between RAN and UE) shall carry all user plane and
signalling flows to/from a UE. This is regardless of where in the CN they
originate/terminate.
The 3GPP specifications for UTRAN and GSM in Iu mode shall support
compatibility with GSM networks in A/Gb mode from the point of view of roaming
and handover. The 3GPP specifications for EPS support compatibility with GSM
networks and with UMTS from the point of view of roaming and handover. For the
LM/MM functionality point of view this implies among other things the
following:
a) IMSI shall be used as the common user identity in the two CN domains;
b) common MAP signalling is applied to networks supporting either Iu or A/Gb
mode or both.
c) radio network parameters and radio resource management should be isolated
in the RAN.
The LM/MM techniques used should minimise radio resource usage of the RAN.
## 6.2 Location management and mobility management concept overview
### 6.2.1 Non-combined procedures
From a LM/MM point of view, the CN consists of two domains, a CS domain and a
PS domain or one of these domains.
Each domain has its own service state machine. An UE, that is supporting both
CS services and PS services, has a CS service state machine and a PS service
state machine. The two peers of the service state machine are working
independently to each other, although associated to the same UE. The UE-CN
signalling aims to keep the peer entities synchronised.
As an introduction, figure 6.1 gives an overview of the UE registration and
connection principles for the CN consisting of two separate PS and CS service
nodes.
Figure 6.1: Overview of the UE registration and connection principles
The CN consists of both a CS domain with MSC/VLR, 3G_MSC/VLR, as the main
serving node and an PS domain with SGSN/GGSN, 3G_SGSN, 3G GGSN, MME, S-GW and
P-GW as the main serving nodes.
The main PS service states are PS-DETACHED, PS-IDLE and PS-CONNECTED. The main
CS service states are CS‑DETACHED, CS-IDLE and CS-CONNECTED. For the
respective domain there are specific related MM system information controlling
the MM functionality of the UE.
When the UE is attached to PS it may be registered with SGSN and MME in
parallel.
The aim of the RAN is to offer one unified set of radio bearers which can be
used for bursty packet traffic and for traditional telephony traffic.
Therefore, only one logical control channel structure is used for all kind of
traffic. The radio resource handling is RAN internal functionality and the CN
does not define the type of radio resource allocated.
The UTRAN and the E-UTRAN Radio Resource Control (RRC) has two modes, RRC
Connected mode and RRC Idle mode. The RRC mode describes which identity is
used to identify the UE. In RRC Idle mode the UE is identified by a CN
associated identity. In RRC Connected mode the UE is assigned a Radio Network
Temporary Identity to be used as UE identity on common transport channels.
When the UE is allocated dedicated UTRAN transport channels, it uses the
inherent addressing provided by these transport channels.
In PS-CONNECTED state the UE is in RRC Connected mode. In CS-CONNECTED state
the UE is in RRC Connected mode.
For the mobility functionality, different area concepts are used. Tracking
Areas (TAs), Location Areas (LAs) and Routing Areas (RAs) are used in the CN.
UTRAN Registration Areas and Cell Areas are used in the Iu based RAN. LAs are
related to CS services. TAs and RAs are related to PS services.
When \"Intra Domain Connection of RAN Nodes to Multiple CN Nodes\" is not
used, one LA is handled by one CN node. With \"Intra Domain Connection of RAN
Nodes to Multiple CN Nodes\" one LA may be handled by multiple CN nodes. For
an UE that is registered in a LA, this implies that the UE is registered in
the specific CN node handling this specific LA.
When \"Intra Domain Connection of RAN Nodes to Multiple CN Nodes\" is not
used, one RA is handled by one CN node. With \"Intra Domain Connection of RAN
Nodes to Multiple CN Nodes\" one RA may be handled by multiple CN nodes. One
TA may be handled by multiple CN nodes. For an UE that is registered in a TA
or RA, this implies that the UE is registered in the specific CN node handling
this specific TA or RA.
LA is used by the 3G_MSC/VLR for paging the UE. RA is used by the SGSN for
paging the UE. TA is used by the MME for paging the UE. UTRAN Registration
Areas and Cell Areas are only visible in the UTRAN and used in RRC-Connected
mode. The relations between LA, TA and RA are described in clause 4.3.2.
In RRC Idle mode it is the broadcast MM system information (e.g. information
about the present LA, present TA or present RA) that determines when the UE
initiates a location registration procedure towards the CN. An UE crossing an
LA border, in state CS-IDLE and RRC Idle mode, shall initiate LA update
towards the MSC. An UE crossing an RA border, in state PS-IDLE and RRC Idle
mode, shall initiate RA update towards the SGSN. An UE crossing a TA border to
a TA that is not registered with the MME, in state ECM Idle or ECM Connected,
shall initiate TA update towards the MME.
In UTRAN RRC Connected mode, the UE receives the MM system information on the
established RRC connection. (i.e. the broadcast MM system information is not
used by the UE in the UTRAN RRC connected mode). In E-UTRAN RRC Connected
mode, the UE receives the broadcast MM system information and uses it. An UE
receiving information indicating a new LA, in state CS-IDLE and RRC Connected
mode, shall initiate LA update towards the MSC. An UE receiving information
indicating a new RA, in state PS-IDLE and RRC Connected mode, shall initiate
RA update towards the SGSN. An UE receiving information indicating a new TA
that is not registered with the MME shall initiate TA update towards the MME.
An UE in state CS-CONNECTED and RRC Connected mode, shall not initiate LA
update towards the CN.
In CS-DETACHED mode the UE shall not initiate any LA update and this
independent of the RRC mode. In PS-DETACHED mode the UE shall not initiate any
TA or RA updates and this independent of the RRC mode.
In addition to normal location registration when changing registration area,
the UE may (network options) perform CS periodic registration when in CS-IDLE
state and PS periodic registration when in PS-IDLE state. The respective
periodic registration may be on/off on LA respective TA or RA level.
On the MM level, IMSI and CS related TMSI are used as UE identities in the CS
domain, and IMSI and PS related TMSI are used as UE identities in the PS
domain. The IMSI is the common UE identity for the two CN domains (CS and PS).
A signalling connection between the UE and the CN refers to a logical
connection consisting of an RRC connection between UE and RAN and an Iu or S1
signalling connection between the RAN and the CN node. The CS domain related
signalling between RAN and CN applies to UTRAN only. The CS domain related
signalling and PS domain related signalling uses one common RRC connection and
two Iu signalling connections (\"two RANAP instances\"), i.e. one Iu
signalling connection for the CS domain and one Iu signalling connection for
the PS domain.
### 6.2.2 Use of combined procedures
The use of separated PS and CS mobility mechanisms within the UE and within
the CN can lead to non-optimal usage of the radio resource (for example a UE
in PS idle and CS idle state would perform both LA updates (for the CS
mechanism) and TA or RA updates (for PS mechanisms)).
To offer flexibility in the provision of MM , combined mechanisms can be used
for LM purposes as well as for attach/detach status purposes.
A UE can perform combined update mechanisms. A CN should allow combined update
operations (operator option). UEs should support the use of both combined and
separate mechanisms.
NOTE: The support of this feature by all UEs will also ease evolution of MM in
the future.
The RAN does not co-ordinate MM procedures that are logically between the CN
and the MS. This includes: LM, authentication, temporary identity management
and equipment identity check.
## 6.3 Description of the location management and mobility management concept
- area concepts
### 6.3.1 Introduction
For the mobility functionality five different area concepts are used. LA and
RA in the CN as well as UTRAN Registration Area, GERAN Registration Area and
Cell areas in the RAN.
### 6.3.2 Location areas
For CS services, the CN uses LA. LA is used e.g. at CN initiated paging
related to CS services. A CS service related temporary identity, CS \--TMSI,
may be allocated to the UE. This temporary identity is then unique within a
LA.
### 6.3.3 Tracking and Routing areas
For PS services, the CN uses TA or RA. TA or RA is used e.g. at CN initiated
paging related to PS services. A PS service related temporary identity, P-TMSI
or S-TMSI, may be allocated to the UE. The P-TMSI is then unique within an RA.
The S-TMSI is then unique within one or multiple TAs.
### 6.3.3a Support of Iu and A/Gb mode of operation in GERAN Cells
#### 6.3.3a.1 Overview
A GERAN capable cell may belong to the same LA/RA for both modes of operation
(figure 6.2a). In the case of a combined CN node supporting both Iu and A/Gb
mode MSs, a single LA/RA identity for MSs in either mode shall be broadcasted
in the cell since the same LAI and RAI will be used in both modes of
operation.
Figure 6.2a: Combined Iu/A/Gb Cell with Combined CN nodes
It is also possible for GERAN capable cell to support both A/Gb and Iu mode of
operation without any restriction on combined CN nodes (figure 6.2b). In order
to support this GERAN capable cells need to support the possibility to
broadcast both LA/RA identities for MSs in Iu mode and for MSs in A/Gb mode.
The existing LAI/RAI will be used for mobiles operating in A/Gb mode while the
LAI/RAI for Iu mode will be used for mobiles operating in Iu mode. The reason
for this is that the LA and RA cannot in this case overlap the both CNs.
Figure 6.2b: Combined A/Gb/Iu Cell
#### 6.3.3a.2 Interface selection in GERAN Cells
The MS shall be able to derive the mode supported in cell from the information
broadcasted.
The support of different modes of operation in the MS shall be indicated in
the MS Classmark and/or the MS Radio Access Capabilities.
#### 6.3.3a.2.1 Basic principles for MS controlled Cell/Mode selection/re-
selection
The procedures for MS controlled cell selection/re-selection are done
according to UMTS/GSM principles and procedures outlined in TS 25.304 [19] and
TS 45.008 [20]. This means that a GERAN cell will be selected regardless which
mode it supports. The cell selection is based on radio criteria and not
service.
If a GERAN cell is selected and it is both Iu and A/Gb capable, an Iu and A/Gb
capable mobile station shall select Iu mode of operation by default.
NOTE: The above text outlines the default mechanism of mode of operation
selection and does not prohibit the introduction of a more flexible solution,
which avoids unnecessary mode of operation changes, at a later stage
#### 6.3.3a.2.2 Basic principles for network controlled Mode selection/re-
selection
The procedures for network-controlled cell selection/re-selection are done
according to UMTS/GSM principles. When a cell/mode change is ordered by the
network, the mode of operation to apply will be indicated by the network.
### 6.3.4 RAN internal areas
RAN internal areas are used by the UTRAN when the terminal is in RRC-Connected
mode (see clause 6.7). The areas are used at e.g. RAN initiated paging. RAN
internal area updating is a radio network procedure and the RAN internal area
structure should not be visible outside the RAN. In RRC connected mode, the UE
position is known on cell level or on URA/GRA level. RNTI is used as a
temporary UE identifier used within the RAN and allocated at RRC connection
establishment.
### 6.3.5 Relationship between the different areas
The following area relations exist (see figure 6.3):
\- there need not be any relation between URA/GRA and LA respectively between
URA/GRA and RA. The URA concept is defined in TS 25.331 [5] and the GRA
concept is defined in TS 43.051 [12];
\- one RA consists of a number of cells belonging to RNCs that are connected
to the same CN node;
\- one LA consists of a number of cells belonging to RNCs that are connected
to the same CN node;
\- one TA consists of a number of cells belonging to eNodeBs that are
connected to the same CN node;
\- one RA is handled by only one CN serving node, i.e. one combined MSC+SGSN
or one 3G_SGSN, unless \"Intra Domain Connection of RAN Nodes to Multiple CN
Nodes\" is used;
\- one LA is handled by only one CN serving node, i.e. one combined MSC \+
SGSN or one 3G_MSC/VLR, unless \"Intra Domain Connection of RAN Nodes to
Multiple CN Nodes\" is used.
There is no relation between TAs and LA/RAs. However, related configurations
may be useful for certain services, e.g. for CS Fallback.
The GSM defined relations between LA and RA applies i.e. the following
relations between LA and RA are possible:
\- RA and LA is equal;
\- one RA is a subset of one, and only one, LA, meaning that a RA do not span
more than one LA.
The mapping between one LA and RNCs is handled within the MSC/VLR owning this
LA. The mapping between one RA and RNCs is handled within the SGSN owning this
RA. The mapping between LA and cells respective between RA and cells is
handled within RNC.
Figure 6.3: Relationship between different areas
### 6.3.5a Restriction of subscribers\' access
Operators shall be able to restrict their subscriber\'s access between
E-UTRAN, GERAN and UTRAN radio access, via administrative procedures based on
subscription information.
In order for the restriction to apply, the network cells shall be organized so
that each LA and RA contains either UTRAN or GERAN cells only. TAs apply to
E-UTRAN only. Based on the subscription information and the LA/RA/TA
information available in the VLR/SGSN/MME, subscriber\'s access may be
rejected during LA/RA/TA update procedure.
NOTE: In order for this feature to work, both serving and home network
operators need to have configured the feature.
Figure 6.3a: Example scenario between different areas for restriction
The HSS/HLR shall provide the MSC/MSC server/VLR, SGSN and MME with the
following information about the subscriber\'s GERAN and UTRAN access
restriction set by the operator, as specified in TS 23.008 [24]:
\- GERAN not allowed.
\- UTRAN not allowed.
In addition, the HSS/HLR shall provide SGSN and MME with the following
information about the subscriber\'s E-UTRAN access restriction set by the
operator, as specified in TS 23.008 [24]:
\- E-UTRAN not allowed.
If roaming restriction to specific RATs needs to be enforced, SGSN and MME may
be configured with a list of HPLMN IDs that are not allowed to access that
RAT.
The UE shall be notified of the access restriction using the existing
procedures for rejection of Location Update, Routing Area Update, Tracking
Area Update and Attachment, as defined in TS 24.008 [25] and TS 24.301 [33]
and the existing cause values for these procedures.
### 6.3.6 Hierarchical tracking concept
This concept applies to UTRAN access only. A packet UE (in RRC connected mode)
is tracked at the cell level by RNC during an active connection.
A packet UE (in RRC connected mode) is tracked at the URA level by RNC when no
data are actively transfer, and the probability of data transfer is quite
high.
A packet UE (in PS-Idle state) is tracked at the RA level by SGSN when no data
is actively transferred and the probability of data transfer is quite low. The
network operator can optimise paging and updating load by controlling the size
of the different areas and the probability of data transfer (controlled by the
RRC_connection_release timer). For example, one operator can decide that
URA/GRA are small, and that RRC connection are released after a relatively
short time of inactivity, so that most attached packet UE are tracked in the
RA level (optimum for packet UE mainly using client-server type of service).
Another operator can decide that URA/GRA are large, and that RRC connection
are released only if RRC connection is lost, so that most attached packet UE
are tracked at the URA level.
The procedure for the releasing of the RRC connection can be found in TS
23.060 [2] under the Iu release procedure. The URA update procedures can be
found in TS 25.331 [5] and GRA update procedures can be found in TS 43.051
[12].
## 6.4 Relationship between MM and SM states for an UE
When a UE is attached to PS service, it may have, but need not have, some EPS
Bearer/PDP context established with GERAN or UTRAN Access. With E-UTRAN access
a PS attached UE has at least one EPS Bearer context established.
If the UE has no EPS Bearer/PDP context established (SM-Inactive), no radio
access bearer are established for PS service. The UE is in RRC connected mode,
only if the state is CS-CONNECTED state or PS-CONNECTED state (i.e. only a PS
signalling connection is established).
If the UE has at least one EPS Bearer/PDP context established (SM-Active), the
UE can be in PS-CONNECTED state or in PS-IDLE state.
NOTE: The EPS Bearer/PDP context status is not modified by the release of the
RRC connection, except if the release of the connection is due to an RRC
failure which do not permit to maintain the negotiated QoS (e.g. a real time
connection).
## 6.5 Requirement in case of temporarily loss of coverage of packet UE
A packet attached UE using non-real time bearer shall not lose its EPS
Bearer/PDP context in case of temporarily loss of coverage. Within the
network, it shall be possible to use timers to detect when a UE has been out
of coverage for a long period of time and, dependent upon operator policy, to
then remove unused EPS Bearer/PDP context(s).
## 6.6 MM functionality in different UE service states
CS service states and related MM functionality:
\- CS-DETACHED: The UE is not reachable by the network for CS services. The UE
does not initiate LA updates at LA changes and no periodic CS service updates;
\- CS-IDLE: The UE is reachable by paging for CS services. The UE initiates LA
updates at LA changes. The UE may initiate periodic CS service updates and
this depends on the CS periodic update state of the present LA;
\- CS-CONNECTED: The UE has a signalling connection for CS services
established between the UE and the CN. The UE does not initiate LA update
(even not when the present LA changes) and no periodic CS service updates.
PS service states and related MM functionality:
\- PS-DETACHED: The UE is not reachable by the network for PS services. The UE
does not initiate TA/RA updates at TA/RA changes and no periodic PS service
updates;
\- PS-IDLE: The UE is reachable by paging for PS services. The UE initiates
TA/RA updates at TA/RA changes. The UE may initiate periodic PS service
updates and this depends on the PS periodic update state of the present TA/RA;
\- PS-CONNECTED: The UE has a signalling connection for PS services
established between the UE and the CN. The UE initiates TA/RA update when RAI
in MM system information changes. No periodic PS service updates.
There can also be a NULL state. In the UE, this state corresponds to power off
or possibly a \"no SIM\" condition. In the CN, the NULL state correspond to
CS-DETACHED and PS-DETACHED.
For each state transition there can be several events that triggers the
transition. Some of them are described below.
NOTE: Some of these can coincide, e.g. moving from CS-IDLE to CS-DETACHED and
moving from PS-IDLE to PS‑DETACHED.
**Moving from CS-IDLE to CS-CONNECTED:**
The state transition from CS-IDLE to CS-CONNECTED is performed when a
signalling connection is established between UE and CN for CS services. In GSM
this state transition is triggered by the message CM_SERVICE_REQUEST or
PAGE_RESPONSE.
**Moving from CS-CONNECTED to CS-IDLE:**
The state transition from CS-CONNECTED to CS-IDLE is performed when the
signalling connection for CS services is released, e.g. at call release and no
other CS service is ongoing. A radio link failure can also trigger this state
transition.
**Moving from CS-IDLE to CS-DETACHED:**
The transition from CS-IDLE to CS-DETACHED can be triggered by some action
from the user of the UE but an expiring timer in the network could also
trigger it. The UE is marked as CS_DETACHED in the CN and then as a
consequence no CS service establishment is possible.
**Moving from PS-IDLE to PS-CONNECTED:**
The state transition from PS-IDLE to PS-CONNECTED is performed when a
signalling connection is established between UE and CN for PS services.
**Moving from PS-CONNECTED to PS-IDLE:**
The state transition from PS-CONNECTED to PS-IDLE is performed when the
signalling connection for PS services is released, e.g. at release of a PS
service, no other PS service is ongoing and at release of the RRC connection
in case of very low level of activity. A radio link failure can also trigger
this state transition.
**Moving from PS-IDLE to PS-DETACHED:**
The transition from PS-IDLE to PS-DETACHED can be triggered by some action
from the user of the UE but an expiring timer in the network could also
trigger it. The UE is marked as PS_DETACHED in the CN and then as a
consequence no PS service establishment is possible.
## 6.7 The RRC state machine
The UTRAN RRC state machine is a description model of how the UE and the RAN
co-operate regarding RRC functionality. The RRC state describes the state of
the UE in the RAN. Here follows a brief description of the UTRAN RRC state
machine, for more information see TS 25.301 [6] and TS 25.303 [7]. The E-UTRAN
RRC state machine is described in TS 36.331 [29].
NOTE: RRC idle mode and RRC connected mode refer to the UE idle mode and UE
connected mode respectively in TS 25.301 [6] and TS 25.303 [7].
The RRC state machine exists as peer entities, one in the UE and one in RAN.
Apart from transient situations and error cases they are synchronised. Figure
6.4 illustrates the main modes/states of the RRC state machine.
{width="3.4902777777777776in" height="2.5in"}
Figure 6.4: RRC modes, main RRC states and main mode/state transitions
**RRC-Idle_mode:**
In the Idle mode there is no connection established between UE and RAN. There
is no signalling between RAN and the UE except for system information that is
sent from RAN down link on a Broadcast channel to the UE. The UE can also
receive paging messages with a CN identity on the PCH. There is no information
on the UE stored in RAN in this state.
**RRC-Connected_mode:**
In the Connected mode the main states are Cell Connected state and URA
connected state. In this mode there is one RNC that is acting as Serving RNC
(SRNC), and an RRC connection is established between the UE and this SRNC.
  * When the UE position is known on cell level, the UE is in the cell > connected state. When in cell connected state, the RRC connection > mobility is handled by handover procedures.
  * When the UE position is known on URA level, the UE is in the URA > connected state. The URA contains a set of cells. URA updating > procedures provides the mobility functionality in this state. In > URA connected state no dedicated radio resources are used.
## 6.8 Relationship between CS and PS service states and RRC state for an UE
This clause describes the relationship for the UTRAN. In E-UTRAN the RRC
operates for PS services only despite some extensions for supporting the
provision of CS services via GERAN/UTRAN.
During non-transient conditions the following relations are valid between
service states and RRC modes for an UE:
\- when in either CS-CONNECTED state or PS-CONNECTED state, or in both CS-
CONNECTED state and PS-CONNECTED state, then the UE is in RRC connected mode;
\- when in neither CS-CONNECTED state nor PS-CONNECTED state, then the UE is
in RRC idle mode.
Figure 6.5 and figure 6.6 illustrate two examples on the relations between the
UTRAN RRC states and CS/PS service states.
Figure 6.5: UE in CS-CONNECTED state and PS-IDLE state
Figure 6.6: UE in CS-IDLE state and PS-DETACHED state
## 6.9 Service registration and location update
### 6.9.1 Introduction
Service registration (attach) in the respective CN domain is done initially
(after UE being detached due to e.g. power off). When a registration area is
changed a location update is performed. In addition, periodic registration can
be performed. Here follows descriptions of when the respective CN registration
area is changed.
NOTE: It is not here defined which different registration procedures that are
needed.
### 6.9.2 Location area update
LA update is initiated by the UE to inform the CS domain of the CN that the UE
has entered a new LA. In case the new LA is in an area served by another CN
node, the LA update also triggers the registration of the subscriber in the
new CN node and a location update for CS services towards the HLR/HSS.
LA update is only initiated by the UE when the UE is in state CS-IDLE, and
this independently of the PS state. If the UE is CS-IDLE but RRC connected,
which means that the UE is in PS-CONNECTED state, LA update is initiated by
the UE when it receives information indicating a new LA.
### 6.9.3 Tracking and Routing area update
TA/RA update is initiated by the UE to inform the PS domain of the CN that the
UE has entered a new TA/RA. In case the new TA/RA is in an area served by
another CN node, the TA/RA update also triggers the registration of the
subscriber in the new CN node and a location update for PS services towards
the HSS.
TA/RA update is initiated by the UE when the UE is in state PS-IDLE, and this
independently of the CS state. If the UE is PS-IDLE but UTRAN RRC connected,
which means that the UE is in CS-CONNECTED state, RA update is initiated by
the UE when it receives information indicating a new RA.
When the UE is in PS-CONNECTED state the UE initiates TA/RA update when
TAI/RAI in MM system information changes.
### 6.9.4 Combined updates
The GSM radio interface combined procedures and their support via the Gs
interface is the starting point for the support of combined updates. With
E-UTRAN access combined update procedures may be used by MME and MSC.
## 6.10 Paging initiated by CN
A CN node requests paging only for UE in CS-IDLE state or PS IDLE state.
Paging from a CN node is done independent of the service state of the UE in
the other CN domain type.
CS and PS paging is co-ordinated within the UTRAN. Details on how the co-
ordination is achieved and the parameters to be provided by the CN are
specified in TS 25.413 [9]. The procedures required between the UTRAN and UE
are in TS 25.331 [5].
## 6.11 Signalling connection establishment
A signalling connection between the UE and a CN node refers here to a logical
connection consisting of an RRC connection between UE and the RAN and an S1 or
Iu signalling connection between the RAN and the CN node. The signalling
connection is used for transfer of higher layer (MM, CM) information between
the UE and the CN node.
At a service request to one of the CN domain types and when no such connection
exists towards the applicable CN domain type, the UE shall request
establishment of a new signalling connection.
If no RRC connection exists, this is established in conjunction with (before)
the transfer of the signalling establishment request. At the RRC connection
establishment, an UE context is built up in the SRNC.
If an RRC connection is already established, the UE shall send the signalling
establishment request using that RRC connection.
At reception of the signalling establishment request, the RAN will establish
an S1 or Iu connection towards the CN node indicated by the CN service domain
type received from UE.
## 6.11a CS Domain Signalling Requirements (in particular relating to
handover)
Correct operation of the Call Control, Mobility Management and Call
Independent Supplementary Service protocols requires that downlink messages
from the MSC shall be delivered in the correct order and shall not be lost,
duplicated or delivered in error.
The RAN and Iu/A interfaces shall provide this functionality in all cases
except for when the Iu/A interface SCCP connection is being changed, e.g. at
SRNS relocation or inter-BSC (external) handover.
When the SCCP connection is being changed, the MSC shall buffer downlink CC,
MM and CISS messages. Specifically, the MSC shall buffer messages from these
protocols after transmission of a (BSSMAP) Handover Command or RANAP-
Relocation Command message and until receipt of a Handover Complete,
Relocation Complete, Handover Failure or Relocation Cancel message.
In the uplink, the UE is responsible for delivering the CS domain messages
across the radio interface. Once the message has been received by part of the
network, it is the network\'s responsibility to deliver the message to the
MSC. This can result in duplicate message delivery to the CN. The RAN shall
ensure that the protocol used between UE and RAN permits any duplicate
messages that are delivered to the CN, to be correctly discarded by N(SD)
mechanism specified in TS 24.007 [22] for the uplink CC, MM and CISS messages.
## 6.12 Relations between SRNS relocation and location registration
This clause clarifies the need for separate handling of MM registration area
(LA and RA) information in RRC idle mode respective in RRC connected mode. The
following example illustrates relations between SRNC relocation, registration
area (LA/RA) change and LA/RA updates. As shown in the example, this is
equally applicable for a combined MSC + SGSN as well as the 3G-MSC/VLR and
3G-SGSN.
NOTE 1: The example is based on the assumptions that one RNC can set up Iu
connections to only one 3G_MSC/VLR (or combined MSC+SGSN) and only one 3G_SGSN
(or combined MSC+ SGSN), and that the CN node is configured to only send page
to the RNC(s) that is controlling cells within the relevant LA/RA.
Preconditions (see figure 6.7):
\- LA1 is handled by 3G_MSC/VLR1 and LA2 is handled by 3G_MSC/VLR2 ;
\- RA1 is handled by 3G_SGSN1 and RA2 is handled by 3G_SGSN2 ;
\- UE is registered in LA1 in 3G_MSC/VLR1 and in RA1 in 3G_SGSN1;
\- the UE is in PS-CONNECTED state and a signalling connection exists between
UE and 3G_SGSN1;
\- the UE is in CS-IDLE state and no signalling connection exists between UE
and 3G_MSC/VLR1;
\- RNC1 is acting as SRNC and RNC2 is acting as DRNC;
\- UE is in RRC cell connected state and with dedicated channels established
to cells within both RNC1 and RNC2. UE does not listening to the PCH;
\- the registration area information sent to the UE indicates LA1 and RA1.
The UE can always (at least in normal working states) identify the present
available registration area (LA respective RA) associated with the respective
CN domain. The determination of the present area differs depending on the
state of the UE. For UE in RRC idle mode (UE with no ongoing communication
with the network) it is the cell selection mechanism in the UE that is used.
For UE in RRC connected mode it is the RAN that determines the area (although
a change can implicit be initiated by the UE).
Figure 6.7: Illustration of the preconditions in the described example
In figure 6.7 MSC stands for 3G_MSC/VLR and SGSN for 3G_SGSN.
The UE moves now further towards the right, leaving the coverage area of cells
controlled by RNC1, and resulting in that the UE has dedicated channel(s)
established to cell(s) within only RNC2. This can result in the following
sequence of events:
\- the SRNC (RNC1) can decide to perform an SRNC relocation resulting in that
the RNC2 becomes SRNC. In this example, the change of SRNC also implies a
change of SGSN with an update of the UE location registration for the PS
domain;
\- after this SRNC relocation or combined with this procedure, the MM
registration area information sent to the UE is changed and indicates now LA2
and RA2;
NOTE 2: The MM registration area information need not be sent for every SRNS
relocation, nor does it preclude MM registration area information being sent
in other occasions.
\- the UE initiates a LA update, which results in a registration change from
LA1 in 3G_MSC/VLR1 to LA2 in 3G_MSC/VLR2 and results in changed MM
registration information.
NOTE 3: The area information can not be changed to indicate LA2 unless SRNC
relocation has been performed, because the LA update signalling is sent from
the UE, by using the established RRC connection to SRNC, and then to the
3G_MSC/VLR to which the SRNC belongs.
## 6.13 Requirements on identifiers for UMTS and GSM
> 1a) The format of the UMTS Location Area Identifier and UMTS TMSI shall not
> prevent a dual mode GSM-UMTS mobile which was last location updated over the
> GSM radio interface (i.e. has a GSM LAI and GSM TMSI), from performing a
> location update (or other signalling) over the UMTS radio interface to a
> UMTS MSC.
>
> 1b) The format of the UMTS Location Area Identifier and UMTS TMSI shall not
> prevent a dual mode GSM-UMTS mobile which was last location updated over the
> UMTS radio interface (i.e. has a UMTS LAI and UMTS TMSI), from performing a
> location update (or other signalling) over the GSM radio interface to a GSM
> MSC.
>
> 1c) The format of the UMTS Routing Area Identifier and UMTS P-TMSI shall not
> prevent a dual mode GSM‑UMTS mobile which was last routing area updated over
> the GSM radio interface (i.e. has a GSM RAI and GSM P-TMSI), from performing
> a routing area update (or other signalling) over the UMTS radio interface to
> a UMTS SGSN.
>
> 1d) The format of the UMTS Routing Area Identifier and UMTS P-TMSI shall not
> prevent a dual mode GSM‑UMTS mobile which was last routing area updated over
> the UMTS radio interface (i.e. has a UMTS RAI and UMTS P-TMSI), from
> performing a routing area update (or other signalling) over the GSM radio
> interface to a GSM SGSN.
>
> 2) The standard shall support means by which an operator can configure GSM
> and UMTS cells to be members of the same registration area (i.e. the mobile
> can receive paging from whichever cell it is camped on and does not need to
> location update (or routing update) just because the mobile has changed from
> a UMTS to a GSM cell).
>
> 3a) The standard shall support means by which an operator can allocate GSM
> and UMTS LAIs which enable GSM MSCs to be able to contact UMTS MSCs and vice
> versa.
>
> 3b) The standard shall support means by which an operator can allocate GSM
> and UMTS RAIs which enable GSM SGSNs to be able to contact UMTS SGSNs and
> vice versa.
4) The standard shall support means by which an operator can ensure that the
IMSI does not need to be sent over the radio interface when the mobile station
moves from a GSM cell to a UMTS cell (and vice-versa).
5) The standard shall support means by which an operator can ensure that the
IMSI does not need to be sent over the radio interface when a USIM is moved
from a UMTS mobile station to a GSM mobile station (and vice‑versa).
> 6) The standard need not support means by which an operator can ensure that
> the IMSI is not sent over the radio interface when a GSM SIM is moved from a
> GSM mobile station to a UMTS mobile station (and vice-versa).
## 6.14 Use of MM system information
In each cell the network broadcasts MM system information on the broadcast
channel. . The \"current MM system information\" is used by the MM
functionality in the UE respecting the rules for the UE service state of the
respective MM state machine, see clause 6.6. The \"current MM system
information\" is identified as follows:
\- In RRC idle mode, when the UE camps on one cell, it receives all MM system
information valid for this cell on the broadcast channel of the cell. The
received MM system information is then the \"current MM system information\";
\- In UTRAN RRC connected mode, the SRNS shall control the current MM system
information valid for the UE. e.g. at SRNS relocation, the new SRNS may send
applicable MM system information to the UE. The established RRC connection
shall be used for transferring any new MM system information to the UE. The UE
shall use any new MM system information received from the SRNC on the
established RRC connection as the \"current MM system information\";
NOTE: The MM system information need not necessarily be sent for every SRNSs
relocation, nor does it prelude MM system information being sent on other
occasions.
\- In E-UTRAN RRC connected mode, the UE receives all MM system information
valid for this cell on the broadcast channel of the cell. The received MM
system information is then the \"current MM system information\";
\- At the RRC connection establishment, the UE uses the broadcasted MM system
information of the cell where the establishment is made as the \"current MM
system information\";
\- When the UE leaves the RRC connected mode and enters RRC idle mode, the UE
uses the broadcasted MM system information of the chosen cell, which is
determined by the UE idle mode cell selection/re-selection process that is
then performed, as the \"current MM system information\".
## 6.15 Signalling procedures
### 6.15.1 Idle mode procedures
The signalling procedures shown in the following clauses do not represent the
complete set of possibilities, nor do they mandate this kind of operation.
This document specifies a set of elementary procedures for each interface,
which can be combined in different ways in an implementation. Therefore these
sequences are merely examples of a typical implementation. By default the
combined procedures as defined in TS 23.060 [2] or TS 23.272 [30] are also
applicable when using Gs or SGs.
The list of parameters should be regarded as examples of possible information
carried by the messages and not as a complete list.
#### 6.15.1.1 Location Area update
Figure 6.8 shows location registration when changing LA including change of
3G-MSC/VLR and when the UE is in MM idle state towards the 3G_MSC/VLR.
The illustrated transfer of MM signalling to/from the UE uses an established
RRC connection. This RRC connection can have been established beforehand due
to ongoing interwork between UE and 3G-SGSN or be established only for this
location registration procedure towards the 3G_MSC/VLR.
For each indicated MM message sent in this case to/from UE, the CN
discriminator indicates 3G_MSC/VLR.
{width="4.736805555555556in" height="5.03125in"}
Figure 6.8: Interface information transfer for location update when changing
VLR area
1 The RRC connection is established, if not already done. The UE sends the
initial message LA Update Request (old TMSI, old LAI, etc.) to the new
3G_MSC/VLR. The old TMSI and LAI are those that were assigned to the UE. The
SRNS transfers the message to the 3G_MSC/VLR
NOTE: The sending of this message to 3G_MSC/VLR also implies establishment of
a signalling connection between SRNS and 3G_MSC/VLR for the concerned UE.
> The RAN shall add the RAC and the LAC of the cell where the message was
> received before passing the message to the MSC.
2\. The new 3G_MSC/VLR sends an Send Identification Request (old TMSI) to the
old 3G_MSC/VLR to get the IMSI for the UE. (The old LAI received from UE is
used to derive the old 3G_MSC/VLR identity/address.) The old 3G_MSC/VLR
responds with Send Identification Ack. (IMSI and Authentication triplets).
3\. Security functions may be executed.
4\. The new 3G_MSC/VLR inform the HLR of the change of 3G_MSC/VLR by sending
Update Location (IMSI, MSC address, VLR number) to the HLR.
5\. The HLR cancels the context in the old 3G_MSC/VLR by sending Cancel
Location (IMSI). The old 3G_MSC/VLR removes the context and acknowledges with
Cancel Location Ack.
6\. The HLR sends Insert Subscriber Data (IMSI, subscription data) to the new
3G_MSC/VLR. The new 3G_MSC/VLR acknowledges with Insert Subscriber Data Ack.
7\. The HLR acknowledges the Update Location by sending Update Location Ack.
to the new 3G_MSC/VLR.
8\. The new 3G_MSC/VLR validates the UE presence in the new LA. If due to
regional, national or international restrictions the UE is not allowed to
attach in the LA or subscription checking fails, then the new 3G_MSC/VLR
rejects the LA update with an appropriate cause. If all checks are successful,
then the new 3G_MSC/VLR responds to the UE with LA Update Accept (new TMSI,
new LAI).
9\. The UE acknowledges the new TMSI with a TMSI reallocation Complete. (TMSI
can optionally be reallocated with the TMSI reallocation procedure).
10\. When the location registration procedure is finished, the 3G_MSC/VLR can
release the signalling connection towards the SRNS for the concerned UE. The
SRNS shall then release the RRC connection if there is no signalling
connection between 3G_SGSN and SRNS for the UE.
#### 6.15.1.2 Routing Area Update
The routing area update procedure is detailed in TS 23.060 [2].
#### 6.15.1.2A Tracking Area Update
The tracking area update procedure is detailed in TS 23.401 [27].
#### 6.15.1.3 Periodic registration towards both CN nodes without use of Gs or
SGs
Periodic registration for the CS domain is specified in TS 23.012 [3].
Periodic registration for the PS domain is covered in TS 23.060 [2] and in TS
23.401 [27].
#### 6.15.1.4 Periodic registration with use of Gs or SGs
Periodic registration for the PS domain with use of Gs or SGs is covered in TS
23.060 [2] or in TS 23.272 [30]. Only TA/RA Updates are required from the UE
to the SGSN or MME.
#### 6.15.1.5 UE initiated combined detach procedure when using Gs or SGs
UE initiated Combined Detach Procedure when using Gs or SGs is specified in TS
23.060 [2] or in TS 23.272 [30]. The UE indicates which form of detach is
required, i.e., PS Detach only, CS Detach only or combined Detach.
#### 6.15.1.6 Forbidden LA/RA
The CN (SGSN and MSC/VLR) shall not send the COMMON Id message with SNA
information to the UTRAN when the attach request, LA update, or RA update are
rejected.
### 6.15.2 SRNS Relocation
SRNS relocation is UTRAN related functionality covered in TS 25.413 [9] and TS
23.060 [2].
NOTE: Examples of RAN signalling are given in TR 25.931 [15].
## 6.16 RAN coordination
This applies to UTRAN only. The RAN coordinates the resource allocation of an
UE attached to both PS and CS services. The UTRAN shall reject or downgrade a
connection which cannot be granted, see TS 23.060 [2]. The cause might be
congestion on the radio interface, or the existence of other connections
between this UE and the other CN.
The RAN uses the IMSI to identify a UE. The IMSI is transferred from the CN to
the RAN with the common ID procedure. When an Iu connection is established,
the CN shall perform the RANAP common ID procedure toward RAN as soon as the
UE is identified (IMSI). The IMSI is only stored in the RAN for the duration
of the RRC Connection.
There are two functions that are co-ordinated.
1) Paging coordination is described in 5.9.1 of TS 25.410 [10]; and
2) Relocation coordination that is described in 8.7.5 in TS 25.413 [9].
# 7 Call control
## 7.1 General Aspects
The following technical requirements are applied to support multimedia in
GSM/UMTS.
> 1) GSM/UMTS shall enable the provisioning of multimedia services and
> multivendor interworking between UE and network.
>
> 2) Handover and roaming to and from GSM shall be supported provided GSM is
> capable of supporting the ongoing media service.
>
> 3) For multimedia services the standardized multimedia protocol shall be run
> transparently via a PDP-context or a CS connection established using GSM
> SM/CC . This allows transparent hand-over and roaming between GSM and UMTS
> provided that GSM supports the QoS requirements.
>
> 4) SIP from the IETF shall be the multimedia call control supported over the
> PS domain, where the network functional entities for multimedia support are
> within the PLMN.
NOTE: Other multimedia protocols can be supported e.g. H.323 transparently
over the PS domain . In these cases, the multimedia functional entities shall
be outside of the PLMN. Support of terminating calls for these protocols are
outside the scope of these specifications.
> 5) H.324M shall be supported within the CS domain.
Figure 7.1 illustrates the realisation of the multimedia service based on
requirement 3. \'Multimedia Protocol\' indicates the functionality either
inside the communicating user\'s terminal or a server (e.g. SIP server). It is
essentially a control function both for user plane and control plane for the
multimedia communication.
Figure 7.1: Support of multimedia making use of GSM SM/CC
## 7.2 Domain selection for mobile terminated calls from the PSTN/CS domain
### 7.2.1 Introduction
It is an operator\'s decision whether mobile terminated calls from the PSTN/CS
domain are routed first to the CS domain, or to the IM subsystem. Both options
may co-exist within one operator\'s network.
The ability to select whether the CS domain or the IMS will provide the
services is termed the Service Domain Selection (SDS) (see clause 7.2.2) and
whether the CS domain or the IMS/IP‑CAN is used to communicate call
termination from the network and the UE is termed access domain selection
(ADS) (see clauses 7.2a and 7.2b).
### 7.2.2 Calls directed to the CS domain
When the mobile terminated call set-up arrives at a G-MSC server or G-MSC,
then that call may be subject to service domain selection to determine whether
the terminating call is to be delivered to the CS domain or the IMS is used to
provide the services for the user. The G-MSC Server or G-MSC interrogates the
HSS for routing information. The HSS decides on the way the call shall be
treated next (e.g. IM CN subsystem, CS domain (e.g. the subscriber is roaming
in a legacy network), service platform involvement). According to the
decision, the HSS returns information that will make the G-MSC progress the
call towards an MGCF (for onward handling in the IMS), a VMSC or to provide
further processing (e.g. invoke CAMEL G-MSC processing).
SDS may take into account for terminating calls whether the user is roaming or
not, user preferences, service subscription and operator policy.
### 7.2.3 Calls directed to the IMS
When the mobile terminated call set-up arrives at a MGCF, then the MGCF passes
the session to an I‑CSCF which interrogates the HSS for routing information.
The HSS returns information that will enable the I‑CSCF to progress the call
towards an S‑CSCF. From the S‑CSCF the session may be re-directed to the CS
domain or may continue in the IMS upon instruction from the access domain
selection functionality (see clause 7.2b).
## 7.2a Domain selection for UE originating sessions / calls
For UE originating calls, the UE performs access domain selection. The UE
shall be able to take following factors into account for access domain
selection decision:
\- The state of the UE in the circuit switched domain. This state information
shall be included: Detached, Attached.
\- The state of the UE in the IMS. The state information shall include:
Registered, Unregistered.
\- The domain used by an existing session / call for the same service.
\- User preferences and any available operator policy.
\- The \"IMS voice over PS session supported indication\" as defined in TS
23.060 [2] and TS 23.401 [27].
\- Whether the UE is expected to behave in a \"Voice centric\" or \"Data
Centric\" way
\- UE capability of supporting IMS PS voice.
\- Indications the network may have provided to the UE in combined attach/TAU,
e.g. \"SMS only\" indication or \"CSFB Not Preferred\" indication, as defined
in TS 23.272 [30]
The service domain selection functionality will decide whether the call is
serviced in the CS domain or the IMS. Service domain selection functionality
may take into account for originating calls whether the user is roaming or
not, user preferences, service subscription and operator policy. If the UE is
configured for Voice over IMS, the service domain selection functionality
should take the \"IMS voice over PS session supported indication\" into
account and should only initiate IMS voice calls (with the voice bearer in the
PS domain) using the RAT where the \"IMS voice over PS session supported
indication\" applies and indicates support. The \"IMS voice over PS session
supported indication\" applies to E-UTRAN when received in E-UTRAN, and
applies to UTRAN when either received in GERAN or UTRAN.
To allow for appropriate domain selection for originating voice calls, the
following applies for a CSFB and IMS capable UE in E-UTRAN:
\- It should be possible to provision UEs with the following HPLMN operator
preferences on how a CSFB/IMS enabled UE is supposed to handle voice services
(See Annex A for examples on UE behaviour for each configuration):
\- CS Voice only: the UE will not attempt to initiate voice sessions over IMS
using a PS bearer and will not attempt to initiate voice sessions using IMS
signalling to control a CS bearer (see TS 23.292 [31]). The UE will attempt
combined EPS/IMSI attach (as defined in TS 23.272 [30]).
\- CS Voice preferred, IMS PS Voice as secondary: the UE will try preferably
to use the CS domain to originate and terminate voice calls. The UE will
attempt combined EPS/IMSI attach (as defined in TS 23.272 [30]) and if
combined EPS/IMSI attach fails for the CS domain or the combined EPS/IMSI
attach succeeds with an SMS only indication or the combined EPS/IMSI attach
succeeds with a CSFB Not Preferred indication, the UE attempts voice over IMS.
\- IMS PS Voice preferred, CS Voice as secondary: the UE will try preferably
to use IMS to originate and terminate voice sessions. If the UE fails to use
IMS for voice e.g. due to \"IMS voice over PS session supported indication\"
indicates voice is not supported (in Attach accept or subsequent TAU accept),
then the services are provided using CS domain (as defined in TS 23.272 [30]).
The UE can either perform combined EPS/IMSI attach or EPS attach when
attaching to E‑UTRAN.
NOTE 1: Whether to perform combined EPS/IMSI attach or EPS attach for the case
of \"IMS PS Voice preferred\" is to be evaluated in each release of the
specifications.
\- IMS PS Voice only: the UE will not attempt combined EPS/IMSI attach (to
support voice services) and perform IMS registration indicating support for
voice.
\- A CSFB/IMS enabled UE may behave in either a \"Voice centric\" or \"Data
centric\" way:
\- UE acting in a \"Voice centric\" way would always try to ensure that Voice
service is possible. A CSFB/IMS enabled UE acting in a \"Voice centric\" way
that cannot obtain IMS voice over PS session service, should select a cell of
any RAT that provides access to the CS domain. In this case, when CSFB (as
defined in TS 23.272 [30]) is not supported in the network, the UE should camp
only on RATs that provides access to the CS domain (e.g. GERAN and UTRAN) and
disable E-UTRAN capability.
Upon receiving combined EPS/IMSI attach accept with \"SMS only\" indication or
with \"CSFB Not Preferred\" indication, a voice centric UE that fails to use
IMS will reselect to another RAT.
\- UE acting in a \"Data centric\" way would always try to ensure it gets PS
data connectivity, e.g. the UE would stay in the current RAT for PS data
connectivity even when voice service is not obtained. A CSFB/IMS enabled UE
acting in a \"Data centric\" way that cannot obtain IMS voice over PS session
service in EPS, should continue to stay in EPS even when the EPS does not
support CSFB (as defined in TS 23.272 [30]).
Upon receiving combined EPS/IMSI attach accept with \"SMS only\" indication, a
data centric UE stays in the current RAT.
Upon receiving combined EPS/IMSI attach accept with \"CSFB Not Preferred\"
indication, a data centric stays in the current RAT and is allowed to use
CSFB.
\- In limited service state, a UE that is CS voice capable should always camp
on a RAT which is likely to support the CS domain, e.g. GERAN or UTRAN.
\- A CSFB/IMS enabled UE which is registered in the CS domain, e.g. using CSFB
procedures or using above-mentioned selection principles, shall initiate
emergency call attempts in the CS domain by using available CS domain
procedures. A CSFB/IMS enabled or an IMS capable UE which is not registered in
the CS domain shall initiate emergency calls in the CS domain by autonomously
switching to a RAT which supports the CS domain (e.g. GERAN or UTRAN).
To allow for appropriate domain selection for originating voice calls, the
following CS/IMS voice preference setting applies for a CS and IMS capable UE
in UTRAN:
\- It should be possible to provision UEs with the following HPLMN operator
preferences on how a CS/IMS enabled UE is supposed to handle voice services:
\- CS Voice only: the UE will not attempt to initiate voice sessions over IMS
using a PS bearer. This does not preclude the use of IMS signalling to control
a CS bearer (see TS 23.292 [31]);
\- CS Voice preferred, IMS PS Voice as secondary: the UE will try preferably
to use the CS domain (possibly using IMS signalling, see TS 23.292 [31]) to
originate voice calls;
\- IMS PS Voice preferred, CS Voice as secondary: the UE will try preferably
to use IMS to originate voice sessions. If the UE fails to use IMS for voice
e.g. due to \"IMS voice over PS session supported indication\" indicates voice
is not supported (in Attach accept or subsequent RAU accept), then the UE will
use the CS domain to originate voice calls, possibly using IMS signalling (see
TS 23.292 [31]).
NOTE 2: The above CS/IMS voice preference setting is only applicable for the
selection of domain for the voice media, i.e. the existing mobility procedure
is not changed due to these settings.
## 7.2b Access Domain Selection for terminating sessions
Terminating Access Domain Selection (T-ADS) selects CS access and/or one or
more PS access network(s) to be used to deliver a terminating session to the
UE.
For IMS Service Centralization and Continuity enabled networks, T-ADS is a
functionality located in the IMS. The UE enhanced for IMS Service
Centralization and Continuity is able to assist the T-ADS.
Prior to responding to a session request requesting one or more media (i.e.
bi-directional speech media) bearers in the PS domain, the UE shall determine,
based on the PS domain\'s access network capabilities including the
information whether IMS voice over PS Session is supported (as specified in TS
23.060 [2] and TS 23.401 [27]) (if indicated), user preferences and operator
policy, whether the media bearers can be accepted on the PS domain. If the
media bearers cannot be accepted, then the UE shall perform SDS.
For IMS Service Centralization and Continuity users, T ADS is performed as
specified in TS 23.292 [31] and TS 23.237 [32].
For terminating sessions:
\- T-ADS is always performed after the terminating services.
The T-ADS may take following factors (but not limited to) into account for the
selection decision:
\- The state of the UE in the circuit switched domain. This state information
shall be included: Detached, Attached.
\- The state of the UE in the IMS. The state information shall include:
Registered, Unregistered.
\- The UE capabilities.
\- The access network capabilities.
\- The domains / access types used by an existing session.
\- The media components included in the incoming session.
\- User preferences and operator policy.
## 7.2c Domain Selection for UE originating SMS
To allow for appropriate domain selection for SMS delivery, the following
applies for an IMS capable UE which supports SMS over IP networks:
\- It should be possible to provision UEs with the following HPLMN operator
preferences on how an IMS enabled UE is supposed to handle SMS services:
\- SMS is not to be invoked over IP networks: the UE does not attempt to
deliver SMS over IP networks. The UE attempts to deliver SMS over NAS
signalling.
\- SMS is preferred to be invoked over IP networks: the UE attempts to deliver
SMS over IP networks. If delivery of SMS over IP networks is not available,
the UE attempts to deliver SMS over NAS signalling.
## 7.3 Routing sessions from the IMS to the CS Domain
If the IMS Service Centralization and Continuity is not used and if a
subscriber is subscribed to both the CS domain and the IMS, then there may
arise the need to route sessions that arrived in the IMS to the CS domain
using a number related to the subscriber\'s MS-ISDN. All sessions which are
forwarded from the IMS to the CS domain shall enter the CS domain through a
G-MSC or G-MSC Server. The G-MSC or G-MSC Server will handle the session as a
mobile terminating call.
If the IMS Service Centralization and Continuity is used, the routing of the
session from IMS to CS shall be done according to TS 23.292 [31].
# 8 Support of IM CN Subsystem services
## 8.1 Context activation and registration
The IP address is allocated to UE either by GPRS specific signalling when a
PDP context is activated using the PDP Context Activation Procedure, or some
other means e.g. by DHCP. The UE shall use IP addresses assigned to it for,
but not limited to, the following:
\- the exchange of application level signalling (e.g., registration, CC) with
the S‑CSCF from the access network currently used,
\- application level registration to IM CN subsystem as an address used to
reach the UE
\- an address used to reach the UE for multimedia sessions.
The P‑CSCF is located either in the Home network or in the Visited Network.
In the following flow, a description of the order in which the registration
procedure is executed and how the IP address is allocated is shown. Figure 8.1
shows the procedures performed during the GPRS and application level
registration.
Figure 8.1: Registration
The following steps are performed:
1\. the bearer level registration is performed (e.g. when the terminal is
switched on or upon explicit indication from the user).
2\. the PDP context activation is done. The UE has two options:
\- activate a PDP context using the PDP Context Activation Procedure and
obtain a new IP address (e.g. if the UE does not have any existing PDP context
active or desires to use a different IP address)
\- activate an additional PDP context using the Secondary PDP Context
Activation Procedure and re-using the IP address of the linked already active
PDP contexts.
3\. UE performs the P‑CSCF discovery procedure, where the UE discovers a
P‑CSCF, TS 23.228 [11].
There can be time gaps between these procedures and the following one. For
instance, the UE may perform PDP context activation and the P‑CSCF discovery,
but not the application level registration. The UE may use the activated PDP
context for other types of signalling, e.g. for P‑CSCF discovery.
4\. UE performs application level registration by providing the IP address
obtained at step 2 to the P‑CSCF selected at step 3. The IP address used for
signalling purposes is allocated in association with PDP context activation
and not on an incoming call basis.
> The discovered P‑CSCF forwards the registration on to the UE\'s home network
> where a S‑CSCF [11] is assigned and the registration takes place. This
> registration associates the P‑CSCF with the UE.
>
> From the S‑CSCF point of view, the P‑CSCF is where the UE is reachable for
> mobile-terminated session control signalling and any other type of mobile
> terminated IMS signalling.
Whether the procedures are activated individually by the UE or some of them
are performed automatically depends on implementation of the terminal and on
the UE\'s configuration. For instance, the multimedia application in the UE
could start the application level registration and steps 2-4 would have to be
executed in response to support the operation initiated by the application.
Interaction with the UE may happen during these steps.
## 8.2 Location management
### 8.2.1 Registration concepts for a subscriber roaming into CS domain
Figure 8.2 shows the registration concept for a subscriber, who access IM
services in the home network, roaming into a CS domain.
Figure 8.2: A roaming model for registration in a CS domain
NOTE: The above figure shows one configuration where the Signalling Gateway
(SGW) is needed. Other configurations are possible as well (see TS 23.002
[1]).
The detailed message sequence chart for a subscriber roaming into a CS domain
and accessing an IM application is shown in figure 8.3.
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="3.640972222222222in"}
Figure 8.3: Message sequence for roaming into a CS domain
1\. The UE initiates the Location Update procedure with the MSC/VLR of the
visited network. The LU message contains the IMSI of the subscriber.
2\. The authentication is performed as per the existing 3GPP specifications
for the CS domain.
3\. The MSC/VLR initiates the MAP Location Update procedure towards the HSS of
the user via SGW. The HSS stores the VLR address etc. The message contains
IMSI and other parameters as defined in the 3GPP specifications for the CS
domain. The SGW performs SS7 transport to/from IP conversion.
4\. The HSS provides the subscriber data for the roaming user to VLR by
sending MAP Insert Subscriber Data message via SGW. The message contains IMSI
and other necessary parameters as defined in the 3GPP specification for both
Iu and A/Gb mode. The message is passed through the SGW transparently while
the SS7 to/from IP conversion is performed in SGW.
5\. The serving VLR then acknowledges the receipt of the subscriber data to
the HSS via SGW.
6\. The HSS acknowledges the completion of location updating procedure to the
MSC/VLR via SGW.
7\. The MSC/VLR acknowledges the completion of location updating procedure to
the UE.
8\. The HSS sends the MAP Cancel Location message to the old MSC/VLR (optional
procedure).
9\. Location cancellation is acknowledged to the HSS by the old MSC/VLR.
NOTE 1: The steps 8 and 9 above assume that the UE was previously registered
to a CS domain .
NOTE 2: The MAP messages between the MSC/VLR and HSS are passed transparently
via SGW. The SGW does not interpret the MAP messages in anyway, but performs
only the lower level conversion between SS7 and IP. This is in accordance with
the TS 23.002 [1] for SGW.
## 8.3 IMS Emergency sessions
### 8.3.1 GPRS considerations for UE recognized IMS Emergency Sessions
Requirements for GPRS functions for support of IMS emergency services are not
defined in this version of the specification.
### 8.3.2 Emergency Calls in absence of UICC for GPRS Access
Requirements for GPRS functions for support of IMS emergency services are not
defined in this version of the specification.
# 9 Efficient use of radio resource
This clause captures the technical requirements to ensure efficient use of the
radio resource in the UMTS access network. The radio resource is considered to
be a scarce resource and therefore every opportunity shall be taken to
optimize its use.
For UTRAN it shall be possible to re-apply PS domain pre-release 5 mechanisms
for efficient use of radio resource.
Additional requirements for efficient use of the radio spectrum for release 5
SIP signalling include the following:
\- UMTS shall support mechanisms to optimize transport of SIP signalling
packets over the radio interface, typically by compressing the SIP signalling
messages and by compressing the IP and transport layer protocol headers that
carry these SIP messages.
\- The chosen solution(s) shall be extensible to facilitate the incorporation
of new and improved compression algorithms in a backward compatible way as
they become available.
\- The chosen solution(s) should work in roaming scenarios.
\- Application specific compression shall minimize impacts on existing UMTS
release e.g. it could be defined between the UE and associated application
server, e.g. at the SIP Client and at the first SIP Proxy.
Support of SIP signalling compression is mandatory in the UE and P‑CSCF for
IMS. The actual usage of compression is optional but highly preferable and is
subject to operator policies. See TS 24.229 [23] for more details.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Guidance for CSFB and IMS enabled UE
implementations in E-UTRAN
# A.1 General
This annex provides some examples on how the CSFB and IMS capable UE which
supports E‑UTRAN can make use of the following indications/settings prior to
accessing E-UTRAN:
\- \"CS Voice only\", \"IMS PS Voice only\", \"prefer CS Voice with IMS PS
Voice as secondary\", or \"prefer IMS PS Voice with CS Voice as secondary\",
and
\- \"Voice centric\" or \"Data centric\".
# A.2 IMS PS Voice preferred
## A.2.1 EPS Attach
The following figure A.2.1-1illustrates the UE behaviour when performing non-
combined EPS/IMSI attach, with the setting of: \"prefer IMS PS Voice with CS
Voice as secondary\".
Figure A.2.1-1: UE behaviour for IMS PS Voice preferred with CS Voice as
secondary, non combined EPS/IMSI attach
## A.2.2 Combined EPS/IMSI attach
The following figure A.2.2-1 illustrates the UE behaviour when performing
combined EPS/IMSI attach, with the setting of: \"prefer IMS PS Voice with CS
Voice as secondary\".
Figure A.2.2-1: UE behaviour for IMS PS Voice preferred with CS Voice as
secondary, combined EPS/IMSI attach
# A.3 CS Voice preferred
The following figure A.2.1-1illustrates the UE behaviour with the setting of:
\"prefer CS Voice with IMS PS Voice as secondary\".
Figure A.3-1: UE behaviour for CS Voice preferred with IMS PS Voice as
secondary
# A.4 IMS PS Voice only
The following figure A.4.1-1illustrates the UE behaviour with the setting of:
\"IMS PS Voice only\".
Figure A.4-1: UE behaviour for IMS PS Voice only
# A.5 CS Voice only
The following figure A.5.1-1illustrates the UE behaviour with the setting of:
\"CS Voice only\".
Figure A.5-1: UE behaviour for CS Voice only
#