# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
IMS based services can be provided with use of PS bearers and CS bearers for
the media. When using CS bearer for media transport of IMS sessions,
interworking solutions for IMS Centralized Services as specified in TS 23.292
[5] are used. **ICS allows** IMS sessions using CS bearers to be treated as
standard IMS sessions for the purpose of IMS Service Continuity. ICS defines
signalling mechanisms between the UE and IMS for transport of information as
needed for service continuity when using CS access for media transport.
Both IMS Centralized Services and IMS Service Continuity specify functions
which are provided by a SIP application server.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the architectural requirements and procedures
for delivery of IMS Service Continuity.
TS 23.206 [3] is migrated to this specification.
The scope of the specification includes:
\- PS-CS service continuity using IMS Centralized Services (see TS 23.292
[5]);
\- PS-PS service continuity;
\- PS-PS service continuity in conjunction with PS-CS service continuity;
\- Adding and/or removing media flows to support service.
The solution is restricted to service continuity using IMS procedures, i.e.
mobility mechanisms on the IP-CAN level are not within the scope of this
specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.258: \"Service requirements for the AIPN\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.206: \"Voice Call Continuity between CS and IMS\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.292: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) centralized services;
Stage 2\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[7] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2-20060602-C: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management, Candidate Version 1.2\".
[8] RFC 3261 (June 2002): \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.216: \" Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC); Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G security; Security architecture\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Access security for IP-based services\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.218: \"IP Multimedia (IM) session handling; IM call model;
Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions in TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.
**Access Leg:** This is the call control leg between the UE and the SCC AS;
also see TS 23.292 [5] for the definition of Access Leg for IMS sessions which
use the CS media.
**Access Transfer:** Transfer at the IMS-level of one or more media paths of
an ongoing IMS session on one UE between PS to CS access; or transfer at the
IMS-level of both the signalling and the media path of an ongoing IMS session
on a UE between different IP-CANs.
**Correlation MSISDN:** An MSISDN used for correlation of sessions. See TS
23.003 [14] for more information.
**IMS Service Continuity:** A service of the IMS which supports the use of
Session Transfer mechanisms to maintain service continuity in the event of
terminal mobility and/or mobility between terminals for the case when such
events are not hidden from the IMS session layer and thus service continuity
could not otherwise be maintained.
**Inter-UE Transfer:** Transfer at the IMS-level of all or some of the media
flows and associated signalling between UEs under the control of the same
user.
NOTE 1: The transfer of all media flows and the control signalling from one
device to another is also known as Session Mobility as defined in TS 22.258
[2].
NOTE 2: Inter-UE Transfer is not specified as part of the present release.
**IP Multimedia Routing Number (IMRN):** An IP Multimedia Routeing Number
(IMRN) is a routable number that points to an SCC AS in the IM CN subsystem.
See TS 23.003 [14] for more information.
_**Local Operating Environment Information:** This is a set of parameters,
which can include access network(s) conditions and other parameters
implementation specific, which describe the local environment in which the UE
is operating._
**Remote Leg:** This is the call control leg between the SCC AS and the remote
party from the subscriber\'s perspective; also see TS 23.292 [5] for the
definition of Remote Leg for IMS sessions which use the CS media.
**Session Transfer:** Transfer at the IMS-level of one or more of the session
signalling paths and/or associated media flow paths of an ongoing IMS session
while maintaining service continuity. Session Transfer incorporates Access
Transfer and / or Inter-UE Transfer.
**Session Transfer Identifier (STI):** An identifier used by the UE to request
the SCC AS to perform Session Transfer. The STI is either statically
configured on the UE or dynamically assigned. See TS 23.003 [14] for more
information.
**Session Transfer Number (STN)** : A number used by the UE to request the SCC
AS to perform Session Transfer from PS to CS access. The STN is statically
configured on the UE. See TS 23.003 [14] for more information.
**Session Transfer Number for SRVCC (STN-SR)** : A STN used for SRVCC
procedures as specified in TS 23.216 [10]. STN-SR is configured for the
subscriber at the time of SRVCC service provisioning. See TS 23.003 [14] for
more information.
**Source Access Leg:** The Access Leg that exists in the transferred-out
access before executing Access Transfer procedures.
**Target Access Leg:** The Access Leg that is established in the transferred-
in access during Access Transfer procedures.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
3pcc 3rd party call control
C-MSISDN Correlation MSISDN
iFC Initial Filter Criteria
IMRN **IP Multimedia Routing Number.**
OCS Online Charging System
SC Service Continuity
SCC AS Service Centralization and Continuity Application Server
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
STI Session Transfer Identifier
STN Session Transfer Number
STN-SR Session Transfer Number - Single Radio
# 4 High level principles and architectural requirements
## 4.1 Basic Assumptions
\- The UE may be capable of transmitting and receiving simultaneously in
multiple Access Networks or may be capable of transmitting and receiving in
only one Access Network at a time.
### 4.1.1 PS-CS Service Continuity
The following assumptions apply for PS-CS service continuity:
\- **Functions of IMS Centralized Services and IMS Service Continuity are
collocated in a single application server in this release**. Not all functions
are always required.
\- IMS Centralized Services specifies functions and procedures for use of CS
bearer for the media of the IMS sessions.
\- If both UE and network supports the ICS UE capabilities described in TS
23.292 [5], these capabilities are used for communication of required
information if needed for enablement of PS-CS service continuity of IMS
multimedia sessions. During access transfer, the UE may decide to retain the
use of the Gm reference point for service control of the real time media
flow(s) in the old PS access (if available) or may decide to transfer the Gm
service control for the real time media flow(s) to a new PS access.
\- If the UE or the network do not support the ICS UE capabilities described
in TS 23.292 [5], PS-CS service continuity is only possible for a single
active speech session.
\- When using the CS bearer for the media of the IMS session(s), multiple
sessions can exist, but only one active session can be transferred over the CS
bearer; one or more inactive sessions can be transferred.
\- PS-CS service continuity with UE-based conferencing is not specified in
this release.
### 4.1.2 PS-PS Service Continuity
If a UE has an ongoing multimedia session over an access system and moves to a
different access system but its IMS contact address and its serving P‑CSCF
remain the same, then there is no need to activate any IMS Service Continuity
mechanisms to transfer its multimedia session. The UE may update the session
(e.g. remove media type(s) not supported by the target access system) based on
the normal IMS procedures specified in TS 23.228 [4].
When the Evolved Packet System mobility with IP address preservation is used,
the assumption above also applies.
NOTE: If an ICS UE has an ongoing session using CS bearer and Gm reference
point over an IP‑CAN and performs an Access Transfer to a different IP‑CAN,
the Service Control Signalling Path can be transferred from the old IP‑CAN to
the new IP‑CAN while retaining the media flow(s) in the CS access network, so
that service continuity of the session is maintained.
## 4.2 Architectural Requirements
\- It shall be possible to perform multimedia session transfer between access
systems regardless of whether network layer mobility is deployed or not.
NOTE: The mechanism to avoid potential conflict between PS-PS Service
Continuity and underlying network layer mobility (e.g. Evolved Packet System
mobility, etc.) is not specified within this Release of the specification.
\- It shall be possible to provide IMS Service Continuity when the user is
moving between 3GPP access systems.
\- It shall be possible to provide IMS Service Continuity when the user is
moving between 3GPP and non-3GPP access systems.
\- It shall be possible to provide IMS Service Continuity when the user is
moving between non-3GPP access systems.
\- It shall be possible to provide IMS Service Continuity between an Access
Network that supports real-time media on the CS domain and non-real-time media
on the PS domain, and an IP-CAN that supports transport of all media types.
\- The service disruption when session transfer occurs shall be minimized.
\- There shall be no impact on the radio and transport layers and on the PS
core network.
\- UEs that do not support the functionality described in this specification
shall not be impacted.
\- All media flow(s) within a multimedia session or a subset of media flow(s)
within a multimedia session could be subject to session transfer procedures.
If it is not possible or not desired (e.g. due to user preferences and/or
operator policies) to transfer all the media flow(s), then a subset of the
media flow(s) shall be transferred (if possible) and the remaining flow(s)
will be released or kept in the transferred out access.
\- It shall be possible for the UE to add or remove one or more media flow(s)
to/from an ongoing multimedia session that it controls during Access Transfer.
\- It shall be possible to register a Public User Identity with multiple
contact addresses (at the same or via separate UEs) via IMS registration
procedures as defined in TS 23.228 [4], clause 5.2.1. The number of allowed
simultaneous registrations is defined by home operator policy.
\- It shall be possible to perform correlation of charging data from different
access networks when service continuity between these networks is performed.
\- It shall be possible to provide IMS Service Continuity when the P‑CSCF
changes.
\- It shall be possible for the UE to use IMS mechanisms to transfer its
ongoing multimedia sessions to a target Access Network without requiring any
new functionality on the remote party.
\- It shall be possible for the UE to initiate an Access Transfer procedure
based on operator policy provided by the network which may include
restrictions of Access Transfer.
\- It shall be possible for the SCC AS to update the operator policy in the
UE.
\- The UE shall be IMS registered before invoking any Session Transfer
procedures.
\- The filter criteria shall contain a condition that a 3rd-party registration
is performed via the ISC interface for the SCC AS.
## 4.3 Service Continuity
### 4.3.1 Session Transfer concepts
#### 4.3.1.1 General
When an UE is active in an IMS session, the Session Transfer procedures
provide service continuity between Access Networks.
The initial and all subsequent Session Transfer procedures are initiated by
the UE and are executed and controlled by the same SCC AS.
The SCC AS generates charging information for all Session Transfers for an IMS
session for the purpose of billing and charging.
The UE sends information required by the SCC AS in order to execute Session
Transfer procedures.
#### 4.3.1.2 Access Transfer concepts
##### 4.3.1.2.1 General Access Transfer concepts
IMS sessions from and to an UE are anchored at the SCC AS in the home IMS to
provide service continuity for the user during transition between two Access
Networks. Sessions are anchored at the SCC AS in the home IMS, based on iFC. A
3pcc (3rd party call control) function is employed at the SCC AS to facilitate
inter-Access Network mobility through the use of Access Transfers between the
two Access Networks. Access Transfers may be enabled in one or both directions
as per network configuration requirements. The SCC AS has the capability to
perform Access Transfers for a UE\'s sessions multiple times.
Initiation of Access Transfer procedures for ongoing multimedia session may be
based on the operator policy received from the SCC AS.
##### 4.3.1.2.2 Access Transfer (PS -- CS) concepts
IMS sessions established in CS or PS Access Networks are anchored at the SCC
AS. IMS sessions using CS bearer are established at session setup or upon
Access Transfer using procedures specified in TS 23.292 [5].
PS-CS Access Transfer shall be provided according to the requirements
specified in clause 22.3, Service Continuity, of TS 22.101 [9].
When using a UE that does not have, or that is unable to use, ICS UE
capabilities as specified in TS 23.292 [5], Access Transfer of one active bi-
directional speech session shall be provided when transferring voice media
flow between CS and PS access. For PS to CS (not CS to PS) access transfer, if
the UE has more than one anchored active bi directional speech session, the
session that was most recently made active shall be transferred.
When using a UE that is able to use ICS capabilities as specified in TS 23.292
[5], Access Transfer of one active bi directional speech session and zero or
more inactive bi directional speech sessions shall be provided using the Gm
reference point of ICS to transport required information, as specified in TS
23.292 [5], when transferring speech media flow between CS and PS access.
### 4.3.2 Regulatory aspects
IMS Session Transfer for emergency session is not supported in this release.
### 4.3.3 Information used for IMS Service Continuity
The following information may be provided between SCC AS and the UE.
Depending on the IMS Service Continuity scenario, the Session Transfer request
may contain the following:
\- session transfer indicator to indicate that this new session is for session
transfer;
\- details about the access and the media flow(s) being transferred / kept /
released;
\- optionally, an IMS Communication Service Identifier defined in TS 23.228
[4];
\- which session is required to be replaced or updated;
\- whether to merge the session(s).
The above addressed information are carried in various SIP/SDP and CS call
control messages (specified in the applicable information flows), which
provides the necessary details to enable IMS Service Continuity. The SCC AS
and the UE analyze the included information and determine if and how a Session
Transfer operation needs to be performed.
# 5 Architecture model and reference points
## 5.1 Overview
IMS Service Continuity is a home network based IMS application which provides
intra-device transfers of one or more components of IMS multi media sessions
across different Access Networks.
## 5.2 Reference Architecture
**IMS Service Continuity requires a Service Centralization and Continuity
(SCC) AS, which is an Application Server as described in TS 23.228 [4], and a
UE with SC capabilities. For the support of IMS sessions with CS media, refer
to the reference architecture in TS 23.292 [5], clause 5.2; the functions of
ICS and SC are specified as optional functions co-located in the SCC AS in
this release.**
OMA Device Management [7] is used between the SCC AS and the UE for
provisioning of operator policy for Access Transfer.
## 5.3 Functional Entities
### 5.3.1 SCC AS
The SCC AS provides IMS-based mechanisms for enabling service continuity of
multimedia sessions.
For IMS Service Continuity, the SCC AS implements the following
functionalities:
\- **Access Transfer** : The SCC AS uses the ISC reference point towards the
S-CSCF for execution of the Access Transfer. The SCC AS performs the following
for enablement and execution of Access Transfers:
\- analyzes the information required for Access Transfer as described in the
procedure section and decides which Access Transfer scenario should be
executed; it rejects the Access Transfer request if it is not aligned with the
operator policy;
\- may retrieve from the HSS after third party registration the C‑MSISDN bound
to the IMS Private User Identity stored in the user profile in the HSS;
\- correlates the Access Transfer request with the anchored session, using
information provided in the incoming SIP INVITE;
\- executes the transfer of the IMS session between different access networks;
\- implements 3rd Party Call Control (3pcc) upon session establishment;
\- provides Access Transfer specific charging data;
\- decides based on analysis of the various service continuity related input
factors, whether to update provisioned operator policy for Access Transfer;
\- generates and updates operator policy by sending operator policy to the UE
via OMA DM [7] including the priority between the operator policy and user
preferences that could be used also to initiate Access Transfer procedure for
ongoing sessions.
\- **Terminating Access Domain Selection (T-ADS):** In addition to T‑ADS
specified in TS 23.292 [5].
for a terminating session, the SCC AS may select more than one contact amongst
multiple registered contacts for each selected UE of the SC User and may split
the session into sessions directed to the selected contacts.
For multiple contacts in the PS domain, the SCC AS shall be able to select one
or more types of access networks through which the session shall be
terminated. In this case, the SCC AS includes additional information within
the session request(s) to ensure that the corresponding session is terminated
via the selected access network type(s).
\- **Handling of multiple media flows:** The SCC AS provides functionality to
combine and/or split media flows over one or more Access Networks as needed
for Session Transfers, session termination, or upon request by the UE to add
media flows over an additional Access Network during the setup of a session,
or upon request by the UE to add and/or delete media flows over one or more
Access Networks to existing sessions.
When handling media flows of an IMS session, the SCC AS takes into account the
services associated with the session.
### 5.3.2 IMS Service Continuity UE
For IMS Service Continuity the UE provides the following functions:
\- Stores and applies operator policy for Access Transfer.
\- Initiates Access Transfer procedure based on trigger criteria including the
current operator policy, user preferences and the Local Operating Environment
Information, providing the necessary details for conducting an Access Transfer
operation to the SCC AS.
## 5.4 Signalling and bearer paths for IMS Service Continuity
### 5.4.1 General
**The SCC AS is inserted in the signalling path of all the IMS user\'s
sessions; the SCC AS** behaves as a SIP-AS as described in TS 23.228 [4] to
set up a 3pcc to control the bearer path of the session for enablement and
execution of Session Transfer.
### 5.4.2 Sessions with PS media flow(s)
Figure 5.4.2-1 shows 3pcc at the SCC AS, for enablement and execution of
Session Transfers, when the media flow(s) for the Access Leg is established
via IP‑CAN.
The figure is for illustration of the 3pcc at the SCC AS and its use for
Session Transfer, hence it only shows the signalling and bearer components
relevant to the enablement and execution of Session Transfers.
Figure 5.4.2-1: Signalling and bearer paths for sessions with PS media
### 5.4.3 Sessions with CS media
For details of signalling and bearer paths when the media for the Access Leg
is established via the CS access, see TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.1.1. For
illustration of 3pcc at the SCC AS, for enablement and execution of Session
Transfers, with use of the Gm reference point and when not using Gm for
service control signalling respectively, refer to figures 7.1.1-1, 7.1.1-2 and
7.1.2-1, in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.1.
# 6 Procedures and flows
## 6.0 Introduction
Some of the following figures contain a box labelled CS/IMS Intermediate
Nodes. This is abstraction for CS/IMS functional elements that exist between
the UE and the SCC AS which could include amongst others MSC Server enhanced
for ICS, MSC Server enhanced for SRVCC or an MGCF and an MSC Server not
enhanced for ICS.
## 6.1 Registration
Whenever the UE acquires IP connectivity via an IP‑CAN, the UE registers in
the IMS as defined in TS 23.228 [4]. The user profile contains a C‑MSISDN
which is bound to the IMS Private User Identity. The S-CSCF follows the
procedures defined in TS 23.218 [13] for performing 3rd party registration
towards the SCC AS.
When using CS access for media, the UE may be registered in IMS as specified
in TS 23.292 [5].
When the SCC AS receives a 3rd party registration per procedures defined in TS
23.218 [13], the SCC AS shall obtain the C-MSISDN from the HSS. If the
C-MSISDN is associated with any ongoing session(s), the SCC AS shall bind all
the unique identities associated with the SIP Registration e.g. GRUUs, contact
address, etc. with the session identifier of the ongoing session.
## 6.2 Origination and Termination
### 6.2.1 Origination
#### 6.2.1.1 Origination Procedures
UE initiated multimedia sessions are anchored at the SCC AS in order to enable
IMS Service Continuity. Originating iFC for the SC subscriber results in
routing of the session to the SCC AS in the home IMS network, where the SCC AS
uses 3rd party call control as per TS 23.228 [4] to initiate a session to the
remote party on behalf of the subscriber.
The SCC AS shall be the first Application Server of any Application Servers
that need to remain in the path of the call after Session Origination.
#### 6.2.1.2 Originating sessions that use CS media
The UE originates sessions that use CS media by following the procedures
specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2 Originating sessions that use CS
media.
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: Originating session that uses CS media
1\. UE‑1 initiates a multimedia session to UE‑2 and makes use of CS media.
UE‑1 sends the request to the SCC AS following the procedures specified in TS
23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2 Originating sessions that use CS media, for setting
up CS bearer, anchoring the session at the SCC AS, merging multiples legs if
necessary, and forwarding the combined session request to UE‑2.
2\. The SCC AS anchors the session. A dynamic STI is assigned for the anchored
session.
3\. The SCC AS completes session setup to UE‑2 and sends a response to UE‑1
based on the procedures specified in TS 23.292 [5]. The dynamic STI is
communicated between the SCC AS and UE-1 if possible.
The session is set up with CS media. The session may also include PS media
flow(s).
#### 6.2.1.3 Originating sessions that use only PS media flow(s)
Existing Mobile Origination procedures described in TS 23.228 [4] are used to
establish a session.
Figure 6.2.1.3-1: Originating session that uses only PS media
1\. UE-1 initiates an IMS multimedia session to UE-2 and uses only PS media
flow(s). The request is forwarded to S-CSCF following normal IMS session set
up procedures.
2\~3. The service logic with iFC causes the request to be forwarded to the SCC
AS for anchoring the sessions to enable Session Transfer.
4\. The SCC AS anchors the session. An STI is assigned for the anchored
session.
5\. The SCC AS completes the session setup to UE-2 and sends a response to
UE-1.
### 6.2.2 Termination
#### 6.2.2.1 Termination Procedures
IMS multimedia sessions towards SC subscribers in the PS or in the CS domain
are anchored at the SCC AS to enable IMS Service Continuity. The execution of
terminating iFC results in routing of the sessions to the SCC AS in the home
IMS network, where the SCC AS uses 3rd party call control as per TS 23.228 [4]
to terminate the session to the SC subscriber. The sessions may be delivered
to the UE via the PS or CS access.
The SCC AS shall be the last Application Server of any Application Servers
that need to remain in the path of the call after Session Termination.
#### 6.2.2.2 Terminating sessions that use CS media
The procedures specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.4.2 Terminating sessions
that use CS media shall be followed to terminate sessions that use CS media to
the SC subscriber.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: Terminating session that uses CS media
1\. A request is received at S‑CSCF serving UE‑1 following standard IMS
session set up procedures.
2 \~ 3. The service logic with iFC causes the request to be forwarded to the
SCC AS so that the session is anchored for enabling Session Transfer.
4\. The SCC AS anchors the incoming session. A dynamic STI is assigned for the
anchored session.
5\. The SCC AS forwards the request to UE-1 based on the procedures specified
in TS 23.292 [5] for setting up CS bearer and splitting the media flow(s) if
necessary. The dynamic STI is communicated between the SCC AS and the UE if
possible. If the SCC AS decided to split the non‑speech media and speech media
for a certain UE, the T‑ADS in the SCC AS delivers the split session only to
this particular UE. The SCC AS uses the C‑MSISDN for correlation.
The session is set up with CS media. The session may also include PS media
flow(s).
#### 6.2.2.3 Terminating sessions that use only PS media flow(s)
Existing Mobile Termination procedures described in TS 23.228 [4] are used to
establish a session towards a SC subscriber.
Figure 6.2.2.3-1: Terminating session that uses only PS media
1\. The request is received at S‑CSCF following normal IMS session set up
procedures.
2 \~ 3. The service logic with iFC causes the request to be forwarded to the
SCC AS so that the session can be anchored for potential session transfer.
4\. The SCC AS anchors the session. An STI is assigned for the anchored
session.
5\. The SCC AS determines that the session is terminated to UE‑1 with PS media
flow(s) only and routes the request to UE‑1.
#### 6.2.2.4 Terminating sessions over Gm where speech media is not accepted
by the UE
If the SCC AS includes only bi-directional speech media, the procedures
specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.4.3 shall be followed.
If the SCC AS includes non‑speech media in the request, in addition to bi-
directional speech or CS media and if the UE decides to only accept the
non‑speech media, the UE returns a response to IMS that only bi-directional
speech or CS media is rejected. The SCC AS, upon reception of the response,
splits the non speech media from the bi-directional speech or CS media for
this UE. The T‑ADS in the SCC AS re-attempts the terminating call setup
directly towards the same UE over CS domain if possible. The SCC AS uses the
C‑MSISDN for correlation.
## 6.3 Session Transfer
### 6.3.1 Session Transfer Procedure
#### 6.3.1.1 Introduction
Session Transfer procedures enable service continuity between Access Networks.
All Session Transfer procedures associated with a session, including initial
and subsequent transfers, are executed and controlled in the user\'s home IMS
network by the SCC AS upon the UE\'s request.
NOTE: In order to support Access Transfer and Media Adding/Deleting procedures
that involve the use of the Gm reference point on two IP-CANs, the UE and IMS
network both have to support multiple simultaneous registrations of the UE and
the UE has to be able to establish and maintain simultaneous connections to
both IP-CANs at least for the duration of the Access Transfers or Media
Adding/Deleting procedures.
The STN and STI are used during the execution of Session Transfers. The STN
and STI are stored in the UE.
#### 6.3.1.2 Access Transfer Procedures
When the UE determines that Access Transfer is desirable and possible, a
registration in IMS is performed by the UE via the transferring-in Access
Network if the user is not already registered via that network.
If the UE does not have or is unable to use its ICS capabilities, then prior
to the dual radio PS to CS Access Transfer, the UE releases all but the most
recently active bi-directional speech sessions.
A new Access Leg is established by the UE toward the SCC AS, if needed.
Signalling and bearer resources are allocated in the transferring-in Access
Network and the user\'s sessions are transferred from the transferring-out
Access Network. The SCC AS executes Access Transfer procedures. Resources in
the transferring-out Access Network are subsequently released.
When the UE wants to perform Access Transfer and determines that there is a PS
Access Leg in the transferring-in Access Network for the same session, the UE
can use the existing PS Access Leg in the transferring-in Access Network,
instead of establishing a new Target Access Leg, to execute Access Transfer.
No new signalling resources need to be allocated in the transferring-in Access
Network.
Based on UE and Access Network capabilities, the UE may also maintain some of
the media flows in the transferring-out Access Network while transferring the
other media flows to the transferring-in Access Network.
#### 6.3.1.3 Enablement of Session Transfer procedures
A 3pcc (3rd party call control) function is employed to anchor IMS sessions at
the SCC AS upon session establishment for enablement of Session Transfer. The
SCC AS is invoked as part of originating or terminating iFC execution at the
subscriber\'s S-CSCF. The SCC AS inserts itself in the signalling path of the
SC subscriber\'s IMS sessions by implementing a 3pcc (3rd party call control)
function. For an originating IMS session, the SCC AS terminates an Access Leg
from the user and establishes a Remote Leg toward the remote end. For a
terminating IMS session, the SCC AS terminates a Remote Leg from the remote
end and establishes an Access Leg toward the user. The SCC AS subsequently
coordinates the session control signalling exchange between the Access Leg and
the Remote Leg associated with the anchored IMS session.
For 3pcc at the SCC AS when the Access Leg is established with CS media, refer
to clause 5.4.3. For 3pcc at the SCC AS when the Access Leg is established
with media flow over IP-CAN to illustrate its use as preparation for Access
Transfer procedures, refer to clause 5.4.2.
An STI and STN for Access Transfer between CS and PS access shall be
statically configured on the UE regardless of its ICS capabilities.
If the Gm reference point is used for the originating or terminating session,
an STI is dynamically assigned for the Access Leg. An STI shall also be
dynamically assigned for each new Access Leg established during session
transfer.
NOTE: The dynamically assigned STI needs to be different from the STI and STN
that are statically configured on the UE.
The statically configured STI shall be used for CS to PS Access Transfers only
when no dynamically assigned STI was provided to the UE.
The STN is used for PS to CS Access Transfers when no Gm reference point is
available.
The STN-SR as specified in TS 23.216 [10] is used for PS to CS Access Transfer
using Single Radio VCC.
#### 6.3.1.4 Execution of Session Transfer procedures
Upon detection of conditions requiring Session Transfer, the UE establishes a
Target Access Leg with the SCC AS via the transferred-in Access Network to
request Session Transfer to the transferred-in Access Network. When the UE
initiates a Session Transfer request, it includes the STI and/or the STN.
The SCC AS executes the Session Transfer procedure by replacing the Source
Access Leg currently communicating to the Remote Leg with the Target Access
Leg. If no media flow is retained in the transferred-out access, the Source
Access Leg is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6. If the UE chooses to
retain some media flow(s) in the transferred-out access, the Source Access Leg
is updated to indicate which media flow(s) is retained in the transferred-out
access. If such update is not done, the SCC AS releases the Source Access Leg
as specified in clause 6.3.1.6 and updates the Remote Leg if necessary. When
the switch of the Source Access Leg to the Target Access Leg is executed, the
Remote Leg is also updated in order to forward the media flow(s) to the
transferred-in Access Network.
#### 6.3.1.5 Remote Leg Update
Upon receiving a request for execution of Session Transfer, the SCC AS
performs the Remote Leg Update by switching the Access Leg communicating with
the Remote Leg from transferring-out access to transferring-in access.
Figure 6.3.1.5-1: Remote Leg Update
The remote end in figure 6.3.1.5-1 represents a UE supporting terminations per
TS 23.228 [4] (i.e. including NI-T).
1-2. The SCC AS updates the Remote Leg by communicating the SDP of the Access
Leg established in the transferring-in access to the remote end via the
user\'s S-CSCF. Remote Leg Update happens according to SIP session
modification procedures (see RFC 3261 [8]).
The remote end in figure 6.3.1.5-2 represents an MGCF for CS/PSTN Remote
Party.
Figure 6.3.1.5-2: Remote Leg Update
1-2. These steps are the same procedures described in figure 6.3.1.5-1.
3\. MGCF instructs MGW to update a termination towards the access leg of the
transferred in domain to the context, and to release the termination for the
access leg of the transferred out domain from the context.
#### 6.3.1.6 Source Access Leg Release
When the session modification procedures are complete, the Source Access Leg
Release is executed by initiating a session release. This is done for the
Source Access Leg using the AS/UE session release procedures per TS 23.228
[4]. The UE and the SCC AS shall initiate the Session Release procedure when
the switch to the transferred-in Access Network is complete.
### 6.3.2 Session Transfer Information flows
#### 6.3.2.1 PS -- CS Access Transfer
##### 6.3.2.1.1 PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
Figure 6.3.2.1.1-1 PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS, provides an information
flow for Access Transfer of an IMS session in PS to CS direction. The flow
requires that the user is active in an IMS originating or terminating session
using PS media flow(s) at the time of initiation of Access Transfer to CS.
NOTE: This flow assumes the PS domain does not have any non real time media
flow(s). If the PS domain has other non real time media flow(s), then the call
flow in clause 6.3.2.3.1 applies.
Figure 6.3.2.1.1-1: PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
1\. If the user is not attached to the CS domain at the time when the UE
determines a need for Access Transfer to CS, the UE performs a CS Attach as
specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.2.1. It subsequently originates a session
that uses CS media using the STN to establish an Access Leg via the CS access
and requests Access Transfer of the IMS session to CS access using the
procedures described in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2 Originating Sessions that
use CS media.
2\. Standard procedures as specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2
Originating Sessions that use CS media are used in CS and IMS intermediate
nodes which results in routing of the INVITE with the STN or an IMRN to the
I/S‑CSCF. The MSC Server enhanced for ICS includes the Instance ID into the
session transfer request if the user is registered in the IMS by the MSC
Server enhanced for ICS as specified in TS 23.292 [5]. If the user is not
registered in IMS then CS/IMS Interworking Nodes includes the C‑MSISDN as
calling party number into the session transfer request.
3\. Standard procedures are used at I/S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
4\. The SCC AS completes the establishment of the Access Leg via the CS
access. The SCC AS may retrieve the C‑MSISDN from the HSS. The SCC AS is able
to identify the correct anchored session using either the C‑MSISDN or the
Instance ID for session identification. The SCC AS performs the Access
Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with the connection information of the
newly established Access Leg using the Remote Leg Update procedure as
specified in clause 6.3.1.5. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE
according to procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
5\. The Source Access Leg (which is the Access Leg previously established over
PS access) is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6
NOTE: Steps 4 and 5 consist of a sequence of messages, some of which may occur
in parallel.
##### 6.3.2.1.2 PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
Figure 6.3.2.1.2-1 PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS to PS, provides an information
flow for Access Transfer of an IMS session in the CS to PS direction. The flow
requires that the user is active in an IMS originating or terminating session
that uses CS media at the time of initiation of Access Transfer to PS.
Figure 6.3.2.1.2-1: PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
registration with IMS (if not already registered in IMS) as specified in
clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates an IMS originated session toward the SCC
AS using a STI to establish an Access Leg via PS access and requests Access
Transfer of the IMS session that is using CS media to PS access. The
statically configured STI is used if no dynamically assigned STI has been
provided to the UE during session establishment. Please refer to clause 6.2.1
- IMS Originating Sessions for details on IMS origination procedure.
2\. Standard procedures are used at S‑CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS performs the Access Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with
connection information of the newly established Access Leg (see the Remote Leg
Update procedure, clause 6.3.1.5). The SCC AS completes the establishment of
the Access Leg according to procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
4\. The source Access Leg which is the Access leg previously established over
CS is subsequently released (see clause 6.3.1.6).
NOTE: Steps 3 and 4 consist of a sequence of messages, some of which may occur
in parallel.
##### 6.3.2.1.3 Subsequent Access Transfers
Procedures for subsequent Access Transfers to CS and PS access are the same as
procedures for initial Access Transfers specified in clause 6.3.2.1.1 for PS
to CS access and clause 6.3.2.1.2 for CS to PS access.
##### 6.3.2.1.4 PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS -- Single Radio
Figure 6.3.2.1.4-1 PS-CS: PS to CS -- Single Radio, provides an information
flow for Access Transfer of media flow(s) of an IMS session in PS to CS
direction for Access Transfers within 3GPP access networks as specified in TS
23.216 [10].
The flow requires that the user is active in an IMS originating or terminating
session; procedures and capabilities specified in TS 23.216 [10], clause 6.2.1
are used for the switching of access networks at the transport layer.
NOTE 1: See TS 23.216 [10] for initiation of handover of only one voice PS
bearer at EPC.
NOTE 2: The UE capable of procedures as specified in TS 23.216 [10] does not
need to support session and access transfer procedures as specified in clauses
6.3.2.1.1 and 6.3.2.3 to support PS to CS Access Transfer.
Figure 6.3.2.1.4-1: PS-CS: PS to CS -- Single Radio
1\. Procedures specified in TS 23.216 [10], clause 6.2.2.1 result in an INVITE
to be sent with an STN-SR indicating use of SRVCC procedures for Access
Transfer to CS access**. The MSC Server enhanced for SRVCC includes the
C‑MSISDN as calling party number.**
**2.** Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS uses the STN-SR to determine that Access Transfer using SRVCC
is requested. The SCC AS may retrieve the C‑MSISDN from the HSS. The SCC AS is
able to identify the correct anchored session. The SCC AS proceeds with the
Access Transfer of the active session with bi-directional speech for the UE by
updating the Remote Leg with the media description and other information using
the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6.3.1.5.
NOTE 3: Please refer to clause 4.3.1.2.2 for the behaviour of the SCC AS when
the SCC AS finds multiple active sessions with bi-directional speech anchored
for the UE.
4a. If the Gm reference point is retained upon PS handover procedure then
4a-1. The UE sends a Re-INVITE via the PS access to update the remaining non-
voice media flow(s) associated with the recently added active session**. If
the UE is using ICS capabilities, this Re-INVITE also adds Gm service control
to the active session and the UE subsequently sends Re-INVITEs for any
remaining inactive bi-directional speech sessions that are to be
transferred.**
4a-2. Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the Re-INVITE(s)
to the SCC AS.
4a-3. The SCC AS processes the Re-INVITE(s) and updates the Remote Leg if
needed.
4b. If the Gm reference point is not retained upon PS handover procedure, or
if there was no other non-voice media flow(s) in the IMS session than the
voice which was transferred to the target access, then the Source Access Leg
is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6.
NOTE 4: Some or all of the steps between steps 3 and 4b may consist of a
sequence of messages, some of which may occur in parallel.
#### 6.3.2.2 PS -- PS Access Transfer
NOTE: If a PS-PS session transfer occurs and there is a change in IP address,
TCP-based media flow(s) using transferring-out access will break. Recovery
procedures from broken TCP connections are application specific.
##### 6.3.2.2.1 PS-PS Access Transfer with full media transfer
UE‑1 is attached to one IP-CAN and it registers to the S-CSCF. UE-1
establishes an active multimedia session with UE-2 via this IP‑CAN. After
changing to a new IP‑CAN, obtaining new signalling and media addresses, and
completing the Access Transfer procedures, UE‑1 continues the multimedia
session with UE‑2 via the new IP‑CAN.
Figure 6.3.2.2.1-1: Information flow for PS-PS Access Transfer
1\. UE‑1 connects to a new IP‑CAN and receives new IP address(es). UE‑1
decides to perform PS to PS Access Transfer based on SC policy information.
2\. UE‑1 registers to the S‑CSCF via the new IP‑CAN. This registration may go
through the same P‑CSCF or a different P‑CSCF.
3 \~ 5. UE‑1 sends an INVITE message on the new IP-CAN towards the SCC AS. The
INVITE message includes the STI identifying the session to be transferred. The
INVITE message also indicates to the SCC AS that it performs Access Transfer
with full media transfer.
6\. The SCC AS identifies the session based on STI and updates the session
over the remote access leg (see clause 6.3.1.5).
7\. The SCC AS completes session setup with UE-1 on the new access leg and
releases old session based on the standard IMS procedures.
##### 6.3.2.2.2 PS-PS Access Transfer with partial media transfer
UE‑1 is on an active multimedia session with UE‑2 via one IP‑CAN. After
changing to a new IP‑CAN and obtaining new signalling and media addresses,
UE‑1 transfers part of the multimedia session with UE‑2 to the new IP‑CAN and
keeps the remaining part on the original IP‑CAN. UE‑1 is attached to both the
new and old IP‑CANs after the Access Transfer procedures. The call flow is the
same as shown in clause 6.3.2.2.1. The only difference is that in Step 3, the
INVITE needs to indicate that the request is for a partial transfer and
instead of releasing the old session in step 7, the UE updates session
information over the old access leg. In this case, the INVITE message sent in
step 3 shall indicate the media flow(s) which need to be transferred to the
new IP‑CAN.
#### 6.3.2.3 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer
##### 6.3.2.3.1 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
for UEs not using ICS capabilities
It is required that the UE has a single ongoing IMS session containing speech
and other media with the remote end. After the Access Transfer, the two
sessions are treated as independent sessions on the transferring-in Access
Legs for mid-call service (e.g. hold of PS or CS media).
Figure 6.3.2.3.1-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE attaches to CS
(if not already attached). It subsequently initiates the PS--CS Access
Transfer by sending a CS call setup including the STN to establish the Access
Leg via the CS access. A static STN preconfigured to the UE is used.
2\. An INVITE is routed to the S-CSCF.
3\. An INVITE is routed to the SCC AS.
4\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg update by using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5. The SCC AS updates the speech media in the session towards the
Remote Leg.
5\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
6\. The UE initiates registration with IMS via the new PS access (if not
already registered) as specified in clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates the
PS--PS Access Transfer by sending an INVITE including the SDP for the non
speech media flow(s) and STI to establish the Access Leg via the PS access. A
dynamic STI allocated at the time of IMS session creation is used.
7\. An INVITE is routed to the SCC AS.
8\. The SCC AS identifies the session to be transferred using the STI. The SCC
AS performs the Remote Leg update by using procedures defined in clause
6.3.1.5. The SCC AS updates the non speech media flow(s) in the session
towards the Remote Leg.
9\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
10\. Source Access Leg Release is performed according to the procedures
defined in clause 6.3.1.6.
NOTE: Steps 1-5 can be performed in reversed order with steps 6‑8.
##### 6.3.2.3.2 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
for UEs not using ICS capabilities
It is required that the UE has an ongoing CS call and a related IMS session
with the remote end.
Figure 6.3.2.3.2-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access transfer: CS to PS
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
registration with IMS via the new PS access (if not already registered) as
specified in clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates the Access Transfer **by
sending an INVITE to establish the Access Leg via the PS access. The INVITE
includes** the SDP for speech and non-speech media flow(s) and STI-1 and STI-2
respectively for the IMS session using CS and the IMS session using PS to be
transferred**.** For STI-1 a static STI preconfigured to the UE is used. For
STI-2 a dynamic STI allocated at the time of IMS session creation is used.
STI-1 and STI-2 are never the same.
**2.** Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS identifies the session to be transferred using the STI-1 and
STI-2. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg Update by using procedures defined
in clause 6.3.1.5. The SCC AS updates the combined session towards the Remote
Leg.
4\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
5\. Source Access Leg Release is performed according to the procedures defined
in clause 6.3.1.6.
##### 6.3.2.3.3 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
for UEs with ICS capabilities - Using Gm reference point
Figure 6.3.2.3.3-1 PS-PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
for UEs with ICS capabilities, provides an information flow for Access
Transfer of real time media flow(s) of an IMS session in PS to CS direction
and zero or more non real time media flow(s) in PS to PS direction. The UE may
choose to retain some of the non real time media flow(s) in the original PS
access.
The flow requires that the user is active in an IMS originating or terminating
session; the Gm reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS sessions
that use CS media.
Figure 6.3.2.3.3-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access transfer: PS to CS
for UEs with ICS capabilities
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
registration with IMS via the new PS access (if not already registered) as
specified in clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates the \"**Originations with
CS media using the Gm reference point\" procedure** as specified in TS 23.292
[5], clause 7.3.2.2.4 **by sending an INVITE including** the STI **to
establish the Access Leg via the PS access.** The INVITE also includes an
indication to use a CS bearer for the real time media and a description of non
real time media flow(s) that are to be transferred to the new PS access if any
non real time media is present at the time of initiation of Access
Transfer**.**
**2.** Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS identifies the session to be transferred using the STI and the
media flow(s), and continues the \"Originations with CS media using the Gm
reference point\" procedure for completion of the setup of CS media for the
Access Leg by allocating a SCC AS PSI DN and sending it in a reliable
provisional response to the S-CSCF (see TS 23.292 [5] for SCC AS PSI DN).
4\. The S-CSCF forwards the provisional response (containing the SCC AS PSI
DN) to the UE.
5\. The UE continues the \"Originations with CS media using the Gm reference
point\" procedure by sending a Setup message including the SCC AS PSI DN to
establish the CS media for the Access Leg.
6\. The \"Originations with CS media using Gm reference point procedure\" is
used at the CS and IMS intermediate nodes, resulting in routing of an INVITE
to the I/S-CSCF.
7\. The I/S-CSCF extends the INVITE with the SCC AS PSI and SDP of the MGW as
part of the \"Originations with CS media using the Gm reference point\"
procedure.
8\. The SCC AS uses the SCC AS PSI to correlate the incoming session via the
CS access with the Access Transfer request previously received via the PS
access.
The SCC AS completes the establishment of the Access Leg by combining the
description of the media established via the CS access with the description of
the media flow(s) established via the PS access for the signalling associated
with the Access Leg.
The SCC AS performs the Access Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with the
media description and other information of the newly established Access Leg
using the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6.3.1.5.
9a. If the UE transfers all the non real time media flow(s) to the new PS
access, the Source Access Leg (which is the Access Leg previously established
over PS access) is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6.
9b. If the UE chooses to retain some media flow(s) in the original PS access,
then:
> 9b1. the UE sends an INVITE to the SCC AS (as part of the existing dialog)
> to update the session information over the Source Access Leg; and
>
> 9b2. the SCC AS performs the Remote Leg update (if necessary) by using
> procedures defined in clause 6.3.1.5. The Source Access Leg is not released
> in this case.
NOTE: Steps 8 and 9 consist of a sequence of messages, some of which may occur
in parallel.
##### 6.3.2.3.4 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
for UEs with ICS capabilities - Using Gm reference point
The information flow for Access Transfer of real time media of an IMS session
in CS to PS direction, and zero or more non real time media flow(s) in PS to
PS direction is the same as the information flow for PS--CS Access Transfer:
CS to PS access, as specified in clause 6.3.2.1.2.
The flow requires that the user is active in an IMS originating or terminating
session; the Gm reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS sessions
that use CS media; and a dynamic STI is associated with each session.
##### 6.3.2.3.5 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer:
Active/Held sessions - Using Gm reference point
Figure 6.3.2.3.5-1 PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer:
Active/Held sessions, provides an information flow for Access Transfer of real
time media flow(s) of one active and one or more held sessions between PS and
CS, any of which may have zero or more non real time media flow(s) which is
transferred within the PS access.
The flow requires that the user is active in IMS originating and/or
terminating sessions; the Gm reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media; and a dynamic STI is associated with each session.
Figure 6.3.2.3.5-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access transfer:
Active/Held sessions
**1a, 1b.** When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE
initiates the Access Transfer of the active session as specified in clause
6.3.2.3.3 PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: PS to CS for UEs
with ICS capabilities, or clause 6.3.2.3.4 PS--PS in conjunction with PS-CS
Access Transfer: CS to PS for UEs with ICS capabilities, based on the
direction of the Access Transfer of the real time media. The STI of the active
session is used by SCC AS to identify the active session.
1c. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the active session.
2a, 2b. **The UE** initiates the Access Transfer of the first held session
using the same procedures as identified in steps 1a and 1b with a difference
that for transfer to CS access, the CS media is not established for the held
session; the media established upon the transfer of the currently active
session is reused for the held session when it is resumed. The STI of the held
session is used by SCC AS to identify the held session.
2c. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the held session.
Steps 2a, 2b and 2c are repeated for the remaining held sessions.
NOTE: Steps 1c and 2c consist of a sequence of messages, which may occur in
parallel.
##### 6.3.2.3.6 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer:
Explicit Communication Transfer - Using Gm reference point
Prior to consultative transfer, the transferor UE may have one session with
the transferee UE and one session with the transfer target UE. If the
transferor UE performs Access Transfer in this case, the information flow for
PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: Explicit Communication
Transfer is the same as the information flow in clause 6.3.2.3.5 PS--PS in
conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: Active/held sessions.
For all other cases in ECT service, there is only one session at the UE.
Depending on the direction of the Access transfer, the following information
flows apply:
\- the information flow in clause 6.3.2.3.3 for PS-PS in conjunction with PS-
CS Access Transfer: PS to CS; or,
\- the information flow in clause 6.3.2.3.4 for PS-PS in conjunction with PS-
CS Access Transfer: CS to PS.
The flow requires that the user is active in IMS originating and/or
terminating sessions with the Explicit Communication Transfer service; the Gm
reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS sessions that use CS media;
and a dynamic STI is associated with each session.
##### 6.3.2.3.7 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer:
Conferencing - Using Gm reference point
The information flows for PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer:
Conferencing in PS to CS and CS to PS directions, are the same as the
information flows in clause 6.3.2.3.3 PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access
Transfer: PS to CS for UEs with ICS capabilities, and clause 6.3.2.3.4 PS--PS
in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: CS to PS for UEs with ICS
capabilities respectively.
The flow requires that the user is active in IMS originating and/or
terminating sessions with the Conferencing service; the Gm reference point of
ICS is used for control of IMS sessions that use CS media.
##### 6.3.2.3.8 Void
##### 6.3.2.3.9 Void
##### 6.3.2.3.10 Void
##### 6.3.2.3.11 Void
### 6.3.3 Media Adding/Deleting
#### 6.3.3.1 Local End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing CS
session
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.1-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 adds PS media
flow(s) (e.g. video) to an existing multimedia session that only contains CS
media. As a post condition the UE‑1 has an ongoing CS call and a related IMS
session with the remote end.
Figure 6.3.3.1-1: Local End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing
CS session
1\. A multimedia session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either
originated or terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5]
clauses 7.3.2.1 and 7.4.2.1, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS
capability and therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session
establishment.
2\. UE-1 requests to add one or more PS media component(s) to the existing CS
Call by sending an INVITE containing description of the new PS media towards
SCC AS to establish a new Access Leg. UE‑1 provides description of the new
media and the information necessary for the SCC AS to identify the existing
session.
3\. The S-CSCF executes any service logic as appropriate.
4\. The S-CSCF sends the INVITE to the SCC AS.
5\. The SCC AS determines that the INVITE is related to an existing session
using the information provided by UE-1 and decides to add the new media flow
to the session.
NOTE: If SCC AS decides that the request is not related to an existing
session, it handles the INVITE as a new session as described in clause 6.2.1.3
Session origination using PS media flow(s) only.
6\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg Update using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5.
7\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.2 Local End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media in new
IMS Session and Gm Service Control
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.2-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 adds PS media
component(s) (e.g. video) and Gm Service Control Signalling to an existing
multimedia session that only contains CS media. Following this scenario the
session is controlled using ICS capability.
Figure 6.3.3.2-1: Local End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media
in new IMS Session and Gm Service Control
1\. A multimedia session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either
originated or terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5]
clauses 7.3.2.1 and 7.4.2.1, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS
capability and therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session
establishment.
2\. UE-1 requests to add one or more PS media component(s) and to control the
CS media using ICS capabilities by an INVITE towards SCC AS to establish a new
session. The request contains the description of the new PS media and
indicates that control of the existing CS media is transferred to the new
session. UE‑1 provides information necessary for the SCC AS to identify the
existing session and to request addition of the media flow to the existing
session.
3\. The S-CSCF executes any service logic as appropriate.
4\. The S-CSCF sends the INVITE to the SCC AS.
5\. The SCC AS determines that the INVITE is related to an existing session
using the information provided by UE‑1 and adds the new media flow to the
session.
6\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg update using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5.
7\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.3 Local End Initiation case: Adding PS media to IMS session with CS
media
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.3-1 presents a scenario where UE-1 adds PS media
component(s) (e.g. video) to an existing multimedia session that contains CS
media and is controlled using ICS capability.
Figure 6.3.3.3-1: Local End Initiation case: Adding PS media to IMS session
with CS media
1\. An IMS session between UE-1 and UE-2 is established as either originated
or terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] clauses
7.3.2.2.4 and 7.4.2.2.2.2, respectively i.e. UE-1 is using the ICS capability
and therefore the Gm reference point during the session establishment.
2\. UE-1 initiates a request to add the PS media flow(s) to the existing IMS
session.
3\. The S-CSCF executes any service logic as appropriate.
4\. The S-CSCF sends the INVITE to the SCC AS.
5\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg Update using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5.
6\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.4 Remote End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing CS
session
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.4-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 has an
existing CS session with UE‑2 and UE‑2 adds new media flow(s) to the session
and the new media flow is delivered via PS access towards UE‑1.
Figure 6.3.3.4-1: Remote End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing
CS session
1\. A CS session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either originated or
terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] clauses 7.3.2.1
and 7.4.2.1, respectively, i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS capability and
therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session establishment.
2\. S‑CSCF receives a request from UE‑2 to add new PS media flow(s) (e.g.
video) to the existing session.
3\. S‑CSCF forwards the request to SCC AS, which is anchored on the session
path.
4\. The T‑ADS function in the SCC AS decides that the new media flow is
delivered to UE‑1 via PS access and therefore splits the session. T‑ADS in the
SCC AS uses the C‑MSISDN for correlation, and then ensures the split session
is delivered only to UE‑1, and not delivered to other UEs of the user.
5-6. SCC AS initiates a new session towards UE‑1. The request includes the new
PS media flow. The SCC AS includes enough information within the session
request to allow UE-1 to correlate this new session with the existing CS
session.
7\. UE‑1 accepts the new session and completes the session setup via PS
access.
8\. The SCC AS completes the Remote Leg towards UE‑2 according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.5 Remote End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media in
new IMS Session and Gm Service Control
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.5-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 has an
existing CS session with UE‑2 and UE‑2 adds new media flow(s) to the session.
The new media flow(s) is delivered via PS access towards UE‑1 and Gm Service
Control Signalling is added. Following this scenario the session is controlled
using ICS capability.
Figure 6.3.3.5-1: Remote End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media
in new IMS Session and Gm Service Control
1\. A CS session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either originated or
terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] sections
7.3.2.1 and 7.4.2.1, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS capability
and therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session
establishment.
2\. S‑CSCF receives a request from UE‑2 to add new PS media flow (e.g. video)
to the existing session.
3\. S‑CSCF forwards the request to SCC AS, which is anchored on the session
path.
4\. The T‑ADS function in the SCC AS decides that the new media flow is
delivered to UE‑1 via PS access and therefore initiates a new session using
the Gm reference point using ICS capabilities as specified in TS 23.292 [5].
SCC AS decides to establish the Gm Service Control Signalling together with
the media addition using the ICS capability. T‑ADS in the SCC AS uses the
C‑MSISDN for correlation, and then ensures the new session is delivered only
to UE‑1, and not delivered to other UEs of the user.
5‑6. SCC AS initiates a new session towards UE‑1. The request includes the new
PS media and indicates that the existing CS media is moved to and controlled
over this session.
7\. UE‑1 accepts the new session and completes the session setup via PS
access.
8\. The SCC AS completes the Remote Leg towards UE‑2 according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.6 Remote End Initiation case: Adding PS media to IMS session with
CS media
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.6-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 has an
existing session that contains CS media and Gm Service Control Signalling with
UE‑2 and UE‑2 adds new media to the session. The new media is delivered
together with the Gm Service Control Signalling towards UE‑1.
Figure 6.3.3.6-1: Remote End Initiation case: adding PS media to IMS session
with CS media
1\. A CS session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either originated or
terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] clauses
7.3.2.2.4 and 7.4.2.2.2.2, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is using the ICS capability
and therefore the Gm reference point during the session establishment.
2\. S-CSCF receives a request from UE-2 to add new PS media flow(s) (e.g.
video) to the existing session.
3\. S-CSCF forwards the request to SCC AS, which is anchored on the session
path.
4\. The T-ADS function in the SCC AS decides that the new media flow is
delivered to UE-1 via PS access. The SCC decides to add the PS media to the
existing Service Control Signalling that is established via Gm.
5-6. SCC AS initiates a request to add the PS media to the existing Service
Control Signalling Path towards UE-2.
7\. UE-1 accepts the new session and completes the session setup via PS
access.
8\. The SCC AS completes the Remote Leg towards UE-2 according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.7 Local End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS and PS
sessions
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.7-1 presents a scenario where UE-1 has a CS call
and an IMS multimedia session with the remote end in a manner that they are
presented to UE-2 as one IMS session by the SCC AS and then removes PS media
flow(s) by releasing the PS Access Leg.
Figure 6.3.3.7-1: Local End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS
and PS sessions
1\. UE-1 uses standard IMS procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4] to remove one
or more PS media flows from the session.
2\. SCC AS sends a re-INVITE to UE-2 to remove the associated PS media flow(s)
from the session. The SCC AS terminates the Source Access Leg as defined in
6.3.1.6.
#### 6.3.3.8 Remote End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS and PS
sessions
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.8-1 presents a scenario where UE-1 has a CS call
and an IMS multimedia session with the remote end in a manner that they are
presented to UE-2 as one IMS session by the SCC AS and where as a result of
UE-2 requesting to remove PS media flow(s), the SCC AS terminates the Access
Leg associated with the PS media flow(s).
Figure 6.3.3.8-1: Remote End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS
and PS sessions
1\. UE-2 uses standard IMS procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4] to remove one
or more PS media flow(s) from the session.
2\. SCC AS identifies the session from UE-2 as being split into two legs to
UE-1. It determines the appropriate Access Leg over which to send the updated
session information from UE-2. Since there is only a single PS media flow
associated with the session, the SCC AS terminates the Access Leg associated
with the PS media flow.
#### 6.3.3.9 Local End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing PS
session
This clause covers the scenario where UE 1 adds PS media flow(s) (e.g. video)
over a new IP-CAN, IP-CAN2, to an existing multimedia session that uses PS
media over IP-CAN1. As a post condition the UE 1 has an ongoing multimedia
session with the remote end.
The call flow is the same as in figure 6.3.3.3-1 except that both the original
media and the added media are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate nodes are
involved.
#### 6.3.3.10 Remote End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing PS
session
This clause covers the scenario where UE 1 has an existing PS session with UE
2 using PS media over IP-CAN1 and UE 2 adds new media to the session and the
new media flow is delivered using PS media over IP-CAN2 towards UE-1.
The call flow is the same as in clause 6.3.3.4 _Remote End Initiation case:
Adding new PS media to existing CS session_ , except that both the original
media flow and the added media flows are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate
nodes are involved. Consequently:
‑ in step 4. of the call flow, the T‑ADS function in the SCC AS decides that
the new media is delivered to UE 1 via PS through the access networks type
corresponding to IP‑CAN2;
‑ in step 5. of the call flow, the SCC AS includes enough information within
the session request to ensure that the S‑CSCF establishes the new session via
the selected access networks type.
#### 6.3.3.11 Local End Initiation case: Removing media from split PS sessions
This clause covers the scenario where local end UE-1 removes media flows from
split PS sessions. As a precondition, UE-1 has an IMS multimedia session with
the remote end. As a post-condition, UE-1 removes the PS session over one
IP‑CAN and continues IMS multimedia session with the remote end over the other
IP-CAN.
The call flow is the same as in figure 6.3.3.7-1 except that all the media
components are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate nodes are involved.
#### 6.3.3.12 Remote End Initiation case: Removing media from split PS
sessions
This clause covers the scenario where remote end UE-2 removes media flow(s)
from split PS sessions. As a precondition, UE‑1 has an IMS multimedia session
with the remote end. As a post-condition, the PS session over one IP-CAN is
removed and UE-1 continues IMS multimedia session with the remote end over the
other IP-CAN.
The call flow is the same as in figure 6.3.3.8-1 except that all the media
components are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate nodes are involved.
### 6.3.4 Void
## 6.4 Operator Policy and User Preferences
Operator Policy is provisioned in the network by the operator, and should be
communicated to the UE during initial provisioning or via OMA Device
Management [7]. Operator policy should be communicated to the UE, via OMA
Device Management, whenever the policy is updated by the operator.
Operator policy shall indicate, for each supported type of media or group of
media:
\- a list of access networks that are restricted for originating sessions and
Access Transfer;
\- a list of preferred access networks (in order of priority) to be used by
the UE with SC capabilities for originating sessions and Access Transfer, when
those access networks become available and Access Transfer is possible;
\- whether the UE with SC capabilities \"shall\"/\"should\"/\"may\" start
transferring media flow(s) to target access networks with higher priorities
than the current access network, when the target access networks become
available and Access Transfer is possible;
\- by indicating \"shall\" the operator mandates the UE to start Access
Transfer according to the home operator\'s list of preferred access networks
as soon as possible;
\- by indicating \"should\" the operator recommends the UE to start Access
Transfer according to the home operator\'s list of preferred access networks,
if Access Transfer is possible and desirable after having taken into account
the Local Operating Environment Information;
\- by indicating \"may\" the operator leaves the UE free to decide whether or
not to start Access Transfer in accordance with user preferences (when
configured), if Access Transfer is possible and desirable after having taken
into account the Local Operating Environment Information. Whenever user
preferences are not configured, the UE shall to take into account the home
operator\'s list of preferred access networks;
\- whether to keep or drop non transferable media flow(s) in the case of
partial Access Transfer.
NOTE 1: Operator policy for Access Transfer needs to be consistent with
operator policy for T-ADS.
User preferences may indicate for example:
\- preferred access.
The Local Operating Environment Information is implementation specific and may
comprise of such items as, radio environment information, quality of IP
connection (jitter, delay and packet loss), application specific requirements,
memory considerations, power considerations, etc.
The UE shall take in account operator policy, user preferences and the Local
Operating Environment Information when deciding which access to use for
outgoing sessions or before considering initiating Access Transfer.
NOTE 2: User preferences are not transferred to the network.
## 6.5 Execution of Supplementary Services
The execution of supplementary services, as defined in TS 22.173 [15], for a
session split into multiple Access Legs due to IMS Service Continuity
procedures, is not specified in this Release.
# 7 Security
## 7.1 General
There are no impacts on existing security mechanisms for the CS Domain or for
IMS as a result of Session Transfers.
## 7.2 Access security for CS Domain
TS 33.102 [11] describes the Security Architecture for GSM and UMTS
subscribers, SC places no additional requirements upon the CS domain security
than those already in the detailed access specific specification e.g., above
those described in TS 33.102 [11].
## 7.3 Access security for IMS
TS 33.203 [12] specifies the security features and mechanisms for secure
access to the IM subsystem (IMS). SC places no additional requirements upon
the IMS above those described in TS 33.203 [12].
# 8 Charging
## 8.1 Charging strategy
To ensure the completeness and correctness of charging during Session Transfer
procedure, and to avoid possible double billing in IMS and CS, the following
strategy should be applied:
\- Provide cohesive charging records with a complete service continuity
history for the whole duration of a SC subscriber multimedia session by the
SCC AS.
\- For cases of CS origination and CS termination, correlate the charging
records generated in CS and IMS for the subscriber multimedia session, to
avoid double billing to the subscriber.
\- Treat the charging records generated in the transferring-in access network
for the call(s)/session(s) established during the Session Transfer as
subsequent Access Legs, and therefore do not impact the direction of the
initial call(s)/session(s) for the purpose of charging.
\- Keep the start of charging in the transferring-in access network align with
the stop of charging in the transferring-out access network, to avoid double
billing to the subscriber during the Session Transfer.
For SC online charging, the following strategies shall be ensured:
\- Completeness and correctness of charging;
\- Avoid possible double billing in IMS and CS domains.
To avoid online charging correlation in IMS and CS domain, the SC online
charging should be performed only in IMS, i.e. prepaid service logic in CS
domain should not be invoked for anchored CS origination/termination call and
subsequent CS origination call established for performing Session Transfer. In
addition, the SCC AS should report information related to the initial
multimedia session establishment as well as the information related to the
Session Transfer procedure to OCS for correct credit control purpose.
## 8.2 Accounting strategy
To assist in performing the settlement between operators, the following
strategy shall be applied:
\- Provide cohesive charging records with a complete service continuity
history for the whole duration of a SC subscriber multimedia session by the
SCC AS.
\- Use the charging records for subsequent Access Legs generated in CS/IMS
domain and the charging records generated in MGCF performing CS-IMS
interworking, taking the complete service continuity history described above
as reference, to perform the settlement between the providers of CS domain and
IMS.
\- Use the access network information in IMS charging records, taking the
complete service continuity history described above as reference, to perform
the settlement between the providers of IP‑CAN and IMS Core.
#