# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was produced by ETSI Technical Committee
Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for Advanced
Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 182 008 [i]. It was
transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in December 2007
(Rel‑7) and upgraded to Rel‑8 in September 2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
(Void)
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[i] ETSI TS 182 008 v1.1.1: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Presence Service;
Architecture and functional description [Endorsement of 3GPP TS 23.141 and
OMA-AD-Presence_SIMPLE-V1_0]\".
# Endorsement Notice
The present document, in conjunction with 3GPP TS 23.141 version 7.0.0
(September 2005) and OMA‑AD‑Presence_SIMPLE-V1_0 provides the specifications
for the stage 2 of the presence service for NGNs.
# Endorsement of OMA-AD-Presence_SIMPLE-V1_0
The references listed in the table below are replaced by references applicable
to NGN:
* * *
Reference no. OMA-AD-Presence_SIMPLE-V1_0 Applicable reference in the present
document OMA XDM AD \"XML Document Management (XDM) Architecture, V 1.0\",
Open Mobile Alliance TS 182 011
* * *
Clauses 4 to 4.4 are not applicable. Such material is out of scope of the
present document.
Clause 5.2 is not applicable. Device Management is out of scope of the present
document.
Clause 6.1.2.1 is not applicable. The scope of this clause is covered by the
3GPP TS 23.141 part of the present document.
Clauses 6.1.3.16, 6.1.3.17, 6.1.3.18 and 6.1.3.19 are out of scope of the
present document. This is covered by DES/TISPAN-02033.
Clause 6.1.3.21 is not applicable. Device Management is out of scope of the
present document.
Clause 6.1.6.1 is not applicable. The scope of this clause is covered by the
3GPP TS 23.141 part of the present document.
Clause 6.1.7 is not applicable. The scope of this clause is covered by the
3GPP TS 23.141 part of the present document.
Clause 6.1.8 is not applicable.
Clause 6.1.9 is not applicable. Device Management is out of scope of the
present document.
# Endorsement of 3GPP TS 23.141
The references listed in the table below are replaced by references applicable
to NGN:
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Reference no. | Reference in | Applicable reference in | | | 3GPP TS 23.141 | the present document | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | [2] | 3GPP TS 22.141 | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | [9] | 3GPP TS 23.228 | TS 182 006: \" IP | | | | Multimedia Subsystem | | | | (IMS);Stage 2; | | | | | | | | TISPAN NGN Release 1\". | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
Add the following references to clause 2:
[101] ES 383 004: \"Network Attachment Subsystem; Release 1\".
[102] ES 282 007: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
In clauses 4.2, 4.3.1, 4.3.6, 4.3.7, 5.2.1.1, and 5.3.4 replace reference to
3GPP TS 23.002 [18] with DES/TISPAN-02029 [102].
In clause 4.2, figure 4.2-1 is extended with the following functional entities
and interfaces:
\- Addition of Connectivity Session Location and Repository Function (CLF)
functional entity connected by interface Pn to the Presence Network Agent.
In clause 4.3, the following additional reference points are added:
\- new clause 4.3.101 as follows:
### 4.3.101 Reference point Presence Network Agent - Connectivity Session
Location and Repository Function (CLF) (Pn)
> This reference point shall allow the NASS to report presence relevant events
> to the Presence Network Agent. This reference point is implemented using the
> mechanisms of the e2 reference point as defined in\ ES 282 004 [101].
In clause 5.2.2.2 the table is extended with the following entries:
* * *
Network Element supplying P4resence Information Reference Point Connectivity
Session Location and Repository Function (CLF) Pn
* * *
In clause 5.3.4, the 2^nd^ bullet item of the 1^st^ paragraph is not
applicable. Clause 8 is note applicable.
NOTE: Charging requirements are not specified in this version of the
specification, and may be provided in a later version of the present document.
# Equivalence of reference points
OMA-AD-Presence_SIMPLE-V1_0 and 3GPP TS 23.141 use different labels for the
reference points. The following table shows the equivalence of reference
points, where such equivalence exists.
* * *
Reference point in OMA-AD-Presence_SIMPLE-V1_0 Reference point in 3GPP TS
23.141 PRS-1 Pen, Pex, Pep, Pwp PRS-2 Pw, Pwp, Pet PRS-3 Pen, Pex, Pw, Pep,
Pwp PRS-4 Pet PRS-5 Ut PRS-6 - PRS-7 Ut PRS-8 Peu PRS-9 Ut PRS-10 Ut PRS-11 -
PRS-12 Ut PRS-13 - PRS-14 - PRS-15 - IP-1 Pwp \- Ph \- Pi \- Px \- Pl \- Pg \-
Pc \- Pk \- Pr \- Pp
* * *
#