# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was produced by ETSI Technical Committee
Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for Advanced
Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 182 009 [3]. It was
transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the ETSI endorsement of the 3GPP TS 23.167 [1].
The present document defines the architectural description for emergency
services in the IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS), including the
elements necessary to support IP Multimedia (IM) emergency services
The present document covers also the Access Network aspects that are crucial
for the provisioning of IMS emergency services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.167 (Release 7): \"3rd Generation Partnership Project;
Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions (Release 7)\".
[2] ETSI TS 102 424: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Requirements of the NGN network to
support Emergency Communication from Citizen to Authority \".
[3] ETSI TS 182 009 v1.1.1: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN Architecture to
support emergency communication from citizen to authority [Endorsed document
3GPP TS 23.167, Release 7]\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms, definitions and
abbreviations given in 3GPP TS 23.167 [1] apply.
# 4 Endorsement notice
The elements of 3GPP TS 23.167 [1] apply, with the following modifications:
Replace references as shown below.
* * *
Reference in\ Modified reference 3GPP TS 23.167 [1]
3GPP TS 22.101 ETSI TS 102 424 [2]
* * *
##### Clause 3.1 Definitions {#clause-3.1-definitions .H6}
_Add the following at the end of the definition of IP-Connectivity Access
Network:_
> In the context of the present document and an NGN, this can be read as a
> combination of the Network. (NASS), (RACS) and the transfer functions as
> described in ES 282 001.
##### Clause 4.1 Architectural Principles {#clause-4.1-architectural-
principles .H6}
_After item 7, add the following:_
NOTE: For NGN fixed access, the additional emergency registration is for
further study.
##### Clause 6.1 UE {#clause-6.1-ue .H6}
_Add the following as the first paragraph of the section:_
> The steps described below applies to UEs that are able to detect that a user
> is requesting an emergency session: In case the UE is not able to detect
> that the user is requesting an emergency session, the session establishment
> will from the UEs perspective proceed as the establishment of an ordinary
> multimedia session.
##### Clause 6.2.1 Proxy-CSCF {#clause-6.2.1-proxy-cscf .H6}
_Delete the third bullet item \"_ Reject/allow unmarked emergency requests
_\"._
##### Clause 7.1.1 UE Detectable Emergency Session {#clause-7.1.1-ue-
detectable-emergency-session .H6}
_After NOTE 2 that follows item 5 add the following:_
NOTE 2a: For NGN fixed access, the mechanisms and procedures for discovery of
a local P-CSCF that is suitable for use in emergency sessions, are for further
study. Therefore, the ordinary procedures for P-CSCF discovery may be used.
##### Clause 7.1.2 Non UE Detectable Emergency Session {#clause-7.1.2-non-ue-
detectable-emergency-session .H6}
_After the third bullet item starting "Alternatively, the P-CSCF" add the
following:_
NOTE: For NGN fixed access, the third alternative is always to be used.
##### New Annex ZA (normative): Call back of Emergency Session {#new-annex-za-
normative-call-back-of-emergency-session .H6}
_At the end of the document add the following new annex:_
###### ## Annex ZA (normative): Call back of Emergency Session
NOTE: The PSAP can return a call to the UE, via the S-CSCF in the home
network, using existing basic call procedures. Procedures for a real Emergency
call back is a GAP for this release.\ Alternative methods and procedures for
establishing an emergency call back session, e.g. via the E-CSCF in the local
network, is for further study
##### New Annex ZB (informative): Examples of Network Connection Model for
Emergency services {#new-annex-zb-informative-examples-of-network-connection-
model-for-emergency-services .H6}
_At the end of the document add the following new annex:_
###### ## Annex ZB (informative): Examples of Network Connection Model for
Emergency services
This annex provides typical examples of network connection model to support
emergency services. The annex clarifies the NGN Release 1 ability to support
emergency services depending on the network connection model. It also
clarifies which network is responsible for the connection to PSAP.
Three connecting cases using the TISPAN NGN are described as follows.
# ZB.1 Non roaming
Figure ZB.1
The Figure ZB.1 shows the case where the Provider 1 network handles both
ordinary calls and emergency calls to be connected to PSAP.
Provider 1 takes the responsibility on the connection to PSAP.
This is one of the network connection model case provided by TISPAN NGN
Release1 Emergency services.
# ZB.2 Roaming at IMS level
Figure ZB.2
Figure ZB.2 shows the case where Provider 1 network handles ordinary calls and
the other Provider 2 network handles emergency calls to be connected to PSAP.
The P-CSCF is located in Provider 2. Thus this is a case of IMS level roaming.
Provider 2 Network takes the responsibility on the connection to PSAP.
This is one of the network connection model case provided by TISPAN NGN
Release1 Emergency services.
# ZB.3 Roaming at the Access Network level
Figure ZB.3
Figure ZB.3 shows the case where Provider 1 network handles ordinary calls
using their own P-CSCF, and the other Provider 2 network handles emergency
calls to be connected to PSAP using their own P-CSCF.
P-CSCFs are located in both Provider 1 and 2 respectively. This is a case of
Access Network level roaming.
Access Provider and Provider 2 jointly takes the responsibility on the
connection to PSAP.
In this case, it is necessary to clarify the mechanism on how UE selects the
P-CSCF providing emergency services. As the current architecture of UE and the
access network does not provide or handle any information on which P-CSCF has
the ability to connect to PSAP for the serving user, enhancements in the UE
and the access network is needed to support this case.
Therefore, this network connection model case is out of scope of the TISPAN
NGN Release1 Emergency services.
#