# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was produced by ETSI Technical Committee
Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for Advanced
Networking (TISPAN) under work item DTS/TISPAN-02051-NGN-R2 and originally
intended to be published as ETSI TS 182 007. It was transferred to the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document describes Voice Call Continuity functionalities for
TISPAN Release 2. Scope of the work is to endorse the current 3GPP Release 7
stage 2 solution of VCC (described in the TS 23 206).
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the ETSI TISPAN endorsement of 3GPP TS.23.206
[3] \" Voice Call Continuity (VCC) between Circuit Switched (CS) and IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2: Release 7".
The current VCC solution explained in the TS.23.206 is essentially defined for
a core IMS provider that is a mobile operator (that has also CS domain). In
Informative Annex ZA theres is a possible scenario how the solution can be
extended to a generic IMS operator (e.g. when fixed network operator and CS
mobile network operator are separate organisations).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
[i] ETSI TR 181 011: \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Fixed Mobile Convergence;
Requirements Analysis\".
[ii] ETSI TS 181 013: \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Services and Capabilities
Requirements\".
[iii] 3GPP TS 23.206: \"Voice Call Continuity (VCC) between Circuit Switched
(CS) and IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2 (Release 7).\"
[iv] ETSI ES 282 007: \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networks (TISPAN) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
Functional Architecture\".
> [v] ETSI TS 180 000: \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged Services
> and Protocols for Advanced Networks (TISPAN); NGN Terminology\".
[vi] ETSI TS 282 004: \"NGN Functional Architecture; Network Attachment
Subsystem\".
[vii] ETSI TS 183 019: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services
and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Interface protocol definitions
for network access through xDSL and WLAN access networks\".
# Endorsement notice
The present document, in conjunction with 3GPP TS 23.206 [iii], provides the
specifications for the stage 2 of the Voice Call Continuity for NGNs. ETSI TR
181 011 [i] and ETSI TS 181 013 [ii] contain service descriptions.
The elements of 3GPP TS 23.206 [iii] apply, with the following modifications.
[NOTE: New or modified text is underlined in the following
subclauses]{.underline}.
##### 2\. References {#references-1 .H6}
The references [iii] should be replaced as shown below:
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Reference in TS 23.206 [iii] | Modified reference | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | [6] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Access | TS 187 003 "Telecommunications | | security for IP based | and Internet converged Services | | services\". | and | | | | | | Protocols for Advanced | | | Networking (TISPAN); Security | | | Architecture" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | [9] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP | TS 181 002 "Telecommunications | | Multimedia Core Network | and Internet converged Services | | Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia | and | | Telephony Service and | | | supplementary services; Stage | Protocols for Advanced | | 1\". | Networking (TISPAN); | | | Requirements for Multimedia | | | Telephony with PSTN-ISDN | | | Simulation Services" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | [11] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network | TS 282 007: \" | | Architecture\" | Telecommunications and Internet | | | converged Services and | | | | | | Protocols for Advanced | | | Networking (TISPAN); NGN IMS | | | architecture\" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | [13] 3GPP TS 23.167: \"IP | TS 182 009 "Telecommunications | | Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) | and Internet converged Services | | emergency sessions\" | and | | | | | | Protocols for Advanced | | | Networking (TISPAN); NGN | | | Architecture to support | | | emergency communication from | | | citizen to authority" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations {#definitions-symbols-and-
abbreviations .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### 3.1 Definitions {#definitions .H6}
Replace items in [iii] as follows:
  * "HSS" with "UPSF"
##### {#section .H6}
##### 6 Information flows and procedures {#information-flows-and-procedures
.H6}
The text in clause 6 of [iii] applies, with the following modifications.
##### 6.5.2 Supplementary services behaviour {#supplementary-services-
behaviour .H6}
The text in clause 6.5.2 of [iii] applies.
Add in the end of 6.5.2 of [iii] the following two new sub clauses:
##### [6.5.2.7 IMS: Explicit call transfer (ECT), CS: Call
Transfer/ECT]{.underline} {#ims-explicit-call-transfer-ect-cs-call-transferect
.H6}
[There is no impact on the ECT service when remaining in a particular domain.
It is not possible to perform ECT and Domain Transfer in
parallel.]{.underline}
##### [6.5.2.7 IMS: Call Completion on Busy Subscriber (CCBS), CS:
CCBS]{.underline} {#ims-call-completion-on-busy-subscriber-ccbs-cs-ccbs .H6}
[There is no impact on the CCBS service when remaining in a particular domain.
It may not be possible to recall the originating VCC user in a different
domain than the one in which the CCBS service was originally
invoked.]{.underline}
###### ## Annex ZA (informative): A possible scenario to adapt 3GPP VCC to
multi-operator scenario
# [ZA.1 Introduction]{.underline}
The present annex defines additional concepts of VCC service provisioning in
order to support **VCC multi -operator scenario** where IMS and CS domain
belong to different operators; i.e. when the user's IMS services and the
user's CS services are under the control of different home operators.
For the purposes of the present annex, the concepts given in TS 23.206 [iii]
and the ones defined in the main body of this specification are still to be
applied.
# ZA.2 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
The text in clause 3 of [iii] applies, with the following modifications.
## ZA.2.1 Definitions
The text in clause 3.1 of [iii] applies.
Moreover the following definitions apply:
[**VCC single-operator scenario:** VCC scenario where IMS and CS domain belong
to the same operator]{.underline}
[**VCC multi -operator scenario:** VCC scenario where IMS and CS domain belong
to different operators; i.e. when the user's IMS services and the user's CS
services are under the control of different home operators]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
# [ZA.3 VCC Concepts]{.underline}
## ZA.3.1 General
The description enhances the VCC general concepts specified in subclause 4.1
of [[iii].]{.underline}
[Two operators providing CS and IMS access respectively may co-operate to
provide VCC together for their subscribers. 3GPP VCC can be applied in this
kind of scenario under appropriate conditions. However there are a number of
issues to be agreed between the parties starting from the ownership of the
subscriber (and SIM card). One thing to agree is if the subscriber can have
IMS services also in the CS operator network. Two simultaneous or just
different types of IMS registrations may not be supported by
terminals.]{.underline}
[The HSS depicted in the VCC architecture can be split into HLR and IMS part
of HSS. CS operator manages the CS subscription and the HLR data and is
responsible for the related authentication. IMS operator manages the IMS
subscription and the IMS part of HSS as well as authentication to IMS. The
operators may agree that MAP protocol is used towards HLR e.g. to query the
user status.]{.underline}
[CAMEL control is made by the CS operator as agreed with the IMS operator to
route originating calls to IMS for anchoring and chosen services. The
operators need to agree on the way the address information is carried so that
CS Adaptation function of the VCC Application is able to restore the
originally provided called party address. Otherwise inter-operator interface
would be needed between CAMEL gsmSCF and VCC Application. No change is needed
to TS 23.206.]{.underline}
[The applied subscriber addressing and routing scheme shall be designed. It
may be required to use two different public addresses for CS and IMS
respectively. It should be decided if single address is wished and if that is
the case, which operator holds those addresses i.e. whether IMS or CS operator
network gets the incoming traffic. All VCC enabled calls shall be routed via
IMS operator network even if they would first enter the CS operator network.
VCC Domain Selection Function in the IMS operator network decides if the IMS
or CS domain is used for the terminating call. VCC Application shall be aware
of subscriber\'s addresses in CS and IMS.]{.underline}
[If single subscriber address is wished to be shown as calling party address,
a particular service is needed in IMS operator network to achieve this. This
is outside the scope of VCC. It should be noted that the regulatory
requirements may prohibit changing the actual calling party address carried in
signalling.]{.underline}
[VCC Application may contain different type of policies regarding CS and IMS
use but all details of those are out of scope of standardization. VCC
Application may store the policy to the terminal by device management means as
specified for 3GPP VCC.]{.underline}
[The VCC service model is distributed and e.g. call forwarding services may be
provided in both CS and in IMS. These settings are separate by default in VCC.
If any synchronization of supplementary service settings is wished, an inter-
operator interface is required in this deployment case.]{.underline}
[If domain transfers are required only to one direction e.g. IMS to CS,
appropriate policy may be used to e.g. skip routing CS originated calls via
IMS. However if single number service should be required, then the CS operator
service (e.g. IN/CAMEL) shall cater for it.]{.underline}
[Charging is generated on both CS and IMS operator networks for the
subscriber. The common charging scheme shall be developed by the operators.
One possible way is to centralize charging to the IMS operator and then the CS
operator records only the connection time for inter-operator charging
purposes.]{.underline}
## ZA.3.2 Radio environments
The description enhances the VCC concepts specified in subclause 4.2 of
[[iii]]{.underline}.
[Out of scope for TISPAN]{.underline}.
## ZA.3.3 Domain Selection
The text in subclause 4.3 of [iii] applies without changes.
## ZA.3.4 Anchoring in IMS of VCC subscriber calls
The text in subclause 4.4 of [iii] applies, with the following modifications.
Anchoring of IMS multimedia telephony sessions are controlled by the operator
policy. The default policy is all IMS multimedia telephony sessions originated
by VCC subscribers in the IMS are anchored in the IMS in order to facilitate
domain transfer of the voice component to the CS domain.
Voice calls originated by VCC subscribers in the CS domain may or may not be
anchored in the IMS, subject to operator policy. A CS originated call has to
be anchored in IMS to allow domain transfer to occur.
Voice calls which IMS cannot route are not anchored in IMS. Considering a
voice call originated by a roaming VCC subscriber, using a called party number
not in the international format and for which the home IMS network has no
means to translate (e.g. a local number), IMS has no way to determine the
intended local destination and cannot anchor the call. CAMEL processing in the
CS domain may solve this problem by translating dialled numbers into the
international number format according the following guidelines:
\- If the VCC UE is in the [Home Network~~HPLMN~~]{.underline}, no translation
is required, the call is anchored.
\- If the VCC UE is not in the [Home Network~~HPLMN~~]{.underline} but located
in a [Visited Network~~VPLMN~~]{.underline} with known translation rules for
that number, translation is performed and the call is anchored.
\- If the VCC UE is not in the [Home Network~~HPLMN~~]{.underline} but located
in a [Visited Network~~VPLMN~~]{.underline} with no known translation rules
for that number, no translation is performed and the call is not anchored.
If a call from a VCC subscriber is not anchored in the IMS, domain transfer is
not supported for that call.
Priority call handling is not preserved if a priority call, originated by VCC
subscribers in the CS domain, is anchored in IMS.
NOTE: See TR 22.952 [7] for information on priority subscriber and priority
call handling.
## ZA.3.5 Domain transfer procedures
The text in subclause 4.5 of [iii] applies without changes.
## ZA.3.6 Regulatory aspects
The text in subclause 4.6 of [iii] applies without changes.
# [ZA.4 Architecture]{.underline}
The text in clause 5 of [iii] applies, with the following modifications.
## ZA.4.1 Reference Model
Figure [ZA.1]{.underline}~~5.1~~ depicts the VCC reference architecture.
NOTE: Not all standard GSM interfaces are depicted in the architecture.
Connection between the elements (VMSC, GMSC, MGCF) may be via a transit
network. CS domain termination may bypass the GMSC.
Figure [ZA.1]{.underline}~~5.1~~: VCC Reference Architecture [for multi-
operator scenario]{.underline}
## ZA.4.2 VCC entities
### ZA.4.2.1 VCC application
The text in subclause 5.3.1 of [iii] applies without changes.
### ZA.4.2.2 VCC UE
The VCC UE is a VCC capable User Equipment with an active VCC subscription. It
supports voice over both IMS and CS domains. The VCC UE performs the following
functions: -
\- Stores and applies domain selection policies for both originating calls and
Domain Transfers.
\- Selects which domain to use for originating calls; it does so based on
domain selection policies.
\- Communicates the user preferences in order to indicate which domain is
preferred for terminating calls.
\- Applies the received VCC operator policy prior to process VCC call request
(e.g. Call origination, Domain Transfer request).
\- Stores VDN/VDI for domain transfer execution.
\- Allows the stored VDN/VDI values to be updated.
> [NOTE: TISPAN requirements should be:]{.underline}
>
> [- supports ISIM/USIM/SIM]{.underline}
>
> [- authenticates with NGN network when roams into any access belonging to
> that network]{.underline}
## ZA.4.3 Reference points
### ZA.4.3.1 DTF -- S-CSCF, CSAF -- S-CSCF, DSF -- S-CSCF reference point
(ISC)
The ISC reference point between Serving CSCF and the Application Servers is
described in [ES 282 007 [iv]]{.underline} ~~TS 23.002 [11]~~.
### ZA.4.3.2 CSAF -- I-CSCF, DTF -- I-CSCF reference point (Ma)
This reference point may be used by the CSAF to route messages to the DTF
function via the Ma reference point. The Ma reference point between
Interrogating CSCF and the Application Servers is described in [ES 282 007
[iv]]{.underline} ~~TS 23.002 [11]~~.
### ZA.4.3.3 Functional entity -- [UPSF]{.underline}~~HSS~~ reference point
This reference point is used by the functional entities (DTF, CSAF, DSF) to
retrieve information from the ~~HSS~~ [UPSF of the Core IMS
provider]{.underline}. This reference point includes Sh; Sh is found between
the Application Servers and the ~~HSS~~ [UPSF]{.underline} and is described in
[ES 282 007 [iv]]{.underline} ~~TS 23.002 [11]~~.
### ZA.4.3.4 gsmSCF -- VMSC reference point
This reference point is used by the gsmSCF to provide routing of CS
origination calls and CS legs established for Domain Transfer to CS. This
reference point uses the gsmSCF to gsmSSF interface as specified in TS 23.078
[4]. The information from the trigger messages are used on the unspecified
interface to the CAMEL Service.
### ZA.4.3.5 gsmSCF -- HSS reference point
This interface is used by the gsmSCF to request information from the HLR. The
reference point between the gsmSCF and the HSS [of the CS
provider]{.underline} is described in TS 23.078 [4].
### ZA.4.3.6 VCC Application -- VCC UE reference point (V3)
V3 is a reference point between VCC UE and the VCC Application.
This reference point may be realized by using Ut interface as described in [ES
282 007 [iv]]{.underline}.
[ZA.4.3.7 DSF -- HSS reference point]{.underline}
[This reference point is used by the DSF to retrieve information from the HLR
of the CS provider. MAP implementation option shall be used for this reference
point.]{.underline}
> []{.underline}
# [ZA.6 Security]{.underline}
The text in clause 7 of [iii] applies, with the additional elements described
in the present subclause.
## ZA.6.1 General
There are no impacts on existing security mechanisms for the CS Domain, [other
IP-CAN domain]{.underline} or for IMS as a result of Domain Transfers.
## ZA.6.2 IP-CAN Access security
_[Note: For TISPAN-NGN access authentication is described in [vi] and
[vii].]{.underline}_
#