# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was produced by ETSI Technical Committee
Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for Advanced
Networking (TISPAN) under work item DTS/TISPAN-02038-NGN-R2 and originally
intended to be published as ETSI TS 182 021. It was transferred to the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the ETSI TISPAN endorsement of 3GPP TS.23.204
[1] \"Support of Short Message Service (SMS) over generic 3GPP Internet
Protocol (IP) access; Stage 2 (Release 7)".
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.204: \"Support of Short Message Service (SMS) over generic 3GPP
Internet Protocol (IP) access; Stage 2\"; Release 7.
# 3 Endorsement
The present document, in conjunction with 3GPP TS 23.204 [1], provides the
specifications for the stage 2 of the messaging service for NGNs.
The elements of 3GPP TS 23.204 [1] apply, with the following modifications:
1\. Scope
Applies.
2\. References
Applies. The references listed in Table 1 are replaced by references
applicable to NGN:
* * *
Reference in 3GPP TS 23.204 [1] Applicable reference in this document 3GPP TS
23.228 TS 182 006 \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS);Stage 2; TISPAN NGN Release
1\".
* * *
Table 1: List of references to be replaced
3\. Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Applies.
4\. Void
Applies
4a. Architecture Requirements
Applies.
5\. Architecture model and reference points
Applies.
[]{.underline}
6\. Procedures
Applies.
6.5 Delivery Report procedure
Applies.
6.6 SMS Alerting procedure when IP based UE has memory available to receive
one or more short messages
Applies.
Annex A: (informative) Change history
Doesn't apply.
#