# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was produced by ETSI Technical Committee
Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for Advanced
Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 182 011 [i]. It was
transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
(Void)
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[i] ETSI TS 182 011 v1.1.1: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); XML Document
Management; Architecture and functional description [OMA-AD-
XDM-V1_0-20051006-C modified]\".
# Endorsement notice
The present document, in conjunction with OMA \"XML Document Management
Architecture\", Candidate Version 1.0, OMA-AD-XDM-V1_0-20051006-C, provides
the specifications for the stage 2 of the XML document management capability
for NGNs.
NOTE: New or modified text is indicated using coloured type. In addition,
underlining and/or strike-out are used to highlight detailed modifications
where necessary.
# Global modifications to OMA-AD-XDM-V1_0-20051006-C
##### Clause 2 {#clause-2 .H6}
Insert this text block:
[The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.]{.underline}
  * [References are either specific (identified by date of publication and/or edition number or version number) or non‑specific.]{.underline}
  * [For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.]{.underline}
  * [For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.]{.underline}
[Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference.]{.underline}
##### Clause 2.1 {#clause-2.1 .H6}
Insert the following ETSI references at the end of clause 2.1:
##### [ETSI References]{.underline} {#etsi-references .H6}
[[ES 282 007] ETSI ES 282 007: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS); Functional architecture\".]{.underline}
[[TS 182 006] ETSI TS 182 006: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2 description (3GPP TS 23.228 v7.2.0,
modified)\".]{.underline}
[[TS 182 008] ETSI TS 182 008: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Presence Service;
Architecture and functional description (Endorsement of 3GPP TS 23.141 and
OMA-AD-Presence_SIMPLE-V1_0)\".]{.underline}
##### Throughout the text of OMA-AD-XDM-V1_0-20051006-C {#throughout-the-text-
of-oma-ad-xdm-v1_0-20051006-c .H6}
The references listed in table 1 are replaced by references applicable to NGN.
Table 1: List of references to be replaced
* * *
Reference in OMA-AD-XDM-V1_0-20051006-C Modified reference 3GPP TS 23.002 ES
282 007 3GPP TS 23.228 TS 182 006 OMA_Presence-SIMPLE-V1_0 TS 182 008
* * *
References to 3GPP2 documents are not applicable in any of the clauses of the
document.
##### Clauses 4.1 and 4.2 {#clauses-4.1-and-4.2 .H6}
Clauses 4.1 and 4.2 are not applicable.
NOTE: Such material is outside the scope of this document.
##### Clause 7.3 {#clause-7.3 .H6}
Clause 7.3 is not applicable.
NOTE: The stage 2 requirements for providing the SIP/IP core are covered in TS
182 006.
##### Clause 7.4.5 {#clause-7.4.5 .H6}
Clause 7.4.5 is not applicable.
NOTE: Such material is outside the scope of this document.
##### Clause 7.6 {#clause-7.6 .H6}
Replace the second paragraph by:
[For a NGN realization the Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA) as an
underlying network mechanism is used as specified in [3GPP TS 33.222] to
provide the XDM service security if GAA is present; otherwise requirements as
above applies.]{.underline}
NOTE: Charging requirements are not specified in this version of the
specification, and may be provided in a later version of this specification.
##### Clause 7.8 {#clause-7.8 .H6}
Clause 7.8 is not applicable.
NOTE: Such material is outside the scope of this document.
#