# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
During the course of Release 7, TS 23.206 [3] (Voice Call Continuity between
CS and IMS) was developed to provides the capability to offer VCC (Voice Call
Continuity) for a subscriber moving from a CS radio environment into a VoIP-
capable IMS radio environment connected by an IP-CAN. However, for a variety
of reasons, the TS specifically excludes the capability of allowing emergency
calls to be subject to domain transfer. This TR documents alternatives for how
to provide such voice call continuity between the CS Domain and IP-CANs for
emergency calls.
# 1 Scope
This document contains the results of the feasibility study into the
architectural requirements and alternatives for the support of active voice
call continuity between Circuit Switched (CS) domain and the IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS) for emergency calls. Considerations include overall
requirements, architectural requirements, evaluation of potential
architectural solutions and alternative architectures.
The Feasibility Study considers different solutions for offering voice call
continuity for emergency calls when users move between the GSM/UMTS CS Domain
and the IP Connectivity Access Network (e.g., WLAN interworking) with home IMS
functionality. The objective is to identify an architectural solution that
allows completely automatic connectivity to the correct PSAP (from the end-
user point of view) as specified in TS23.167 [4], and allow for the
possibility of a domain transfer as specified in [3]. The study will also
identify configuration impacts upon existing networks in order to realize the
desired functionality.
Existing solutions developed by the 3GPP (e.g. 3GPP system to Wireless Local
Area Network Interworking (I-WLAN)) should be reused as much as possible.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.206: "Voice Call Continuity between CS and IMS"
[4] 3GPP TS 23.167: "IMS Emergency Calls"
[5] 3GPP TS 23.226: "Global Text Telephony (GTT)"
[6] IETF RFC 4483: "A Mechanism for Content Indirection in Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) Messages"
[7] 3GPP TR 23.892: "IMS Centralized Services"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the [following] terms and
definitions [given in ... and the following] apply.
**\ **: \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
**E-RUA:** A Remote User Agent [7] which resides in the serving IMS network
and presents an Emergency Call established via the CS domain as an IMS
Emergency Call to the E-CSCF.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
VCC Voice Call Continuity
I-WLAN Interworking WLAN
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
ICCF IMS CS Control Function
RUA Remote User Agent
E-RUA Emergency RUA
SLR Subscriber Location Report
# 4 Overall Requirements
## 4.1 Service Characteristics
It is intended to develop capabilities that will allow the domain transfer of
emergency calls in both the CS to IMS and IMS to CS directions. A minimal
requirement is the support of VCC for emergency calls originated in the home
PS domain. The following characteristics also need to be evaluated:
1) Emergency calls originated in the CS domain.
2) Roaming scenarios.
3) UEs that cannot be authenticated (e.g., UICC-less or with no roaming >
agreement).
# 5 Architectural Requirements and Considerations
## 5.1 Basic Assumptions
## 5.2 Architectural Requirements
1) The use of GTT device (e.g., TTY) for CS emergency call [5] needs to be
considered. The solution shall not require changes to the TTY device or the
interface toward the terminal.
2) The solution shall be based on domain transfer procedures specified in
Rel-07 VCC TS 23.206.
3) The solution shall consider support of domain transfers of emergency Calls
in areas where multiple visited IMS networks may be available to the user.
4) Support of the solution shall be optional in the UE and network. A UE or
network that does not support the solution shall not be impacted.
5) The solution should be able to provide continuity of location support
following domain transfer by providing the PSAP with an accurate initial and
updated location estimate, according to applicable regional requirements and
subject to the constraints of the PSAP interface.
6) The VCC procedure should be triggered only when both the UE and visited
network (both the source and target access technology) support VCC for
emergency calls.
7 VCC for emergency shall only be attempted for intra-operator transitions
(where IMS and CS core operators are the same).
8 Emergency calls shall not be transitioned from CS to IMS.
9 UE shall not attempt to perform transfer of an emergency call if it is not
certain the relevant capabilities are supported by the network.
10 Emergency calls are not automatically anchored for VCC unless they meet
certain criteria that are to be defined.
## 5.3 Session Scenarios
### 5.3.1 Network preferences for the domain in which an emergency call is
established
There are some basic forms of network preferences in existing IMS procedures
e.g. it is possible to redirect a UE to use the CS domain for emergency calls
and forbid the use of IMS for emergency calls. However, when these are
considered in VCC these do not make too much sense since in order to perform
VCC you must be allowed to establish emergency calls in both CS and IMS.
However, a network operator may still have a preference as to which domain an
emergency call ought to be on.
It is necessary to consider how these preferences relate to decision to
transition from one access to the next. One key question is whether the
network preferences take precedence over other typical reasons for transition
e.g. degrading radio conditions. It is envisioned/assumed that device
management is used to configure the different network preferences, but does
this also extend to the other triggers
It is necessary to specify what are the likely trigger conditions for a
transition, since this a safety critical service and needs to be error-free.
The type of handover is different from normal 3GPP radio level handover since
VCC is UE triggered, but still need to be equally detailed (e.g. signal
strength hystersis regimes).
### 5.3.2 Control of directionality of the transfer
Taking a comparison with mobility in a \"normal\" mode of operation, it is
possible to apply access restrictions during mobility. This ought to be
equally true in the emergency call scenario, although the reason behind such
restrictions during mobility will be different.
In direct relation to the above topic of network preferences, there may be
certain scenarios where a visited operator prefers to have emergency calls in
CS (due to a CS only PSAP potentially) and as such the need for CS to IMS
domain transfer is unclear.
One could also consider that CS \"coverage\" is much greater than for the
non-3GPP access that is using IMS for call establishment. Therefore the
justification for CS to IMS transfers again is not so obvious.
### 5.3.3 UE and network capabilities
The ability to perform the domain transfer on any call (irrespective of
whether it is emergency or not) is driven by both network and UE capabilities.
For non-emergency calls, typically no CS core network functionality is
required since the solution is purely IMS driven. However in contrast for
emergency calls, it is likely that CS core network functionality is required
due to the need to carry information necessary for support of the UICC-less UE
case across to IMS for anchoring during both call establishment and during
domain transfer.
Blind attempts by UEs (especially those in a limited service state i.e. no
UICC or invalid credentials) to perform VCC transfer of emergency calls should
be avoided where the UE cannot or has not established the status of the
support of network features required. This is due to the
undefined/unpredictable behaviour if the network does not support VCC features
that may lead to call transfer failures or treatment as a new call
establishment.
### 5.3.4 Decision to anchor a new emergency call for subsequent VCC
procedures
The anchoring of a call in IMS (at the E-SCC-AS) is vital to enable the
transfer of the call from one domain to another. This concept does not change
in VCC emergency. Anchoring of a CS call introduces call setup delay and
increases network complexity (which ultimately leads to an increased probably
of a failure). Therefore anchoring should not be considered to be applied for
all calls but rather it should be avoided when the conditions allow for a call
not to be anchored. The decision process must take into account all the points
discussed in clauses 5.3.1, 5.3.2 and 5.3.3.
### 5.3.5 Determination of whether a call attempt is new or VCC domain
transfer
In (dual-radio) VCC (emergency or not), the trigger point for domain transfer
is firmly at the UE. This needs to coexist with a basic principle that an
initial emergency call is always established by the UE. However, when
discussing this, it becomes important for the network to differentiate between
any incoming call attempt as related to either a new call initiation or a
domain transfer.
For initial call establishment in CS, TS12 style signalling (i.e. Service
Request = Emergency) will still be used as per TS 22.101. For domain
transfers, the same signalling means may be used, however, this makes
determination of the nature of the call very difficult without extensions.
If a call is incorrectly identified, there is a possibility that there is no
continuity and a new session / call (at user level) is established and the
caller required to re-provide any information to a new operator (at the PSAP
end). Furthermore, because of unexpected call termination for the old
operator, they may attempt a call back which would almost certainly fail. If
these potential error cases aren\'t avoided, there may be potential service
interaction issues between 2 TS 12 calls which had not been previously
envisioned (even though there is a possibility for them to occur).
### 5.3.6 Inter-operator domain transfer
Due to the duty of care residing with the operator providing initial
connectivity to the emergency services, it is generally not possible to
transfer that duty from one operator to another. Also different operators may
connect to different PSAPs which in turn may ultimate connect to a different
set of physical operators. It is suggested that VCC for emergency calls are
attempted only when the UE can identify that the source and target networks
belong to the same network (operator). This ensures the continuity of an
emergency call when performing domain transfers.
# Architecture Alternatives
Editor's Note: This section will describe and evaluate detailed reference
architectures, including network elements, interfaces and reference points,
suitable to provide VCC support for emergency calls.
## VCC in the Visited Network - Alternative 1
### 6.1.1 Architectural Details
#### 6.1.1.1 General
This clause presents an architectural alternative for enablement of Domain
Transfers for Emergency calls between CS domain and IMS, which may be invoked
multiple times in either direction while the user is engaged in an Emergency
call. The solution is applicable to Emergency Calls made by authorized users.
Editors Note: Applicability to Emergency calls made by unauthorized users is
FFS.
The solution extends the VCC architecture specified in TS 23.206 using the
following architectural principles:
  * **Standard IMS Emergency call setup procedures are used for > establishment of Emergency Calls using IMS and Domain Transfers to > IMS.**
  * **The CS network is used as a bare bones access network when > establishing an Emergency Call via CS domain. CS Emergency Calls > are redirected to the serving IMS for application of IMS Emergency > Call procedures.**
  * **An Emergency Remote User Agent (E-RUA) function, similar to the > RUA of ICCF being defined as part of ICS in TR 23.892, in the > serving IMS presents an Emergency Call established via CS domain > as an IMS Emergency Call to the E-CSCF.**
  * **The call control signaling for CS and IMS Emergency Call is > anchored at the DTF (Domain Transfer Function) in a local IMS > network designated to perform VCC functions of call/session > anchoring and Domain Transfers in a particular geographical > region. The DTF may be optionally co-located with the E-CSCF and > is invoked as a visited network option for Emergency Calls > established using a VCC capable terminal.**
  * **Domain Transfers are executed by the DTF which switches the Access > Leg from the transferring-out domain to the transferring-in > domain, updating the Remote Leg toward the PSAP with the Access > Leg info and Location Key associated with the transferring-in > domain.**
#### 6.1.1.2 Reference Architecture
The reference architecture for VCC Emergency Calls is provided in Figure
6.1.1.2-1 below.
**Figure 6.1.1.2-1: VCC Emergency Call Architecture**
##### 6.1.1.2.1 Domain Transfer Function (DTF)
The Domain Transfer Function is defined in TS 23.206. It anchors call control
signalling for the VCC user's CS and IMS sessions for enablement of Domain
Transfers between CS domain and IMS. The DTF for Emergency Calls resides in
**a local IMS network designated to perform VCC functions of call/session
anchoring and Domain Transfers in a particular geographical region. The DTF
may be optionally co-located with the E-CSCF.**
##### 6.1.1.2.2 IMS CS Control Function (ICCF)
The IMS CS Control Function (ICCF) is being defined as part of the ICS study
being captured in TR 23.892. The Emergency Remote User Agent (E-RUA) of ICCF
presents SIP User Agent behaviour on behalf of the UE for presentation of
Emergency Calls made via the CS domain to the E-CSCF, as an IMS originated
Emergency Call. The ICCF for Emergency Calls resides in the serving IMS.
#### 6.1.1.3 Initial Call establishment
##### 6.1.1.3.1 Emergency Calls established in or transferred to IMS
The procedures defined in TS 23.167 are used for establishment of Emergency
Calls using IMS. The signalling/bearer paths and the paths for Location
Push/Pull for Emergency calls established or transferred to IMS are as
identified in Figure 6.1.1.3.1-1 below.
**Figure 6.1.1.3.1-1: Signalling/Bearer Paths for IMS Emergency Calls**
NOTE: The local IMS designated for VCC functions is the same as the visited
IMS in this illustration.
The DTF is inserted in the signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for enablement
of Domain Transfers for the call as specified in TS 23.206.
The DTF may assign a Session Transfer ID. DTF would assign Session Transfer
Identifiers when it receives emergency session request from the UE and could
transport it to the UE in a SIP message. The UE would use the Session Transfer
Identifiers for requesting handovers to CS and subsequent handback to IMS.
##### 6.1.1.3.2 Emergency Calls established in or transferred to CS
The signalling/bearer paths and the paths for Location Push/Pull for Emergency
calls established or transferred to the CS domain are as identified in Figures
6.1.1.3.2-1, 6.1.1.3.2-2 and 6.1.1.3.2-3 below.
{width="6.549305555555556in" height="3.55in"}
**Figure 6.1.1.3.2-1: Signalling/Bearer Paths for CS Emergency Calls in
conjunction with a logical signalling control channel established over the PS
domain**
NOTE 1: The local IMS designated for VCC functions is the same as the visited
IMS in this illustration.
{width="6.549305555555556in" height="3.548611111111111in"}
**Figure 6.1.1.3.2-2: Signalling/Bearer Paths for CS Emergency Calls in
conjunction with a logical signalling control channel established over the CS
domain**
NOTE 2: The local IMS designated for VCC functions is the same as the visited
IMS in this illustration.
**\ **
{width="6.653472222222222in" height="3.548611111111111in"}
**Figure 6.1.1.3.2-3: Signalling/Bearer Paths for CS Emergency Calls for
Domain Transfers**
NOTE 3: The local IMS designated for VCC functions is the same as the visited
IMS in this illustration.
_A special E.164 number (termed E-RUA DN) is downloaded to the UE in the
visited network (see section 6.2.2.1). When the user makes an emergency call
(e.g. dials 911), the UE sends a Set-up to the VMSC using the E-RUA DN. The
serving network (i.e. VMSC) is able to recognise the dialled number as a
request to make an emergency call and routes the call as an emergency call.
This is accordance with TS 22.101 section 10.1._
_The VMSC performs the standard CS emergency procedures and allocates a
routing key (e.g. ESRK). This involves the VMSC sending a MAP Subscriber
Location Report (SLR) request to the GMLC allocated to the geographical region
that the UE is roaming within. Based on the received information, the GMLC
will store the current location of the user against a call reference._
When the VMSC receives the MAP-SLR response it is still running the call
context for the CS Emergency call. The VMSC routes the call to the MGCF based
upon the routing configuration at the VMSC.
NOTE 4: Modifications are required at the VMSC to route the session using the
E-RUA DN rather than the ESRK/ESRD after the standard emergency call
procedures have been invoked at the VMSC.
**The Emergency call routing toward the PSAP is provided by a serving IMS;
this is achieved by routing the Emergency call through the CS domain network
toward the E-RUA in the serving IMS.**
**Using the concepts defined in** TR 23.892 IMS Centralized Services, a
logical control channel is used to transport signalling between the UE or
E-RUA in the serving IMS network when making Emergency calls in the CS domain.
This signalling contains emergency related data that either may not be inter-
worked safely by the MGCF or data that plays no part in the routing decision
at the MSC (but needs to be taken into consideration in IMS). For example, the
Emergency Service Category (as defined in 24.008 section 10.5.4.33) would need
to be sent into IMS to allow the LRF to make a determination of the most
appropriate PSAP.
The logical control channel between the UE and the E-RUA can be established
over the CS domain network using USSD, or over the PS domain using SIP
signalling but no media is associated with the SIP INVITE.
In parallel with the setting up of ICCC, the UE will set up the CS bearer
signalling leg (by dialling the E-RUA DN); both of these legs will be combined
at E-RUA to present the RUA leg to E-CSCF.
NOTE 5: This architecture does not rely on support of IMS centralized services
as the solution requires the setting up of the logical control channel to a
function in the visited network. If the visited network supports IMS
centralized services for its own users, then it is an implementation option
for the E-RUA function to be housed with the existing RUA function for that
network.
For establishment of the logical control channel over the PS domain using
SIP::
  * The location-reference is provided by a location server in the PS network rather than the CS network (as in standard IMS emergency session control).
  * This option is recommended for use in 3G networks.
For establishment of the logical control channel over the CS domain using
USSD:
  * The location-reference is provided by the CS network
```{=html}
``` \- There are two modes of routing USSD messages. The first mode is home-
routed mode where the VMSC routes the USSD message to the HSS and the HSS
sends it to the E-RUA. The second mode is visited-routed mode where the VMSC
routes the USSD message directly to the E-RUA. It is recommended to use
visited-routed mode to remove reliance on the home network.
  * This option is recommended for use in 2G networks.
**Once the E-RUA has combined the UE-Legs, it presents the Emergency session
to E-CSCF as an Emergency call originated in IMS.** When the logical control
channel is established over the CS domain**, the Location Object [ref: RFC
4119** \"A Presence-based GEOPRIV Location Object Format\"**] in the Emergency
Invite is populated by the E-RUA with a Location Reference for retrieval of
user's current location from the GMLC using the information passed by the VMSC
at call set-up.** When the logical control channel is established over the PS
domain, the location object received by the E-RUA on the UE-leg in the session
control signalling and is populated by the E-RUA in the outgoing INVITE.
The procedures defined in TS 23.167 are used for processing of the Emergency
Call at the E-CSCF.
The DTF is inserted in the signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for enablement
of Domain Transfers for the call as specified in TS 23.206.
#### 6.1.1.4 Domain Transfers
**The UE detects the trigger for Domain Transfer, registers in the
transferring-in domain if needed, and establishes an Emergency Call in the
transferring-in domain.**
**For Domain Transfers to CS, the UE uses the E-RUA DN (which was downloaded
as part of CS attach procedures as described in Section 6.1.1.6.1) or Session
Transfer ID (which was supplied to the UE during the original PS emergency
session establishment) to establish the transfer leg of the emergency session
through the E-RUA of the ICCF by setting up a call toward the E-RUA of the
ICCF; the call is treated as emergency call at the VMSC. This procedure is
illustrated in Figure 6.1.1.3.2-3 and uses the same procedures at the
VMSC/GMLC for CS emergency originations as defined in section 6.1.1.3.2.**
**_The_ DTF processes the Emergency Invite for execution of Domain Transfer as
specified in** Execution of Domain Transfer procedure specified **in TS
23.206. The Remote Leg toward the PSAP is updated using the** Access Leg
Update toward the remote end **procedure specified in TS 23.206. The location
reference stored against the emergency call instance at at the LRF/VPC is
updated as part of this procedure.**
**The source Access Leg established via the transferring-out domain is
released. The source Access Leg release is coordinated b/w the UE and the
DTF.**
#### 6.1.1.5 Enhancements to Initial Call Establishment and Domain Transfers
##### 6.1.1.5.1 General
This clause explores simplifications that are possible with use of logical
signalling channel and/or the use of an ICS enhanced MSC server (as defined in
TS 23.292 [x]).
The VMSC shown in Figures 6.1.1.3.2-1, 6.1.1.3.2-2 and 6.1.1.3.2-3 could
either be a standard MSC Server or an MSC Server enhanced for ICS.
The Signalling/Bearer paths shown in Figure 6.1.1.3.2-1 are used to request
domain transfer from IMS to CS when the logical signalling control channel is
established over the PS domain.
The Signalling/Bearer paths shown in Figure 6.1.1.3.2-3 are used to request
domain transfer from IMS to CS when the logical signalling control channel is
not available.
The UE uses different procedures to establish the circuit bearer for IMS
emergency sessions depending on the availability of the logical signalling
channel and the type of MSC Server it is attached to.
1\. When it is possible to establish a logical signalling channel over the PS
domain simultaneously with the setup of the CS bearer session:
\- The logical signalling channel is used to establish a standard IMS
emergency session indicating use of CS bearer for the session; standard CS
origination, i.e. 24.008 Setup message addressing the E-RUA PSI DN is used to
set up the circuit bearer. The E-RUA PSI DN is used at the MSC Server for
routing of the call to IMS using standard MSC procedures. Standard PS location
services procedures as defined in 23.167 are used for location retrieval and
conveyance over the logical signalling channel.
NOTE 1: The priority for CS bearer resource allocation and retention may be
indicated by the UE through standard means; e.g. use of eMLPP priority level 0
which is normally used for TS12, or a higher level.
\- This procedure is used for both CS originations and for Access Transfer
from PS to CS, and is applicable when the UE is attached to a standard MSC
Server or an MSC Server enhanced for ICS.
2\. When it is _not_ possible to establish a logical signalling channel over
the PS domain simultaneously with the setup of the CS bearer session:
a) When the UE is attached to an MSC server enhanced for ICS:
\- Standard CS emergency call with use of 24.008 Emergency Setup is used to
set up the circuit bearer. The MSC Server uses the CS domain procedures for
location retrieval/conveyance and provides the necessary routing of the
emergency call towards the visited IMS network.
\- This procedure is used for both CS originations and Access Transfer from PS
to CS.
b) When the UE is attached to a standard MSC Server:
i) For calls originating in the CS access: Standard CS emergency call is
established with use of 24.008 Emergency Setup; standard CS emergency call
procedures are used at the MSC Server.
ii) For PS to CS Access Transfers: Standard CS setup procedures, i.e. 24.008
Setup message addressing the E-RUA is used to set up the circuit bearer. The
E-RUA PSI DN is used at the MSC Server for routing of the call to IMS using
standard MSC procedures. Location conveyance upon Access Transfer is not
supported.
NOTE 2: The priority for CS bearer resource allocation and retention may be
indicated by the UE through standard means; e.g. use of eMLPP priority level 0
which is normally used for TS12, or a higher level.
Editor's Note: Mechanisms for indicating priority for the CS bearer setup are
FFS. One possible solution is use of eMLPP level 0 which is normally used for
TS12, or a higher level. _It needs to be determined whether this makes it a
requirement to deploy eMLPP._
Editor's Note: Mechanisms for capability exchange between the UE and network
are FFS.
##### 6.1.1.5.2 Alternative message flows
The message flows that illustrate the new principles discussed in this section
are referenced below.
Section 6.1.4.1.2.2 illustrates alternative flows for CS origination when
simultaneous CS and PS access is available.
Section 6.1.4.1.2.4 illustrates flows for CS origination when simultaneous CS
and PS access is not available.
Section 6.1.4.3 illustrates flows for PS-CS access transfer when simultaneous
CS and PS access is available.
Section 6.1.4.4 illustrates flows for PS-CS access transfer when simultaneous
CS and PS access is not available.
For PS origination in section 6.1.4.1.1, the STN allocated by the E-RUA/DTF is
the E-RUA PSI DN (i.e. there is no need for a separate STN and a separate
E-RUA PSI DN to be allocated).
#### 6.1.1.6 Negotiation of VCC Support
##### 6.1.1.6.1 Capability Exchange in the CS Network
###### 6.1.1.6.1.1 Capability Exchange using the Home Network
###### # 6.1.1.6.1.1.1 _Option 1: Mobile Originated USSD exchange to RUA in
Home Network_
_When the VCC UE attaches to the CS network, the standard update-location
message exchange occurs between the UE, VLR and HSS. After completion of this
message exchange, the VCC UE sends a mobile-originated USSD message to the RUA
in the home network. The USSD message goes through the VMSC (and through
standard USSD processing at VMSC, the VMSC adds in its address to the
origination-reference parameter in the MAP Dialogue Portion) and arrives at
the HLR. The HLR is configured to route the USSD message to the home ICCF
based upon the service-code in the USSD message._
_The home ICCF is configured with a list of users that have a VCC
subscription. The service-code in the USSD message informs the home ICCF to
check (via data configuration) if the visited network supports VCC for IMS
Emergency. If the visited network does support the procedure, then the Home
ICCF sends a USSD-response to the VCC UE containing an E-RUA DN. The E-RUA DN
is used by the VCC UE to set-up the emergency call._
_The home ICCF sends back a USSD error to the mobile-originated USSD in the
following cases:_
  1. _Subscriber does not exist in the home RUA (i.e. subscriber is not a VCC subscriber)._
  2. _VMSC address supplied in the USSD message is from a VMSC in a visited network that does not support VCC for IMS Emergency Calls._
NOTE: The USSD message is only sent on inter-MSC location update. It is not
sent during standard CS-attach procedures or during Periodic location update,
when the VLR has a confirmed HLR-number stored for the subscriber.
_The E-RUA DN is used by the VMSC translations to route the emergency call to
IMS after the emergency procedures have been executed to allocate an ESRK/ESRD
or PSAP address._
_The E-RUA DN can also be used for domain transfers from PS to CS, or
alternatively the Home RUA could download an additional number that can serve
as the Session Transfer Number (STN) for domain transfers._
_If the VCC UE received a E-RUA DN, it uses this E-RUA DN to setup a call
using standard CS originating procedures when the user initiates an emergency
call. If the VCC UE does not receive the E-RUA DN, then it uses standard
procedure to set up the emergency call._
_This option allows the session signalling procedures to be carried out in
parallel with the bearer control signalling procedures during emergency
session establishment._
###### # 6.1.1.6.1.1.2 Option 2: Use of IMS Registration
_When in a network that has dual CS and PS coverage, the PS network can be
used to supply a semi-dynamic E-RUA DN to the UE during IMS registration using
similar mechanisms to that described in TR 23.892 Section 6.5.2.1. This option
allows the session signalling procedures to be carried out in parallel with
the bearer control signalling procedures during emergency session
establishment and allows the session related signalling to provide a E-RUA DN
for use in the next emergency session._
###### 6.1.1.6.1.2 Capability Exchange using the Visited Network
###### # 6.1.1.6.1.2.1 Option 3: Mobile Originated USSD exchange to E-RUA in
Visited Network
_Instead of routing the USSD message to the Home RUA function (as described in
Option 1) and relying on the analyses of the VCC Subscription at the HSS and
Home RUA, the USSD message could be routed to the E-RUA. As the UE will only
attempt to send a USSD message with a special USSD service code if modified to
support this feature, the VMSC can be configured to route the USSD message to
the E-RUA in the visited network. This option allows the session signalling
procedures to be carried out in parallel with the bearer control signalling
procedures and allows the session related signalling to provide the Next E-RUA
DN for use in the next emergency session._
###### # 6.1.1.6.1.2.2 Option 4: Session Signalling Channel with CS coverage
only using MO-USSD
_To remove the need to send the MO-USSD at CS-attach (as described in Options
1 and 3), the E-RUA can supply a dynamic E-RUA DN (i.e. allocated by the
visited network) by using a MO-USSD exchange during session establishment.
This option can only be used during emergency session establishment when the
session control signalling procedures are carried out prior to and in sequence
with the bearer control signalling procedures._
###### # 6.1.1.6.1.2.3 Option 5: Session Signalling Channel with CS and PS
coverage using SIP
_When in a network that has dual CS and PS coverage, the PS network can be
used to transport the session related information during emergency session
establishment by using the session signalling channel established over the PS
network (using SIP) to provide a dynamic E-RUA DN allocated by the E-RUA (i.e.
the visited network). This option can only be used during emergency session
establishment when the session control signalling procedures are carried out
prior to and in sequence with the bearer control signalling procedures_
###### 6.1.1.6.1.3 Recommendation for Capability Exchange in the CS Network
_It is recommended to adopt Option 3 if there is a desire to send the
signalling and bearer session establishment signalling in parallel. It is
recommended to adopt Options 4 and 5 to remove the need to send USSD at CS-
attach if it is accepted that the signalling and bearer session signalling can
be sent in sequence. It is not recommended to adopt Options 1 and 2 as they
create reliance on the home network to have knowledge of visited network
support for the feature._
_Editor' Note: The options discussed in this section do not address support
for UICCless/unauthenticated callers. For example, USSD cannot be sent unless
the user has done an update location, which will not occur in the UICCless
case. This is for further study._
##### 6.1.1.6.2 Capability Exchange in the IMS Network
_When the VCC UE makes an IMS Emergency Call, capability information about the
UE's capability to support VCC for IMS Emergency can be placed within the
INVITE. If the visited IMS network supports VCC for IMS Emergency, then the
E-CSCF will act on this capability information and send the INVITE to the
E-RUA/DTF to anchor the session._
_Alternatively, as described in Alternative 2, section 6.2.2.1 in TR 23.826,
either:_
  * _The E-CSCF may assume that all UEs are VCC capable and send all sessions to the E-RUA/DTF_
> _Or_
  * _The E-CSCF in the visited network could be configured with identities of roaming users from other networks where it should be assumed that all sessions are sent to the E-RUA/DTF._
_In the first alternative, this would be wasteful on resources as all calls
have to be sent to the E-RUA/DTF and anchored even though the UE may not be
VCC-capable._
_In the second alternative, this requires configuration in the visited
network, and is an option if there is a desire to avoid changes to the SIP
signalling._
### 6.1.2 Impact
### 6.1.3 Assessment
**Section 6.1.1.5 provides an overview of the current solution for Alternative
1.**
**The following simplifications to the solution in Section 6.1.1.5 are
proposed for Release 9:**
\- Capability Exchange between the UE and the visited IMS occurs on IMS
emergency origination. It may consist of the visited IMS network making a
decision to anchor based on configuration data or may consist of the UE
inserting its VCC capability within the INVITE towards the visited IMS. If the
E-SCC AS is successful in anchoring the call, it returns an STN to the UE for
usage in PS to CS domain transfer. The STN enables the CS network to re-route
the domain transfer request to the visited IMS network. A non-VCC capable UE
ignores the STN returned to it.
\- Support for only PS to CS Session Transfer. The UE will always send a
standard 24.008 SETUP towards the MSC addressing the STN:
> \- When the Gm reference point is available in the target network:
>
> \- If UE is attached to a standard MSC server, no priority is supported for
> the emergency call. Standard PS location services are used for location
> continuity.
>
> \- If the UE is attached to an enhanced MSC server, the MSC will detect the
> STN as an emergency call and use standard emergency call procedures for
> priority of the CS bearers. Location information will be obtained by both
> the PS domain and CS domain in this scenario and the E-SCC-AS chooses one of
> these methods to update the location reference in the LRF.
>
> \- When the Gm reference point is NOT available in the target network:
>
> \- If UE is attached to a standard MSC server, no priority or location
> continuity is supported for the domain transfer request.
>
> \- If the UE is attached to an enhanced MSC server, the MSC will detect the
> STN as an emergency call and use standard emergency call procedures for
> priority of the CS bearers. Location information will be obtained by the CS
> domain only in this scenario.
\- For emergency calls originated in the PS domain, hand-back from the CS
domain to the PS domain may be supported by Alternative 1 in Release 9 as
determined by service requirements.
**The following aspects of the solution are for further study:**
\- Anchoring of calls established in the CS domain and support for CS to PS
session transfer.
\- Support for anchoring and session transfer for Unauthenticated UEs.
### 6.1.4 Procedures
#### 6.1.4.1 Call Initiation
##### 6.1.4.1.1 Calls established in IMS
The figure 6.1.4.1.1-1 provides an example flow for an emergency session
established in IMS, illustrating how the emergency session is anchored and how
the session transfer identifiers are transported back to the UE.
Figure 6.1.4.1.1-1: VCC UE initiating an emergency session in IMS
NOTE 1: A pre-requisite is for the VCC UE to be IMS Emergency Registered if
located in a VPLMN or located in the HPLMN are not already IMS Registered.
  1. The VCC UE generates a SIP INVITE containing the UE's location information or reference (if available).
  2. The P-CSCF selects an E-CSCF and forwards the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
  3. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the DTF.
NOTE 2: The trigger for routing the INVITE from the E-CSCF to the DTF could be
as simple as configuring the VCC user in the E-CSCF with the address of the
DTF located in a local IMS network designated to perform the functions of
call/session anchoring and domain transfers in a particular geographical
region.
  1. The DTF (acting as a routing B2BUA) anchors the emergency session, i.e. the DTF is inserted in the signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for enablement of Domain Transfers for the call as specified in TS 23.206.
  2. The DTF creates an INVITE and sends it back to E-CSCF.
  3. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the LRF
  4. The LRF obtains the UE's location (if not provided in the INVITE), selects the most appropriate PSAP based on the UE's location, allocates the necessary correlation information for the record stored in the LRF (e.g. ESQK) and allocates routing information for the call (e.g. ESRN).
  5. The LRF returns the location information, PSAP address, correlation information (e.g. ESQK) and routing information (e.g. ESRN) to the E-CSCF.
  6. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address or routing information (e.g. the ESRN) to format an INVITE message, and it sends it to the MGCF.
  7. The MGCF performs the necessary interworking of the INVITE and formulates an IAM containing the correlation information (e.g. ESQK) and sends it to the PSAP.
  8. The MGCF initiates 183 Session Progress through the IMS core back to the UE
  9. Call set-up continues with the PSAP sending ACM/ANM back to the MGCF which is interworked into a 200OK and sent through the IMS Core Network.
  10. The DTF receives the 200 OK from the E-CSCF and allocates a Session Transfer Number (STN) that is used by the UE to initiate domain transfer requests.
NOTE 3: The protocol details related to the transfer of the STN in the 200 OK
is a matter for Stage 3. It could be possible to utilise the mechanism defined
by [6].
  1. The DTF sends the 200 OK to the E-CSCF
  2. The E-CSCF sends the 200 OK to the P-CSCF
  3. The P-CSCF sends the 200 OK to the UE
  4. The UE stores the STN.
##### 6.1.4.1.2 Calls established in CS
###### 6.1.4.1.2.1 Calls established using a logical signalling control
channel over the PS domain -- Alternative 1
NOTE 1: The call flows depicted in this section do not assume support for IMS
Centralized Services. However, if IMS Centralized Services is implemented in
the visited network (for its own home subscribers) it is possible for the
E-RUA function to be implemented in the same node as the RUA function. This is
an implementation option.
The figure 6.1.4.1.2.1-1 provides an example flow for an emergency session
established in CS using a logical signalling control channel established over
the PS domain, illustrating how the emergency session is anchored and how the
location reference is provided to the LRF. In this flow, the VMSC recognises
the CS bearer set-up as a request to make an emergency call and carries out
the standard emergency call CS procedures prior to route the call to the MGCF.
**Figure 6.1.4.1.2.1-1 -- VCC UE initiating an emergency call in CS in
conjunction with a logical signalling control channel established over the PS
domain (Alternative 1)**
NOTE 2: This call flow is depicting the LRF acting in Re-direct mode. The
procedure is also applicable when the LRF acts in Proxy mode.
NOTE 3: Steps 2-4 and 5-10 may occur in sequence or in parallel. If they occur
in sequence, then the DN used by the UE in Step 5 can be provided by the E-RUA
in a provisional response when the E-RUA receives the INVITE in Step 4. If
they occur in parallel, then, a mobile-originated USSD exchange between the UE
and the E-RUA on CS attach can supply the suitable E-RUA DN for the visited
network.
1\. The user initiates an emergency call (e.g. dials 911).
2\. The VCC UE generates an Emergency SIP INVITE (Request-URI set to a sos-
urn) towards the P-CSCF in the visited network. If the UE has location
reference available, it includes it in the request as in a standard Emergency
INVITE
3\. The P-CSCF selects an E-CSCF (for the geographical region) and forwards
the INVITE to the E-CSCF. The P-CSCF may query the IP-CAN to obtain the
location reference (if it was not included by the UE).
4\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the E-RUA/DTF.
NOTE 4: The trigger for routing the INVITE from the E-CSCF to the E-RUA/DTF is
discussed in Section 6.1.1.5.2.
5\. The UE sends a normal Setup message (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008) to the
VMSC using the E-RUA DN that was previously downloaded to the UE on.
6\. The serving network (i.e. VMSC) recognises that the E-RUA DN as a request
to make a CS emergency call and carries out standard CS emergency procedures.
This may involve the VMSC obtaining an interim location estimate for the UE as
defined in TS 23.271. The VMSC sends a MAP _Subscriber Location Report (SLR)
request to the GMLC allocated to the geographical region that the UE is
roaming within._ The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSIDN,
IMEI, VMSC address, serving cell identity or SAI for the UE.
7\. _Based on the received information, the GMLC creates a call context,
stores the received location information and returns the MAP-SLR response to
the VMSC._
8\. When the VMSC receives the MAP-SLR response, it is still running the call
context for the CS Emergency call. The VMSC routes the call to the MGCF based
upon the routing configuration at the VMSC.
NOTE 5: Modifications are required at the VMSC to route the session using the
E-RUA DN rather than the ESRK/ESRD after the standard emergency call
procedures have been invoked at the VMSC.
9\. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the visited network by
inter-working the E-RUA DN to a PSI Tel-URI and setting it as the Request-URI.
The INVITE contains the identity of the UE (e.g. MSISDN Tel-URI as P-Asserted-
Identity).
10\. The I-CSCF may contact the HSS (not shown) to retrieve the E-RUA address
associated with the PSI Tel-URI. Once the I-CSCF has obtained the address, it
sends the INVITE to the E-RUA/DTF.
11\. The DTF anchors the emergency session, i.e. the DTF is inserted in the
signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for enablement of Domain Transfers for
the call as specified in TS 23.206.
12\. The E-RUA (acting as an originating UA) combines the relevant data from
the INVITEs received in Step 4 and Step 10 into a single INVITE and initiates
a new session towards the E-CSCF. The location reference/object provided in
Steps 1-4 and 7 are populated into the outgoing INVITE.
13\. The E-CSCF sends a Retrieve Location request to the LRF that is
associated with the geographical region. This request includes the UE
identification (contents of the P-Asserted-Identity) and the location-
reference (e.g. contents of PIDF-LO and/or the P-Access-Network-Info), etc.
14\. The LRF creates an emergency call instance and may use the location-
reference provided via the CS access to interact with the GMLC or may use
information provided via the PS access to interact with the LIS to retrieve
location data. If a location reference from the PS access is not included in
the INVITE, the LRF may obtain it directly from the LIS. The LRF stores the
location-reference against the emergency call instance. Based upon the
location information, the LRF interacts with an RDF to obtain routing
information for the emergency call. The LRF allocates an ESQK that identifies
the call instance in the LRF. The ESQK is correlation information that allows
the PSAP to request a location update from the LRF.
15\. The LRF returns the ESQK, the PSAP address or routing information and
location-information (location reference or explicit location information) to
the E-CSCF.
16\. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address or routing information provided in Step
6 to send the call to the PSAP. The call request is either sent via an
MGCF/MGW in the PSTN towards a PSTN-capable PSAP (not shown) or is sent
directly as a SIP INVITE towards an IP-capable PSAP.
17\. The rest of the call establishment procedure occurs between the UE, VMSC,
E-RUA/DTF, E-CSCF and PSAP based upon the VCC CS origination procedure
described in 3GPP TS 23.206.
###### 6.1.4.1.2.2 Calls established using a logical signalling control
channel over the PS domain -- Alternative 2
NOTE 1: The call flows depicted in this section do not assume support for IMS
Centralized Services. However, if IMS Centralized Services is implemented in
the visited network (for its own home subscribers) it is possible for the
E-RUA function to be implemented in the same node as the RUA function. This is
an implementation option.
Figure 6.1.4.1.2.2-1 provides an alternative example flow for an emergency
session established in CS using a logical signalling control channel
established over the PS domain, illustrating how the emergency session is
anchored and how the location reference is provided to the LRF. In this flow,
the Gm reference point is used for service control and location conveyance.
The standard procedures defined in 23.167 for the LRF to obtain location from
a location server in the PS domain are followed. The UE uses 24.008 Setup
messages addressing the E-RUA PSI DN to setup the CS bearer session; the VMSC
uses the E-RUA PSI DN to route the CS bearer session towards IMS. In this
figure, the VMSC does not recognise the E-RUA PSI DN as a request to make an
emergency call, and hence does not carry out the CS domain emergency call
procedures.
> **Figure 6.1.4.1.2.2-1 -- VCC UE initiating an emergency call in CS in
> conjunction with a logical signalling control channel established over the
> PS domain (Alternative 2).**
NOTE 2: This call flow is depicting the LRF acting in Re-direct mode. The
procedure is also applicable when the LRF acts in Proxy mode.
NOTE 3: Steps 2-4 and 5-8 may occur in sequence or in parallel. If they occur
in sequence, then the DN used by the UE in Step 5 can be provided by the E-RUA
in a provisional response when the E-RUA receives the INVITE in Step 4. If
they occur in parallel, then, the E-RUA may be provided to the UE by other
means e.g. use of USSD or similar exchange between the UE and the network.
Figure 6.1.4.1.2.2-2 provides a similar flow to that of Figure 6.1.4.1.2.1-1
but uses an MSC Server Enhanced for ICS, the only difference being the MSC
Server initiates an INVITE towards the I-CSCF in the visited network instead
of sending an ISUP IAM to an MGCF in the visited network.
> Figure 6.1.4.1.2.2-2 -- VCC UE initiating an emergency call in CS in
> conjunction with a logical signalling control channel established over the
> PS domain and use of an MSC Server Enhanced for ICS (Alternative 2).
###### 6.1.4.1.2.3 Calls established using a logical signalling control
channel over the CS domain
NOTE 1: The call flows depicted in this section do not assume support for IMS
Centralized Services. However, if IMS Centralized Services is implemented in
the visited network (for its own home subscribers) it is possible for the
E-RUA function to be implemented in the same node as the RUA function. This is
an implementation option.
The figure 6.1.4.1.2.2-1 provides an example flow for an emergency session
established in CS using a logical signalling control channel established over
the CS domain, illustrating how the emergency session is anchored and how the
location reference is provided to the LRF.
**Figure 6.1.4.1.2.3-1 -- VCC UE initiating an emergency call in CS in
conjunction with a logical signalling control channel established over the CS
domain**
NOTE 2: This call flow is depicting the LRF acting in Re-direct mode. The
procedure is also applicable when the LRF acts in Proxy mode.
NOTE 3: Steps 2-3 and 4-10 may occur in sequence or in parallel. If they occur
in sequence, then the DN used by the UE in Step 4 can be provided by the E-RUA
as part of the USSD dialogue. If they occur in parallel, then a suitable E-RUA
DN for the visited network can be supplied by the mobile-originated USSD
exchange between the UE and the E-RUA on CS attach.
  1. The user initiates an emergency call (e.g. dials 911).
  2. **_The VCC UE generates a USSD message to the VMSC containing relevant data to assist the E-RUA to set up the Emergency session._**
  3. **_The VMSC uses visited-routed mode to route the USSD message directly to the E-RUA/DTF based upon the service-key/service-code in the USSD message._**
NOTE 4: As an alternative, the USSD message could be routed to the HSS and the
HSS could route the message to the E-RUA.
  1. The UE sends a normal Setup message (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008) to the VMSC using the E-RUA DN that was previously downloaded to the UE on CS-attach.
  2. The VMSC may initiate a procedure in the RAN to obtain an interim location estimate for the UE as defined and allowed in 3GPP TS 23.271.
  3. The serving network (i.e. VMSC) recognises that the E-RUA DN as a request to make a CS emergency call and carries out standard CS emergency procedures. This involves the VMSC sending a MAP _Subscriber Location Report (SLR) request to the GMLC allocated to the geographical region that the UE is roaming within._ The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSIDN, IMEI, VMSC address, and serving cell identity or SAI for the UE. It also includes any interim location estimate obtained in step 3.
  4. _Based on the received information, the GMLC creates a call context, stores the received location information and returns the MAP-SLR response to the VMSC_
  5. When the VMSC receives the MAP-SLR response, it is still running the call context for the CS Emergency call. The VMSC routes the call to the MGCF based upon the routing configuration at the VMSC.
  6. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the visited network by inter-working the E-RUA DN to a PSI Tel-URI and setting it as the Request-URI. The INVITE contains the identity of the UE (e.g. MSISDN Tel-URI as P-Asserted-Identity).
  7. The I-CSCF may contact the HSS (not shown) to retrieve the E-RUA address associated with the PSI Tel-URI. Once the I-CSCF has obtained the address, it sends the INVITE to the E-RUA/DTF.
  8. The DTF anchors the emergency session, i.e. the DTF is inserted in the signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for enablement of Domain Transfers for the call as specified in TS 23.206.
  9. The E-RUA (acting as an originating UA) combines the relevant data from the INVITE received in Step 8 and the USSD message received in Step 10 into a single INVITE and initiates a new session towards the E-CSCF. The location reference is populated in the INVITE.
  10. The E-CSCF sends a Retrieve Location request to the LRF that is associated with the geographical region. This request minimally includes the UE identification (contents of the P-Asserted-Identity) and the location-reference (e.g. contents of PIDF-LO and/or the P-Access-Network-Info), etc.
  11. The LRF creates an emergency call instance and uses the location-reference to interact with the GMLC and retrieve the call record stored by the GMLC in Step 5. The LRF stores the location-reference against the emergency call instance.
  12. Based upon the location information stored in the call record, the LRF interacts with an RDF to obtain routing information for the emergency call. The LRF may allocate an ESQK that identifies the call instance in the LRF an ESQK. The ESQK is correlation information that allows the PSAP to request a location update from the LRF.
  13. The LRF returns the ESQK, the PSAP address or routing information and location-information to the E-CSCF.
  14. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address or routing information provided in Step 17 to send the call to the PSAP. The call request is either sent via an MGCF/MGW in the PSTN towards a PSTN-capable PSAP (not shown) or is sent directly as a SIP INVITE towards an IP-capable PSAP.
  15. The rest of the call establishment procedure occurs between the UE, VMSC, E-RUA/DTF, E-CSCF and PSAP based upon the VCC CS origination procedure described in 3GPP TS 23.206.
###### 6.1.4.1.2.4 Calls established in the CS domain without the use of a
logical signalling control channel
Figure 6.1.4.1.2.4-1 provides an example flow for an emergency established in
the CS domain when the Gm reference point is not available and the UE is
attached to an MSC server enhanced for ICS. In this flow, the MSC Server
recognises the CS bearer set-up as a request to make an emergency call and
carries out the standard emergency call CS procedures prior to routing the
call to the visited IMS network.
> **Figure 6.1.4.1.2.4-1 -- VCC UE initiating an emergency call in CS in when
> attached to an MSC server enhanced for ICS and without the use of a logical
> control channel**
NOTE 1: This call flow is depicting the LRF acting in Re-direct mode. The
procedure is also applicable when the LRF acts in Proxy mode.
1\. The user initiates an emergency call (e.g. dials 911).
2\. The UE sends an Emergency Set-up request to the MSC Server.
3\. The VMSC may initiate a procedure in the RAN to obtain an interim location
estimate for the UE as defined and allowed in 3GPP TS 23.271.
4\. The MSC Server applies priority to the call and executes the emergency
call procedures in the CS domain by sending a MAP _Subscriber Location Report
(SLR) request to the GMLC allocated to the geographical region that the UE is
roaming within._ The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSISDN,
IMEI, VMSC address, and serving cell identity or SAI for the UE. It also
includes any interim location estimate obtained in step 3.
5\. _Based on the received information, the GMLC creates a call context,
stores the received location information and returns the MAP-SLR response to
the VMSC._
6\. When the MSC Server receives the MAP-SLR response, it is still running the
call context for the CS Emergency call. The MSC Server is configured to route
the call towards an I-CSCF in the visited IMS network using an E-RUA PSI DN.
> Steps 7-15 in Figure 6.1.4.1.2.4-1 are the same as steps 10-18 in Figure
> 6.1.4.1.2.2-1.
###### When the UE is attached to a MSC Server not enhanced for ICS, standard
CS emergency procedures are applied and the call is routed to a PSAP in the CS
domain.
NOTE 2: Access Transfers for calls established via a standard MSC Server not
enhanced for ICS without the use of logical control channel are not supported
#### 6.1.4.2 Domain Transfer from IMS to CS -- Alternative 1
The figure 6.1.4.2-1 provides an example flow for domain transfer of an
emergency session from IMS towards the CS domain.
Figure 6.1.4.2-1: VCC UE performing domain transfer from IMS to CS domain
  1. The UE detects the necessary conditions and determines the need for domain transfer
  2. The UE establishes the transfer leg of the emergency session towards the E-RUA by setting up a call in the CS domain towards the Session Transfer Number (STN) downloaded as part of the original PS emergency establishment or by using the PSI DN that was obtained on CS attach.
  3. The VMSC may initiate a procedure in the RAN to obtain an interim location estimate for the UE as defined and allowed in 3GPP TS 23.271.
  4. The serving network (i.e. VMSC) recognises the STN as a request to make a Session Transfer for CS emergency call and carries out standard CS emergency procedures. This involves the VMSC sending a MAP _Subscriber Location Report (SLR) request to the GMLC allocated to the geographical region that the UE is roaming within._ The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSIDN, IMEI, VMSC address and serving cell identity or SAI for the UE. It also includes any interim location estimate obtained in step 3.
  5. _Based on the received information, the GMLC creates a call context, stores the received location information and sends the MAP SLR response to the VMSC_
  6. When the VMSC receives the MAP SLR response, it is still running the call context for the CS Emergency call. The VMSC routes the call to the MGCF based upon the routing configuration at the VMSC.
NOTE 1: Modifications are required at the VMSC to route the session using the
E-RUA DN rather than the ESRK/ESRD after the standard emergency call
procedures have been invoked at the VMSC.
  1. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the visited network by inter-working the PSI DN to a PSI Tel-URI and setting it as the Request-URI. The INVITE contains the identity of the UE (e.g. MSISDN Tel-URI as P-Asserted-Identity) and the location reference.
  2. **_The I-CSCF may contact the HSS (not shown) to retrieve the E-RUA address associated with the PSI Tel-URI. Once the I-CSCF has obtained the address, it sends the INVITE to the E-RUA/DTF._**
  3. The DTF identifies the anchored call/session from the user identity and then completes the establishment of the Access Leg via the CS domain.
NOTE 2: A new emergency session request received at the E-RUA/DTF while
there's already an active emergency session is considered a Domain Transfer
request as there can only be one emergency session for a user at any given
time.
NOTE 3: In the case where the E-RUA receives a Domain Transfer request at a
different E-RUA from the one that anchored the call, this may result in
possible re-anchoring and being connected to a new PSAP operator. This issue
shall not occur based upon the recommendation that VCC for Emergency should
only occur if the visited-IMS and CS core network operators are the same.
Additionally, it is assumed that all the MSCs in the CS core network are
configured with the appropriate translations to route the Domain Transfer
request to the same E-RUA based upon the STN.
  1. The E-RUA/DTF then performs the domain transfer by updating the remote leg with the connection information (SDP) of the newly established Access Leg by sending a Re-INVITE to the E-CSCF with the updated location reference.
  2. The E-CSCF sends a Location Update request to the LRF that is associated with the geographical region to update the LRF with the new location reference for the UE due to the domain transfer. This request minimally includes the UE identification (contents of the P-Asserted-Identity) and the location-reference (e.g. contents of PIDF-LO and/or the P-Access-Network-Info), etc.
  3. The LRF finds the emergency call instance using the information supplied in the Re-INVITE and updates the location reference stored against the emergency call instance.
  4. The LRF sends an acknowledgment back to the E-CSCF to allow the E-CSCF to forward the Re-INVITE to the currently allocated PSAP.
  5. The E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP (if the PSAP is located in the PSTN) or the Re-INVITE is sent directly to an IP-capable PSAP (i.e. the u-plane path between the UE and the PSAP is switched end-to-end).
  6. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg (i.e. the access leg previously established over IMS) is released.
NOTE 4: Releasing the source access leg does not result in releasing the
resources (e.g. ESQK) allocated to the emergency call.
#### 6.1.4.3 Domain Transfer from IMS to CS -- Alternative 2
Figure 6.1.4.3-1 provides an alternative flow for domain transfer of an
emergency session from IMS towards the CS domain, using the Gm reference
point.
Figure 6.1.4.3-1: VCC UE performing domain transfer from IMS to CS domain with
use of Gm reference point (Alternative 2)
NOTE 1: Steps 2-4 and 5-8 may occur in sequence or in parallel.
1\. The UE detects the necessary conditions and determines the need for domain
transfer
NOTE 2: The UE performs an IMS emergency registration for the same IMPI/IMPU
in the new PS access. The S-CSCF will need to support multiple simultaneous
emergency registrations for the same IMPI/IMPU.
2\. The UE sends a request for domain transfer from IMS to CS by setting up an
IMS originated Emergency session (towards the P-CSCF). This establishes the
transfer leg of the emergency call (i.e. the new access leg via CS). The
INVITE may also include updated location information for the UE.
3\. The P-CSCF routes the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
NOTE 3: The P-CSCF may instigate a procedure (as described in TS 23.167) to
obtain the location reference from the IP-CAN.
4\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the E-RUA/DTF.
5\. The UE sends a normal Setup message (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008) to the
VMSC using the E-RUA PSI DN that was originally downloaded to UE when the call
was originally established in PS access, as shown in Steps 14-17 of Figure
6.1.4.1.1-1.
6\. The VMSC routes the call towards IMS by sending an IAM to the MGCF
containing the E-RUA PSI DN
_7._ The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the visited network by
inter-working the E-RUA PSI DN to a PSI Tel-URI and setting it as the Request-
URI. The INVITE contains the identity of the UE (e.g. MSISDN Tel-URI as
P-Asserted-Identity).
8\. **_The I-CSCF may contact the HSS (not shown) to retrieve the E-RUA
address associated with the PSI Tel-URI. Once the I-CSCF has obtained the
address, it sends the INVITE to the E-RUA/DTF._**
**_9._** The DTF identifies the anchored call/session from the user identity
and then completes the establishment of the Access Leg via the CS domain.
NOTE 4: A new emergency session request received at the E-RUA/DTF while
there's already an active emergency session is considered a Domain Transfer
request as there can only be one emergency session for a user at any given
time.
NOTE 5: In the case where the E-RUA receives a Domain Transfer request at a
different E-RUA from the one that anchored the call, this may result in
possible re-anchoring and being connected to a new PSAP operator. This issue
shall not occur based upon the recommendation that VCC for Emergency should
only occur if the visited-IMS and CS core network operators are the same.
Additionally, it is assumed that all the MSCs in the CS core network are
configured with the appropriate translations to route the Domain Transfer
request to the same E-RUA based upon the STN.
10\. The E-RUA/DTF then performs the domain transfer by updating the remote
leg with the connection information (SDP) of the newly established Access Leg
by sending a Re-INVITE to the E-CSCF with the updated location reference.
11\. The E-CSCF sends a location update request to the LRF containing the
location reference for the new access network. The request also contains
information that enables the LRF to identify the existing emergency call
instance.
12\. The LRF updates the existing location reference in the emergency call
instance with the one provided in the location update request.
13\. The LRF sends an Acknowledgement back to the E-CSCF.
14\. The E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP
(if the PSAP is located in the PSTN) or the Re-INVITE is sent directly to an
IP-capable PSAP (i.e. the u-plane path between the UE and the PSAP is switched
end-to-end).
15\. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg
(i.e. the access leg previously established over IMS) is released.
NOTE 6: Releasing the source access leg does not result in releasing the
resources (e.g. ESQK) allocated to the emergency call.
Figure 6.1.4.3-2 provides a similar flow to that of Figure 6.1.4.3-1 but uses
an MSC Server Enhanced for ICS. This flow is similar in nature to Figure
6.1.4.1.2.2-2 in that the LRF may receive UE location information from both
the CS and PS access.
Figure 6.1.4.3-2: VCC UE performing domain transfer from IMS to CS domain with
use of Gm reference point and an ICS Enabled MSC (Alternative 2)
#### 6.1.4.4 Domain Transfer from IMS to CS -- Alternative 3
Figure 6.1.4.4-1 provides an alternative flow for domain transfer of an
emergency session from IMS towards the CS domain, when the Gm reference point
is not available and when the UE is attached to a MSC server enhanced for ICS.
Figure 6.1.4.4-1: VCC UE performing domain transfer from IMS to CS domain when
Gm reference point is not available and with use of an ICS Enabled MSC
(Alternative 3)
1\. The UE detects the necessary conditions and determines the need for domain
transfer.
2\. The UE establishes the transfer leg of the emergency session towards the
E-RUA by setting up an emergency call in the CS domain.
3\. The MSC Server may initiate a procedure in the RAN to obtain an interim
location estimate for the UE as defined and allowed in 3GPP TS 23.271.
4\. The MSC Server applies priority to the call and executes the emergency
call procedures in the CS domain by sending a MAP _Subscriber Location Report
(SLR) request to the GMLC allocated to the geographical region that the UE is
roaming within._ The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSISDN,
IMEI, VMSC address, and serving cell identity or SAI for the UE. It also
includes any interim location estimate obtained in step 3.
5\. _Based on the received information, the GMLC creates a call context,
stores the received location information and returns the MAP-SLR response to
the VMSC._
6\. When the MSC Server receives the MAP-SLR response, it is still running the
call context for the CS Emergency call. The MSC Server is configured to route
the call towards an I-CSCF in the visited IMS network using an E-RUA PSI DN.
> Steps 7-14 in Figure 6.1.4.4-1 are the same as steps 8-15 in Figure
> 6.1.4.2-1.
Figure 6.1.4.4-2 provides a similar flow to that of Figure 6.1.4.4-1 but uses
an MSC Server not enhanced for ICS.
Figure 6.1.4.4-2: VCC UE performing domain transfer from IMS to CS domain when
Gm reference point is not available and with use of a MSC not enhanced for ICS
(Alternative 3)
1\. The UE detects the necessary conditions and determines the need for domain
transfer.
2\. The UE establishes the transfer leg of the emergency session towards the
E-RUA by setting up a call in the CS domain using the E-RUA PSI DN.
3\. The MSC Server not enhanced for ICS is configured to route the call to an
MGCF in the visited-IMS network.
4\. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the visited network by
interworking the PSI DN to a PSI Tel-URI and setting it as the Request-URI.
The INVITE contains the identity of the UE (e.g. MSISDN Tel-URI as P-Asserted-
Identity).
5\. The I-CSCF may contact the HSS (not shown) to retrieve the E-RUA address
associated with the PSI Tel-URI. Once the I-CSCF has obtained the address, it
sends the INVITE to the E-RUA/DTF.
6\. The DTF identifies the anchored call/session from the user identity and
then completes the establishment of the Access Leg via the CS domain.
NOTE 1: A new emergency session request received at the E-RUA/DTF while
there's already an active emergency session is considered a Domain Transfer
request as there can only be one emergency session for a user at any given
time.
NOTE 2: In the case where the E-RUA receives a Domain Transfer request at a
different E-RUA from the one that anchored the call, this may result in
possible re-anchoring and being connected to a new PSAP operator. This issue
shall not occur based upon the recommendation that VCC for Emergency should
only occur if the visited-IMS and CS core network operators are the same.
Additionally, it is assumed that all the MSCs in the CS core network are
configured with the appropriate translations to route the Domain Transfer
request to the same E-RUA based upon the STN.
7 The DTF then performs the domain transfer by updating the remote leg with
the connection information (SDP) of the newly established Access Leg by
sending a Re-INVITE to the E-CSCF with the updated location reference.
8\. The E-CSCF sends a request to the LRF that is associated with the
geographical region to retrieve routing information to route the request to
the PSAP.
9\. Routing information (and optionally location information) is sent back to
the E-CSCF.
10\. The E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP
(if the PSAP is located in the PSTN) or the Re-INVITE is sent directly to an
IP-capable PSAP (i.e. the u-plane path between the UE and the PSAP is switched
end-to-end).
11\. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg
(i.e. the access leg previously established over IMS) is released.
NOTE 3: Releasing the source access leg does not result in releasing the
resources (e.g. ESQK) allocated to the emergency call.
#### 6.1.4.5 Domain Transfer from CS to IMS
The figure 6.1.4.5-1 provides an example flow for domain transfer of an
emergency session from the CS domain towards IMS.
Figure 6.1.4.5-1: VCC UE performing domain transfer from CS domain to IMS
  1. The UE detects the necessary conditions and determines the need for domain transfer
NOTE 1: The UE performs an IMS emergency registration in the new visited IMS
network if the UE is not already IMS emergency registered (e.g. the UE may
already be IMS emergency registered in the case the UE is doing a domain
transfer back to IMS). When the UE is located in the home network and is
already IMS registered there is no need to perform an IMS emergency
registration.
  1. The UE sends a request for domain transfer from CS to IMS by setting up an IMS originated Emergency session (towards the P-CSCF). This establishes the transfer leg of the emergency call (i.e. the new access leg via IMS). The INVITE may also include updated location information for the UE.
NOTE 2: A new emergency session request received at the DTF while there's
already an active emergency session is considered a Domain Transfer request as
there can only be one emergency session for a user at any given time.
  1. The P-CSCF routes the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
NOTE 3: The P-CSCF may instigate a procedure (as described in TS 23.167) to
obtain the location reference from the IP-CAN.
  1. The E-CSCF routes the INVITE to the DTF (as it is configured to send all requests for the VCC user to the DTF).
  2. The DTF identifies the anchored call/session from the Request-URI and then completes the establishment of the Access Leg via IMS
NOTE 4: In the case where the E-RUA receives a Domain Transfer request at a
different E-RUA from the one that anchored the call, this may result in
possible re-anchoring and being connected to a new PSAP operator. This issue
shall not occur based upon the recommendation that VCC for Emergency should
only occur if the visited-IMS and CS core network operators are the same.
  1. The DTF then performs the domain transfer by updating the remote leg with the connection information (SDP) of the newly established Access Leg by sending a Re-INVITE to the E-CSCF with the updated location information.
  2. The E-CSCF sends a location update request to the LRF containing the location reference for the new access network. The request also contains information that enables the LRF to identify the existing emergency call instance.
  3. The LRF overwrites the existing location reference in the emergency call instance with the one provided in the location update request. The LRF finds the most appropriate location server and positioning method for the current access network and stores this information against the currently allocated emergency call instance.
  4. The LRF sends an Acknowledgement back to the E-CSCF
  5. If the PSAP is located in the IP network, the Re-INVITE sent out by the E-CSCF is extended all the way to the PSAP (i.e. the u-plane path between the UE and the PSAP is switched end-to-end). If the PSAP is located in the PSTN, the E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP.
  6. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg (i.e. the access leg previously established over CS) is released.
NOTE 5: Releasing the source access leg does not result in releasing the
resources (e.g. ESQK) allocated to the emergency call.
## 6.2 VCC in the Visited Network - Alternative 2
### 6.2.1 Architectural Details
Figure 6.2.1-1 shows a possible reference model based on Figure 6.4.1.2-1 in
TS 23.206. The E-CSCF and DTF reside in the original visited IMS network. The
visited network P-CSCF (which is also part of the model) is not shown in this
figure.
NOTE 1: When the UE is not roaming the home IMS network becomes the visited
IMS network.
**Figure 6.2.1-1 -- Possible Reference Model for VCC support for an IMS
Emergency Call**
NOTE 2: It is assumed that for CS access, the MGCF can adequately populate the
information needed in a SIP INVITE from information received in an ISUP IAM in
the case of emergency call origination from the CS domain or PS to CS domain
transfer using a new emergency call origination form the CS domain. It is FFS
whether an additional RUA and/or CS Access Function may be needed in the
serving IMS to fully populate and correctly route the SIP INVITE and support
the remainder of the call establishment or domain transfer in these cases.
The CS Access diagram above does not show all the components in the session
path between the MGCF and the E-CSCF -- e.g. the I-CSCF which handles the
routing of the PSI in IMS.
Figure 6.2.1-2 shows the same reference model as Figure 6.2.1-1 but from the
perspective of the model defined in 3GPP TS 23.167 to support IMS Emergency
calls. In this figure, the VCC DTF is added with an interface to the E-CSCF.
The emergency call will be anchored in the VCC DTF. In addition, location
support will be anchored in an LRF in the visited network such that the PSAP
can continue to obtain updated location estimates from the same LRF following
any change of domain. This LRF is referred to as the anchor LRF.
Figure 6.2.1-2 - Modified architecture from 23.167 perspective
### 6.2.2 Impact
#### 6.2.2.1 Negotiation of VCC Support
For normal VCC defined in TS 23.206, the network (e.g. S-CSCF and VMSC) is
aware of the user's VCC capability from the user's subscription based
information stored in the HSS/HLR (i.e. provisioned iFCs and CAMEL
subscription). The UE uses a statically provisioned VDN (E.164 Voice Domain
Transfer Number) and VDI (Voice Domain Transfer SIP URI) for domain transfer.
For VCC for IMS Emergency, the visited network needs to be aware of the VCC
capability of the user. This may be achieved using one of the following
alternatives:
(a) If the visited network is the home network for the UE, it may discover UE
VCC capability from subscription information for the user.
(b) The visited network (e.g. E-CSCF) may assume that all UEs are VCC capable
(whether or not any particular UE actually is).
(c) The visited network (e.g. E-CSCF and GMLC) may be configured with either
the identities of particular networks all of whose UEs can be assumed to
support VCC or the identities of particular UEs (e.g. belonging to roaming
partners) who can be assumed to support VCC.
(d) The UE may include information in call establishment and/or registration
related messages -- e.g. in a SIP INVITE or DTAP SETUP or DTAP EMERGENCY SETUP
message. In the case of an EMERGENCY SETUP message, 3 currently unused bits
exist in the optional Service Category IE that could be used for this -- e.g.
2 of these bits could distinguish call origination with or without VCC support
from VCC domain transfer. Another alternative would be to send a normal SETUP
message rather than an EMERGENCY SETUP message in which different called party
numbers were used to designate an emergency call, support of VCC and
distinguish call origination from domain transfer -- similarly to the
proposals for Alternative 1 in section 6.1. Defining such numbers globally is
probably infeasible but it might be possible to configure the UE with numbers
specific to certain networks or, alternatively, a called party number specific
to domain transfer might be returned to a UE as a modified VDN as described in
section 6.2.2.3.
Editor's Note: Details of how (a) could be supported are FFS.
With alternative (b), the visited network assumes that the UE is VCC capable
and assigns VCC resources when the emergency call is originated. VCC resources
would then be wasted for UEs that were not VCC capable. For emergency calls
originated in the PS domain the wastage may be small, because the number of
such calls will generally be a very small proportion of all IMS calls in the
PS domain. In addition, if alternative (a) is combined with alternative (b)
such that the visited network assumes UE VCC capability only if it is not the
home network, the wastage is further reduced. However, for CS originated
emergency calls, there will probably be a higher level of wastage because most
CS emergency calls, at least initially, will come from legacy UEs not capable
of supporting VCC.
With alternative (c), a particular operator may agree to provide VCC support
to the UEs belonging to certain other operators as part of normal roaming
agreements.
With alternative (d), the visited network can be sure of UE support or non-
support at the expense of some impacts to the UE and possibly to the IP-CAN --
e.g. the MSC will be impacted to support any extension to the optional Service
Category IE. Alternative (d) also allows the possibility of distinguishing a
SIP INVITE or DTAP EMERGENCY SETUP message that is sent to originate an
emergency call from one that is sent to perform a domain transfer.
Alternatives (a), (b) and (c) avoid adding new impacts to the UE, which is
desirable to enable a common VCC solution, from the perspective of the UE, for
both emergency and non-emergency calls.
To convey to the UE that the visited network is VCC capable and transfer the
VDN and VDI, the following alternatives are possible.
(e) The UE discovers visited network VCC capability (and VDN and VDI) from
system broadcast messages.
> Editor's Note: further details of this are FFS.
(f) The UE discovers the visited network VCC capability and the VDN and VDI
where needed using DHCP or using HTTP or HTTPS from a server in the visited
network whose role is to provide information related to emergency calls (e.g.
including also local emergency numbers).
> Editor's Note: adoption of this alternative implies some further
> architectural enhancement (e.g. a new server)
(g) The home network downloads information to the UE, or to the UICC,
concerning networks that are known to support VCC for emergency calls. For
example, the home network could provide the UE with the MCC and MNC of all
known networks that support VCC for emergency calls. Additional information,
such as the VDNs and VDIs use by such networks, could also be provided.
> Editor's Note: further details of this are FFS.
(h) Use of SIP (e.g. UE Subscribe/Notify after call set up or use of 200 OK).
> Editor's Note: further details of this are FFS.
Alternative (e) would be suitable for UMTS, GPRS and GSM networks and may be
suitable for WLANs.
Alternative (f), which is applicable to IMS but not CS originated calls could
be combined with the provision of local emergency numbers to a UE from some
server in the visited network. The address of this server could be obtained by
the UE using either DHCP or a DNS query on some known FQDN containing the
visited network's known domain name and some fixed user name -- e.g.
"emergency-support@\"). As a variant, VCC capability
(and VDN and VDI addresses if needed) could be signalling directly if and when
the UE uses DHCP to discover the P-CSCF and DNS server addresses. The impacts
of such a solution remain to be quantified and evaluated.
Alternative (g) can be valid for all UEs but may require protocol enhancements
between the home network and the UE.
Alternative (h) is available when an emergency call is originated in IMS.
Further study is required when the call is originated in CS.
#### 6.2.2.2 Domain Transfer
Domain transfer can occur in a very similar manner to that for normal VCC as
defined in TS 23.206. Figures 6.2.2.2-3 and 6.2.2.2-4 are modifications of
Figures 6.4.1.3-1 and 6.4.1.3-2 in TS 23.206 showing switching of the user
plane for IMS emergency calls to an IP capable PSAP and a CS (PSTN) capable
PSAP, respectively. Note that some elements are missing or may be missing from
both figures -- e.g. I-CSCF and possibly RUA or CSAF between the I-CSCF and
E-CSCF in the case of CS domain access -- and need to be included once
validated by further study.
Figure 6.2.2.2-3: U-plane path between VCC UE and IP Capable PSAP
NOTE: MGW#1 and MGW#2 may be merged.
Figure 6.2.2.2-4: U-plane path between VCC UE and CS Capable PSAP
#### 6.2.2.3 Modified VDN and VDI
Similar to the concept of a Session Transfer Number (STN) for solution
alternative 1 in section 6.1, the VDN and VDI could be modified to enable
domain transfer in the context of emergency call recognition and treatment. In
the case of the VDN, a VPLMN could assign a modified VDN (and provide it to
the UE via one of the mechanisms described in section 6.2.2.1) that would be
recognized by an MSC as an emergency number thereby triggering a MAP query
with a GMLC as described further down in section 6.2.4.4.
To convey to a GMLC that a MAP SLR concerns a request for domain transfer as
opposed to a new CS emergency call, a new parameter or parameter value might
be included in the MAP SLR. Note that as an alternative, information at the
SCCP level might be used although that is not preferred due to dependence on
implementation support. With the SCCP alternative, a different GMLC SCCP E.164
address might be configured in the MSC in association with a modified VDN to
implicitly inform the GMLC that the MAP SLR was associated with an existing
emergency call (as opposed to a new emergency call) for which a domain
transfer was requested. The E.164 address would need to be transferred (as an
SCCP called party global title address) end-to-end to the GMLC (which is
allowed though not guaranteed by SCCP) and could select a distinct process in
the GMLC to process the MAP SLR or otherwise inform the GMLC that the MAP SLR
is associated with a request for domain transfer.
NOTE 1: The received E.164 address needs to indicate to the GMLC that a MAP
SLR refers to a request for domain transfer as opposed to a new originating
call.
NOTE 2: It is assumed that translations in the network will not change.
In the case of a modified VDI, a URI (e.g. SIP URI) could be assigned by the
VPLMN or defined globally that indicated a request for domain transfer for an
existing emergency call. This could be used for the domain transfer procedure
described in section 6.2.4.6. A PLMN assigned VDI would need to be provided to
the UE (e.g. using any of the methods described in section 6.2.2.1) although a
globally defined VDI would not.
The significance of using a modified VDN and VDI (and a reason for retaining
the existing VDN and VDI terms) is that from the UE perspective, domain
transfer could proceed (mostly or entirely) as for normal VCC defined in TS
23.206 [3].
The use of a modified VDN and/or modified VDI to support domain transfer may
be used in combination with any of alternatives (a), (b), (c) and (d) in
section 6.2.2.1 to convey support of VCC by a UE to the VPLMN. Thus, for
example, use of a modified VDN and VDI may be combined with conveyance of VCC
support by the UE using spare bits in the optional Service IE in an Emergency
Setup message (alternative (d)) or it may be combined with any of the other
alternatives (a), (b) or (c).
### 6.2.3 Assessment
### 6.2.4 Procedures
In the following procedures, the VDN and VDI are assumed to be assigned by the
visited IMS network (e.g. may be static in the visited network) and are thus
not configured in the UE as for normal VCC defined in TS 23.206.
Editor's Note: assumptions and requirements concerning the involved network
elements in these procedures (e.g. possible sharing of a GMLC among multiple
service providers) remain to be specified in section 6.2.2 (Impact).
#### 6.2.4.1 IMS Emergency Call Origination
Emergency call origination could occur as defined in TS 23.167 but with some
changes to add negotiated usage of VCC. In particular, in order to preserve
continuity of location support as well as continuity of the voice call
following any domain transfer, the E-CSCF in the visited network would need to
send the SIP INVITE (for the IMS emergency call) to the VCC DTF before
invoking the LRF to obtain or verify location and select the destination PSAP.
The VCC DTF would then anchor the incoming call leg and originate a new
outgoing call leg through the E-CSCF towards the PSAP. On receiving the SIP
INVITE from the VCC DTF, the E-CSCF would perform normal location and routing
as defined in TS 23.167 and transfer the call to the PSAP either via IP or
through an MGCF and the PSTN. This will result in the E-CSCF being part of the
outgoing call leg from the DTF which means the LRF can remain associated with
the outgoing call leg following any domain transfer and will thus be able to
provide continuing support of location provided it is updated with new
information regarding changes to the access network following any change of
domain. Figure 6.2.4.1-1 illustrates the ensuing call origination procedure.
Figure 6.2.4.1-1 -- IMS Emergency Call Origination with VCC support
1\. The user initiates an emergency call.
2\. If the UE is roaming or if the UE is not roaming and not yet IMS
registered, the UE performs an emergency registration procedure with the
visited network P-CSCF and home network S-CSCF (not shown) as described in TS
23.167 if it contains the necessary credentials.
3\. The UE sends an INVITE with an emergency indication to the visited network
P-CSCF. The INVITE may contain any location objects that the UE has. The
INVITE should contain identification information for the UE -- e.g. public
user SIP URI and Tel URI. The INVITE may indicate that the UE supports VCC and
may indicate that this is a call origination as opposed to a request for
domain transfer.
4\. The P-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE to an E-CSCF.
5\. The E-CSCF based on assumption or knowledge of VCC support by the UE, or
based on an indication of VCC support in the INVITE, forwards the SIP INVITE
to a VCC DTF.
6\. The VCC DTF anchors the incoming call leg and originates an outgoing leg
by sending the INVITE to (or back to) the E-CSCF. The INVITE still carries an
emergency indication.
7\. The E-CSCF performs normal treatment for emergency call setup as defined
in 3GPP TS 23.167. If the location object provided in the INVITE is
insufficient to determine the correct PSAP or if the IMS core requires the
assistance of an RDF, of if the IMS core is required to verify the location
object, a retrieve location request is sent to the LRF performing the location
retrieval functionality. The retrieve location request shall include
information identifying the UE (e.g. public user Tel UEI and SIP URI), the IP-
CAN and may include means to access the UE (e.g. UE IP address). The retrieve
location request may also include any location objects provided in the INVITE
in step 3. The retrieve location request may further include an indication of
VCC support by the UE and identification information for the VCC DTF -- e.g.
the VDN and VDI assigned by the VCC DTF -- if this is not already known (e.g.
provisioned in) the LRF. This information enables continuity of location
support by the LRF as described in other sections in association with domain
transfer.
8\. The LRF may obtain an interim location estimate as described in TS 23.167.
The LRF may invoke an RDF to convert the interim location or any location
object received in step 6 into the address of a PSAP. The LRF may record the
information received in step 6.
9\. The location information and/or the PSAP address obtained in step 7 are
returned to the E-CSCF. The LRF may also return correlation information (e.g.
ESQK) identifying itself and any record stored in step 7\. For the remainder
of the call, the LRF serves as the anchor LRF.
10\. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address provided in step 8 or selects an
emergency centre or PSAP based on location information provided in step 8 and
sends the request including the location information and any correlation
information to the emergency centre or PSAP.\ 9a. The INVITE is sent to an
MGCF/MGW, 9b. The IAM is continued towards the emergency centre or PSAP Or 9c.
The INVITE is sent directly to the emergency centre or PSAP.
11\. Intermediate signalling for call establishment may occur (e.g. return of
an ACM from a PSTN capable PSAP) which is not shown. When the PSAP answers the
call, the following steps occur:
11a. The PSAP returns an ANM to the MGCF/MGW, 10b. The MGCF/MGW returns a 200
OK to the E-CSCF Or 11c. The PSAP returns a 200 OK directly to the E-CSCF.
12\. The E-CSCF returns the 200 OK to the VCC DTF (on the outgoing call leg
started in step 5).
13\. The VCC DTF returns a 200 OK to the E-CSCF. The VCC DTF (or the E-CSCF)
may insert a VDN and/or VDI into the 200 OK to support the domain transfer
procedures A and C in sections 6.2.4.3 and 6.2.4.5. Alternatively, the VCC DTF
(or the E-CSCF) may insert a modified VDN and/or modified VDI (as defined in
section 6.2.2.3) into the SIP INVITE to support the domain transfer procedures
B and D in sections 6.2.4.4 and 6.2.4.6.
14\. The E-CSCF returns the 200 OK to the UE via the P-CSCF.
#### 6.2.4.2 CS Emergency Call Origination
Figure 6.2.4.2-1 shows VCC support for an emergency call originated in the CS
domain.
**Figure 6.2.4.2-1 -- CS Emergency Call Origination with VCC support**
  1. The user initiates an emergency call.
  2. The UE originates an emergency voice call in the CS domain by sending an Emergency Setup message to the VMSC (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008). The Emergency Setup may indicate that the UE supports VCC and may further indicate that this is a call origination as opposed to a request for domain transfer.
  3. The VMSC may initiate a procedure in the RAN to obtain an interim location estimate for the UE as defined and allowed in 3GPP TS 23.271.
  4. Based on normal handling for all CS emergency calls (e.g. as described in TS 23.271) or based on assumed VCC support according to the UE's home network operator or based on subscription information obtained from the UE's home HLR/HSS or based on an explicit indication of VCC support in the Emergency Setup message, the VMSC sends a MAP Subscriber Location Report (SLR) to a GMLC associated with the emergency service provider (PSAP) to which the call would normally be sent (e.g. based on the serving cell ID and dialled emergency number). The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSIDN, IMEI, VMSC address and serving cell identity or SAI for the UE. It also includes any interim location estimate obtained in step 3. In regions where the VMSC and not the GMLC normally determines the PSAP (e.g. the EU), the message may carry the address of the intended destination PSAP. The message may also carry any indication of VCC support and/or whether for a call origination or domain transfer that was received in the Emergency Setup. This indication could be an explicit parameter or parameter value in the MAP SLR or it could (less preferably) be associated with a distinct SCCP E.164 address (associated with the GMLC) to which the MAP SLR is routed.
  5. The GMLC assumes the UE supports VCC (e.g. an assumption for all UEs or just certain operators' UEs) or possibly determines this from subscription information if the UE is served by the home network or determines this from an indication in the MAP SLR or the address (e.g. SCCP E.164 address) to which the MAP SLR was routed. The GMLC stores a call record for the UE including all the information received in step 4. The GMLC assigns an IP Multimedia Routing Number (IMRN) to the call. Minimally, the IMRN enables call routing to the VCC DTF in steps 6 and 7 and, if needed, identifies the GMLC. Optionally, the IMRN may also temporarily identify the call record stored in the GMLC. The IMRN is used in later steps to select an LRF associated with the GMLC enabling the call record stored in the GMLC in this step to be retrieved by the LRF and enabling the LRF to locate the UE via the GMLC. The GMLC returns a MAP Subscriber Location Report Ack. to the VMSC carrying the IMRN in the NA-ESRD or NA-ESRK or in some other new parameter. The GMLC may subsequently instigate a CS-MT-LR with the VMSC (not shown) to obtain either an interim location estimate for routing or an accurate location estimate for later provision to the PSAP. As an alternative, the MSC rather than GMLC could assign the IMRN and transfer this to the GMLC in step 4.
  6. The VMSC routes the call based on the IMRN received in step 5. If the IMRN is conveyed using the existing NA-ESRK or NA-ESRD parameter then the call routing procedure in the VMSC can be the same as that used for normal emergency call origination in TS 23.271 (i.e. the IMRN appears like an ESRK or ESRD to the VMSC). Based on IMRN routing, the VMSC routes the call to an MGCF in the visited network.
  7. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the visited IMS (not shown) or possibly the MGCF routes directly to the E-CSCF, an S-CSCF or VCC DTF. The INVITE contains the identity of the UE (e.g. MSISDN Tel URI as Contact address). The I-CSCF or S-CSCF (not shown) or E-CSCF, based on the IMRN, instigates PSI based application server termination to the VCC DTF.
NOTE: Routing via an E-CSCF or S-CSCF needs further study since it is not
normal; routing to the VCC DTF may also require the support of an RUA and/or
CSAF.
  1. The VCC DTF anchors the incoming call leg and originates an outgoing leg by sending the INVITE to (or back to) the E-CSCF. The INVITE carries information identifying an emergency call and carrying or enabling recovery of the IMRN.
  2. Based, for example, on inclusion of IMRN information in step 8, the E-CSCF sends a retrieve location request to an LRF identified by or associated with the IMRN. The retrieve location request includes IMRN information and any UE identification received in step 8 -- e.g. an MSISDN Tel URI. The retrieve location request may further include an indication of VCC support and identification information for the VCC DTF -- e.g. the VDN and VDI.
  3. Based on any UE identification received in step 9 (e.g. MSISDN) and/or on IMRN information, the LRF interacts with the GMLC and retrieves the call record stored by the GMLC in step 5. Using any interim location information already in the call record or any interim location obtained according to step 5, the LRF returns a PSAP address and possibly location information to the E-CSCF. The LRF will provide the anchor point for further support of location and may copy the call record obtained from the GMLC as well as storing information received from the E-CSCF in step 9. The LRF may return correlation information (e.g. ESQK) to the E-CSCF identifying itself and the call record. The LRF may further interact with the GMLC to instigate a CS-MT-LR procedure with the VMSC (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.271) to obtain an accurate location estimate for the UE.
  4. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address provided in step 10 and sends on the call request including the location information and any correlation information to the emergency centre or PSAP. The call request is either sent via an MGCF/MGW into the PSTN (not shown) or is sent directly as a SIP INVITE towards an IP capable emergency centre or PSAP.
  5. The rest of the call establishment procedure occurs between the UE, VMSC, VCC DTF, E-CSCF and PSAP based on the VCC CS origination procedure described in TS 23.206.
The above procedure preserves support for existing PSAP routing options (e.g.
using cell ID or an interim location estimate), does not necessarily require
any new impacts to MSCs and supports accurate location retrieval by the PSAP
in the manner currently defined in TS 23.271. It also enables CS originated
emergency calls to be sent to IP capable PSAPs.
#### 6.2.4.3 Domain Transfer IMS to CS -- Procedure A
Two alternative procedures are described to support domain transfer for an IMS
emergency call from the IMS domain to the CS domain when the UE moves out of
IMS coverage and into CS coverage. In procedure A, the VCC capable UE behaves
as for normal VCC (described in TS 23.206) and originates a new call leg in
the CS domain to the VCC DTF using the VDN obtained from the visited network
using any of alternatives (e), (f), (g) or (h) described in clause 6.2.2.1.
Procedure A is only applicable to a UE that has sufficient credentials to
register in the new visited network supporting the CS domain and places
limitations on the continuity of support for providing further UE location
updates to the PSAP. However, the procedure has the advantage of being
compatible from the UE perspective with IMS to CS domain transfer for normal
VCC.
**Figure 6.2.4.3-1 -- Procedure A for IMS to CS domain transfer**
  1. If the user is not attached to the CS domain at the time when the UE determines a need for Domain Transfer to CS, the UE performs a CS Attach including a location update to its HLR/HSS. It subsequently originates a voice call in the CS domain using the VDN obtained earlier from the original visited network to establish an Access Leg via the CS domain. It is assumed for this procedure that the UE can be authenticated in the CS domain.
NOTE 1: Because a normal call is originated, the domain transfer will not
receive priority treatment in the new CS domain.
  1. The originating call is processed as for normal CS call originations in the CS network.
  2. The VMSC routes the call towards the original visited IMS network via an MGCF in the original visited network.
NOTE 2: The VMSC is not aware of the emergency call or VCC support and thus
will not perform a GMLC query as for CS emergency call origination. Continued
support of location is described further down.
  1. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the original visited IMS (not shown) or possibly the MGCF routes directly to the E-CSCF, an S-CSCF or VCC DTF. The I-CSCF or S-CSCF (not shown) or E-CSCF, based on the VDN, instigates PSI based application server termination to the VCC DTF.
  2. The DTF updates the outgoing Access Leg by communicating the SDP of the Access Leg established in the transferring-in domain to the remote end via the E-CSCF. Access Leg update happens according to SIP session modification procedures in IETF RFC 3261. The DTF may also explicitly indicate domain transfer to the E-CSCF to allow the E-CSCF to notify the LTF in the next step.
  3. The E-CSCF sends a Location Update to the anchor LRF with the new SDP information which may assist the LRF in identifying the type of domain transfer. Minimally the E-CSCF indicates to the LRF that there has been a CS domain transfer (e.g. this can be known by the DTF from use of a VDN rather than VDI and/or from domain transfer involving an MGCF).
  4. The update continues towards the PSAP if IP capable or to an MGCF.
  5. The new call leg in the transferring-in CS domain is established between the VCC DTF, E-CSCF or S-CSCF if present, I-CSCF if present, MGCF, VMSC and UE.
  6. The previous incoming Access Leg which is the Access leg previously established over IMS is released. The UE should de-register if possible in the visited network P-CSCF and home network S-CSCF.
Continuing support of location after procedure A has transferred the UE to the
CS domain is restricted as follows. If the PSAP sends a request to the anchor
LRF to obtain the location of the UE, it may not be possible for the LRF to
continue using the same procedure to obtain location as it may have been using
(or expecting to use) while the UE was in the IMS domain. For example, if the
LRF was using OMA SUPL based on UDP/IP or SIP Push initial transport between
the LRF and UE, the loss of access to the PS domain by the UE following IMS to
CS domain transfer may prevent further use of SUPL. In addition, the LRF may
not be able to use the control plane location solutions defined in 3GPP TS
23.271 for CS emergency calls (e.g. in clause 9.1.3 of TS 23.271) because it
may not know the VMSC address. However, the LRF could use the more general CS-
MT-LR procedure described in clauses 9.1.1 and 9.1.2 of 3GPP TS 23.271 in
which the LRF (behaving as or accessing a GMLC) obtains the VMSC address by
querying the UE's home HLR/HSS. A disadvantage of this, however, is that the
UE's HLR/HSS will need to support the CS-MT-LR query procedure and there may
be billing issues between the visited network and home network (since the home
network may not be aware of the emergency call significance).
#### 6.2.4.4 Domain Transfer IMS to CS -- Procedure B
Procedure B enabling IMS to CS domain transfer may be applicable to a UE
whether or not it has sufficient credentials to register in the new visited
network and enables continuity of location support without limitation.
However, it may have to be restricted to domain transfer between networks
belonging to the same operator (e.g. networks sharing the same MCC and MNC).
The procedure requires a new variant of VCC domain transfer in the UE in which
knowledge of a VDN may not be needed.
**Figure 6.2.4.4-1 -- Procedure B for IMS to CS domain transfer**
  1. If the user is not attached to the CS domain at the time when the UE determines a need for Domain Transfer to CS, the UE may perform a CS Attach if it contains the necessary credentials. It subsequently originates an emergency voice call in the CS domain by sending an Emergency Setup message to the VMSC (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008). The Emergency Setup may indicate that the UE supports VCC and may further indicate that this is a request for domain transfer. As an alternative, the UE may send a normal Setup message carrying a modified VDN (see section 6.2.2.3) in the called party number parameter.
  2. If the UE sent an Emergency Setup message in step 1, then based on normal handling for all CS emergency calls (e.g. as described in TS 23.271) or based on assumed VCC support according to the UE's home network operator or based on an explicit indication of VCC support in the Emergency Setup message, the VMSC sends a MAP Subscriber Location Report (SLR) to a GMLC associated with the emergency service provider (PSAP) to which the call would normally be sent (e.g. based on the current serving cell or SAI). Alternatively, if the UE sent a normal Setup message in step 1 carrying a modified VDN, the MSC may recognize the VDN as signifying a domain transfer request for an existing emergency call and similarly send a MAP SLR to the GMLC. The MAP SLR carries the same information as that which would be sent for a normal emergency call origination (e.g. as in step 4 in Figure 6.2.4.2-1) including the IMSI, MSIDN, IMEI, VMSC address and serving cell identity or SAI. No location estimate is included. The message may carry any indication of VCC support and whether for a domain transfer that was received in the Emergency Setup. This indication could be an explicit parameter or parameter value in the MAP SLR or it could (less preferably) be associated with a distinct E.164 address (associated with the GMLC) to which the MAP SLR is routed.
  3. Based on local policy or based on an explicit indication of VCC support and request for a domain transfer received in the MAP SLR or based on the address (e.g. SCCP E.164 address) to which the MAP SLR was routed, the GMLC interacts with an associated LRF (e.g. which may be within the same physical entity) to search for the call record for the UE that was originally established in the anchor LRF (e.g. using the procedure described in clause 6.1.4.1 or 6.1.4.2). The anchor LRF may use the IMSI, MSISDN and/or IMEI received in step 2 to identify the correct call record. Note that in the case of an unauthenticated emergency call, the IMEI would have to be used to identify the call record which is an item for further study since the identification cannot be completely reliable. If no call record is found and no indication was received in or associated with the MAP SLR that this was a request for domain transfer, the GMLC should assume that this is a new emergency call and proceed as in Figure 6.2.4.2-1. However, if no call record is found and the MAP SLR does indicate a request for domain transfer, the GMLC should return a MAP SLR return error response to cause rejection of the domain transfer request by the VMSC, in which case the UE must continue with the call in the IMS domain or release the call if that is not possible. Otherwise, if the call record is found, the GMLC returns a MAP Subscriber Location Report Ack. to the VMSC carrying the VDN (note different to any modified VDN received in step 1) needed to establish the new access leg. This VDN would have been obtained by the LRF when the call was first originated (e.g. in step 6 in Figure 6.2.4.1-1 or step 9 in Figure 6.2.4.2-1). The VDN could be carried by the existing NA-ESRK or existing NA-ESRD parameter in the MAP Subscriber Location Report ack. The GMLC also stores the information received from the VMSC in step 2.
  4. The VMSC routes the new leg based on the VDN received in step 3. If the VDN is conveyed using the existing NA-ESRK or NA-ESRD parameter then the call routing procedure can be the same as that used for normal emergency call origination (i.e. there would be no additional VMSC impact). Based on VDN routing, the VMSC routes the call towards the original visited IMS network via an MGCF in the original visited network.
  5. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the original visited IMS (not shown) or possibly the MGCF routes directly to the E-CSCF, an S-CSCF or VCC DTF. The I-CSCF or S-CSCF (not shown) or E-CSCF, based on the VDN, instigates PSI based application server termination to the VCC DTF.
  6. The DTF updates the outgoing Access Leg by communicating the SDP of the Access Leg established in the transferring-in domain to the remote end via the E-CSCF. Access Leg update happens according to SIP session modification procedures in IETF RFC 3261. The DTF may also explicitly indicate CS domain transfer to the E-CSCF.
  7. The E-CSCF sends a Location Update to the anchor LRF with the new SDP information. Minimally the E-CSCF indicates to the LRF that there has been a CS domain transfer. The LRF correlates this indication with the indication of domain transfer determined in step 3 and determines that the UE has now changed domain to that indicated in step 2. The LRF communicates this information to the GMLC selected by the VMSC in step 2.
  8. The update continues towards the PSAP or MGCF.
  9. The new call leg in the transferring-in CS domain is established between the VCC DTF, E-CSCF or S-CSCF if present, I-CSCF if present, MGCF, VMSC and UE.
  10. The source Access Leg which is the Access leg previously established over IMS is released. The UE should de-register if possible in the visited network P-CSCF and home network S-CSCF.
Besides possibly allowing domain transfer for unregistered UEs, procedure B
also enables the anchor LRF to make use of the normal location procedure
defined in 3GPP TS 23.271 (e.g. in clause 9.1.3) to locate a UE that has
originated an emergency call. This is enabled due to steps 2 and 3 in Figure
6.2.4.4-1 in which the VMSC obtains and stores information concerning the
GMLC, and the LRF and GMLC obtain and store information concerning the VMSC.
This then permits a CS-MT-LR without the need to query the UE's home HSS/HLR.
A further aspect of procedure B is that the call origination procedure at the
VMSC can be identical or almost identical to that for a normal emergency call
as described in TS 23.271 or identical or almost identical to that for VCC
support for a CS originated emergency call as described in clause 6.1.4.2.
From the perspective of the GMLC, the procedure is also almost identical to
that for a normal emergency call with regard to the MAP signalling transaction
with the VMSC.
A disadvantage of procedure B is that it depends on the GMLC and LRF finding
the original call record in step 3. This seems to be possible provided the
GMLC and LRF belong to the same operator -- e.g. because then the GMLC and LRF
could be part of the same physical entity or could at least be interconnected.
But if the original call record is not found and there is no explicit or
implicit indication of a domain transfer in the Emergency Setup message, the
GMLC will assume that this is a new emergency call and not a domain transfer
resulting in connection of the user to a new PSAP operator. This disadvantage
can be averted, however, by including VCC and domain transfer indications in
the Emergency Setup and MAP SLR messages as described above though at the cost
of possibly making the procedure visible (not entirely transparent) to the
VMSC.
#### 6.2.4.5 Domain Transfer CS to IMS -- procedure C
Two alternative procedures are described to support domain transfer for an
emergency call from the CS domain to the IMS domain. In procedure C described
in this clause, the VCC capable UE behaves as for normal VCC (described in TS
23.206) and originates a new call leg in the IMS domain to the VCC DTF using
the VDI obtained from the visited network using any of alternatives (e), (f),
(g) or (h) described in clause 6.1.2.1. The call is treated like a normal
originating SIP call and thus is only applicable to a UE that has sufficient
credentials to register in the new visited network.
Figure 6.2.4.5-1 - Domain Transfer CS domain to IMS -- procedure C
  1. If the user is not registered with IMS at the time when the UE determines a need for Domain Transfer to IMS, the UE initiates Registration with IMS as specified in 3GPP draft TS 23.206. It subsequently initiates an IMS originated session toward the DTF in the original visited network using the VDI obtained earlier from the visited network (e.g. as described in clause 6.1.2.1 and in Figures 6.1-5 and 6.1-6) to establish an Access Leg via IMS and request Domain Transfer of the active CS session to IMS. Due to normal call handling, the SIP INVITE may be routed through a P-CSCF in either the new visited network or home network (not shown) and an S-CSCF in the home network (not shown) and will eventually reach either an S-CSCF (not shown) or the E-CSCF in the original visited network.
NOTE: Because a normal call is originated, the domain transfer will not
receive priority treatment in the new IMS domain.
  1. The IMS session is processed at an S-CSCF (not shown) or the E-CSCF in the original visited network and delivered to the VCC DTF.
  2. The DTF completes the establishment of the new incoming Access Leg via IMS. The DTF performs the Domain Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with connection information of the newly established Access Leg using the Access Leg Update procedure as specified in TS 23.206. The UPDATE or ReINVITE is sent to the E-CSCF used to originate the call (e.g. according to Figure 6.2.4.1-1 or 6.2.4.2-1). The DTF may also explicitly indicate domain transfer to the E-CSCF.
  3. The E-CSCF updates the anchor LRF with the new SDP information -- e.g. indicates that the UE is now using the IMS domain and provides the UE IP address.
  4. The update continues towards the PSAP or MGCF.
  5. The source Access Leg which is the Access leg previously established over CS is subsequently released as specified in TS 23.206. This includes releasing the previous incoming CS leg through the E-CSCF.
Once procedure C has been completed, it will be possible to continue location
support for the UE because the LRF should now have the UE's IP address and can
thus invoke OMA SUPL (or any other solution involving IP transport). However,
use of the 3GPP control plane solution to enable location of the UE for GPRS
access will only be possible using the more general PS-MT-LR procedure
described in clauses 9.1.1 and 9.1.6 of 3GPP TS 23.271 in which the LRF
queries the UE's home HLR/HSS for the visited SGSN address.
#### 6.2.4.6 Domain Transfer CS to IMS -- Procedure D
The other procedure D supporting CS to IMS domain transfer may not require use
of a VDI and places fewer restrictions on continued location support. However,
it may have to be restricted to domain transfer between networks owned and
managed by the same operator as for procedure B.
Figure 6.2.4.6-1 - Domain Transfer CS domain to IMS -- procedure D
  1. Prior to sending the INVITE, the UE executes an emergency registration in the new visited IMS network if it contains adequate credentials as defined in 3GPP TS 23.167 (i.e. a normal registration is not used). This will be needed to support call back to the UE (via the new visited network) and to authenticate the UE in the new visited IMS.
  2. The UE then sends an INVITE with an emergency indication to the visited network P-CSCF. The INVITE should contain identification information for the UE -- e.g. MSISDN Tel URI. The INVITE may indicate that the UE supports VCC and may indicate that this is a request for domain transfer as opposed to a call origination. This indication may be conveyed in a modified VDI (see section 6.2.2.3) carried in the SIP To header field -- in which case no separate emergency indication may be needed.
  3. Based on knowledge or assumption of VCC support according to alternatives (a), (b) or (c) in clause 6.1.2.1, or based on an indication of VCC support in the INVITE (e.g. via inclusion of a modified VDI), the P-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE to an E-CSCF.
  4. The E-CSCF based on assumption or knowledge of VCC support forwards the SIP INVITE to a VCC DTF.
  5. The VCC DTF finds the original call record -- e.g. as established according to step 5 in Figure 6.2.4.1-1. The DTF then updates the outgoing Access Leg by communicating the SDP of the Access Leg established in the transferring-in domain to the remote end via the E-CSCF. The DTF may also explicitly indicate domain transfer to the E-CSCF. If the VCC DTF does not find the original call record and no indication was received in the INVITE that this was a request for domain transfer, it could assume that this is a new emergency call (not a domain transfer) and proceed as in step 5 in Figure 6.2.4.5-1. However, if no call record is found and the INVITE does indicate a request for domain transfer, the VCC DTF should reject the domain transfer request, in which case the UE must continue with the call in the CS domain or release the call if that is not possible.
  6. The E-CSCF updates the anchor LRF with the new SDP information -- e.g. indicates that the UE is now using the IMS domain and provides the UE IP address.
  7. The update continues towards the PSAP or MGCF.
  8. The source Access Leg which is the Access leg previously established over CS is subsequently released as specified in 3GPP draft TS 23.206. This includes releasing the previous incoming CS leg through the E-CSCF.
Continuing location support can be the same as that for procedure C -- e.g. by
using OMA SUPL with the UE IP address provided to the anchor LRF in step 5 or
using the 3GPP PS-MT-LR procedure for location with GPRS access. However, as
an added benefit, it may be possible to use the 3GPP PS-NI-LR and PS-MT-LR
procedures specific to emergency calls defined in 3GPP TS 23.271 (in clauses
9.1.6A and 9.1.7). This can be enabled if the UE indicates an emergency call
for GPRS access and/or GPRS PDP context establishment. This can trigger the
SGSN into instigating a PS-NI-LR either to obtain location or provide its
address to a GMLC. If the GMLC is associated with the anchor LRF, it will be
possible to provide the anchor LRF with the SGSN address thereby enabling use
of a PS-MT-LR without having to query the home HLR/HSS (and also allowing
location for an unauthorized UE with possibly no HLR/HSS).
A disadvantage of procedure D, as with procedure B, is that it depends on the
DTF finding the original call record in step 4 which in turn requires that the
P-CSCF or E-CSCF route the call to the correct DTF in step 3. This is likely
to be possible only for domain transfer to the IMS of the original visited
network operator and would not be feasible for domain transfer to a different
operator unless possibly the DTF and anchor LRF are shared among multiple
operators which is FFS.
## 6.3 VCC in the Visited Network - Alternative 3
### 6.3.1 Architectural Details
Figure 6.3.1-1 combines the VCC Reference Architecture from figure 5.1 of TS
23.206 [3] with the additional functional entities from the IMS Emergency
Sessions reference architecture from figure 5.1 of TS 23.167[4]. All the
functional entities reside in the local/serving network. The clear boxes are
based on the VCC architecture in [3] and the shaded boxes are from the IMS
Emergency Sessions architecture in [4].
The Emergency-VCC (E-VCC) Application varies from the VCC Application in [3]
in that it resides in the visited/serving network. In addition, the E-RUA is
an extension of the CSAF functionality to support the Lg' interface so that
the Location messages from the MSC can provide similar functionality as the
CAMEL operations in [3] to obtain IMRNs. The S-CSCF from the VCC reference
architecture [3] is replaced with an E-CSCF from the IMS Emergency Session
reference architecture [4].
**Figure 6.3.1-1 IMS Emergency Session with VCC Reference Architecture**
### 6.3.2 Impact
### 6.3.3 Assessment
### 6.3.4 Procedures
#### 6.3.4.1 IMS Emergency Call Origination
See 6.2.4.1 for IMS Emergency Call Origination procedures.
#### CS Emergency Call Origination
The following figure is evolved from figure 6.2.2.1-1 "3pcc at DTF for CS
Origination" in TS 23.206 to support emergency calls in the visited/serving
network. The serving IMS system is now labeled "Visited IMS", the S-CSCF is
replaced with the E-CSCF, the CSAF is replaced with the E-RUA, and the
signaling path for location is shown.
**Figure 6.3.4.2-1 3pcc at DTF for CS Emergency Call Origination**
The following callflow is similar to the previous CS Emergency Call
Origination scenario in section 6.2.4.2 except the MAP Subscriber Location
Report (SLR) is sent to an E-RUA instead of a GMLC for IMRN assignment. To the
VMSC, the E-RUA interface is the same as that of a GMLC. Like the CAMEL
interface in a non-emergency CS origination, the SLR is used to assign an IMRN
so the call can be routed to and anchored in the IM CN. Once the call is
received in the IM CN, the LRF, as in 23.167, is invoked to perform the
necessary location and routing functionality for the emergency call. This
architecture has the potential of minimizing impact to the legacy VMSC and
GMLC entities, where most of the new functionality is provided by the E-RUA
and E-CSCF.
**Figure 6.3.4.2-2 -- CS Emergency Call Origination**
  1. The user initiates an emergency call.
  2. The UE originates an emergency voice call in the CS domain by sending an Emergency Setup message to the VMSC (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008).
> (not shown) The VMSC may initiate a procedure in the RAN to obtain an
> interim location estimate for the UE as defined and allowed in 3GPP TS
> 23.271 [7].
Editor's Note: It is FFS to determine if this study should recommend
reconfiguring the VMSC so the location determination is not initiated here,
but performed only by the LRF at Step 8. (See domain transfer procedure Step 2
for additional information).
  1. Based on normal handling for all CS emergency calls (e.g. as described in TS 23.271 [7]) the VMSC sends a MAP Subscriber Location Report (SLR) to an E-RUA. To the VMSC, the E-RUA interface is the same as a GMLC. The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSISDN, IMEI, VMSC address and serving cell identity or SAI for the UE. It also includes any interim location estimate that may have been obtained. In regions where the VMSC and not the GMLC normally determines the PSAP (e.g. the EU), the message may carry the address of the intended destination PSAP. For a SIM-less UE, the IMEI is sent along with a MSISDN set to a non-dialable callback number per TS 23.271 [7].
> Editor's Note: The impact of delaying accurate location determination until
> step 8 needs to be studied.
>
> Editor's Note: Determination of a UE's VCC capability is FFS.
>
> Editor's Note: Whether the VMSC is extended to determine VCC support so that
> only VCC capable UE's are anchored is FFS. If the MSC is not VCC aware, this
> alternative must ensure non-emergency SLR's are not impacted.
  1. The E-RUA determines the UE supports VCC The E-RUA stores a call record for the UE including all the information received in step 3. The E-RUA assigns an IP Multimedia Routing Number (IMRN) to the call. Minimally, the IMRN enables call routing to the VCC DTF in steps 5 and 6. The E-RUA returns a MAP Subscriber Location Report Ack to the VMSC carrying the IMRN in the NA-ESRD or NA-ESRK.
Editor's Note: Since the MSC always routes to the same E-RUA, it is FFS to
determine if the IMRN can be a static number or not.
Editor's Note: It is FFS to determine alternate handling of the E-RUA if the
E-EUA determines the UE is not VCC capable. For example, the E-RUA may forward
the SLR to the GMLC for legacy GMLC handling per [7] without anchoring the
call in the IM CN. The E-RUA could transit the SLR Ack returned from the GMLC
to the VMSC where the VMSC would then route the call out to the PSAP. Only the
E-RUA would remain in the call for transiting SLR/SLRA operations and no other
IM CN entities would be involved.
  1. The VMSC routes the call based on the IMRN received in step 4. Since the IMRN is conveyed using the existing NA-ESRK or NA-ESRD parameter, the call routing procedure in the VMSC can be the same as that used for normal emergency call origination in TS 23.271 [7] (i.e. the IMRN appears like an ESRK or ESRD to the VMSC). Based on IMRN routing, the VMSC routes the call to an MGCF in the visited network.
  2. The MGCF initiates an INVITE to the E-RUA via the I-CSCF (not shown) in the visited IMS The INVITE contains the identity of the UE (e.g. MSISDN Tel URI as Contact address). The I-CSCF, based on the IMRN, instigates PSI based application server termination to the E-RUA. The E-RUA retrieves the stored CS call information received in Step 3. This includes available location information received (e.g., MSC/cell id is passed in SIP P-Access-Network-Info header, Location information passed in PIDF-LO).
  3. The VCC DTF anchors the incoming call leg and interacts with the E-RUA to originate an outgoing leg by sending the INVITE to the E-CSCF. The INVITE carries information identifying an emergency call, including any location info received in Step 3. The location information would be passed in the PIDF-LO and/or P-Access-Network-Information header. The IMRN is released.
  4. The E-CSCF sends a retrieve location request to an LRF containing the UE identification received in step 7 -- e.g. an MSISDN Tel URI, PIDF-LO, P-Access-Network-Info.
  5. Based on any UE identification received in step 8 (e.g. MSISDN), the LRF interacts with the GMLC per [7] to retrieve additional location information if necessary. The LRF then interacts with an RDF if necessary to obtain emergency routing information. The LRF returns a PSAP address, optionally location information, and depending on local regulation an ESRK to the E-CSCF. The LRF will provide the anchor point for further support of location.
  6. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address provided in step 9 and sends on the call request including the location information and any correlation information to the emergency centre or PSAP. The call request is either sent via an MGCF/MGW into the PSTN (not shown) or is sent directly as a SIP INVITE towards an IP capable emergency centre or PSAP.
  7. The rest of the call establishment procedure occurs between the UE, VMSC, VCC DTF, E-CSCF and PSAP based on the VCC CS origination procedure described in TS 23.206 [3].
The above procedure preserves support for existing PSAP routing options (e.g.
using cell ID or an interim location estimate), does not necessarily require
any new impacts to MSCs and supports accurate location retrieval by the PSAP
in the manner currently defined in TS 23.271 [7]. It also enables CS
originated emergency calls to be sent to IP capable PSAPs.
#### 6.3.4.3 Domain Transfer IMS to CS
The following procedure describes domain transfer for an IMS emergency call
from the IMS domain to the CS domain when the UE moves out of IMS coverage and
into CS coverage. This callflow is similar to the the IMS to CS Domain
Transfer scenario in section 6.2.4.3 except the MAP Subscriber Location Report
(SLR) is sent to an E-RUA instead of a GMLC for IMRN assignment. To the VMSC,
the E-RUA interface is the same as that of a GMLC on an emergency call
origination. Like the CAMEL interface in a non-emergency CS origination, the
SLR is used to assign an IMRN so the call can be routed to the IM CN for
Domain Transfer. Once the Domain Transfer request is received in the IM CN,
the LRF is invoked to update the LRF with the serving system location
information.
[]{.underline}
As in procedure 6.2.4.4, this procedure can be applicable to a UE whether or
not it has sufficient credentials to register in the new visited network and
enables continuity of location support without limitation. However, it may
have to be restricted to domain transfer between networks belonging to the
same operator (e.g. networks sharing the same MCC and MNC). The procedure
requires a new variant of VCC domain transfer in the UE in which knowledge of
a VDN is not needed.
**Figure 6.3.4.3-1 -- IMS to CS domain transfer**
  1. If the user is not attached to the CS domain at the time when the UE determines a need for Domain Transfer to CS, the UE may perform a CS Attach if it contains the necessary credentials. It subsequently originates an emergency voice call in the CS domain by sending an Emergency Setup message to the VMSC (as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008).
  2. Based on normal handling for all CS emergency calls (e.g. as described in TS 23.271 [7]) the VMSC sends a MAP Subscriber Location Report to the VCC E-RUA. The MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the same information as that which would be sent for a normal emergency call origination (e.g. as in step 3 in Figure 6.3.4.2-1) including the IMSI, MSISDN, IMEI, VMSC address and serving cell identity or SAI.
NOTE: If a VMSC is configured to initiate location determination during
emergency call originations, that procedure would occur here if the VMSC can
not distinguish an emergency call origination from at domain transfer during
an emergency call. If the VMSC performed location determination procedures,
then the location estimate would be included as well.
Editor's Note: It is FFS to determine if this study should recommend VMSC's to
be reconfigured so that location determination is performed only by the LRF.
  1. The E-RUA stores the UE information received in the SLR in the call record for the UE that was originally established when the call was anchored. The E-RUA may use the IMSI, MSISDN and/or IMEI received in step 2 to identify the correct call record. Note that in the case of an unauthenticated emergency call, the IMEI would have to be used to identify the call record which is an item for further study since the identification cannot be completely reliable. If no call record is found, the E-RUA handles this as a new emergency call and proceeds as in Figure 6.3.4.2-1. Otherwise, if the call record is found, the E-RUA returns a MAP Subscriber Location Report Ack. to the VMSC carrying the IMRN needed to establish the new access leg. The IMRN could be carried by the existing NA-ESRK or existing NA-ESRD parameter in the MAP Subscriber Location Report Ack. The E-RUA also stores the information received from the VMSC in step 2.
  2. The VMSC routes the new leg based on the IMRN received in step 3. If the IMRN is conveyed using the existing NA-ESRK or NA-ESRD parameter then the call routing procedure can be the same as that used for normal emergency call origination (i.e. there would be no additional VMSC impact). Based on IMRN routing, the VMSC routes the call towards the original visited IMS network via an MGCF in the original visited network.
  3. The MGCF initiates an INVITE towards an I-CSCF in the original visited IMS (not shown) or possibly the MGCF routes directly to the E-RUA.
  4. The DTF interacts with the E-RUA to determine this is a domain transfer for an ongoing call. The DTF updates the outgoing Access Leg by communicating the SDP of the Access Leg established in the transferring-in domain to the remote end via the E-CSCF. The DTF also includes any stored location information that was stored by the E-RUA from Step 3. Access Leg update happens according to SIP session modification procedures in IETF RFC 3261. The DTF may also explicitly indicate CS domain transfer to the E-CSCF.
  5. The E-CSCF sends a Location Update or SIP re-INVITE or SIP UPDATE to the anchor LRF with the new location and SDP information. The E-CSCF may indicate to the LRF that there has been a CS domain transfer. The LRF will note the domain change and interact with the appropriate GMLC if necessary. The LRF may not have to interact with a GMLC until the PSAP requests a location update. The LRF determines the appropriate GMLC based on the serving MSC identity received in step 3 and passed in the P-Access-Network-Info.
  6. The update continues towards the PSAP or MGCF.
  7. The new call leg in the transferring-in CS domain is established between the VCC DTF, E-CSCF or S-CSCF if present, I-CSCF if present, MGCF, VMSC and UE.
  8. The source Access Leg which is the Access leg previously established over IMS is released. The UE should de-register if possible in the visited network P-CSCF and home network S-CSCF.
Like the IMS to CS procedure in 6.2.4.4, besides possibly allowing domain
transfer for unregistered UEs, this procedure also enables the anchor LRF to
make use of the normal location procedure defined in 3GPP TS 23.271 (e.g. in
clause 9.1.3) to locate a UE that has originated an emergency call. This is
enabled due to steps 2 and 3 in Figure 6.3.4.4-1 in which the VMSC obtains and
stores information concerning the E-RUA, and the LRF and GMLC obtain and store
information concerning the VMSC. This then permits a CS-MT-LR without the need
to query the UE's home HSS/HLR.
A further aspect of this procedure is that the call origination procedure at
the VMSC can be identical to that for a normal emergency call as described in
TS 23.271 or identical that for VCC support for a CS originated emergency call
as described in clause 6.3.4.2. From the perspective of the GMLC, the
procedure is also almost identical to that for a normal emergency call with
regard to the MAP signalling transaction with the VMSC.
A disadvantage of this procedure is that it depends on the E-RUA finding the
original call record so that the domain transfer can be distinguished from a
new emergency call origination. This seems to be possible provided the VMSC
and E-RUA belong to the same operator and the UE is aware of VCC for Emergency
Call support by that operator.
#### 6.3.4.4 Domain Transfer CS to IMS
See section 6.2.4.5 for CS to IMS Domain Transfer procedures.
## 6.4 Emergency Session Continuity in the Visited Network -- Alternative 4
### 6.4.1 General
This clause presents an architectural alternative for enablement of Session
Transfers for Emergency Calls between CS domain and IMS, which may be invoked
multiple times in either direction while the user is engaged in an Emergency
call. The solution is applicable to Emergency Calls made by authorized users
only.
The solution extends the SC architecture specified in TS 23.237 using the
following architectural principles:
\- IMS Emergency call setup procedures are used for establishment of Emergency
Calls using IMS and Session Transfers to IMS.
\- Emergency sessions established over CS (both UE detected and MSC detected)
of authorized users cause the MSC Server to perform IMS emergency registration
if needed, and to origin an IMS emergency session towards the E-CSCF.
\- The Emergency SCC AS (E-SCC AS) function, extending the SCC AS defined in
23.237, performs anchoring of emergency sessions in the visited IMS domain and
executes session transfer..
\- Session Transfers are executed by the E-SCC AS by switching the Access Leg
from the transferring-out domain to the transferring-in domain, and by
updating the Remote Leg if necessary.
\- Emergency sessions established over CS by unauthorized users are not
supported in this solution therefore, are routed by the MSC to the PSAP
directly.
\- It is assumed that the CS, PS, and IMS operators are the same.
### 6.4.2 Reference Architecture
The reference architecture is provided in Figure 6.4.2-1 below.
**Figure 6.4.2-1: Emergency Session Continuity Architecture**
The E-SCC AS is an SCC AS as defined in TS 23.292 and TS 23.237 enhanced for
emergency session continuity. **The E-SCC AS may be co-located with the
E-CSCF.**
### 6.4.3 Procedures
#### 6.4.3.1 Registration in IMS
A pre-requisite is for the SC UE is to be IMS registered, in accordance with
the requirements in TS 23.167 [4]. The registration in the IMS by the MSC
Server enhanced for ICS is specified in TS 23.292. In the event that the MSC
server has not performed an IMS registration prior the emergency call (e.g.,
the MSC server is in a visited network without roaming agreement for normal
calls), an explicit IMS emergency registration shall be performed by the MSC
server either after CS attach or when an emergency call is established
(depending on local operator policy).
The figure 6.4.3.1-1 provides an example flow for an emergency registration in
IMS performed by the MSC Server.
Figure 6.4.3.1-1: IMS Emergency Registration by MSC Server
1\. The MSC Server decides to initiate IMS registration for this subscriber
which includes an emergency indication. If the subscriber is already
registered via this MSC Server in the home network and the UE is as well in
the home network, no IMS registration is sent.
2\. The MSC Server derives a domain name from the subscriber's identity (e.g.
IMSI) and discovers the address of the appropriate I-CSCF/IBCF.
3-5.The MSC Server sends a SIP REGISTER to the IMS with a private and
temporary public user identity derived from the subscriber's IMSI as well as
an InstanceID. The REGISTER also contains information indicating the
capabilities and characteristics of the MSC Server as a SIP User Agent Client.
The S-CSCF verifies that the incoming REGISTER originates from a trusted MSC
server (in the same way it would check that a normal REGISTER originates from
a trusted P-CSCF).
6\. The S-CSCF identifies the REGISTER as being from the MSC Server. The
S-CSCF skips any further authentication procedures and performs registration
procedures with the HSS.
7\. IMS registration procedures are completed.
#### 6.4.3.2 Emergency calls established in IMS
The figure 6.4.3.2-1 provides an example flow for an emergency session
established in IMS, illustrating how the emergency session is anchored and how
the session transfer identifiers are transported back to the UE.
Figure 6.4.3.2-1: SC UE initiating an emergency session in IMS
NOTE 1: A pre-requisite is for the SC UE to be IMS Emergency Registered if
located in a VPLMN or located in the HPLMN and IMS Registered.
1\. The SC UE generates a SIP INVITE containing the UE's location information
or reference (if available) and information about the device, e.g., GRUU.
2\. The P-CSCF selects an E-CSCF and forwards the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
3\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the E-SCC AS. The E-SCC AS decides based on
operator policy and UE capability whether to anchor the emergency session.
NOTE 2: The trigger for routing the INVITE from the E-CSCF to the E-SCC AS
could be as simple as configuring the E-CSCF with the address of the E-SCC AS
located in a local IMS network designated to perform the functions of
call/session anchoring and session transfers.
4\. The E-SCC AS anchors the emergency session, i.e. the E-SCC AS is inserted
in the signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for enablement of Session
Transfers for the call as specified in TS 23.237.
5\. The E-SCC AS creates an INVITE and sends it back to E-CSCF.
6\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the LRF
7\. The LRF obtains the UE's location (if not provided in the INVITE), selects
the most appropriate PSAP based on the UE's location, allocates the necessary
correlation information for the record stored in the LRF (e.g. ESQK) and
allocates routing information for the call (e.g. ESRN).
8\. The LRF returns the location information, PSAP address, correlation
information (e.g. ESQK) and routing information (e.g. ESRN) to the E-CSCF.
9\. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address or routing information (e.g. the ESRN) to
format an INVITE message, and it sends it to the MGCF.
10\. The MGCF performs the necessary interworking of the INVITE and formulates
an IAM containing the correlation information (e.g. ESQK) and sends it to the
PSAP.
11\. The MGCF initiates 183 Session Progress through the IMS core back to the
UE
12\. Call set-up continues with the PSAP sending ACM/ANM back to the MGCF
which is interworked into a 200OK and sent through the IMS Core Network.
13\. The E-SCC AS receives the 200 OK from the E-CSCF and sends the 200 OK to
the E-CSCF
14\. The E-CSCF sends the 200 OK to the P-CSCF
15\. The P-CSCF sends the 200 OK to the UE
#### 6.4.3.3 Emergency Calls established in CS
The figure 6.4.3.3-1 provides an example flow for an emergency call
established in CS, illustrating how the emergency session is anchored and how
the location reference is provided to the LRF. In this flow, the MSC Server
recognises the CS bearer set-up as a request to make an emergency call and
carries out the IMS emergency call registration prior establishing an IMS
emergency call.
**Figure 6.4.3.3-1 -- SC UE initiating an emergency call in CS**
NOTE 1: This call flow is depicting the LRF acting in Re-direct mode. The
procedure is also applicable when the LRF acts in Proxy mode.
1\. The user initiates an emergency call (e.g. dials 911).
2\. The UE sends an Emergency call setup message (as defined in 3GPP TS
24.008) to the MSC Server.
3\. The MSC Server carries out standard CS emergency procedures. This involves
the MSC Server sending a MAP _Subscriber Location Report (SLR) request to the
GMLC allocated to the geographical region that the UE is roaming within._ The
MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSIDN, IMEI, VMSC address,
serving cell identity or SAI for the UE.
*4. Based on the received information, the GMLC creates a call context, stores the received location information (ESRK/ESRD) and returns the MAP-SLR response to the MSC Server.\ *
NOTE 2: Based on operator policy, the MSC Server decides whether to route the
emergency session to the IMS. Only if the MSC Server decides to route the
emergency session to the IMS, the following steps are performed.
NOTE 3: The MSC Server performs an IMS emergency registration on behalf of the
UE in the new visited IMS network if the UE is not already IMS emergency
registered (see section 6.4.3.1). When the MSC Server is located in the home
network and has already IMS registered the UE then there is no need to perform
an IMS emergency registration.
5\. The MSC Server selects the E-CSCF for the geographic region (local
configuration), maps emergency types to sos-urn, and generates an Emergency
SIP INVITE towards the E-CSCF including information about the used device,
e.g., GRUU. Since the MSC Server has location information available, it
includes it in the request as in the Emergency INVITE.
**_6\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the E-SCC AS._**
**_7\. Based on operator policy_** and UE capability** _, the E-SCC AS anchors
the session_** , i.e. the E-SCC AS is inserted in the signalling path which
invokes a 3pcc for enablement of Session Transfers for the call as specified
in TS 23.237.
8\. The E-SCC AS sends the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
9\. The E-CSCF sends a Retrieve Location request to the LRF that is associated
with the geographical region. This request includes the UE identification
(contents of the P-Asserted-Identity) and the location-reference, etc.
10\. The LRF creates an emergency call instance and stores the location-
information against the emergency call instance. Based upon the location
information, the LRF interacts with an RDF to obtain routing information for
the emergency call. The LRF may allocate an ESQK that identifies the call
instance in the LRF. The ESQK is correlation information that allows the PSAP
to request a location update from the LRF.
11\. The LRF returns the ESQK, the PSAP address or routing information and
location-information (location reference and explicit location information) to
the E-CSCF.
12\. The E-CSCF uses the PSAP address or routing information provided in Step
8 to send the call to the PSAP. The call request is either sent via an
MGCF/MGW in the PSTN towards a PSTN-capable PSAP (not shown) or is sent
directly as a SIP INVITE towards an IP-capable PSAP (not shown).
13\. The rest of the call establishment procedure occurs between the UE, MSC
Server, E-SCC AS, E-CSCF and PSAP based upon the SC CS origination procedure.
#### 6.4.3.4 Session Transfer from IMS to CS
The figure 6.4.3.4-1 provides an example flow for session transfer of an
emergency session from IMS towards the CS domain.
Figure 6.4.3.4-1: SC UE performing session transfer from IMS to CS domain
1\. The UE detects the necessary conditions and determines the need for
session transfer
2\. The UE sends an Emergency call setup message (as defined in 3GPP TS
24.008) to the MSC Server.
Editor's note: It is FFS how does the UE know whether the MSC server supports
VCC for emergency sessions.
3\. The MSC Server carries out standard CS emergency procedures. This involves
the MSC Server sending a MAP _Subscriber Location Report (SLR) request to the
GMLC allocated to the geographical region that the UE is roaming within._ The
MAP Subscriber Location Report carries the IMSI, MSIDN, IMEI, VMSC address,
serving cell identity or SAI for the UE.
_4\. Based on the received information, the GMLC creates a call context,
stores the received location information and returns the MAP-SLR response to
the MSC Server._
NOTE 1: Based on operator policy, the MSC Server decides whether to route the
emergency session to the IMS. Only if the MSC Server decides to route the
emergency session to the IMS, the following steps are performed.
5\. The MSC Server selects the E-CSCF that the UE is anchored to and generates
an Emergency SIP INVITE (Request-URI set to a sos-urn) towards the E-CSCF
including information about the used device, e.g., GRUU. Since the MSC Server
has location reference (ESRK/ESRD) available, it includes it in the request as
in a standard Emergency INVITE.
**_6\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the E-SCC AS._**
7\. The E-SCC AS detects the incoming INVITE to be a Session Transfer request
since having anchored an emergency session for the same user from the same
device, e.g. identified by the GRUU. The E-SCC AS performs session transfer as
defined in TS 23.237.
8\. The E-SCC AS sends the ReINVITE to the E-CSCF to update the remote end.
9\. The E-CSCF sends a Location Update request to the LRF that is associated
with the the initial call instance, to update the LRF with the new location
reference for the UE due to the session transfer.
NOTE 2: The LRF is not changed when establishing the call in PS.
10\. The LRF finds the emergency call instance using the information supplied
in the Re-INVITE (e.g., P-Asserted-Identity, GRUU) and updates the location
reference stored against the emergency call instance.
11\. The LRF sends an acknowledgment back to the E-CSCF to allow the E-CSCF to
forward the Re-INVITE to the currently allocated PSAP.
12\. The E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP
(if the PSAP is located in the PSTN) or the Re-INVITE is sent directly to an
IP-capable PSAP.
13\. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg
(i.e. the access leg previously established over IMS) is released.
NOTE 3: Releasing the source access leg does not result in releasing the
resources (e.g. ESQK) allocated to the emergency call.
#### 6.4.3.5 Session Transfer from CS to IMS
The figure 6.4.3.5-1 provides an example flow for session transfer of an
emergency session from the CS domain towards IMS where CS, PS and IMS operator
are the same.
Figure 6.4.3.5-1: SC UE performing session transfer from CS domain to IMS
1\. The UE detects the necessary conditions and determines the need for
session transfer
NOTE 1: The UE performs an IMS emergency registration in the new visited IMS
network if the UE is not already IMS emergency registered (e.g. the UE may
already be IMS emergency registered in the case the UE is doing a domain
transfer back to IMS). When the UE is located in the home network and is
already IMS registered there is no need to perform an IMS emergency
registration.
2\. The UE sends a request for session transfer from CS to IMS by setting up
an IMS originated Emergency session (towards the P-CSCF). This establishes the
transfer leg of the emergency call (i.e. the new access leg via IMS). The
INVITE may also include updated location information for the UE.
NOTE 2: A new emergency session request received at the E-SCC AS while there's
already an active emergency session for same user from the same device, e.g.
identified by the GRUU, is considered a Session Transfer request as there can
only be one emergency session for a user at any given time.
3\. The P-CSCF routes the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
NOTE 3: The P-CSCF may initiate a procedure (as described in TS 23.167) to
obtain the location reference from the IP-CAN.
4\. The E-CSCF routes the INVITE to the SCC AS (as it is configured to send
all requests for the SC user to the E-SCC AS).
5\. The E-SCC AS identifies the anchored call/session from the P-Asserted-
Identity and then completes the establishment of the Access Leg via IMS
6\. The E-SCC AS then performs the session transfer by updating the remote leg
with the connection information (SDP) of the newly established Access Leg by
sending a Re-INVITE to the E-CSCF with the updated location information.
7\. The E-CSCF sends a location update request to the LRF containing the
location reference for the new access network. The request also contains
information that enables the LRF to identify the existing emergency call
instance (e.g., P-Asserted-Identity, GRUU).
NOTE 4: The LRF is not changed when establishing the call in PS.
8\. The LRF overwrites the existing location reference in the emergency call
instance with the one provided in the location update request. The LRF finds
the most appropriate location server and positioning method for the current
access network and stores this information against the currently allocated
emergency call instance.
9\. The LRF sends an Acknowledgement back to the E-CSCF
10\. If the PSAP is located in the IP network, the Re-INVITE sent out by the
E-CSCF is extended all the way to the PSAP (i.e. the u-plane path between the
UE and the PSAP is switched end-to-end). If the PSAP is located in the PSTN,
the E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP.
11\. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg
(i.e. the access leg previously established over CS) is released.
NOTE 5: Releasing the source access leg does not result in releasing the
resources (e.g. ESQK) allocated to the emergency call.
# 7 Evaluation
Use the following assumptions to help define the evaluation criteria for each
architectural option to agree on a solution in the Release 9 timeframe.
1) Only allow the support of IMS to CS session continuity for Emergency calls
to satisfy the minimal requirement stated in section 4.1 of TR 23.826.
2) No support of transitioning of emergency calls from CS to IMS for cases of
CS originated calls and hand-back of calls originated in IMS.
3) VCC for emergency shall only be for emergency shall only be attempted for
intra-operator transitions (where serving IMS and serving CS core operators
are the same).
4) UE shall not attempt to perform transfer of an emergency call if it is not
certain the relevant capabilities are supported by the network (covers UICC-
less case also).
The following criteria should be used to compare the architectural options:
1) The degree to which the solution minimizes the impact to existing CS core
and IMS network elements (e.g., IMS core elements, MSC Server)
2) The capabilities that each architectural option provides that are required
for the solution (e.g. location continuity, priority of calls)
Table 7.1-1 defines the comparison criteria for each architectural option
which covers capabilities and impacts.
Table 7.1-2 highlights the functionality implemented by each component for
each architectural option.
* * *
**Comparison criteria** **Priority** **Alt 1** **Alt 2** **Alt 3** **Alt 4**
**List of new and existing components impacted**  
**Impacts to the MSC**  
**Impacts to the GMLC**  
**Impacts to the LRF**  
**Impacts to the E-CSCF**  
**Impacts to the MGCF**  
**Impact to CS Access Signalling**  
**Impacts (and mechanism) related to routing of CS calls to IMS (domain
transfer)**  
**Impacts (and mechanism) related to obtaining session transfer number for PS
to CS DT**  
**Support for handling of DT request when UE attaches to a standard MSC
server**  
**Support of (and mechanism for) capability exchange for IMS Originations**  
**Support of (and mechanism for) location continuity**  
**Support of (and mechanism for) prioritization of the CS bearers and
signalling (for DT request)**  
**Support for priority on radio channel**  
**Support for UICC-less UEs**
* * *
> **Table 7.1-1 Capability and Impacts comparison**
* * *
**Functionality** **Alt 1** **Alt 2** **Alt 3** **Alt 4** **Functions of the
E-SCC-AS**  
**Functions of the enhanced MSC-Server**  
**Functions of the GMLC**  
**Functions of the LRF**  
**Functions of the E-CSCF**
* * *
> **Table 7.1-2 Functionality implemented by each component**
# 8 Conclusion
Different alternatives have been studied, all of which place the session
transfer function for the VCC of emergency calls in the visited IMS network.
Some aspects of the study are complete, whereas some other key aspects require
further study as recommended below:
## 8.1 Placement of Session Transfer Function
The session transfer function for the VCC of emergency calls shall be placed
in the serving (visited if roaming) IMS network.
## 8.2 PS to CS Session Transfer
The PS-CS access transfer for emergency sessions of authenticated UEs which
are initially established via PS access shall be specified in Rel-09.
## 8.3 CS to PS Session Transfer
**Interim Conclusion:** Standard CS domain emergency call procedures shall be
applied for emergency calls initially established via CS access. Session
Transfer of emergency sessions initially established via CS access is not
recommended for specification in Rel-09 as further studies are required to
resolve outstanding key issues.
# Annex x: Change history
* * *
**Change history**  
**Date** **TSG #** **TSG Doc.** **CR** **Rev** **Subject/Comment** **Old**
**New** 2006-08 SA2#54 Skeleton 0.0.1 2007-04 SA2#57 Incorporates S2-062628
agreements; S2-070106; S2-070629 0.0.1 0.0.2 2007-09 SA2#58 SA2#59
Incorporates S2-072812, S2-073834, S2-073709, S2-073710, S2-073711 0.0.2 0.1.0
2007-10 SA2#60 Incorporates S2-074324, S2-074505, S2-074530 0.1.0 0.2.0
2007-11 SA2#61 Incorporates S2-075485 0.2.0 0.3.0 2008-01 SA2#62 Incorporates
S2-080601, S2-080602, S2-080603, S2-080607, S2-080895, S2-080896 0.3.0 0.4.0
2008-09 SA2#67 Incorporates S2-085937, S2-085938, S2-085939, S2-085952,
S2-085953 0.4.0 0.5.0