# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Although network nodes in the IMS Core Network should have a very high
availability, some maintenance downtime and occasional failures are
unavoidable. Communication links although designed with robust protocols
between the network elements are also subject to failures. A set of
standardized procedures for automatic restoration after loss or corruption of
data could reduce the impact of these problems resulting in the improved
service to the users. The intention is that similar cases as in 3GPP TS 23.007
[2] for the CS and PS Domains are covered also for the IMS domain.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies the changes required in the 3GPP IMS
specifications so that a consistent state is restored in the IMS Core Network,
after, or during a planned, or unplanned stop of a network element. The study
will go through the following steps:
  * Establish the requirements that should be covered with these procedures. That is which are the impacts to the end user service that are acceptable and which are not, after a network failure.
  * List the service interruption scenarios that need to be studied.
  * Provide solutions, so that in all the service interruption scenarios listed, the impacts to the end user service comply with the requirements. These solutions provide procedures for the automatic restoration to a consistent state in the network and indicate how to trigger these procedures.
  * Analyze the impacts of the solutions in the current specifications.
  * Conclusion and recommended way forward.
It is important to realise that these procedures are meant to be operational
procedures for restoration and so care must be taken with what is existing and
will exist with OA&M procedures to avoid overlap which could cause clashes.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Charging Management; IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
Charging\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem -- Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP and
SDP\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\".
[7] IETF Draft draft-ietf-sip-outbound: \"Managing Client Initiated
Connections in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[11] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Service Interruption:** A period of time in which one or more network
elements do not respond to requests and do not send any requests to the rest
of the system.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
GRUU Globally Routed User Agent URI
LIA Location-Info-Answer
LIR Location-Info-Request
MAA Multimedia-Auth-Answer
MAR Multimedia-Auth-Request
OA&M Operations, Administration & Maintenance
O&M Operations & Maintenance
OPEX Operative Expenditures
SAA Server-Assignment-Answer
SAR Server-Assignment-Request
UAA User-Authorization-Answer
UAR User-Authorization-Request
# 4 Requirements analysis and assumptions
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause contains a list of the requirements for the solution provided in
this study. The general goal is to have a set of procedures ensuring that the
impact of the service interruption of a node is limited to the loss of the
capacity of that node for the time that it is out of service, plus some
additional signalling in order to perform the take over by other network
elements with the same function.
## 4.2 Persistency Requirements for Data
There are network elements that hold permanent data. There should be methods
to ensure that the information in these network elements is not lost even in
disaster events, such as a complete site crash. For this reason, this study
assumes that the redundancy provided for these network elements makes
unnecessary additional network procedures for restoration of permanent data.
On the other hand, temporary data will be considered in these procedures.
For the nodes that don't handle permanent data, the assumption is that their
memory is affected if an outage occurs and the information related to some of
the users may be lost.
## 4.3 Impacts on Established Sessions
Interruption of established sessions is considered an acceptable consequence
of the failure service interruption of one of the network elements in the
session path. This means that the restoration of session data does not need to
be analyzed in this study. Means may be taken by implementations outside of
this study to enable established sessions to be restored or maintained.
The accounting of IMS sessions is already based on principles (interim
accounting as described in 3GPP TS 32.260 [3]) that ensure that the charging
of this interrupted sessions is also terminated.
## 4.4 Impacts on Session Establishment Time
The restoration procedures could involve some steps that take place during the
establishment of sessions after the outage has occurred (i.e. after the
network element that failed returns to normal functioning or another network
element takes over). If that is the case, the increase of the session
establishment time should not be significant (it should still have a high
probability to remain within the acceptable levels for the end user).
## 4.5 Required Manual Intervention
In order to reduce OPEX and the time required to restore the network, the need
for manual intervention should be minimized. This implies that the procedures
should be triggered by network signalling events and O&M steps should also be
minimized.
## 4.6 Loss of service
Loss of service refers to the state in which session origination attempts by
the user or session termination requests to that user fail while the UE
appears to be registered and also when the network does not respond to
registration attempts. Ideally the proposed solution should avoid this kind of
loss of service altogether and ensure that requests are terminated correctly
in all cases. If this is not feasible, then the time of loss of service for
the user should be minimized.
## 4.7 Avoidance of massive signalling
In the solutions provided it needs to be taken into consideration that network
element failures tend to occur in situations when the signalling is
overloaded. If that is the case, restoration procedures that involve a high
level of messages (e.g. triggering re-registrations for all the UEs controlled
by a P-CSCF or S-CSCF) should be avoided. Such kind of procedures could result
in further problems in other network elements and provoke a domino effect of
subsequent failures.
## 4.8 Load balancing
The solution provided should be such that it allows the recovery of the
network to a situation where the load is balanced between network elements
performing the same function.
# 5 Service Interruption scenarios
## 5.1 Introduction
According to the requirements for this study, service interruption of network
elements holding only persistent data or holding only session related data
should not be considered. The following figure shows the network elements of
the IMS Core Network. Those holding only persistent data are represented with
cylinders and those holding only session data with round edges. According to
this the targets for the study are coloured red in the following figure.
{width="5.761805555555555in" height="2.979861111111111in"}
Figure 5.1: Network elements to be considered in the study
The following clauses cover each of the possible service interruption cases
and indicate how they affect service.
## 5.2 S-CSCF Service Interruption
### 5.2.1 Introduction
This clause will analyse the impacts of a S-CSCF service interruption in the
network and in the service to the user in order to highlight the problems that
need to be covered by the alternative solutions in this technical report. The
initial state that will be considered is an IMS Core Network working properly
with several S-CSCFs and with ongoing traffic (a certain amount of users are
registered and unregistered in the S-CSCFs). At one point one S-CSCF stops
operation, this may imply either a lack of response from that S-CSCF or
potential loss of the information of some subscribers in that S-CSCF. The
assumption will be that the S-CSCF does not trust any data after it resumes
operation, due to the fact that it could have lost profile updates from the
HSS in the service interruption period. The following clauses cover the
outcome in several different cases.
### 5.2.2 Unregistered User
The lack of service of the S-CSCF in this case will mean that unregistered
triggers for the user are not processed. Until the previously assigned S-CSCF
resumes operation or the user initiates a registration the following occurs:
  * The terminating SIP requests from the I-CSCF to the assigned S-CSCF will fail and there will be no service of unregistered services for the user.
  * Originating request from a SIP-AS will also fail, since they will be forwarded to the assigned S-CSCF (directly, via the I-CSCF, etc.).
{width="4.6715277777777775in" height="3.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1. Terminating request to unregistered user with no S-CSCF
response
{width="4.645138888888889in" height="3.3555555555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2. Originating request on behalf of unregistered user with no
S-CSCF response
{width="4.855555555555555in" height="3.3555555555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.2.3 Originating request on behalf of unregistered user via I-CSCF
Even after there is a reassignment of S-CSCF (because of an initial
registration) or the previously assigned S-CSCF resumes operation, there could
be some problems with the handling of SIP subscriptions to notifications. This
is because network elements could have subscribed to notifications in the
previously assigned S-CSCF, and they will not be notified of the operation
interruption or of the reassignment. The result is that these network elements
will not receive the notifications that they expect until they subscribe
again. Additional network procedures could reduce the unavailability of
service in this scenario.
### 5.2.3 Originating Traffic from Registered User
In this case, the lack of response from the S-CSCF implies an error response
to the UE that should trigger a new registration (depending on UE
implementation). After the successful initial registration takes place, the
initial request may be retried and normal operation will continue.
{width="4.854166666666667in" height="3.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 5.2.3.1. Originating request from registered user with no S-CSCF
response
If the previously assigned S-CSCF resumes operation and it receives the
request after losing the data for that user, it will reply with the
corresponding SIP error, which should also trigger a new registration
(depending on UE implementation). However, SIP subscriptions to notifications
in the previously assigned S-CSCF may be affected as indicated in clause
5.2.2.
{width="4.854861111111111in" height="3.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2. Originating request to registered user with loss of S-CSCF
data
Traffic may also be originated on behalf of a registered user by a SIP-AS. The
behaviour of the network in this case is the same, with the SIP-AS taking the
role of the P-CSCF in the two previous flows.
### 5.2.4 Terminating Traffic for Registered User
It will not be possible to process correctly terminating traffic for a
registered user until a new initial registration takes place. This situation
may not be solved correctly if the previously assigned S-CSCF resumes
operation. If the previously assigned S-CSCF loses the information related to
one user, this will mean that after the S-CSCF returns to operation it will
not identify this user as registered and it will send an SAR to the HSS
requesting the change of state to "unregistered". The HSS will handle this as
an error and the request will not be processed. This abnormal situation will
persist until a re-registration takes place for the affected identities. The
user will not be aware of this situation unless a SIP request is initiated
from the UE. Considering that the re-registration timers can be quite long and
also that the terminating user may not be initiating requests by itself
regularly (in particular not during non-busy hours), the consequence of this
can be seen as quite severe, and there is a need to try to improve the service
availability in this scenario. SIP subscriptions to notifications in the
previously assigned S-CSCF may also be affected as indicated in clause 5.2.2.
{width="4.6in" height="3.3916666666666666in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1. Terminating request to registered user with loss of S-CSCF
data
## 5.3 P-CSCF Service Interruption
### 5.3.1 Introduction
This clause will analyse the impacts of a P-CSCF stop in the network and in
the service to the user in order to highlight the problems that need to be
covered by the alternative solutions in this technical report. The initial
state that will be considered is an IMS Core Network working properly with
several P-CSCFs and with ongoing traffic (a certain amount of equipments have
security associations established with the P-CSCFs). At one point one P-CSCF
stops operation, this implies lack of response from that P-CSCF and potential
loss of the information of some subscribers in that P-CSCF.
### 5.3.2 Originating Traffic
In this case, the lack of response from the P-CSCF should trigger a new
registration. After the successful initial registration takes place, the
initial request may be retried and normal operation will continue. If the
previously assigned P-CSCF resumes operation and it receives the request but
it has lost the data for that user, it will ignore the request (the user
appears as not authenticated), which should also trigger a new registration.
{width="4.854166666666667in" height="3.04375in"}
Figure 5.3.2.1. Originating request with no P-CSCF response
### 5.3.3 Terminating Traffic
In this case, the lack of response from the P-CSCF or error response from the
P-CSCF because of loss of user information will mean that SIP requests will
not proceed. The terminating requests to that user will fail and there will be
no service for terminating requests until the user makes a new registration.
The user will not be aware of this situation unless a SIP request is initiated
from the UE. Considering that the re-registration timers can be quite long and
also that the user may not be initiating requests by itself regularly (in
particular not during non-busy hours), the consequence of this can be seen as
quite severe, and there is a need to try to improve the service availability
in this scenario.
{width="5.774305555555555in" height="3.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 5.3.3.1. Terminating request with no P-CSCF response
### 5.3.4 Subsequent requests towards P-CSCF without traversing the S-CSCF
_All SIP signalling to or from the UE traverses the P-CSCF, and all initial
requests to or from the UE traverse the S-CSCF assigned to the UE. But
according to TS 23.228 [4] section 5.4.5, it is not required that all
subsequent requests traverse the S-CSCF. The section 5.4.5 and annex F of TS
23.228 describe this case in detail._
_Some subsequent requests towards the P-CSCF will not traverse the S-CSCF,
after the initial procedure. One case is when the subsequent requests are from
SIP-AS. For example for the Presence service, notifications need not go
through the S-CSCF. Another example could be where the UE initiates a session
to an Application Server (AS) in the home operator's domain, e.g. video
download._
_In these cases, all subsequent requests towards the P-CSCF will fail, because
of the failure of the P-CSCF._
## 5.4 IMS-UE Service Interruption
If the IMS-UE is not working this may imply total or partial lack of service
for the user. However, the following reasons allow giving less importance to
this kind of failure:
  * There are already procedures to clean up the state of registration of these users in the network (the re-registration timer) and there also exists a handling today for incoming sessions when a UE is not reachable. The procedures describing how to handle an unreachable terminal are in clauses 5.10.3 and E.2.1a.2 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [4] and in clause 5.2.8.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
  * Handling interruptions in the UE and notifying the user is very implementation specific. Ultimately, the UE would make the user aware of the lack of service.
The conclusion is that solutions in this technical report do not need to add
additional coverage for this case.
## 5.5 SIP-AS Service Interruption
### 5.5.1 Introduction
The SIP-AS may have stored transparent data in the HSS, and it may have
subscriptions to notifications both using SIP and the Sh Interface. With
respect to transparent data, when the SIP-AS returns to operation after a
failure, it could be assumed that the same instances will be used again. It
could also be assumed that the subscriptions to notifications are cleaned up
periodically. Hence, the following discussion will only cover the case before
the SIP-AS resumes. According to the section 4.3, interruption of established
sessions is considered an acceptable consequence of the failure of one of the
network elements in the session path, so restoration when the AS fails after
it has been in the route path of an established session will not be analyzed
either. Since there is no difference of the behaviour of the SIP-AS when
dealing with the service request for the Registered or Unregistered
subscriber, it could be assumed that the mechanism of the SIP-AS restoration
will be the same for the Registered or Unregistered subscriber.
The mentioned service request may be a third party registration request, a
session origination service request or a session terminating service request.
When there is a service request coming to the SIP-AS, the SIP-AS may be in
failure status or has restored. If the SIP-AS has restored from the failure,
the SIP-AS could obtain the subscriber service data from the HSS or other
networks entities. _For example, the restored SIP-AS receives a service
request for a subscriber from the S-CSCF, but the SIP-AS has not the service
data of this subscriber, then the SIP-AS could request the_ transparent data
via Sh interface from the HSS in order to provide the service to the
subscriber. So, the discussion on the failure of the SIP-AS is focused on the
scenario that the SIP-AS is in the failure status.
When there is a service request coming to the SIP-AS, which is in failure, the
following clauses cover the outcome in several different cases.
### 5.5.2 Third Party Registration Request
During the registration of the subscriber, the third party registration
request will be triggered, and the S-CSCF will check whether the Filter
Criteria of the subscriber matches the register request from the UE. If the
SIP-AS matches the Filter Criteria of the subscriber service profile for the
event of REGISTER request, the S-CSCF will initiate the third-party REGISTER
request to the SIP-AS. If the SIP-AS were in failure, the SIP-AS could not
respond the third party registration request, or the SIP-AS would return a
failure response to the S-CSCF. According to the current 3GPP specification,
the S-CSCF may abort sending the third-party REGISTER request, or initiate
network-initiated deregistration procedure based on the information in the
Filter Criteria. Although there may be more than one SIP-AS providing the same
service, the subscriber can not register to the SIP-AS, and the related
service can not be provided to the subscriber.
### 5.5.3 Originating Service Request
When the S-CSCF receives a session origination service request from the UE,
the S-CSCF will check whether the Filter Criteria of the subscriber matches
the service request. If the SIP-AS matches the Filter Criteria of the
subscriber service profile for the event of service request, then the S-CSCF
will forward the service request to the SIP-AS. If the SIP-AS were in failure,
the SIP-AS could not respond the service request, or the SIP-AS would return a
failure response to the S-CSCF. According to the current 3GPP specification,
if the S-CSCF fails to receive a SIP response or receives a 408 (Request
Timeout) response or a 5xx (Failure Response) response from the SIP-AS, the
S-CSCF shall continue or terminate the session based on the default handling
defined in the matched filter criteria. Although there may be more than one
SIP-AS providing the same service, the subscriber can not register to the SIP-
AS, and the related service can not be provided to the subscriber.
### 5.5.4 Terminating Service Request
When the S-CSCF receives a session terminating service request for the
subscriber from the other end point, the S-CSCF will check whether the Filter
Criteria of the subscriber matches the service request. If the SIP-AS matches
the Filter Criteria of the subscriber service profile for the event of service
request, then the S-CSCF will forward the service request to the SIP-AS. If
the SIP-AS were in failure, the SIP-AS could not respond the service request,
or the SIP-AS would return a failure response to the S-CSCF. According to the
current 3GPP specification, if the S-CSCF fails to receive a SIP response or
receives a 408 (Request Timeout) response or a 5xx (Failure Response) response
from the SIP-AS, the S-CSCF shall continue or terminate the session based on
the default handling defined in the matched filter criteria. Although there
may be more than one SIP-AS providing the same service, the subscriber can not
register to the SIP-AS, and the related service can not be provided to the
subscriber.
## 5.6 IP-CAN Service Interruption
Lack of IP connectivity will mean also lack of IMS service for the user. This
situation will persist until the IP connectivity is restored. If the IMS-UE is
able to retain its previous IP address, then it might be possible to resume
service normally, otherwise a new registration will be required. If the
problem affects a large number of users (e.g. SGSN or GGSN restart), there
could be problems in the network due to the massive number of simultaneous
registrations and IP changes from one user to another. Depending on the case,
the user may or may not be aware of the problem unless it initiates a process
that requires IP connectivity, which will fail. The procedures describing how
to handle loss of IP connectivity to the terminal are in clauses 5.10.3 and
E.2.1a.2 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [4] and in clause 5.2.8.1 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
## 5.7 HSS Service Interruption
### 5.7.1 Introduction
This clause will analyse the impacts of a HSS stop in the network and in the
service to the user in order to highlight the problems that need to be covered
by the alternative solutions in this technical report. The initial state that
will be considered is an IMS Core Network working properly and with ongoing
traffic (a certain amount of users are registered and unregistered in the
HSS). At one point the HSS stops operation, this implies lack of response from
that HSS and potential loss of the temporary information of some subscribers
in that HSS. Since only one HSS holds the subscriber data for that user, any
service that requires intervention of the HSS will fail until that HSS resumes
operation. The following clauses analyse the behaviour of the network once
that the HSS is again in service (although some users' temporary data may be
lost). The assumption is that registration state and S-CSCF name are temporary
data as described in 3GPP TS 23.008 [6].
This scenario can be avoided if the HSS implements a regimen that secures both
the permanent and the temporary data. This regimen can include replication of
volatile storage units and periodic back-up of data to non-volatile storage.
If the data security regimen ensures the integrity of the data in spite of
failure of part of the HSS equipment then there will be no impact on service.
### 5.7.2 Unregistered User
Loss of registration state and S-CSCF name for an unregistered user may result
in assignment of a different S-CSCF. There seems to be no difference in the
service to the user for this reason, however as indicated in section 5.2.2
there could be problems in the SIP subscriptions to notifications (reg-event
package) towards the previously assigned S-CSCF. In addition to that, the user
will occupy memory space in the previously assigned S-CSCF until a cleanup
takes place. The situation for originating unregistered requests is almost
identical.
{width="5.774305555555555in" height="3.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 5.7.2.1. Terminating request to unregistered user with loss of HSS data
### 5.7.3 Originating Request from Registered User
Originating requests will be processed normally in the S-CSCF, even though the
user data is lost in the HSS. Even a re-registration will be processed
correctly unless a different S-CSCF has been assigned as described in clauses
5.7.2 and 5.7.4 and the re-registration is not authenticated. This last case
of an authenticated re-registration will also be processed correctly (with a
new S-CSCF assignment) because the S-CSCF name in the HSS will be overwritten
with the MAR request.
### 5.7.4 Terminating Request to Registered User
Loss of registration state and S-CSCF name for a registered user may also
result in assignment of a different S-CSCF when a terminating request is
processed. In this case, the SIP request will be handled as for an
unregistered user (assuming there are services associated with the
unregistered state). The user will not be aware of this situation and will
have no reason to think that those SIP requests are not being forwarded to the
correct UE. This situation will remain until a re-registration is initiated
from the UE. Considering that the re-registration timers can be quite long the
consequence of this can be seen as quite severe and there is a need to try to
improve the service availability in this scenario.
{width="5.774305555555555in" height="3.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 5.7.4.1. Terminating request to registered user with loss of HSS data
### 5.7.5 Impacts on the Sh Interface
The HSS may also share data with the SIP-AS, and these data could be affected
by an interruption of service of the HSS. This refers to the transparent data
that the SIP-AS may have stored in the HSS and the subscriptions to
notifications using the Sh Interface. If the subscriptions to notifications
are lost, the SIP-AS will not receive the notifications that it expects until
it subscribes again. The problem is even more serious for transparent data,
which might be lost permanently.
# 6 Alternative solutions
## 6.1 Backup of S-CSCF Information in the HSS
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution for processing of SIP requests after a S-CSCF restart or during
a S-CSCF downtime is based in the principle that S-CSCF information is stored
in the HSS. There is a set of basic information that would be required for an
S-CSCF to handle the requests for a user; it comprises the list of SIP Proxies
(usually the P-CSCF address), list of Public User Identities, Contact
Addresses and Contact Header parameters. In order to request the user to
authenticate, the information of the UE's subscription to the reg-event
package may also be required to be stored in the HSS. Other information, such
as active subscriptions using the SIP reg-event package could be refreshed by
the clients of the subscription after take over. The following clauses
describe the modifications required for this solution.
### 6.1.2 Normal Registration
In order for the information to be available later, the S-CSCF would be
required to store it in the HSS. This could be done during the registration
process with an additional information element in the SAR request. In addition
to the basic set of information required to handle traffic. The changes to the
protocol would be in the form of an additional information element in table
6.1.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.228 [10]:
* * *
S-CSCF Information (See 7.X) SCSCF-Information O If Server-Assignment-Type is
REGISTRATION or RE_REGISTRATION, the S-CSCF may optionally send this
information element to the HSS. This information allows a later retrieval in
case of an S-CSCF service interruption.
* * *
The detailed behavior in clause 6.1.2.1 should also indicate that the HSS
shall store this information if it implements IMS Restoration Procedures. The
information will be associated to the Private User Identity and the Implicit
Registration Set that is affected by the SAR request, and it will contain:
  * the list of SIP proxies in the path (normally it would be just the P-CSCF address),
  * the Contact Information (Contact Addresses and Contact Header parameters),
_NOTE: If the solution included the need to send a NOTIFY to the UE, then the
UE's subscription information (Call-ID, From, To, Record-Route) would also
need to be stored. To avoid frequent storing of the subscription information
in the HSS, the CSeq should not be included in the S-CSCF Information._
As the following figure 6.1.2.1 shows, the S-CSCF backups user registration
related data such as the content of Path, Contact address in the HSS during
the initial registration procedure. When the S-CSCF sends SAR to request the
user profile from the HSS in step 14 after successful authentication, the
backup data are carried in the message to the HSS at the same time.
{width="4.788194444444445in" height="4.280555555555556in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1: Backup of registration data during initial registration
procedure
  1. The UE initiates the registration towards the network and the normal registration procedure follows.
```{=html}
``` 14\. The S-CSCF name is changed and the S-CSCF sends the SAR with these
registration related data.
```{=html}
``` 14\. The HSS stores the registration related data and returns the SAA to
the S-CSCF with service profile.
16-18. Normal registration procedure.
> Note 1: _In the above step 14, it is needed_ to extend the function of the
> HSS and the S-CSCF and enhance the Cx interface to make it possible that the
> S-CSCF could backup registration data such as Path and Contact address of
> the user in the HSS during the registration procedure.
>
> Note 2: _It will be possible for the S-CSCF to update the S-CSCF Information
> in the HSS at any time using an SAR with Server Assignment Type
> RE_REGISTRATION or a new Server Assignment Type specific for this purpose_.
> This could be used, for example to update the value of Temporary GRUUs
> assigned in the S-CSCF.
### 6.1.3 Retrieval of S-CSCF Information
According to the analysis in clause 5.2, the most relevant case in which the
S-CSCF might need this information is when processing a terminating SIP
Request. In this case, when the HSS believes the identity to be Registered,
the SAA response will be either DIAMETER_ERROR_IDENTITY_ALREADY_REGISTERED if
the request is originated in a different S-CSCF or
DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE if it comes from the same S-CSCF.
For DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE, the proposal is to add the information
stored in the HSS to the response so that the S-CSCF has the possibility to
forward the request to the P-CSCF that attends the user. The other error code
covers the case of a double S-CSCF assignment. To avoid that situation, the
proposal is to create a new value for Server-Assignment-Type in order to
overwrite the S-CSCF name stored in the HSS and to allow this operation only
if there was a previous request for capabilities from the I-CSCF. As an
alternative to creating a new value for Server-Assignment-Type the existing
value (UNREGISTERED) could be used when the HSS is able to recognize whether
or not the stored S-CSCF is contactable. The I-CSCF should also be allowed to
request REGISTRATION_AND_CAPABILITIES in the terminating case. The changes to
the protocol would be in table 6.1.2.2 adding the information element with
S-CSCF information:
* * *
S-CSCF Information (See 7.X) SCSCF-Information C The HSS shall send this
information element if it implements the IMS Restoration Procedures and
Experimental-Result is DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE or the value of
Server-Assignment-Type in the request is NO_ASSIGNMENT or REASSIGNMENT.
* * *
The following figure shows the traffic flow for retrieval of information from
the same S-CSCF:
{width="4.854166666666667in" height="3.3583333333333334in"}
Figure 6.1.3.1: Retrieval from the previous S-CSCF
> _Note 1: In the above steps 2 and 3, it is needed to send the S-CSCF
> information from the HSS to the S-CSCF. This means an enhancement of both
> HSS and S-CSCF and it can be done in two ways. One is enhancing_ the S
> _-CSCF, so that when it receives the SAA with Experimental-Result-Code value
> set to DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE, it is able to send SAR with a new
> Server Assignment Type as REASSIGNMENT to request backuped data from the
> HSS. The other is represented in figure 6.1.3.1 and it is enhancing the HSS
> to add the information in the SAA for this error code._
>
> _Note 2: The decision of when to assign a new S-CSCF for the user is taken
> in the I-CSCF and how to make that decision is left as an implementation
> option._
>
> _Note 3: In the above step 3, if the related Public User Identity is
> registered and the HSS does not have the S-CSCF info, the HSS may download
> the service profile in the SAA_ with _Experimental-Result-Code value set to
> DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE._
>
> _Note 4: In the above step 3, if the S-CSCF only receives service profile in
> the SAA, i.e. no S-CSCF info is carried in the SAA, the S-CSCF shall only
> trigger matched unregistered service for the user. Otherwise, if the S-CSCF
> receives service profile together with the S-CSCF info, the S-CSCF shall
> trigger matched registered service for the user._
The procedures shown in the Figure 6.1.3.1 could also be applied to the
originating request initiated by a SIP-AS on behalf of an unregistered or
registered user with terminating SIP request replaced by Originating SIP
request and P-CSCF replaced by terminating network. There is another little
difference in the S-CSCF about triggering registered or unregistered service.
If the S-CSCF receives service profile in the SAA with _Experimental-Result-
Code value set to DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE, the S-CSCF shall trigger
matched registered service for the user. Otherwise, i_ f the S-CSCF receives
service profile in the SAA with _Experimental-Result-Code value set to
DIAMETER_SUCCESS, the S-CSCF shall only trigger matched unregistered service
for the user as the current procedure._
The following figure shows the traffic flow for retrieval of information from
a different S-CSCF:
{width="5.641666666666667in" height="4.933333333333334in"}
Figure 6.1.3.2: Retrieval from a different S-CSCF
NOTE 1: The failure of the S-CSCF1 may be detected before the I-CSCF forwards
the INVITE to the S-CSCF1.
_N_ OTE _2:_ _In the above step 2, it is needed to enhance_ the _I-CSCF to be
able to explicitly request S-CSCF capabilities and re-select the S-CSCF during
terminating procedure._
_N_ OTE _3:_ _In the above step 4, the I-CSCF may carry an indication for
restoration in the terminating SIP request to indicate the S-CSCF it is a new
assigned server caused by the failure of the originally assigned S-CSCF. The
way in which this indication might be put into the SIP signalling is out of
the scope of this document. Adding a restoration indication to the SIP request
is feasible but requires work within IETF._
_N_ OTE _4:_ _In the above step 5, it is needed to extend the SAR with a new
Server Assignment Type as REASSIGNMENT to request backuped data from the HSS._
_N_ OTE _5:_ _In the above step 6, it is needed to enhance the HSS to be able
to send the user profile even if the requesting S-CSCF is different from the
stored S-CSCF._
_N_ OTE _6:_ _In the above step 6, it is needed to extend the SAA and enhance
the HSS to be able to send the backuped data together with the user profile
after receiving REASSIGNMENT indication from the S-CSCF, even if the
requesting S-CSCF is different from the stored S-CSCF._
_N_ OTE _7:_ _In the above step 6, if the related Public User Identity is
registered and the HSS does not have the S-CSCF info, the HSS may download the
service profile in the SAA._
_N_ OTE _8:_ _In the above step 6, if the S-CSCF only receives service profile
in the SAA, i.e. no S-CSCF info is carried in the SAA, the S-CSCF shall only
trigger matched unregistered service for the user. Otherwise, if the S-CSCF
receives service profile together with the S-CSCF info, the S-CSCF shall
trigger matched registered service for the user._
The procedures shown in the Figure 6.1.3.1 could also be applied to the
originating request initiated by a SIP-AS on behalf of an unregistered or
registered user with terminating SIP request replaced by Originating SIP
request and P-CSCF replaced by terminating network.
Another alternative would be to trigger an initial registration of the UE
after step 3 (when the request using the retrieved S-CSCF information is
finished), so that the status of the registered user can be rebuilt completely
across the network. This can be done with a NOTIFY using the UE subscription
information to the reg-event package that was previously stored in the HSS.
NOTE: Since the retrieved subscription information does not include the CSeq
parameter, the S-CSCF could use an allowed maximum CSeq value in the NOTIFY
message.
The following figure shows an alternative solution traffic flow for retrieval
of information from a different S-CSCF:
{width="5.643055555555556in" height="4.934722222222222in"}
Figure 6.1.3.3: Alternative Retrieval from a different S-CSCF
NOTE 1: The failure of the S-CSCF1 may be detected by the HSS by
implementation specific means which may e.g. be based on existing Diameter
mechanisms.
_N_ OTE _2: In the above step 2, it is needed to enhance_ the HSS to return
capabilities although name of S-CSCF1 is stored and when the stored S-CSCF is
not contactable _._
NOTE 3: In the above step 4, it is needed to enhance the HSS to accept the
server assignment type UNREG since the stored S-CSCF1 is not contactable, and
to return Service Profile + S-CSCF info to S-CSCF2.
### 6.1.4 Removal of S-CSCF Information
The S-CSCF information that is stored in the HSS during the registration needs
to be deleted when the identity is no longer in Registered State.
Deregistration may be user-initiated or network-initiated. The following
figures shows the traffic flow for removal of the S-CSCF Information in the
two deregistration cases:
{width="4.7756944444444445in" height="3.595138888888889in"}
Figure 6.1.4.1: Removal of S-CSCF information during user-initiated
deregistration
{width="3.910416666666667in" height="2.9652777777777777in"}
Figure 6.1.4.2: Removal of S-CSCF information during network-initiated
deregistration
### 6.1.5 Handling of Originating SIP Request for an Unknown User in the
S-CSCF
Since we are working with the assumption that the S-CSCF could lose the
information related with some identities, it may also happen that the S-CSCF
receives an originating request for a user that is not known in that S-CSCF.
If that is the case, the S-CSCF should check if there is any information
related to that user in the HSS. The proposal is to perform this checking
using the NO_ASSIGNMENT Server-Assignment-Type, which will also return the
S-CSCF information.
The following figure shows the traffic flow for retrieval of information when
processing an originating SIP Request:
{width="5.247916666666667in" height="4.020833333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.5.1: Retrieval of information for an unknown user during
originating SIP request
NOTE 1: In the above steps 2 and 3 the S-CSCF information is not needed to
process the originating SIP request, but it could be used by the S-CSCF in
subsequent terminating SIP requests.
NOTE 2: The above step 3 assumes that S-CSCF information is always sent in the
responses to an SAR with Server Assignment Type NO_ASSIGNMENT. The decision on
whether it would be more appropriate to have a new Server Assignment Type to
request this information is out of the scope of this document.
### 6.1.6 Restoration During Re-registration Procedure
When the I-CSCF receives a re-registration session, but the assigned S-CSCF
retrieved from the HSS can not be contacted, one possible restoration solution
is as the following.
{width="4.206944444444445in" height="4.136805555555555in"}
Figure 6.2.2.3.1 Restoration during re-registration procedure
  1. The UE sends a re-REGISTER request to the P-CSCF.
  2. The P-CSCF forwards the re-REGISTER request to the I-CSCF.
  3. The I-CSCF sends UAR to the HSS to request the S-CSCF name.
  4. The HSS sends back the UAA with the S-CSCF1 name.
  5. The I-CSCF forwards the re-REGISTER to the S-CSCF1, but does not receive any response from the S-CSCF1.
NOTE 1: The failure of the S-CSCF1 may be detected before the I-CSCF forwards
the re-REGISTER to the S-CSCF1.
  1. _The I-CSCF sends UAR to the HSS to_ explicitly queries the S-CSCF capabilities.
  2. _The HSS sends back the UAA with_ the S-CSCF capabilities.
  3. The I-CSCF re-selects a new S-CSCF2 for the user.
  4. _The I-CSCF forwards the re-REGISTER to the S-CSCF2._
  5. _The S-CSCF2 sends MAR to request the user's authentication data._
  6. _The HSS sends back the MAA with the authentication data._
NOTE 2: Above steps 10 and 11 will be skipped if the re-registrations are not
authenticated.
  1. The S-CSCF2 sends 401 towards the UE.
  2. Normal authentication and registration procedure.
NOTE 3: In the above step 6, it is needed to extend the function of the I-CSCF
to be able to explicitly request S-CSCF capabilities and re-select the S-CSCF
during re-Registration procedure, just as it does during the initial
registration procedure. In other words, the I-CSCF could re-select the S-CSCF
without checking whether this is an initial registration or re-registration.
NOTE 4: The failure scenario corresponding to the procedure above will be
handled with the current procedures with the return of an error, requiring a
new initial registration by the user, which also restores the network to a
consistent state. This change avoids the need to return that error and the
subsequent initial registration.
NOTE 5: In the above step 13, it is needed to extend the function of the HSS
to enable overwriting of the S-CSCF name with an SAR after an explicit request
from the I-CSCF of the capabilities for that user.
### 6.1.7 Backup of S-CSCF information after UE's subscription
When the S-CSCF receives the UE's subscription to notification of the reg-
event, the S-CSCF could send an SAR carrying _the information of the UE's_
subscription _to the HSS for backup. The value of the Server Assignment Type
could be set to_ RE_REGISTRATION. _The_ User Data Already Available parameter
should be set to USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE.
NOTE: The S-CSCF would always send an SAR to the HSS to store the UE's
subscription information when this is the first subscription of the UE in the
S-CSCF. In other cases, the S-CSCF could compare the subscription information
with the existing one. If the subscription information including Call-ID,
From, To, Record-Route does not change, the S-CSCF need not send SAR for
backup.
The S-CSCF should send the registration data together with the subscription
data as one S-CSCF information, in order to avoid additional handling in the
HSS. Each time the HSS receives the S-CSCF information related to the same
Private User Identity in the SAR, the HSS just overwrite the old one. The
procedure is showed in the following figure.
{width="4.154861111111111in" height="2.4993055555555554in"}
Figure 6.1.7.1 Backup data after UE's subscription
NOTE: The S-CSCF information in the step 5 shall include registration data and
subscription data.
## 6.2 Triggering of initial registration from the S-CSCF or P-CSCF
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This procedure addresses the processing of originating SIP requests after a
S-CSCF restart or during a S-CSCF downtime. It is based on the use of a
specific SIP error code that shall trigger the initial registration of the
user.
NOTE: It could be seen that currently the solutions will only take effect for
Rel-8 IMS UEs.
### 6.2.2 Originating Traffic Restoration
#### 6.2.2.1 When the Assigned S-CSCF Is Unavailable
When the P-CSCF receives an originating session request, but the S-CSCF in the
Route can not be contacted, one possible restoration solution is as the
following.
{width="3.7576388888888888in" height="4.094444444444444in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1.1 Restoration during originating procedure
  1. _The UE sends an originating SIP Request to the P-CSCF._
```{=html}
``` 1\. _The P-CSCF forwards the originating SIP Request to the S-CSCF1
according to the Route header, but does not receive any response from the
S-CSCF1._
NOTE 1: The failure of the S-CSCF1 may be detected before the P-CSCF forwards
the Originating SIP Request to the S-CSCF1.
NOTE 2: How the P-CSCF takes the decision to consider that the S-CSCF has
failed and to return the error is left as an implementation option.
  1. _The P-CSCF_ returns a specific error response such as 502 (Bad Gateway) to the UE.
  2. _The UE receives the specific error response, and it shall initiate a new registration towards the network immediately._
  3. _The P-CSCF forwards the message to the I-CSCF as normal._
  4. _The I-CSCF interacts with the HSS and re-selects a new S-CSCF2 for the user._
_7-9. The I-CSCF forwards the message to the S-CSCF2 and the normal
registration procedure follows._
  1. _After receiving the 200 OK for the registration request, the UE may decide to send the originating SIP Request again._
```{=html}
``` 10\. _The P-CSCF forwards the Originating SIP Request to the S-CSCF2._
_12\. Normal originating procedure._
_NOTE 3: In the above step 3 and step 4,_ the P-CSCF returns a specific error
response indicating that the UE shall initiate a registration towards the
network, which may need to extend the function of the P-CSCF and the UE.
#### 6.2.2.2 Restoration When the Assigned S-CSCF Resumes
When the P-CSCF receives an originating session request, but the S-CSCF in the
Route restarted before and has not the user data or the data is not available,
one possible restoration solution is as the following.
{width="4.891666666666667in" height="6.588888888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2.2.1 Restoration during originating procedure
  1. _The UE initiates an originating SIP Request request._
```{=html}
``` 1\. _The P-CSCF forwards the originating SIP Request to the S-CSCF
according to the Route header._
  1. _The S-CSCF does not have the user's data or the user data is not available, returns a specific error response such as 502 (Bad Gateway) to the P-CSCF._
_3a-3c. Another way to do this is according to 6.1.5_.
  1. _The P-CSCF forwards the error response to the UE._
  2. _The UE receives the error response, and it shall initiate a new registration towards the network immediately._
_6-11. Normal authentication and registration procedure._
  1. _After receiving the 200 OK for the registration request, the UE may decide to initiate the originating SIP Request again._
```{=html}
``` 12\. _The P-CSCF forwards the originating SIP Request to the S-CSCF._
  1. _Normal originating procedure._
  2. _The S-CSCF sends the originating SIP Request towards the terminating network._
_NOTE: In the above step 3, 4 and 5,_ the S-CSCF returns a specific error
response indicating that the UE shall initiate a registration towards the
network, which may need to extend the function of the S-CSCF and the UE.
## 6.2A Precautionary de-registration of un-registered users
To avoid loss of service for un-registered users (see chapter 5.2.2) the
S-CSCF may precautionary de-register the un-registered user when termination
of all ongoing sessions is detected. The de-registration may be delayed by a
configurable timer. Short timer values will increase de-registration traffic
and registration traffic; on the other hand chances that the user suffers from
loss of service will decrease.
## 6.2B S-CSCF re-assignment for unregistered user
To address the problem outlined in figure 5.2.2.1 a solution similar to that
shown in figure 6.1.3.2 and 6.1.3.2.a is proposed i.e. a new S-CSCF is
selected. The HSS needs to indicate to the new S-CSCF that the user is un-
registered by not sending S-CSCF info (backup data) within SAA.
To address the problem outlined in figure 5.2.2.2 it is proposed that the SIP-
AS after timeout resends the Originating SIP Request to an I-CSCF (which will
then be responsible for S-CSCF re-selection).
To address the problem outlined in figure 5.2.2.3 the same solution as for the
problem in figure 5.2.2.1 applies.
## 6.3 Second P-CSCF and deregistration from S-CSCF
One possible solution for the P-CSCF service interruption is that the P-CSCF
adds a second P-CSCF into the Path along with its own address when sending the
register message to the S-CSCF.
NOTE : How the second P-CSCF is selected is FFS. One possible way is that it
could be pre-configured in the registered P-CSCF. The second P-CSCF can be
found by the UE through the P-CSCF discovery procedure or it can be selected
by the IMS network during the UE's initial registration procedure.
When the P-CSCF fails the S-CSCF is able to send Notify to the UE to initiate
a new register through the second P-CSCF by the UE's subscription to the reg-
event package. Since the second P-CSCF does not have the user data and
security associations with the UE, it only needs to forward the Notify message
to the UE without protection. When the UE receives the Notify not protected
and even not from the P-CSCF it stored, but with the same subscription
information such as CALL-ID it has, and because the subscription to the reg-
event package is sent on the security association and no other entity could
get this information, the UE could just trust it for this time and initiate a
new registration. After the normal registration, the S-CSCF forwards the
terminating call to the P-CSCF indicated in the Path. The restoration is shown
as the following:
{width="4.586805555555555in" height="4.7756944444444445in"}
Figure 6.3.1 Restoration during terminating procedure
  1. _The I-CSCF receives a terminating SIP Request._
```{=html}
``` 1\. _The I-CSCF sends LIR to the HSS to request the S-CSCF name._
  1. _The HSS sends back the LIA with the S-CSCF name._
```{=html}
``` 4\. _The I-CSCF forwards the terminating SIP Request to the S-CSCF. The
S-CSCF triggers the service for the user._
```{=html}
``` 4\. _The S-CSCF forwards the terminating SIP Request to the P-CSCF1, but
does not receive any response from the P-CSCF1._
  1. _The S-CSCF send_ s _NOTIFY to the P-CSCF2 which was stored together with the P-CSCF1 received in the Path header during registration to trigger the UE to initiate a new register._
  2. _The P-CSCF2 forwards the NOTIFY to the UE without protection._
  3. _The UE checks the message, if the_ subscription information _is the same as the UE stored,_ initiates a new registration.
> Note: The P-CSCF to which the UE sends the new REGISTER message may be the
> P-CSCF2 or the other P-CSCF which the UE finds during the normal P-CSCF
> discovery procedure.
  1. _Normal registration procedure._
_10-12. The S-CSCF may forward the terminating SIP Request to the P-CSCF_
indicated in the Path, and continue the n _ormal terminating procedure._
_The above procedure could also be used with a little change for service
restoration if the P-CSCF that receives terminating request from the S-CSCF
does not have the user data. In such a case, the P-CSCF could return a
specific error to the S-CSCF. Then the S-CSCF constructs the NOTIFY message
and sends by the original P-CSCF or the second P-CSCF mentioned above to
trigger the UE to initiate a new register. The enhancement needed to the
P-CSCF and UE about forwarding and receiving NOTIFY without protection is the
same as the above._
Note 2: Sending a NOTIFY that does not have information about the SUBSCRIBE
that originated that NOTIFY was considered as a potential door to a Denial of
Service attack by SA3. This could be avoided if the operators could ensure
their underlying access network is secure, e.g., by enabling the **GPRS or
UMTS encryption, or by activating IMS confidentiality protection**.
### 6.3.1 Select Second P-CSCFs for the usage of restoration
The UE can negotiate the second P-CSCFs for the usage of restoration with the
IMS network. It can be done during the UE's initial registration procedure.
The UE and the IMS network (eg. the S-CSCF) should store this second P-CSCF
information. When the working P-CSCF fails, the S-CSCF can inform and force
the UE to perform an initial registration through the previous selected second
P-CSCF for restoration.
The second P-CSCF can be found by the UE through the P-CSCF discovery
procedure or it can be selected by the IMS network during the UE's initial
registration procedure.
If the UE gets the second P-CSCF for restoration, it may carry this special
P-CSCF information to the IMS network during the initial registration. And the
IMS network should store it.
If, during initial registration, the UE doesn't provide the second P-CSCF for
restoration, the IMS network should selects someone for the UE, and notify the
UE the selected P-CSCF. Both the S-CSCF and the UE should store this second
P-CSCF information.
The initial registration procedure including second P-CSCF selected for
restoration, is described as follows.
Figure 6.3.1.1 selecting second P-CSCF for restoration during initial
registration procedure
  1. _The UE performs an initial registration, without carrying any additional P-CSCF information for restoration. The UE sends a REGISTER request to the P-CSCF._
  2. _The P-CSCF forwards the REGISTER request to the I-CSCF._
  3. _The I-CSCF sends UAR to the HSS to_ explicitly query the S-CSCF capabilities.
  4. _The HSS sends back the UAA with_ the S-CSCF capabilities.
  5. The I-CSCF selects an S-CSCF for the user, and _forwards the REGISTER to the S-CSCF._
  6. _The S-CSCF checks that there is no second P-CSCF for restoration carried in the SIP signalling, so the S-CSCF selects and stores some one P-CSCF for the UE as restoration usage._
_NOTE 1: How to select the second P-CSCF is FFS._ One possible way is that it
could be pre-configured in the registered P-CSCF.
_NOTE 2: Both the S-CSCF and the P-CSCF in the registration procedure can
select the second P-CSCF for restoration. The working P-CSCF can select a
second P-CSCF and add this information in the path along with itself, and
forwarding this information to the S-CSCF. The working S-CSCF can select
second P-CSCF and don\'t need to add this information to the signalling path._
_NOTE 3: How network entities select the second P-CSCF for restoration can be
considered as implementation work, since the working P-CSCF may select visited
network P-CSCF as restoration one, and the S-CSCF may select home network
P-CSCF._
  1. _The S-CSCF sends MAR to request the user's authentication data._
  2. _The HSS sends back the MAA with the authentication data._
  3. _The S-CSCF sends 401 towards the UE, including the selected second P-CSCF for restoration._
  4. _The UE retrieves and stores the second P-CSCF for restoration usage._
  5. _Normal authentication and registration procedure._
_NOTE 4: How to inform the UE the selected second P-CSCF for restoration_
usage is FFS. One possible way is carrying this information with the 401
challenge message, or with the 200 OK message. Or after the registration
procedure succeeds, the S-CSCF then sends a NOTIFY message to carry the second
P-CSCF information.
_NOTE 5_ : Sending a NOTIFY that does not have information about the SUBSCRIBE
that originated that NOTIFY was considered as a potential door to a Denial of
Service attack by SA3. This could be avoided if the operators could ensure
their underlying access network is secure, e.g., by enabling the **GPRS or
UMTS encryption, or by activating IMS confidentiality protection**.
## 6.4 Monitoring P-CSCF Health
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution is based in the assumption that it would be possible to notify
the UE about a service interruption of the P-CSCF. When this notification is
received, it should be possible for the UE to perform e.g. an initial
registration and return to normal operation rapidly, without the need to wait
for an originating SIP request from the UE to detect the problem, and making
the chances of losing any terminating traffic very small. Two alternatives for
the implementation of this notification are described in clauses 6.4.2 and
6.4.3.
### 6.4.2 Monitoring P-CSCF health from the UE
For unreliable transport (UDP, DCCP) STUN keep-alive can be used; this is
possible when STUN server is in P-CSCF. This solution is considered in IETF
Draft draft-ietf-sip-outbound ref [7]. The UE must be aware that STUN keep-
alive is used for the restoration procedure; short keep-alive timer is to be
used when the keep-alive mechanism is used for the restoration. In addition to
that, for this solution to be effective, the STUN server needs to be within
the P-CSCF. For reliable transport (TCP, SCTP) the TCP keep-alive and/or the
double CRLF method could be used. In this last case, the solution will be only
partially effective, since the TCP Layer maybe working even if the P-CSCF
application using that protocol layer fails to respond.
This kind of solution has the problem of battery drainage of the UE for mobile
access networks.
### 6.4.3 Monitoring P-CSCF health from the IP GW
It is possible for the IP-GW (IP-GW is the IP connection point in the IP-CAN,
that would be GGSN in GPRS, MME in EPC, PDG for I-WLAN and potentially other
network elements in other IP-CANs) to monitor the health of the P-CSCF (e.g.
through the Gi Interface in the GPRS case, see 3GPP TS 29.061 [8]). This
monitoring could also include some additional explicit signalling with an
indication of a P-CSCF restart. On the event of P-CSCF unavailability, the IP-
GW could remove the corresponding P-CSCF address from the list of P-CSCF
addresses that are sent to the UE. On the event of a P-CSCF restart, the IP-GW
could send an indication to the UEs with the list of P-CSCF addresses that are
available to initiate a new registration. The following figure shows this
flow:
{width="4.500694444444444in" height="3.988888888888889in"}
Figure 6.4.3.1. Notification of P-CSCF restart to UE from IP-GW (in this
example the GGSN)
One alternative for the monitoring of health from the IP-GW to the P-CSCF,
would be the implementation of an Echo Request similar to the one available in
GTP between GGSN and SGSN (see 3GPP TS 29.060 [9], clause 7.2). This allows
for the detection of unavailability (lack of response to an Echo Request) and
a restart (an Echo Response with an incremented Restart Counter). An
alternative method would be to monitor the traffic going to the P-CSCF and
react when the P-CSCF doesn't respond to traffic in a specific period of time.
There are also several alternatives for the notification that triggers the new
registration by the UE. For the GPRS IP-CAN, the use of the PCO in a PDP
Context Modification does not cause any side effects, but it needs to be
supported also by the UE. It seems that the only way to trigger a new
registration from the GGSN without adding new requirements to the UE, is to
delete the PDP Context used for IMS SIP signalling. Similarly in other IP-
CANs, if no specific message is available to trigger a new IMS registration in
the UE, the last resort can be to remove IP connectivity forcing a new IP
connection and a new IMS registration.
## 6.5 Possible Solution for SIP-AS Service Restoration
One possible solution is to extend the initial Filter Criteria to contain more
than one SIP-AS name or address with pre-configured priority order
respectively. The S-CSCF is able to select one of the SIP Application Servers
based on the matched Filter Criteria for the service request. When the
selected high priority SIP-AS does not respond the service request or returns
a failure response to the S-CSCF indicating no available resource, the S-CSCF
may re-select a low priority SIP-AS, which could provide the same service to
the user based on the matched Filter Criteria. The timer length and the re-
selection times could be specified by the operator or the user. The
restoration is shown as the following:
{width="5.2965277777777775in" height="4.334722222222222in"}
Figure 6.5.1 Re-select the SIP-AS for the User if the Pre-Selected SIP-AS
Failed
  1. The S-CSCF assigned to the user receives a service request (the third party registration request, or the originating/terminating service request).
```{=html}
``` 1\. The S-CSCF checks the initial Filter Criteria and selects the highest
priority SIP-AS1 in the matched Filter Criteria to provide services to the
user.
  1. The S-CSCF sends the service request to the selected SIP-AS1.
  2. If the SIP-AS1 is in failure, the SIP-AS1 may return a failure response indicating no available resource, or the SIP-AS1 does not respond the service request until the timer in the S-CSCF turns out.
  3. The S-CSCF re-selects a new SIP-AS configured in the matched Filter Criteria to provide services to the user.
  4. The S-CSCF sends the service request to the re-selected SIP-AS2.
  5. _The SIP-AS2 may send Sh-Pull to the HSS to query shared service data if the SIP-AS2._
  6. _The HSS send shared service data to the SIP-AS2 in the Sh-Pull Resp message._
  7. The service request is handled by the SIP-AS2.
  8. The SIP-AS2 may respond a success response to the S-CSCF to inform that the service request is successfully handled by the SIP-AS2.
> Note 1: The principle supporting this alternative would require agreement in
> SA2.
## 6.6 Update of S-CSCF Name in the HSS after Loss of Data
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This chapter focuses in the recovery of temporary data, since the HSS is
assumed to have mechanisms that ensure data persistency of permanent data. For
implementations in which temporary data is not volatile, the problem scenario
described in clause 5.7 does not take place, and this solution will not be
needed. The temporary information that will pose the most difficulties for
processing traffic once lost is the S-CSCF name. As indicated in clause 5.7.4,
loss of the S-CSCF name could cause double S-CSCF assignment and processing of
SIP requests as unregistered when the user is in registered state. There are
two ways in which the S-CSCF name can be restored in the HSS:
  * With a request from the HSS when it resumes operation. The HSS could send a Diameter request similar to the MAP RESET so that all S-CSCFs refresh their state for all users. This needs to be done in a gradual way so that it does not create a burst of traffic in the network.
  * Adding some procedures to find out which is the S-CSCF serving the user when processing each SIP request for a user potentially affected by the loss of data in the HSS. This will also create some additional traffic, which might be larger in volume (it implies searching in all possible S-CSCFs), but it is distributed in time.
It should also be possible to combine both alternatives (the Diameter Restart
indication could be sent so that the S-CSCF name is updated in the HSS by the
S-CSCF as soon as possible, and still for those users whose S-CSCF name hasn't
been updated the procedure to find out the S-CSCF is triggered). The following
clauses provide a description of these two options. Clause 6.6.2 describes the
use of the Diameter Restart indication, clause 6.6.3 describes the handling in
the HSS of a new flag to indicate when to search for the S-CSCF serving the
user and clause 6.6.4 describes the searching procedure.
### 6.6.2 Restart Indication
The principle is very similar to that of the MAP RESET indication. The HSS
will send a message to all configured S-CSCFs, and these will mark all users
from that HSS as "Not Confirmed in HSS". For all users marked as "Not
Confirmed in the HSS", the S-CSCF will update the S-CSCF name in the HSS upon
any activity for that user.
This solution alone does not cover the problem in clause 5.7.4, which was the
most serious case. Since terminating SIP requests and REGISTER requests go
through the I-CSCF before reaching the S-CSCF, they may still go to the wrong
S-CSCF. A change in the procedure so that the S-CSCF does not wait for any
activity for the users and refreshes the S-CSCF name immediately will create a
burst of massive traffic in the network and still allow for a considerable
window of time in which the problem could happen.
{width="6.347916666666666in" height="4.676388888888889in"}
Figure 6.6.2.1. HSS-Reset in mobile originated session case
  1. Upon completion of HSS recovery procedures, the HSS1 broadcasts the HSS-Reset message which is sent to S-CSCF1 and S-CSCF2.
  2. S-CSCF1 and S-CSCF2 receive the reset message and set the "HSS Confirmed" flag against each subscriber to "not confirmed".
  3. User tries to register with IMS network.
  4. Since this is an integrity protected register message, the S-CSCF checks the status of the "Confirmed flag".
  5. S-CSCF initiates a Server Assignment Request (SAR) towards the HSS1.
  6. HSS1 sends a Server Assignment Answer(SAA).
  7. Upon receiving a SAA with a valid user profile, the S-CSCF then clears the "HSS Confirmed" flag to "confirmed".
### 6.6.3 S-CSCF Name Check Required Flag
The procedures that search for the correct S-CSCF, are based on the knowledge
of when this search should be performed. The proposal is to store this in the
form of a flag in the HSS. The HSS will set this flag for all users after the
restart, and the flag will be cleared when the S-CSCF name is set for the user
or after a period of time that should be a bit larger than the re-registration
timer in the S-CSCF.
### 6.6.4 S-CSCF Name Check by the HSS
This means that for all users with the S-CSCF Name Check Required flag, the
HSS will send a request to all S-CSCFs where the user could be located before
answering a UAR request from the I-CSCF. If one of the S-CSCFs was serving
that identity or any other identity of the same IMS subscription, the
concerned S-CSCF will respond indicating this. The HSS will then send a
response to the I-CSCF with the name of the S-CSCF. If none of the S-CSCFs was
serving that identity or any other identity of the user or any user of the
same IMS subscription, the HSS will also receive an indication and it will
send the capabilities to the I-CSCF so that a new S-CSCF is selected.
In order to avoid double allocation of S-CSCF if the identity in the SIP
request is Not Registered, but it belongs to an IMS Subscription that has
other identities in Unregistered or Registered State, the S-CSCF must have
knowledge of the relationship between all Private User Identities in the IMS
Subscription (e.g. by mandatory use of Associated- Identities AVP). The S-CSCF
will be required to check if any of those Private User Identities are being
handled (and not just the Private User Identities with an associated Public
User Identity that is in Registered or Unregistered State), and respond with
the corresponding indication to the HSS.
The following figure shows an example traffic flow with this proposal:
{width="5.3277777777777775in" height="3.988888888888889in"}
Figure 6.6.4.1. S-CSCF Name Check by the HSS
The figure proposes the use of PPR to locate the S-CSCF. This will also update
the profile in the S-CSCF with whatever is stored in the HSS (which should be
done before processing any requests). To allow this procedure it is required
to have a list of all possible S-CSCF names in the HSS.
NOTE: This procedure requires enhancements to the S-CSCF (additional handling
in the PPR) and the HSS (list of all possible S-CSCF names, procedure to send
the PPR to those S-CSCFs and handling of S-CSCF name check required flag).
## 6.7 Forking Service Restoration
For forking service restoration, the S-CSCF information defined in the section
6.1.3 that the HSS sends to the S-CSCF could include the backup data
associated with all the Private User Identities through which the restored
Public User Identity has been registered. This could be done during the
registration process with an additional information element in the SAR
request, in addition to the basic set of information required to handle
traffic.
During registration procedures, the HSS could send all the registered Private
User Identities sharing the same Public User Identity which is being
registered in the SAA, in addition to the basic user data to the S-CSCF. Then
the S-CSCF compares the registered Private User Identities received from the
HSS with the ones it stores. If there are any registered Private User
Identities the S-CSCF does not have their registration data, the S-CSCF sends
SAR with RESTORE indication to the HSS to retrieve the backup data for the
registered Public User Identity, just as the S-CSCF does for terminating
service restoration in the section 6.1.3. For this it is required to enhance
the HSS and the S-CSCF. The changes to the protocol would be in the form of an
additional information element in table 6.1.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.228[10]:
+--------------------+--------------------+---+--------------------+ | Associated | Asso | C | This AVP contains | | Registered Private | ciated-Registered- | | all Private | | Identities | Identities | | Identities that | | | | | are registered | | (See 7.X) | | | with the Public | | | | | Identity received | | | | | in the SAR | | | | | command. | | | | | | | | | | The HSS shall send | | | | | this information | | | | | element if it | | | | | implements the IMS | | | | | Restoration | | | | | Procedures and the | | | | | value of | | | | | Serv | | | | | er-Assignment-Type | | | | | in the request is | | | | | REGISTRATION or | | | | | RE_REGISTRATION | | | | | and there are | | | | | other Private | | | | | Identities | | | | | different from the | | | | | Private Identity | | | | | received in the | | | | | SAR command being | | | | | registered with | | | | | the Public | | | | | Identity received | | | | | in the SAR | | | | | command. | | | | | | | | | | If there are no | | | | | other Private | | | | | Identities | | | | | different from the | | | | | Private Identity | | | | | received in the | | | | | SAR command being | | | | | registered with | | | | | the Public | | | | | Identity received | | | | | in the SAR | | | | | command, this AVP | | | | | shall not be | | | | | present. | +--------------------+--------------------+---+--------------------+
## 6.8 Possible Solutions for SIP-AS Service Restoration
One possible solution is to delegate the routing of SIP requests post filter
criterion matching to a representative AS (Rep-AS). The name of the
representative AS is stored as part of the IFCs at the S-CSCF. On receiving a
failure response from a selected SIP-AS or in the event of a SIP request
timeout, the Rep-AS selects the next most suitable AS on behalf of a public
Identity.
{width="5.186805555555556in" height="4.1819444444444445in"}
Figure 6.8.1. Re-selection of AS on behalf of a public identity by Rep-AS
  1. The S-CSCF assigned to the user receives a service request (the third party registration request, or the originating/terminating service request).
  2. The S-CSCF checks the initial Filter Criteria and selects the Rep-AS in the matched Filter Criteria to provide services to the public identity.
  3. The S-CSCF sends the service request to the selected SIP Rep-AS.
  4. The Rep-AS forwards the request to the SIP-AS1 based on received service request.
  5. If the SIP-AS1 is in failure, the SIP-AS1 may return a failure response indicating no available resource, or the SIP-AS1 does not respond the service request until the timer in the S-CSCF/Rep-AS runs out.
  6. The Rep-AS re-selects a new SIP-AS to provide services to the user.
  7. The Rep-AS sends the service request to the re-selected SIP-AS2.
  8. The SIP-AS2 may respond a success response to the S-CSCF (directly, via the Rep-AS) to inform that the service request is successfully handled by the SIP-AS2.
NOTE: For signalling efficiency subsequent messages may be routed directly
from S-CSCF to SIP-AS2.
Another possible solution is that upon failure detection, the S-CSCF queries a
specific server (DNS, SLF, etc.) to retrieve a list of Application Server that
may handle the request. The query could be based on a specific info in the iFC
(e.g. service name/AS name). The S-CSCF forwards the request to the AS, which
then contacts the HSS to retrieve service info for the given IMPU over the Sh
interface.
{width="5.348611111111111in" height="4.178472222222222in"}
Figure 6.8.2. Re-selection of AS by DNS query
## 6.9 AS Behaviour After HSS Recovery
Application servers are able to store transparent data and non-transparent
data at the HSS. Additionally the AS is allowed to subscribe to be notified of
changes to the data using the Sh Interface. If the subscriptions to
notifications are lost, the SIP-AS will not receive the notifications that it
expects until it subscribes again. (see section 5.7.5).
Once the HSS recovers from a failure, it sends a Reset message to all the
Application Servers for which it has stored either transparent or non-
transparent data. Upon receiving such a Reset message the AS may re-subscribe
to be notified of changes. Additionally, the AS may trigger a user data read
message to download a fresh instance of user data after it has received such a
HSS-Reset message. These re-subscription or user data read messages may happen
at a later point of time.
{width="5.597916666666666in" height="4.088888888888889in"}
Figure 6.9.1. Application Server behaviour post HSS recovery
  1. Upon completion of HSS recovery procedures, the HSS1 broadcasts the HSS-Reset message which is sent to AS1 and AS2.
  2. AS1 and AS2 receive the reset message and set the "HSS Confirmed" flag against each subscriber to "not confirmed".
  3. AS1 initiates a user data read message to obtain the latest version of user data.
  4. Upon successfully receiving the data , AS1 clears the "HSS confirmed" flag to "confirmed".
  5. AS2 initiates a subscription to notification on behalf of user 1.
  6. HSS sends an acknowledgment confirming the re-subscriptions.
## 6.10 HSS Failover with no loss of service
### 6.10.1 Introduction
This chapter focuses on the procedures needed to guarantee service in networks
where the HSS's permanent and temporary data is replicated to a backup system
and no loss of volatile data is experienced. In order for seamless service in
networks deployed this way, the I-CSCF, S-CSCF and AS nodes need to support
Diameter failover.
NOTE: The HSS data replication mechanism is outside the scope of this
document.
### 6.10.2 Diameter FAILOVER
The peer connection principles and failover mechanisms for Diameter is
described in IETF RFC 3588 [11], clauses 5.1 and 5.5.4 respectively and
applies to the Cx, Dx, Sh and Dh interfaces. More specific procedures related
to IMS elements are found below.
#### 6.10.2.1 SLF
The SLF is queried over the Dx interface by the S-CSCF and the I-CSCF and over
the Dh interface by the AS. In networks where the HSS is deployed with one or
more backup systems, the SLF will return all HSS identities associated with
the user in the query response. The order of the HSS identities in the query
response is significant; i.e. the first identity in the list is the primary
HSS, the second identity is the secondary HSS and so forth.
#### 6.10.2.1 I-CSCF, S-CSCF and AS
If a network is using the SLF function, the I-CSCF, S-CSCF and AS will at a
minimum be configured to address a primary SLF and a backup SLF. How the
I/S-CSCF/AS may load balance across the SLFs is implementation specific.
The I/S-CSCF/AS will use the primary HSS address returned by the SLF to
communicate with the HSS for the duration of the session. Only if the
I/S-CSCF/AS detects a failure in the communication with the HSS, will the
I/S-CSCF/AS attempt to communicate with the secondary HSS.
If no SLF is deployed in the network, the I/S-CSCF/AS will have to be
configured to allow for primary/backup HSS's for each user handled by the
I/S-CSCF/AS.
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
## 7.1 S-CSCF Service Interruption
This Technical Report recommends implementing a solution with the following
principles:
  * A specific error is returned to the UE in the event of lack of response from the corresponding S-CSCF or the S-CSCF does not have the user data (see clause 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.2.2). For the second case, the specific error could be sent to the UE immediately when the S-CSCF receives the originating request as indicated in clause 6.2.2.2 or after the S-CSCF fails to retrieve user data from the HSS by the procedure indicated in the clause 6.1.5.
  * Modification of the SAR-SAA so that:
\- It is possible for the S-CSCF to store S-CSCF specific information (such as
that described in clause 6.1.2) in the HSS.
\- Modification of the UAR-UAA and LIR-LIA so that the I-CSCF is able to
assign a new S-CSCF upon S-CSCF failure detected during registrations (see
clause 6.1.6), processing of terminating SIP request and processing of
originating SIP requests from a SIP-AS. S-CSCF failure may be detected in
I-CSCF, SIP-AS or P-CSCF. S-CSCF reassignment is always performed by the
I-CSCF.
\- A registration will be triggered from the P-CSCF if S-CSCF failure is
detected when processing an originating SIP request from the UE.
\- The HSS will allow S-CSCF name overwriting after an explicit request for
capabilities from the I-CSCF.
\- If the S-CSCF receives a SIP request for a user that it does not recognize,
it will send an SAR to the HSS to check whether there is anything stored for
that user there before sending a reply (see clause 6.1.5).
\- The HSS will send all the registered Private User Identities sharing the
same Public User Identity which is being registered in the SAA during
registration procedure (see clause 6.7).
## 7.2 S-CSCF Re-Selection during Re-Registration
The procedures described in clause 6.1.6 has been selected as the preferred
way to handle the scenario for S-CSCF service interruption detected by the
I-CSCF during processing of re-registration request. It is recommended to
proceed with the specification of a procedure for the I-CSCF in which a new
S-CSCF is re-selected in the event of lack of response from the corresponding
S-CSCF. This will require changes to 3GPP TS 29.228 and TS 24.229, so
contributions need to be submitted to CT4 and CT1 in order to complete this
task.
## 7.3 SIP-AS Service Interruption
This TR recommends that an architecture similar to the one described in clause
6.8 when required in order to solve the problems described in clause 5.5. No
further specification work seems to be required.
## 7.4 HSS Service Interruption
This Technical Report recommends that in order to avoid the problem scenarios
in clause 5.7 the HSS should be implemented in a way that critical information
can be assumed to be always available. Permanent data and also some temporary
data such as the Sh transparent data, S-CSCF name and IMS registration status
of a user shall be considered critical information. Sh subscriptions to
notifications may also be included in this list of critical information. This
list of critical information may need to be described in normative text.
## 7.5 P-CSCF Service Interruption
This version of the Technical Report concludes that it is not feasible to
finalize a full normative solution for the current release. Instead it is
recommended that if the UE needs to become aware of the P-CSCF service
interruption, the use of a procedure that informs the UE about the health of
the P-CSCF could be used such as those listed in clause 6.4.2. For an IP-CAN
such as GPRS, where due to battery consumption constrains the UE is not
expected to support this kind of procedures, procedures such as monitoring of
the P-CSCF from the IP-CAN as described in clause 6.4.3 could be used. It is
not envisioned that such solutions would require normative work.
Further improvements may be needed for future releases (such mechanisms as
described in 6.3). Feasibility of such solutions is left for further study.
Any further study is outside of the scope of this technical report.
#