# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Report documents functionality being specified to support IMS
Emergency Calls over GPRS and EPS. Because IMS emergency call support is
expected to impact several functional areas, this TR will describe the
functionality as it is being developed. Once a functional component is
complete the appropriate Technical Specifications will be updated accordingly.
# 1 Scope
## 1.1 Objective
This TR has been created for the purpose of having a single source for
documenting the GPRS and EPS enhancements to support emergency calls. As
solutions to particular aspects are agreed, CRs will be created for the
associated TSs. This TR is not a study. The IMS Emergency Services study is
available in TR 23.867 [5].
The present document includes the following:
  * Functionality needed to meet the requirements as defined in TS > 22.101 and 23.167for handling IMS emergency calls over the GPRS > using GERAN and UTRAN access both in the case where the UE is in > normal service mode (e.g., UE has sufficient credentials and is > authorized to receive the service) and where the UE is in limited > service mode (e.g. the UE does not have sufficient credentials or > is not authorized to receive GPRS service).
  * Functionality needed to meet the requirements as defined in TS > 22.101 and 23.167 for handling IMS emergency calls over the EPS > using E-UTRAN access both in the case where the UE is in normal > service mode (e.g., UE has sufficient credentials and is > authorized to receive the service) and where the UE is in limited > service mode (e.g. the UE does not have sufficient credentials or > is not authorized to receive EPS service).
  * EPS functionality needed to support IMS emergency call handovers > between 3GPP accesses and between 3GPP and non-3GPP access.
  * Note: Access network specific impacts for a UE to attach to the > non-3GPP access network for emergency calling are out of scope of > 3GPP.
  * EPS functionality to support of IMS emergency calls that complies > with applicable requirements for provision of location information > as defined in TS 23.167.
# 2 Background
GPRS Emergency Services procedures were partially complete in Release 7. A
decision was made at SA#36 to remove GPRS Emergency Services support from
Release 7 so that a complete solution could be developed in Release 8 (see
section 9.17 of the SA#36 meeting report [4]). The functionality provided
support for valid subscribers initiating an IMS Emergency Call over UTRAN
while in their home network or while roaming. The GPRS enhancements included:
a) Definition of an Emergency APN: A UE that needs to do IMS emergency >
registration (for example always in VPLMN) shall start by > requesting a PDP
context with the emergency APN in GPRS. The > emergency APN is the basic part
of the Rel-7 solution, because it > enables IMS emergency services with local
break-out for roaming > UEs in VPLMN. In a home network, a PDP context to an
emergency APN > also provides a way for GPRS to identify a session for
emergency > services so that special GPRS handling, that may override >
subscription, can be allowed.(e.g., QoS and ARP). This capability > is
critical for the most basic solution that could be supported > and should be
the highest priority functionality to be specified.
b) UE QoS indication of emergency: The UE shall include an emergency >
indication in the UMTS bearer QoS IE when establishing or > modifying the PDP
context used for the emergency service. It has > been determined that this is
not needed. QoS can be provided by > either establishment of the emergency PDP
context or through PCC.
c) Qos Negotiation: SGSN handling of the ARP is modified to not > re-verify
the value received from the GGSN against the > subscription. This allows the
GGSN to change the ARP for emergency > services to a high priority so the call
will not be pre-empted. > This is functionality is important for overriding
subscription in > order to override ARP subscription limits.
d) Network support indication: The SGSN shall indicate in the Attach > Accept
and RAU Accept messages whether GPRS emergency functions > are supported in
the network. This indicator improves functional > efficiency.
# 3 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[\] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: "Service aspects; Service principles".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.167: "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions".
[4] 3GPP SA#36 meeting report:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_sa/TSG_SA/TSGS_36/Report
[5] 3GPP TR 23.867: "Internet Protocol (IP) based IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) emergency sessions".
[6] 3GPP SA#36 tdoc SP-070427 by Nokia/NSN: "IMS emergency services using GPRS
access in Rel-7"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.167 v7.4.0, 2007-03-20: "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
emergency sessions".
[8] 3GPP SA#37 meeting report:
[9] 3GPP 23.060: "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description;
Stage 2".
[10] 3GPP 23.107: "Quality of Service (QoS) concept and architecture".
[11] 3GPP 23.221: "Architectural requirements".
[12] 3GPP 23.228: "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2".
[13] 3GPP 23.203: "Policy and charging control architecture".
[14] 3GPP 23.401: "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access".
[15] 3GPP 23.122: "Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode".
# 4 Definitions and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Subclause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 4.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 23.167 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] or TS 23.167 [3].
Definition format
**\ **: \.
**Limited Service Mode:** The UE state that only allows emergency calls. This
state is entered when a UE is unable to find a suitable cell to camp on, or
the SIM is not inserted, or if it receives certain responses to a Location
Registration request (e.g., \"illegal UE\"), it attempts to camp on a cell
irrespective of the PLMN identity. See TS 23.122[15].
**Invalid UICC:** A UE that does not have a UICC or a UE with an IMSI that
does not have corresponding subscription information in the HLR.
## 4.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
Abbreviation format
\ \
# 5 Overall Functionality to Support IMS Emergency Calls
Editor's Note: This section will expand upon the objectives listed in clause
1.
## 5.1 IMS Functionality
### 5.1.1 Release 7 functionality to be considered for Release 8
As documented in section 9.17 of the SA#37 meeting report [8], GPRS
functionality removed from Release 7 can be reinserted with Release 8 CRs. The
table in Annex A lists the CRs handled during SA#36, #37 and #38 regarding
GPRS support of IMS emergency calls. The CRs in the table marked as "open"
indicates they need to be considered in Release 8.
1) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions; TS 23.167 [4]: > For the
most part the IMS specification is access network > agnostic. However
references and examples referring to GPRS were > removed from the TS and these
need to be added back. If only valid > subscribers are addressed initially,
then GPRS would be added to > the applicable sections and another CR would be
needed later to > add GPRS to the sections addressing limited mode. Refer to
SA#37 > CR0069R3.
### 5.1.2 Release 8 Functionality
1) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions; TS 23.167 [4]:
  * The E-UTRAN specification TS 23.401 [14] needs to be added to the > references section and referenced throughout the document where > appropriate where other IP-CAN specifications are referenced.
  * Annex E "Emergency support in different IP-CANs" needs to have GPRS > updated.
Editor's note: the term "IP-CAN" is FFS for 23.203.
### 5.2 GPRS Functionality
### 5.2.1 UTRAN Functionality overview
The minimum UTRAN functionality needed to support IMS emergency calling for
UEs in normal service mode, while in their home network or while roaming, is
the ability to establish an emergency PDP context (i.e., the emergency APN).
This allows QoS and ARP rules to be established for sessions associated with
the emergency PDP context to meet local regulatory requirements. An emergency
PDP context also allows the knowledge of the emergency session to be supported
during handovers that cause a new SGSN to be assigned because the emergency
PDP context is included in the mobility messages (Forward Relocation Request
and Routing Area Update). The QoS negotiation capability and network
indication of emergency support are also efficient handling of emergency
calls.
### 5.2.2 UTRAN Normal Service Mode Functionality
TR 23.867 [5] is the study for IMS emergency calls and associated IP-CAN
impacts.
IP-CAN requirements to support IMS emergency calls are specified in section
4.4 of TS 23.167 [3]. Additionally, TS 23.167 v7.4.0 Annex A contains further
analysis of GPRS impacts related to the IP-CAN requirements.
A synopsis of UTRAN functionality needed to support IMS emergency calls for
UEs operating in normal service mode is provided in Annex B.
#### 5.2.2.1 Release 7 functionality to be considered for Release 8
The table in Annex A lists the CRs handled during SA#36, #37 and #38 regarding
GPRS support of IMS emergency calls. The CRs in the table marked as "open"
indicates the functionality needs to be considered for Release 8. Note: QoS
may be changing in Release 8 and also needs to be considered.
##### 5.2.2.1.1 General emergency services support descriptions:
1) _Architecture requirements_ TS 23.221[11]: Based on SA#37 > CR0054R3 the
following is considered:
  * Section 8 "Support of IM CN Subsystem services" -- Provide a > description of GPRS emergency call handling for UE recognized > emergency calls including emergency attach, emergency PDP context, > Qos, CS/IM domain selection. (Note: Do not include UICC-less > handling from CR0054R3 as that will be done separately under UTRAN > Limited Service Mode).
2) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description; Stage 2_ > TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR594R2 the following is > considered:
  * Add a new section 5x "Functionality for IMS emergency services > support. Provide an overview of PS domain emergency call support > functionality including: emergency attach, emergency PDP context , > QoS, PCC, emergency services network support indictor, > allocation/retention priority handling for emergency services.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Emergency APN:
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS);_ _Service description; Stage > 2_ TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#37 CR0598 and SA#36 CR0596, the > following is
considered to support establishing a PDP context to > an Emergency APN:
  * Reference section: Add TS 23.167 _IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) > emergency sessions_
  * Section 3.2 Abbreviations: Add Em-APN Emergency Access Point Name
  * Section 6.5.3 Combined GPRS/IMSI Attach procedure
  * Section 9.2.2.1 PDP Context Activation Procedure:
  * Step 1 -- Include procedure for requesting the Emergency Context in > the _Activate PDP Context Request_
  * Step 4 -- Include GGSN handling of Em-APN (GGSN filtering and that > subscription is not required)
  * Annex A -- A.1 Definitions: State the Em-APN PDP context is linked > with a dynamic PDP address.
  * Annex A -- A.2 Selection Rules: Include Em-APN in SDL for > establishing PDP context.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 QoS Negotiation
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description; Stage 2_ > TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR0594R2, QoS interworking per TS > 23.107 needs to
be considered:
  * Section 6.9.1.2.2 Inter SGSN Routeing Area Update (A/Gb-mode) - > 3^rd^ paragraph following step 12: Enhance the description of > prioritization to include consideration of highest QoS per TS > 23.107.
  * Section 6.9.1.3.2 Combined Inter SGSN RA/LA Update (A/Gb-mode) - > 3^rd^ paragraph following step 16: Enhance the description of > prioritization to include consideration of highest QoS per TS > 23.107.
  * Section 6.9.2.1 Routing Area Update (Iu-mode) - 3^rd^ paragraph > following Note 4: Enhance the description of prioritization to > include consideration of highest QoS per TS 23.107.
  * Section 6.9.2.2.1 Serving RNS Relocation Procedure (Iu-mode),\ > Section 6.9.2.2.2 Combined Hard Handover and SRNS Relocation > Procedure, and\ > Section 6.9.2.2.3 Combined Cell/URA Update and SRNS Relocation > Procedure: following the text for the figure, insert a new > paragraph that describes sending the PDP Contexts in a prioritized > order to the new SGSN in the Forward Relocation Request message > and that prioritization is implementation dependent but should be > based on current activity and the highest QoS per TS 23.107.
  * Section 6.13.2.1 Inter-SGSN Inter-system Change: Iu mode to A/Gb > mode Inter-SGSN Change, and\ > Section 6.13.2.2 A/Gb mode to Iu mode Inter-SGSN Change: 2^nd^ > paragraph following step 21: Enhance the description of > prioritization to include consideration of highest QoS per TS > 23.107.
2) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description; Stage 2_ > TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR0595R2, SGSN QoS negotiation is > modified so
that the ARP IE value is not re-verified by the SGSN > or GGSN after the GGSN
sets it. This allows the GGSN/PCC to modify > the ARP to a value higher than
the subscription allows so that the > session will not be pre-empted.
  * Section 9.2.2.1 PDP Context Activation Procedure - Step 4 last > paragraph,\ > Section 9.2.2.1.1 Secondary PDP Context Activation Procedure -- > Step 3 last paragraph,\ > Section 9.2.3.1 SGSN-Initiated PDP Context Modification Procedure > \-- Step 2 last paragraph,\ > Section 9.2.3.3 MS-Initiated PDP Context Modification Procedure: > add requirement that the ARP IE is not subject to re-verification.
  * Section 9.2.3.2 GGSN-Initiate PDP Context Modification Procedure -- > Step 1: Add a statement that a disabled ARP restriction will not > be enabled during context modification if an ARP subscription > restriction was disabled during context activation.
##### 5.2.2.1.4 PCC enhancement to support IMS emergency calls:
1) _Policy and charging control architecture_ ; TS 23.203 [13]: Based > on
SA#37 CR0051, in the GPRS specific section add the ability for > PCRF
verification with IM CN that an Emergency APN is being used > for an emergency
call.
2) In addition, Release 8 PCC enhancements should be considered in TS > 23.203
[13] to include a PCC based Admission and Priority > parameter as described in
section 5.2.2.2.
    5.  ##### Network support indication:
```{=html}
``` 1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS): Service description; Stage 2_ >
TS 23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR0594R2, an indictor for network > support of
PS emergency calls is sent to the UE in attach and > routing update responses.
The CR specified the indicator in > successful response messages. In addition
to the functionality in > the CR, the indicator would also be needed in attach
and routing > update reject messages. This will allow restricted mode UEs to >
know if the network can be accessed for emergency services.
  * Section 6.5.3: Combined GPRS/IMSI Attach procedure: add indictor to > text of step 9 (attach accept),
  * Section 6.9.2.1: Routing Area Update Procedure (Iu-mode): add > indicator to text of step 17 (routing area update accept).
  * Section 6.13.2.2 Inter-SGSN Inter-system Change: A/Gb mode to Iu > mode Inter-SGSN Change: add indictor to text of step 16 (routing > area update accept)
#### 5.2.2.2 Key Issue 1: PCC rule for Allocation and Retention Priority
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Description
Based on SA2#59 S2-073681, an Emergency ARP parameter in the PCC based rules
is considered to allow PCC to override the subscription ARP. This allows PCC
to assign an ARP value to a session that may not be allowed per subscription.
This allows PCC to assign a higher priority to emergency sessions.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Solution
Policy and charging control architecture; TS 23.203 [13]: needs to consider
defining a PCC based rule for Allocation and Retention Priority parameter for
emergency sessions.
### 5.2.3 UTRAN Limited Service Mode Functionality
#### 5.2.3.1 Release 7 functionality to be considered for Release 8
#### 5.2.3.2 Key Issue 1:
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Description
\
##### 5.2.3.2.2 Solution
#### 5.2.3.3 Key Issue 2:
\
\
##### 5.2.3.3.1 Description
\
##### 5.2.3.3.2 Solution
\
\
### 5.2.4 GERAN Normal Service Mode Functionality
#### 5.2.4.1 Key Issue 1:
##### 5.2.4.1.1 Description
\
##### 5.2.4.1.2 Solution
\
\
### 5.2.5 GERAN Limited Service Mode Functionality
#### 5.2.4.1 Key Issue 1:
##### 5.2.4.1.1 Description
\
##### 5.2.4.1.2 Solution
\
\
## 5.3 EPS Functionality
### 5.3.1 EPS Functionality overview
The solution for the EPS is aimed at supporting both normal mode and limited
service mode. When the UE is in normal service mode the normal EMM procedures
apply. As the UE enters limited service mode as specified in TS 23.122 [15]
(e.g., Attach request is rejected), special EMM procedures for emergency
service may be needed to access EPS. For release 8, the proposed solution uses
the emergency APN. In all cases (e.g., home, roaming, normal mode, limited
service mode), emergency connectivity to an emergency APN will be used. The UE
initiates the emergency connectivity upon recognition of dialled emergency
number. This connectivity is limited to using emergency services available at
the PDN served by the emergency APN, via static rules (thus no impact on PCC).
The ARP values set for the bearer used to provide connectivity to the
Emergency APN shall be adequate to support emergency services (this is to be
decided when the ARP definition is complete) and the QCI shall select a GBR
service for conversational voice service. And the GBR set to the value
necessary to support the selected codec for the emergency service.
### 5.3.2 E-UTRAN Normal Service Mode Functionality
A synopsis of E-UTRAN functionality needed to support IMS emergency calls for
UEs operating in normal service mode is provided in Annex B.
#### 5.3.2.1 Key Issue 1: Attach: shall it be a normal attach or an emergency
attach?
##### 5.3.2.1.1 Description
>It has to be decided whether a UE that will start an emergency session and
has not yet made an initial attach to the network needs to perform a normal
attach or an emergency attach. 5.3.2.1.2 Solution
The emergency attach procedure should not be attempted until:
  * the UE is in limited service mode and
  * the UE is attempting to set up an emergency session
When a normal attach is used, a default bearer is set up based on subscription
or operator policy. The APN associated to this default bearer is normally not
supporting the features associates to an emergency access. So, subsequent to a
normal attach, another (additional) default bearer to the emergency APN to be
set up. This PDN connection shall have the QoS attributes suitable to support
an emergency call.
The handling of the limited service state attach for the E-UTRAN is described
in the relevant section in this TR.
#### 5.3.2.2 Key Issue 2:
##### 5.3.2.2.1 Description
\
##### 5.3.2.2.2 Solution
\
\
### 5.3.3 E-UTRAN Limited Service Mode Functionality
#### 5.3.2.1 Key Issue 1: Attach in limited service state
##### 5.3.2.1.1 Description
If the attach procedure or the tracking area update procedures fail the UE
enters a limited service mode allowing the UE to place only emergency calls --
if the network allows for that - until another non blacklisted TAI is
identified on the broadcast information, in which case a normal attach will be
attempted. Before a UE can place an emergency call, it needs to be attached to
the network
##### 5.3.2.1.2 Solution
If the user attempts to place an emergency call while in limited service mode,
then an emergency attach is attempted with the IMSI or IMEI as a UE
identifier. IMEI is included if the UE does not have a UICC. The IMEI is
included to potentially blacklist malicious callers. The emergency attach will
not directly cause a TAU to be performed and will override any service
restriction that would otherwise forbid the UE from being attached in the
specific TA.
The emergency attach procedure also causesd the establishment of a default EPS
bearer providing PDN connectivity to the emergency APN. This PDN connection
shall have the QoS attributes suitable to support an emergency call. Over this
connectivity it is possible to establish an IMS session for emergency services
only, and static rules will prevent the usage of this APN for other purposes.
##### 5.3.2.2 Key Issue 2: Mobility management during an emergency call
##### 5.3.2.2.1 Description
An ongoing successful emergency call placed while the UE is in normal or
limited service state may be interrupted by a failed TA update or any other
service restriction implying the UE should be detached. A mechanism is needed
to avoid this.
##### 5.3.2.2.2 Solution -- special handling of TA updates for emergency
services
Provide explicit context in the EPC so that the network is aware an emergency
call is ongoing . This will avoid TA UPDATE failures (the TA updates always
succeed during an emergency call).
## 5.4 EPS Emergency Location Functionality
## 5.5 EPS functionality for handovers between 3GPP and non-3GPP access
###### ## Annex A: Release 7 CRs for GPRS Emergency Services
The following table contains the Release 7 CRs addressed under the IMS
Emergency Services agenda item in SA#36, #37 and #38. The CRs with the status
"open" need to be considered for Release 8.
* * *
**SA#** **SP pkg** **TS** **CR#** **Description** **Action** **Status**
36 070263 LS from SA2 asking about GPRS in rel.7 None closed
36 070427 Nokia/NSN summary of GPRS status Use as guideline for rel.8 open
36 070435 LS from CT regarding GPRS status in rel.7; CT CRs pending SA
decision Send LS to CT once SA2 accepts CRs to TSs open
38 070910 22.101 0245 Limits IM CN support to IWLAN and FBI approved at SA38;
N/A for SA2; verify rel.8 did not also change closed
36 070383 23.060 0594R2 - Adds section 5.x describing what is/not supported
for emer calls\ rejected at SA36; consider as separate parts in rel.8/TR;
section 5.x should reflect rel.8 functionality **open** \- Adds ref to QoS (TS
23.107)\  
\- Adds ntwk notification of SGSN support of PS emer calls.
36 070383 23.060 0595R2 To support priority of PS emer calls, the
Allocation/Retention Priority Information Element is not re-verified rejected
at SA36; consider for rel.8/TR **open**
36 070383 23.060 0596 Clarification of Emergency APN selection rules due to
incomplete implementation of CR0586; Missing decission action APN(R) =Em-APN
is added into Figure A.1:SDL Diagram 1 rejected at SA36; consider for rel.8/TR
**open**
37 070535 23.060 0598 All changes introduced by CR 0586rev1(S2-070565) are
removed:\ approved at SA37; consider for rel.8 **open** \- reference to
TS23.167\  
\- Em-APN abbreviation\  
\- Em-APN specific handling in PDP Context Activation procedure\  
\- Em-APN specific handling in APN selection rules
36 070384 23.107 0162R3 Emergency Indication is added to the UMTS QoS
attributes. rejected at SA36; not needed, PCC support of emergency services
accomplishes this. **closed**
36 070385 23.167 0065R1 Aligns CS/PS selection w/22.101 approved at SA36;
complete for rel.8 closed
36 070385 23.167 0066 Removes Editor\'s note on access network reject of
anonymous request approved at SA36; complete for rel.8 closed
37 070535 23.167 0067R6 Require a UE to include IP-CAN identity information if
available in the SIP INVITE to enable a P-CSCF to determine the general UE
location -- e.g. if the UE is roaming. approved at SA37; complete for rel.8
closed
37 070535 23.167 0069R3 Removes GPRS references/text approved at SA37;
consider parts for rel.8 (Annex A information goes in the new TR) **open**
38 070887 23.167 0071R1 Correction of Emergency Registration Required 380
Response approved at SA38; complete for rel.8 closed
38 070887 23.167 0072R1 Cleanup of outstanding issues for IMS Emergency
(removes several editor\'s notes) approved at SA38; complete for rel.8 closed
38 070887 23.167 0075R1 380 response generation approved at SA38; complete for
rel.8 closed
38 070887 23.167 0077R4 P-CSCF procedure clarifications and Emergency
Registration time approved at SA38; complete for rel.8 closed
37 070549 23.203 0051 Removal of PCC verification that Emergency APN is used
for IM CN emergency call approved at SA37; consider for rel.8 but in the GPRS
specific section A.1.3.2.1 **open**
38 070887 23.221 0054R2 see CR0054R3 revised to 070897 at SA38; N/A for SA2
closed
38 070897 23.221 0054R3 Removal of GPRS specific support for Emergency
approved at SA38; consider for rel.8 via 2 CRs; 1 for normal mode, 2^nd^ for
limited mode **open**
37 070535 23.228 0700 Add TS 23.167 IMS emergency sessions as reference in TS
23.228 and correct section 5.13 to indicate the support of IMS emergency
session approved at SA37; complete for rel.8 closed
* * *
###### ## Annex B
## B.1. IMS Emergency Calls over UTRAN
## B.1.1 UTRAN Use Cases
### B.1.1.1 Normal Mode -- Initial Call
For a UTRAN based IMS Subscriber with valid GPRS and IMS subscriptions, the
following procedures are needed to initiate an IMS Emergency Call over UTRAN.
+----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+ | | **Home/** | **Attached** | **IMS** | **Action** | | | | | | | | | **Roaming** | | ** | | | | | | Registered?**| | +----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1a | Home | Yes | Yes |** Case 1a: | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | is | | | | | | r | | | | | | equired**[^3] | | | | | | | | | | | | a) Create | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | Context | | | | | | to | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | | | | | | | QoS/priori | | | | | | ty/ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) GGSN/PGW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | Em-APN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1b | Home | Yes | Yes |** Case 1b: No | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | Required** | | | | | | | | | | | | a) No GPRS | | | | | | action | | | | | | needed; | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | c) P-CSCF | | | | | | detects | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | session | | | | | | and | | | | | | informs | | | | | | GGSN/PGW | | | | | | via PCRF | | | | | | of | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Session | | | | | | (this may | | | | | | trigger | | | | | | network | | | | | | requested | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | to have a | | | | | | secondary | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | context | | | | | | for the | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | call). | +----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+ | 2 | Home | Yes | No | a) Create | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | Context | | | | | | to | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | | | | | | | QoS/priori | | | | | | ty/ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) GGSN/PGW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | Em-APN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+ | 3 | Home | No | No | a) Normal | | | | | | | | | | | | Attach[^4] | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Create | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | Context | | | | | | to | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) GGSN/PGW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+ | 4 | Roaming | Yes | Yes or No | a) Create | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | Context | | | | | | to | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | | | | | | | QoS/priori | | | | | | ty/ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Local | | | | | | GGSN/PGW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+ | 5 | Roaming | No | No | a) Normal | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | | | | footnote 2) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Create | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | Context | | | | | | to | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) Local | | | | | | GGSN/PGW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+
###
### B.1.1.2 Normal Mode -- Handover
* * *
      **Use Case**                                                  **Solution**
6 UTRAN based IMS capable UE that has no roaming restrictions Only intra-PLMN
handovers are considered in Rel.8. A UE in normal mode is allowed to perform
handovers and are not restricted from entering a new area so no enhancements
are needed.
* * *
## B.1.2 GPRS Non-Emergency Procedures to Support Emergency Sessions
The following are based on CRs that were agreed in rel.7 for GPRS emergency
call support and need to be reconsidered for rel.8:
### B.1.2.1 Network Indicator
To inform the UE whether or not the network supports the Emergency APN, the
SGSN will always include the "Emergency Support Indication" in the response to
the UE on Attach and Routing Update (Attach Accept, Routing Update Accept,
Attach Reject, Routing Update Reject).
## B.2. IMS Emergency Calls over E-UTRAN
## B.2.1 E-UTRAN Use Cases
### B.2.1.1 Normal Mode -- Initial Call
For a E-UTRAN based IMS Subscriber with valid EPS and IMS subscriptions, the
following procedures are needed to initiate an IMS Emergency Call over
E-UTRAN.
+----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | | **Home/** | **EMM |** IMS**|** Action**| | | | -Registered** | | | | | **Roaming** | | ** | | | | | | Registered?**| | +----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1a | Home | Yes | Yes |** Case 1a: | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | is | | | | | | r | | | | | | equired**[^7] | | | | | | | | | | | | a) UE | | | | | | requested | | | | | | PDN | | | | | | | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call via | | | | | | E-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | d) PDN GW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1b | Home | Yes | Yes |** Case 1b: No | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | Required** | | | | | | | | | | | | a) No EPS | | | | | | action | | | | | | needed; | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | c) P-CSCF | | | | | | detects | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | session | | | | | | and | | | | | | informs | | | | | | PDN GW | | | | | | via PCRF | | | | | | of | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Session | | | | | | (this may | | | | | | trigger | | | | | | network | | | | | | requested | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | to have | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | GBR | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | for the | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | call). | +----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 2 | Home | Yes | No | a) UE | | | | | | requested | | | | | | PDN | | | | | | | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) PDN GW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 3 | Home | No | No | a) Normal | | | | | | | | | | | | Attach[^8] | | | | | | | | | | | | b) UE | | | | | | requested | | | | | | PDN | | | | | | | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) PDN GW | | | | | | static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 4 | Roaming | Yes | Yes or No | a) UE | | | | | | requested | | | | | | PDN | | | | | | | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Local PDN | | | | | | GW static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 5 | Roaming | No | No | a) Normal | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | | | | footnote 4) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) UE | | | | | | requested | | | | | | PDN | | | | | | | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | APN (with | | | | | | | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) Local PDN | | | | | | GW static | | | | | | filters | | | | | | to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN | | | | | | limited | | | | | | use | +----+-------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
###
### B.2.1.2 Normal Mode -- Handover
* * *
      **Use Case**                                                 **Solution**
6 E-UTRAN based IMS capable UE with no roaming restrictions. Only intra-PLMN
handovers are considered in Rel.8. A UE in normal mode is allowed to perform
handovers and are not restricted from entering a new area so no enhancements
are needed.
* * *
## B.2.2 EPS Non-Emergency Procedures to Support Emergency Sessions
The following are based on CRs that were agreed in rel.7 for GPRS emergency
call support and need to be considered for EPS:
### B.2.2.2 Network Indicator
To inform the UE whether or not the network supports the Emergency APN, the
MME will always include the "Emergency Support Indication" in the response to
the UE on Attach and Tracking Area Update (Attach Accept, Tracking Area Update
Accept, Attach Reject, Tracking Area Update Reject).
#