# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document defines the application test specification.
The aim of the present document is to ensure interoperability between an UICC
and a terminal independently of the respective manufacturer, card issuer or
operator. The present document does not define any aspects related to the
administrative management phase of the UICC. Any internal technical
realisation of either the UICC or the Terminal is only specified where these
are reflected over the interface.
Application specific details for applications residing on an UICC are
specified in the respective application specific documents. The logical and
physical Characteristics of the UICC Terminal interface is specified in
document ETSI TS 102 221 [5]. The Universal Subscriber Identity Module
(USIM)-application for 3G telecommunication networks is specified in document
TS 31.102 [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the UICC--Terminal Interface Conformance Test
Specification between a terminal and the USIM (Universal Subscriber Identity
Module) as an application on the UICC and the Terminal for a 3GPP network
operation:
\- the default setting of the USIM;
\- the applicability of each test case;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure and the specific acceptance
criteria.
For the avoidance of doubt, references to clauses of ETSI TS 102 221 [5]
include all the clauses of that clause, unless specifically mentioned.
ETSI TS 102 221 [5] contains material that is outside of the scope of 3GPP
requirements. A 3GPP ME may support functionality that is not required by
3GPP, but the requirements to do so are outside of the scope of 3GPP. Thus the
present document does not contain tests for features defined in ETSI TS 102
221 [5] which are out of scope of 3GPP.
In the present document, unless explicitly stated otherwise, for Rel-13
onwards the term E-UTRAN implicitly refers to E-UTRAN in WB-S1 mode. E-UTRAN
in NB-S1 mode is always explicitly referred to as NB-IoT.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
− References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
− For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
− For a non-specific reference, the latest version in same release as the
implementation release of the terminal under test applies.
[1] to [4] Void
[5] If the device under test is a
\- R99 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v3.18.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-4 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v4.16.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-5 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v5.10.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-6 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v6.15.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-7 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v7.17.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-8 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v8.5.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-9 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v9.2.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\"\",
\- Rel-10 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v10.0.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-11 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v11.1.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\",
\- Rel-12 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v12.1.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\".
\- Rel-13 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v13.2.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\".
\- Rel-14 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v14.1.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\".
\- Rel-15 ME: ETSI TS 102 221 v15.0.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and
logical characteristics\".
[6] to [47] void
[48] 3GPP TS 31.121: Rel-16 \"UICC-terminal interface; Universal Subscriber
Identity Module (USIM) application test specification\".
# 3 Void
# 4 Default values, requirements and test cases
The default values, requirements and test cases of the present document are
provided in 3GPP TS 31.121 [48].
#