# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
ETSI TC SCP has informed 3GPP (and other organisations) that it has started
work on defining use cases and requirements for a new more efficient and
flexible secure platform that is intended to provide a flexible and modern
platform for various applications, including 3GPP applications like the USIM,
ISIM, HPSIM. ETSI TC SCP also asked the recipients of their Liaison Statement
(C6-160246) for input on application specific use cases and requirements
The UICC, which is used as the platform for 3GPP applications (USIM, ISIM,
HPSIM) is based on specifications created in the 1980s. Many services having
been or being developed in 3GPP are requiring the storage of large and complex
amounts of data in the USIM. There are also other areas like e.g. IoT that
create new requirements for power efficiency and hardware flexibility.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies and evaluates the technical requirements for a
secure platform hosting 3GPP applications up to Release 14. It is the
intention to feed the result of the work to ETSI TC SCP, so that it can be
taken into account during the definition of their use cases and requirements
for this new secure platform.
Requirements for 5G, i.e. Release 15 will be defined during the work on 5G and
summarized in other specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.383: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) Management Object
(MO)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.334: \"Proximity-services (ProSe) User Equipment (UE) to
Proximity-services (ProSe) Function Protocol aspects; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.277: \"Proximity-based Services (ProSe) charging\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.333: \"Proximity-services (ProSe) Management Objects (MO)\".
[7] ETSI TS 102 221 V14.0.0: \"Smart Cards; UICC-Terminal interface; Physical
and logical characteristics \".
[8] ETSI TS 102 223 V13.2.0: \"Smart Cards; Card Application Toolkit\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.385: \"V2X services Management Object (MO)\".
[10] 3GPP TR 31.970: \"UICC power optimisation for Machine-Type
Communication\".
[11] ETSI TS 102 600 V10.0.0: \"Smart Cards; UICC-Terminal interface;
Characteristics of the USB interface\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
I2C Inter-Integrated Circuit
SPI Serial Peripheral Interface
# 4 Existing features
## 4.0 Introduction
The following clauses describe existing features in 3GPP that make use of the
UICC applications defined in 3GPP (USIM, ISIM, HPSIM...) and impose technical
requirements that may not be optimally supported by the existing UICC as the
platform.
## 4.1 File Storage
### 4.1.1 Introduction
In recent 3GPP releases, the number of configuration files for new 3GPP
features that need to be stored in the UICC has consistently increased. In
many of these cases, a complex and large XML schema is defined in 3GPP to
provision the configuration into the device with OMA-DM. Due to existing
requirements to have the possibility to configure the device also using the
USIM, CT6 had to define ways to store the same information in the files of the
USIM application or ISIM application.
In the past, most configuration files were coded in proprietary ways defined
by CT6 (for example, using nested TLV objects). Anyway, that approach
presented several drawbacks:
\- A change in the specification that define the XML schema can have a
potential large impact on the representation of the data in the UICC
\- A device vendor is forced to implement two separate parsing functions to
read the same configuration (i.e., using the XML schema and using the method
defined by CT6)
\- Some configuration files are so large and complex that it is difficult to
convert them into a different format.
As a consequence of this, CT6 has started storing the configuration directly
in XML format in the files of the USIM application or ISIM application. While
this certainly solves the problems described above, it introduces new ones.
More specifically, the access to the configuration files becomes problematic,
due to the large size of the XML files.
CT6 is currently widely using the BER-TLV files defined in ETSI TS 102 221[7],
but this approach has limitations, in the ability to retrieve the data. Access
to the configuration files requires several commands that are performed in
sequence. While the terminal can still perform some other operations that
don\'t impact the file pointer (for example, authentication algorithm), the
device would not be able to perform several other operations, thus leading to
a potential bad user experience or even to failure of specific procedures.
Moreover, 3GPP had cases where the UICC was used as secure storage, to keep
data that had to be transmitted to the server on the network while the device
was unable to do (for example, out of coverage). When this occurs, the UICC
needs to have sufficient space to internally store the data, waiting for the
conditions to transmit it to the network.
### 4.1.2 Examples from 3GPP specifications
#### 4.1.2.1 Configuration Parameters for MCPTT
The parameters stored in the USIM follow the specification of the Management
Object for the ME as defined in 3GPP TS 24.383 [3]. The structure of the
Management Object is, depending on the required services, complex and may
therefore contain a large amount of data. The description of the Management
Object is in XML, and the structure of the data cannot be easily reflected
with the current file system design.
#### 4.1.2.2 ProSe (Proximity Services) - Usage information storage
In the case of direct device to device communication without network coverage,
the UE has to store the usage information according to the related
configuration as specified in 3GPP TS 24.334 [4] and 3GPP TS 32.277 [5].
Depending on the configuration of which information needs to be included in
the report, the amount of data to be stored may be large. On top of this, the
longer the UE is out of coverage while using direct communication, the more
likely it is that more than one report will need to be stored in the USIM. The
data to be stored follows the specification of the related usage information
Management Object as specified in 3GPP TS 24.333 [6]. With the current
solution defined in 3GPP TS 31.102 [7] the ME sends the usage information
report to the USIM and the USIM has to cater for storing the data received.
The structure of the data cannot be easily reflected with the current file
system design and due to the potential large amount of data the transmission
of data may take a long time with the current interface between ME and UICC.
#### 4.1.2.3 V2X (Vehicle-to-Everything
V2X requires to store configuration to enable the communication between a
vehicle and other elements, such us other vehicles or infrastructure. The
structure of the configuration is defined in TS 24.385 [9]: its structure is
complex and may therefore contain a large amount of data. The description of
the Management Object is in XML, and the structure of the data cannot be
easily reflected with the current file system design.
## 4.4 Internet of Things
### 4.4.1 Power efficiency
#### 4.4.1.1 Introduction
In the recent years, power consumption of the UE has become a very important
aspect due to the rise of several IoT use cases that require that the device
remains active for long periods of time, without the possibility to re-charge
it. The overall power consumption is obviously composed by the sum of the
power consumption of the ME and the power consumption of the UICC.
#### 4.4.1.2 UICC suspension
3GPP conducted a study on the power consumption of the UICC, available in TR
31.970 [10]. This study was shared with ETSI SCP and was the basis to define
the UICC suspension mechanism, specified in Release 14.
The UICC suspension mechanism allows the terminal to completely remove the
power from the UICC and be able to restore the UICC status later on, when the
UICC is required. Such a mechanism can significantly improve the power
consumption when the duration of the suspension is sufficiently long, as
described in the TR 31.970 [10], and so it is suitable mostly for devices that
are idle for long periods of time.
3GPP CT6 expects that power consumption will remain a critical aspect also for
the future, with even more use cases enabled by 5G technology. For this
reason, the new secure platform should continue to support the suspension
mechanism already introduced for the UICC, even if this might be implemented
in a different way.
Also, CT6 encourages SCP to consider additional improvements to reduce the
power penalty introduced by the UICC resume operation. This would have two
benefits on the UE:
\- further improve the power saving for devices that are idle for long periods
of time
\- ability to potentially extend the optimization to new classes of IoT
devices that are idle for shorter periods of time.
#### 4.4.1.3 Polling
As described in the TS 31.970 [10], the presence detection polling and the
proactive polling performed by the ME are also causes of considerable power
consumption. In the current 3GPP specifications, the presence detection
polling can be suspended when the UE is idle, and the proactive polling can be
disabled by the operator. These changes allows the device to avoid unnecessary
polling, with the goal of saving power.
Polling should be taken into consideration while working on the new secure
platform, in order to limit it only to cases where it is strictly required,
trying to define solutions that allow complete disablement of polling, without
compromising on the ability of the secure platform to initiate a proactive
session or on the ability of the device to detect a removal of the secure
platform (where the removal is possible at all).
#### 4.4.1.4 Voltage
In the current 3GPP specifications, only two classes of operating condition
are considered valid, that is class B (3.0V) and class C (1.8V). The voltage
of the UICC has a clear impact on the amount of power that is consumed by the
UICC itself and by the terminal.
Moreover, with the reduction in node technology on the terminals, support for
class B has become more expensive, as it requires external power sources. For
the same reason, also support for class C is currently at risk.
Since the new secure platform may potentially break backward compatibility
with the UICC specification at electrical level, it is recommanded to avoid
including any requirements for 3.0 Volts.
CT6 is not aware of specific electrical interfaces that ETSI SCP is
considering for the new secure element, and if the existing UICC interface
specified in TS 102 221[7] will continue to be used at all. In any case, if a
specification for the electrical interface is defined, it is recommanded to
consider also the addition of a new class that works below 1.8 Volts.
#### 4.4.1.5 UICC access operations
In the existing UICC platform, there are several cases where the device needs
to send multiple commands to perform what is logically a single operation. A
good example for this is the access of the emergency numbers, stored in the
USIM application. The terminal needs to first perform a SELECT command to
retrieve the properties of the EF, such as the total number of records and the
length of each record, and then needs to perform separate READ RECORD command
for each record, regardless of the size of each one.
This access is inefficient in terms of delay and power, as it requires that
the terminal is awake while it performs these operations, often waiting for
the UICC to respond.
For this reason, SCP is encouraged to consider solutions that limit the number
of commands required to access the content stored in the new secure platform,
or to perform other operations.
#### 4.4.1.6 Execution time
One of the aspects discussed in the recent years was the execution time of
certain commands, as described in the LS C6-130181 that was sent to ETSI SCP.
As a solution for the problem, the maximum power consumption of the UICC was
increased starting with Rel.12.
A fast execution time of commands is an essential part for the new secure
element. This is important not only to make sure that all procedures described
by 3GPP are performed in a timely and correct way, but it also contributes to
the overall power reduction, as the terminal needs to be awake waiting for a
response from the UICC for a shorter time.
The execution time is a result of an optimsation between processor
capabilities, power consumption and clock frequency. The current interface
uses a clock provided by the ME. The power consumption that is allowed for the
UICC is clearly defined, which is certainly required for the currently
specified form factors for the UICC, especially the removable ones. Setting
clear limits for the power consumption was necessary to ensure proper inter-
operability.
With the integrated form factor, such inter-operability is not required, as
the ME manufacturer is able to design the interface according to the
requirements of the chosen secure platform and therefore an optimisation is
possible.
Another aspect is the clock frequency. As said, in today\'s interface the
clock is provided by the ME. An internal clock inside the secure platform
would allow for faster execution.CT6 encourages SCP to consider solutions that
minimize the execution time of commands sent to the new secure element, while
still taking into consideration the requirements to save power.
### 4.4.2 Hardware flexibility
For many use cases in IoT, devices may be optimised in size, functionality and
according to the specific needs of the IoT application they are intended for.
Some devices may be very small, e.g. simple sensors and may have specific
requirements related to size and power consumption.
For such devices it would be beneficial to have a flexible choice of form
factor of a UICC that is optimally fitting to the design of such constraint
devices. Due to the variety of IoT use cases a large variety of specialised
device designs is envisaged. Aspects that are to be considered are for example
the form factor, removability, the size, the location and number of contacts.
### 4.4.3 Electrical Interface and protocols
In several use cases for IoT it may also be beneficial for a device to not
have to implement the current ISO interface to a UICC but rather rely on
interfaces and protocols already in use inside the device. Examples of such
interfaces are I2C or SPI.
Additional aspects to consider are:
\- Number of wires
\- Transmission speed
\- Supply voltage
\- Power efficiency (e.g. polling)
### 4.5 Toolkit4.5.0 Enhanced ability to make use of the ME capabilities
### 4.5.1 User-related applications
#### 4.5.1.1 Interaction with user authentication
For Proximity Services the USIM may support the storage of Prose usage
information. The Prose usage information is transmitted by the ME to the USIM
via a dedicated ENVELOPE command, which requires the checking of the user
verification status before it is performed and accepted by the USIM. There is
today no standardised mechanism how the USIM could verify the user
verification before processing a received USIM toolkit command.
The same issue appears within USIM toolkit applications that are designed in a
way to require a user verification. Today this leads to the need to ask the
user for entering again for example a PIN. It would be a more user friendly
alternative to enable the application to check the status of a user
verification that has been performed earlier and re-use this verification to
perform the requested activity.
#### 4.5.1.2 User Toolkit Menu
The User Toolkit Menu can be implemented by a toolkit application by using the
proactive commands defined in ETSI TS 102 223 [8]. At the time these commands
were defined, the MEs had a different way to get the user input and to display
the information if it is compared to state-of-the-art MEs (e.g. higher
resolution screen, color , touch enabled screen, etc...).
This results in that user toolkit menus used in the MEs do not provide the
same user experience as applications running on these devices.
#### 4.5.1.3 Timer
Timing features that may be used by a toolkit applet rely on the timer
implementation of the ME. In some cases the timer functionality of the ME may
not provide the accuracy that is required by the toolkit application as the
precision of the event generated by the ME is not reliable (see ETSI TS 102
223 [8] clause 6.4.21). An internal timer in the UICC together with the
capability of the UICC to initiate a proactive session as described in clause
4.5.2.1 would allow for a more reliable solution and enable applications in
the UICC to act immediately on timer events.
Another aspect to consider is the certainty of the duration of the timer
handled by the ME. An ME may extend or shorten the requested timer period
without any possibility for the UICC to identify this. An internal timer in
the UCC would provide a more secure source of information for UICC
applications.
An internal timer in the UICC would also reduce the amount of commands that
are currently required on the interface between UICC and ME to manage timers
inside the ME and would therefore provide a more efficient solution in terms
of power consumption and execution time.
### 4.5.2 System applications
#### 4.5.2.1 Proactive commands
In the ME-UICC interface defined in the existing platform, the UICC plays a
slave role in the communication with the ME in a way that the UICC cannot
initiate by itself the communication with the ME in the case a command from
the UICC to the ME is requested to be sent. To enable this case, it is defined
in ETSI TS 102 223 [8] the command protocol in the CAT layer that enables the
UICC to send the so-called proactive commands to the ME.
This requires the active intervention of the ME in order to give the chance to
the UICC to be able to send a proactive command by sending periodically a
STATUS command. This creates an additional exchange of commands that could
potentially delay the execution of the proactive command by the terminal, thus
limiting the extension of new potential features.
It would be beneficial if the new secure element supports interfaces providing
remote wake up features e.g. as specified in ETSI TS 102 600 [11].
## 4.6 Concurrent operation of applications
The existing platform supports multiple applications on different channels,
with the limitation of one command at a time. This may result in the interface
to the card being blocked by one of these applications, potentially causing
disruption in the operation of 3GPP applications.
For instance, some non-telecomunication applications require the execution of
cryptographic algorithms that can potentially take a long time, sometimes in
the order of tens of seconds. This possibility is supported by the standard,
using NULL procedure bytes. The card can send NULL procedure bytes in order to
request additional work waiting time and avoid that the transaction timer
expires on the terminal.
It is critical and essential for the correct functionality of the terminal and
of the telecomunication applications residing on the UICC that the interface
between the terminal and the UICC is never blocked for a long time that
exceeds a few seconds. Consequences of blocking this interface include, but
are not necessarily limited to:
\- User cannot originate any voice call or send any text messages due to the
fact that the required call control ENVELOPE command cannot be sent to the
UICC
\- Network authentication cannot be executed and this has some very strict
timing requirements
\- User cannot access the content on the UICC (phonebook, SMS, ...)
\- User cannot navigate the toolkit menu (even if menu is present in the UI of
the UE)
# 5 Possible requirements resulting from existing features
It would be desirable if the new secure platform would support the features
listed below:
\- storage of large and complex configuration data.
\- efficient access to large and complex configuration data in the sense that
an ME does not need to read the complete content if only a part of the
configuration data needs to be read at a time.
\- fast transmission of data in the range of MBytes per second.
\- flexible choice of form factor.
\- flexible choice of electrical interface.
\- flexible choice of protocol with larger payload.
\- Provide a mechanism for the secure platform for 3GPP applications to
initiate a proactive session with the ME.
\- For applications on the secure platform, provide a mean to retrieve the
user authentication status.
\- Provide a mechanism for rich user interface for applications on the secure
platform.
\- Provide the capability for the secure platform to manage timers internally.
Depending on the use cases not all of the features listed above are required.
A secure platform designed for a specific use case may require to support only
a subset of the features listed above. The new secure platform should allow
flexibility to create various combinations of features.
# 6 Possible new features
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause describes new features that are not specified in 3GPP but may be
considered during the definition of a new secure platform.
## 6.2 Storage of data
### 6.2.1 The ability to provide the ME with storage space
With such feature the new secure platform could provide a possibility for a
device to store specific data, for example sensitive information inside the
new secure platform. This would require an efficient mechanism to transfer
data in a fast, efficient and secure way. Such a mechanism needs to ensure
that only the authorised entities can access the data.
### 6.2.2 The ability to provide the new secure platform with storage space in
the ME
Such a feature would enable the new secure platform to make use of memory
available in the ME. This can be data that is encrypted and therefore stored
in a secure way or data that is not sensitive. Such a feature could allow new
use cases which are currently not possible due to the resource limitations in
current UICCs.
## 6.3 Extensibility of functionality
An update of part of or the whole Secure Platform functionality may be
triggered by the need to extend the set of supported features. This includes:
\- extension of the supported command set
## 6.4 Multiple application environment
Multiple applications may be hosted by the Secure Platform and may be active
at the same moment in some deployments. Multiple non-telecommunication
applications may be communicating at the same moment. Another case is when a
network authentication is processed at the same moment as an over-the-air
update is performed.
In such a situation, multiple non-telecommunication applications in addition
to the Network Access Application may send or receive commands at the same
moment in a time critical manner: For instance to perform authentication to
their respective services or perform time critical transportation payment. An
application cannot afford to wait for other applications to terminate their
communications before starting or terminating the application\'s own
transaction.
Consequently, it would be beneficial that
\- Communication protocols on the secure platform allow multiple concurrent
application sessions.
\- The secure platform allows the execution of multiple applications that are
time critical.
\- The execution of an application does not prevent execution of another
application.
#