# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
This clause shall start on a new page.
The present document ...
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
It is preferred that the reference to 21.905 be the first in the list.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection record content
The main text of the document should start here, after the above clauses have
been added.
The following styles and editing techniques are aimed to help in the
formatting of the document using the 3GPP Template: 3GPP_70.dot, available
from the 3GPP FTP site ([ftp://ftp.3gpp.org/Information]{.underline}).
Heading Styles
Heading styles are included in the 3GPP TS Template and are used as follows:
**Do not use any built-in automatic numbering** for 3GPP documents. Although
this is sometimes useful in the early drafting stages of a document, once the
document has been placed under change control, the clause numbering needs to
be fixed in order to keep cross-reference consistency as the 3GPP
specification set develops.
Heading 1: Used for Main clauses (1, 2, 3, etc.). Also used for Annex clauses
(A.1, A.2, etc.).
Heading 2: Used for Main clauses (4.1, 4.2, 5.1, 5.2, etc.). Also used for
Annex clauses (A.1.1, A.1.2, etc.).
Heading 3: Used for 2nd level clauses (4.1.1, 4.1.2, 5.1.1, 5.1.2, etc.). Also
used for Annex clauses (A.2.1.1, A.2.1.2, etc.).
Heading 4 & 5: Used for 3rd and 4th level clauses and Annex clauses.
Heading 6 & 7: Not used, instead use style \"H6\" so that the title appears in
the document, but does not appear in the Table of Contents.
Heading 8: Used for Main Annex titles in Specifications (3GPP TS) (e.g. Annex
A (normative): ).
Heading 9: Used for Main Annex titles in Reports (3GPP TR) (e.g. Annex A: ).
Other common styles
Normal: Used for main document text.
NO: Used for Notes in the text (Allows Tab and Indent). See example below.
NW: Same as NO, but Without line space after. Used when there are many notes
in sequence.
NOTE 1: This is an example of a note formatted in style NW. The style is
designed to allow space for note numbering and line wrap with a hanging
indent. There is no line space after.
NOTE 2: This is an example of a note formatted in style NO. The style is
designed to allow space for note numbering and line wrap with a hanging
indent. There is a line space after.
Bullet styles: The following bullet styles are provided.
B1: Bullet level 1 for main bullet points.
B2: Bullet level 2 for sub bullets.
B3-B5: for further sub bullets.
NOTE: Bullets are usually formatted manually, using a hyphen ( - ) or
alphanumeric identifiers: a), b), or 1), 2) etc. followed by a tab character.
**Automatic bullet features should not be used** as they may be lost if
template styles are re-applied later.
Table styles: **TAH** , **TAL** , **TAC** , **TAR** , **TAN** , for **TA** ble
**H** eaders, **L** eft justified, **C** entred, **R** ight justified and
**N** otes in tables: Style **TH** is used for the **T** able **H** eading
(title or caption). See example below.
Table 1: Example of Table styles
* * *
Col 1 Header (TAH) Col 2 Header (TAH) Col 3 Header (TAH) Left Justified (TAL)
Centred (TAC) Right Justified (TAR) NOTE: A special style is provided for
notes within a table (TAN).
* * *
Figure Styles: Figures and graphics are formatted with style \"**TH** \" which
keeps the figure with the following paragraph, usually the figure title. **F**
igure **T** itles (captions) are formatted with style \"**TF** \". See example
below.
Figure 1: Example figure layout. To remove \"float over text\" select the
graphic and \"Format Object ...\" - De‑select \"float over text\" in the
Position Tab
Page setup parameters
This clause defines the margin parameters and the header to be used
(implemented in the macros).
Title page (= title section)
A4 portrait, Top: 4 cm, Bottom: 19 cm, Left: 1,5 cm, Right: 1,5 cm, Gutter: 0
cm, Header: 0 cm, Footer: 0 cm.
Portrait sections
A4 portrait, Top: 2.5 cm, Bottom: 2 cm, Left: 2 cm, Right: 2 cm, Gutter: 0 cm,
Header: 1,5 cm, Footer: 0,6 cm.
Landscape sections
A4 landscape, Top: 2 cm, Bottom: 2 cm, Left: 2 cm, Right: 2,5 cm, Gutter: 0
cm, Header: 1,5 cm, Footer: 0,6 cm.
Headers and footers
Header
The following contains the master location for all headers (except for the
title section). These paragraphs contain framed fields which will result in
one header line and are bookmarked \"header\".
The left entry contains a possible additional document reference, e.g. \"
Release 1999\", identified on the title page by the use of the ZGSM character
style.
Release 13 \|12 \|11 \| 10 \| 9 \| 8 \| 7 \| 6 \| 5 \| 4
The centre entry is the page number.
8
The right entry repeats the title page information, identified by the use of
the ZA paragraph style.
3GPP TS ab.cde Vx.y.z (yyyy-mm)
> NOTE: For documents which are split into more than one file, the possible
> additional document reference and the title page information need to be
> hardcoded in all files except the one containing the title section.
Footer
The footer contains always \"3GPP\" (except for the title page).
3GPP
Proforma copyright release text block
(e.g. for PICS and PIXIT Proformas)
This text box shall immediately follow after the heading of an element (i.e.
clause or annex) containing a proforma or template which is intended to be
copied by the user. Such an element shall always start on a new page.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the copyright clause related to the text of
the present document, the 3GPP Organizational Partners grant that users of the
present document may freely reproduce the \ proforma in this
{clause\|annex} so that it can be used for its intended purposes and may
further publish the completed \.
Abstract Test Suite (ATS) text block
This text should be used for ATS using TTCN. The subdivision is recommended.
This ATS has been produced using the Tree and Tabular Combined Notation (TTCN)
according to ISO/IEC 9646‑3 [\].
The ATS was developed on a separate TTCN software tool and therefore the TTCN
tables are not completely referenced in the table of contents. The ATS itself
contains a test suite overview part which provides additional information and
references.
\ The TTCN Graphical form (TTCN.GR)
The TTCN.GR representation of this ATS is contained in an Adobe Portable
Document Format™ file (\.PDF contained in archive
\.ZIP) which accompanies the present document.
\ The TTCN Machine Processable form (TTCN.MP)
The TTCN.MP representation corresponding to this ATS is contained in an ASCII
file (\.MP contained in archive \.ZIP) which
accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex \ (normative): \
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
###### ## Annex \ (informative): \
Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and designated either \"normative\" or
\"informative\" depending on their content (informative annexes do not
comprise requirements for the implementation of the specification).
# B.1 Heading levels in an annex
Heading levels within an annex are used as in the main document, but for
Heading level selection, the \"A.\", \"B.\", etc. are ignored. e.g. **B.1.2**
is formatted using **_Heading 2_** style.
Bibliography
The Bibliography is optional. If it exists, it shall follow the last annex in
the document.
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
Bibliography format
\- \: \"\\".
OR
\: \"\\".
#