# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.304 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
**28.305 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)**
**28.306 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the requirements for the control and monitoring
of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE) parameters in the following types of
Radio Access Networks (RAN): GSM, UTRAN and E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] ETSI ES 202 336-12 (V1.1.1) (2015-06): \"Environmental Engineering (EE);
Monitoring and control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling
and building environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12:
ICT equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring
information model\".
[4] ETSI ES 202 336-1 (V1.1.2) (2008-09): \" Environmental Engineering (EE);
Monitoring and Control Interface for Infrastructure Equipment (Power, Cooling
and Building Environment Systems used in Telecommunication Networks) Part 1:
Generic Interface\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.601: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.411: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.611: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Remote Management Server:** Application which controls and monitors power,
energy and environmental parameters of Radio Access Networks.
**Network Management layer Remote Management Server** : Remote Management
Server which operates at the NM layer.
**Vendor-Specific Remote Management Server** : Remote Management Server which
operates at the DM layer.
**XCU** : Defined in ETSI ES 202 336-12 [3].
**DGU** : Defined in ETSI ES 202 336-12 [3].
NOTE: The concept of Remote Management Server is introduced in ETSI ES 202
336-12 [3] -- Figure 1 (Principles of the monitoring of ICT equipment power,
energy and environment parameters).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CU Control Unit
DGU Data Gathering Unit
NM-RMS Network Management layer RMS
PEE Power, Energy and Environmental
RMS Remote Management Server
VS-RMS Vendor-Specific RMS
XCU XML enabled CU
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 General
With regard to the control and monitoring of their Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters, base stations can be of two different types:
# either they have built-in sensors, which communicate with DM through Type-1
interface. In turn, DM communicates with the NM-RMS (see figure 4.1.1);
# or they have external sensors, which communicate with the NM-RMS via:
\- either XCU/DGU (see figure 4.1.1)
\- or vendor-specific RMS (VS RMS) (see figure 4.1.1).
The NM-RMS collects PEE parameters from part or whole of the radio access
network and may also control PEE related parameters through either DM(s)
and/or XCU/DGU(s) and/or VS-RMS(s).
For this reason, it is beneficial to standardize the interface to control and
monitor PEE parameters between the NM-RMS on the one hand and DM, XCU/DGU and
VS-RMS on the other hand. This TS series specifies this Type-2 interface (see
TS 32.101 [2]).
Figure 4.1.1: Overall architecture for the control and monitoring of PEE
parameters
## 4.2 Architecture
The NM-RMS is a located in the NM layer (see also TS 32.101 [2]).
VS-RMS is located in the DM layer (see also TS 32.101 [2]).
XCU/DGU is located in the Network Element layer (see also TS 32.101 [2]).
Possible interfaces between all these entities are depicted in figure 4.1.1.
The three possible scenarios for this IRP are depicted in figures 4.2.1, 4.2.2
and 4.2.3.
Figure 4.2.1: NM-RMS to XCU/DGU Type-2 interface
Figure 4.2.2: NM-RMS to VS-RMS Type-2 interface
Figure 4.2.3: NM-RMS to EM/DM Type-2 interface
## 4.3 Functionality
Both DM, XCU/DGU and VS-RMS offer a capability allowing the NM-RMS to control
and monitor PEE parameters of one or more base stations. This TS series
specifies the information model exposed by the DM, XCU/DGU and VS-RMS to the
NM-RMS, and the operations enabling the control and monitoring of PEE
parameters from the NM-RMS.
This TS series describes two non-mutually exclusive solutions:
# Solution 1: based on existing 3GPP Interface IRPs to support controlling and
monitoring of PEE parameters of base stations with built-in sensors. This
solution may be used for the interface between DM and NM-RMS.
# Solution 2: describing simplified functionalities according to ETSI ES 202
336-1 [4] and ES 202 336-12 [3]. This solution may be used for the interfaces
between XCU/DGU and NM-RMS, between VS-RMS and NM-RMS and between DM and NM-
RMS.
Solution 1 is only applicable in case of scenario depicted in figure 4.2.3.
Solution 2 is applicable in case of all scenarios depicted by figures 4.2.1,
4.2.2 and 4.2.3.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
NOTE 1: The next three business level requirements relate to the capability
for the NM-RMS to initiate / stop the retrieval of power, energy and
environmental parameters of selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-001:** The DM shall support a capability allowing the NM-RMS
to initiate / stop the retrieval of power, energy and environmental parameters
of selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-002:** The XCU/DGU shall support a capability allowing the
NM-RMS to initiate / stop the retrieval of power, energy and environmental
parameters of selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-003:** The VS-RMS shall support a capability allowing the NM-
RMS to initiate / stop the retrieval of power, energy and environmental
parameters of selected base stations.
NOTE 2: The next three business level requirements relate to the capability
for the NM-RMS to periodically receive power, energy and environmental
parameters values for selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-004:** The DM shall support a capability allowing the NM-RMS
to periodically receive measured power, energy and environmental parameters
values, for selected base stations from DM.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-005:** The XCU/DGU shall support a capability allowing the
NM-RMS to periodically receive power, energy and environmental parameters
values, for selected base stations from XCU/DGU.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-006:** The VS-RMS shall support a capability allowing the NM-
RMS to periodically receive power, energy and environmental parameters values,
for selected base stations from VS-RMS.
NOTE 3: The next three business level requirements relate to the capability
for the NM-RMS to control some power, energy and environmental related
parameters of selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-007:** The DM shall support a capability allowing the NM-RMS
to control power, energy and environmental related parameters of selected base
stations via DM.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-008:** The XCU/DGU shall support a capability allowing the
NM-RMS to control power, energy and environmental related parameters of
selected base stations via XCU/DGU.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-009:** The VS-RMS shall support a capability allowing the NM-
RMS to control power, energy and environmental related parameters of selected
base stations via VS-RMS.
NOTE 4: The next three business level requirements relate to the capability
for the NM-RMS to be notified in case of power, energy and environmental
related alarms, for selected base stations, which can be detected by XCU/DGU
or VS-RMS or DM. Examples of such alarms include: loss of connectivity between
XCU/DGU or VS-RMS and external sensors, alarms internal to XCU/DGU or VS-RMS,
power, energy and environmental parameters threshold crossing or reaching,
etc.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-010:** The DM shall support a capability allowing the NM-RMS
to be notified in case of power, energy and environmental related alarms being
detected by DM, for selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-011:** The XCU/DGU shall support a capability allowing the
NM-RMS to be notified in case of power, energy and environmental related
alarms being detected by XCU/DGU, for selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-012:** The VS-RMS shall support a capability allowing the NM-
RMS to be notified in case of power, energy and environmental related alarms
being detected by VS-RMS, for selected base stations.
NOTE 5: The next three business level requirements relate to the capability
for the NM-RMS to be notified in case of configuration changes, for selected
base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-013:** The DM shall support a capability allowing the NM-RMS
to be notified in case of PEE related configuration changes being detected by
DM, for selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-014:** The XCU/DGU shall support a capability allowing the
NM-RMS to be notified in case of PEE related configuration changes detected by
XCU/DGU, for selected base stations.
**REQ-EECMON-CON-015:** The VS-RMS shall support a capability allowing the NM-
RMS to be notified in case of PEE related configuration changes detected by
VS-RMS, for selected base stations.
## 5.2 Actor roles
The function at the NM-RMS controlling and monitoring PEE parameters of base
stations in the radio access network.
The function at the DM enabling to control and monitor PEE parameters of base
stations with built-in sensors managed by the subject DM.
The function at the XCU/DGU enabling to control and monitor PEE parameters of
base stations with external sensors managed by the subject XCU/DGU.
The function at the VS-RMS enabling to control and monitor PEE parameters of
base stations with external sensors managed by the subject VS- RMS, via
XCU/DGU.
## 5.3 Telecommunication resources
**NM-RMS** : The Network Management layer Remote Management Server controlling
and monitoring PEE parameters of one or more base stations.
**XCU/DGU** : The XCU/DGU, offering local capabilities to monitor and control
PEE parameters of one or more base station(s).
**VS-RMS** : The VS-RMS, offering capabilities to monitor and control PEE
parameters of one or more base station(s).
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Use case: Managing the monitoring of PEE parameters
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related | | | | | | | | use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | The NM-RMS wants to | | | | monitor PEE parameters | | | | of base stations, some | | | | of which having | | | | built-in sensors, some | | | | others having external | | | | sensors. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | The function in the | | | | NM-RMS requesting PEE | | | | parameters via DM(s) | | | | and /or XCU/DGU(s) | | | | and/or VS-RMS(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM-RMS, DM, XCU/DGU, | | | | VS-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Connectivity exists | | | | between XCU/DGU, | | | | VS-RMS, DM and NM-RMS. | | | | | | | | Connectivity exists | | | | between base stations | | | | and XCU/DGU, VS-RMS and | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | XCU/DGU, VS-RMS, DM and | | | | NM-RMS are up and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The NM-RMS requests the | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM | | | | to collect values of | | | | certain PEE parameters | | | | of one or more base | | | | station(s) by sending | | | | an appropriate request | | | | message to the XCU/DGU | | | | or VS-RMS or DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The XCU/DGU or VS-RMS | | | | or DM receives the | | | | request message. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The XCU/DGU or VS-RMS | | | | or DM processes the | | | | request message, | | | | identifies the | | | | requested PEE | | | | parameters and | | | | retrieves the requested | | | | PEE parameters values | | | | from selected base | | | | stations. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | Periodically, the | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM | | | | sends to the NM-RMS the | | | | requested PEE | | | | parameters values in a | | | | response message. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | The NM-RMSC requests | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM | | | | to stop collecting | | | | values of certain PEE | | | | parameters of one or | | | | more base station(s) by | | | | sending an appropriate | | | | message to the XCU/DGU | | | | or VS-RMS or DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | The NM-RMS does not | | | | receive the requested | | | | PEE parameters values. | | | | Numerous failure | | | | reasons may be | | | | indicated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The requested PEE | | | | parameters values have | | | | been returned. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | Requirement | | | | **REQ-EECMON-CON-001, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-002, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-003, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-004, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-005, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-006** in | | | | clause 5.1. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.2 Use case: Controlling PEE related parameters
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related | | | | | | | | use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | The NM-RMS wants to | | | | control PEE related | | | | parameters of base | | | | stations, e.g. timers, | | | | thresholds, etc. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | The function in the | | | | NM-RMS controlling PEE | | | | related parameters via | | | | DM and/or XCU/DGU | | | | and/or VS-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM-RMS, DM, XCU/DGU, | | | | VS-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Connectivity exists | | | | between the DM, | | | | XCU/DGU, VS-RMS and the | | | | NM-RMS. | | | | | | | | Connectivity exists | | | | between base stations | | | | and XCU/DGU, VS-RMS, | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | XCU/DGU, VS-RMS, DM and | | | | NM-RMS are up and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The NM-RMS requests the | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM | | | | to set values of | | | | certain PEE related | | | | parameters of one or | | | | more base station(s) by | | | | sending an appropriate | | | | request message to the | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The XCU/DGU or VS-RMS | | | | or DM receives the | | | | request message. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The XCU/DGU or VS-RMS | | | | or DM processes the | | | | request message, | | | | identifies the | | | | requested PEE related | | | | parameters and sets the | | | | PEE related parameters | | | | values of selected base | | | | stations. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The XCU/DGU or VS-RMS | | | | or DM sends back to the | | | | NM-RMS the actual PEE | | | | related parameters | | | | values in a response | | | | message. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | The NM-RMS has received | | | | the actual PEE related | | | | parameters values. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | The XCU/DGU or VS-RMS | | | | or DM cannot set the | | | | PEE related parameters | | | | to values provided by | | | | the NM-RMS. | | | | | | | | Numerous failure | | | | reasons may be | | | | indicated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The requested PEE | | | | related parameters | | | | values have been set on | | | | selected base stations. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | Requirement | | | | **REQ-EECMON-CON-007, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-008, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-009** in | | | | clause 5.1. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.3 Use case: Supervising PEE related alarms
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related | | | | | | | | use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | The NM-RMS wants to | | | | supervise PEE related | | | | alarms of base | | | | stations. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | The function in the | | | | NM-RMS supervising PEE | | | | related alarms via DM | | | | and/or XCU/DGU and/or | | | | VS-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM-RMS, DM, XCU/DGU, | | | | VS-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Connectivity exists | | | | between the DM, | | | | XCU/DGU, VS-RMS and the | | | | NM-RMS. | | | | | | | | Connectivity exists | | | | between base stations | | | | and XCU/DGU, VS-RMS, | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | XCU/DGU, VS-RMS, DM and | | | | NM-RMS are up and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | An alarm related to a | | | | PEE parameter occurs on | | | | a base station being | | | | supervised by the | | | | NM-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | In case this alarm | | | | relates to a base | | | | station with external | | | | sensor, or relates to | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS, or | | | | relates to the | | | | connectivity between | | | | the external sensor and | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS, | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS sends | | | | the corresponding alarm | | | | notification to NM-RMS. | | | | | | | | In case this alarm | | | | relates to a base | | | | station with built-in | | | | sensor, DM sends the | | | | corresponding alarm | | | | notification to NM-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | NM-RMS receives the | | | | alarm notification from | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | Information conveyed in | | | | the alarm notification | | | | received by NM-RMS from | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM | | | | cannot be treated by | | | | NM-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | NM-RMS has received the | | | | alarm notification from | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | Requirement | | | | **REQ-EECMON-CON-010, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-011, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-012,** | | | | in clause 5.1. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.4 Use case: Monitoring PEE related configuration changes
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related | | | | | | | | use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | The NM-RMS wants to | | | | monitor PEE | | | | configuration changes | | | | such as e.g. new base | | | | station, new XCU/DGU. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | The function in the | | | | NM-RMS monitoring PEE | | | | related alarms via DM | | | | and/or XCU/DGU and/or | | | | VS-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM-RMS, DM, XCU/DGU, | | | | VS-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Connectivity exists | | | | between the DM, | | | | XCU/DGU, VS-RMS and the | | | | NM-RMS. | | | | | | | | Connectivity exists | | | | between base stations | | | | and XCU/DGU, VS-RMS, | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | XCU/DGU, VS-RMS, DM and | | | | NM-RMS are up and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | A PEE related | | | | configuration change | | | | occurs, related to a | | | | base station in scope | | | | of the NM-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | In case this | | | | configuration change is | | | | detected on a base | | | | station with external | | | | sensor, or relates to | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS, | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS sends | | | | the corresponding | | | | configuration change | | | | notification to NM-RMS. | | | | | | | | In case this PEE | | | | related configuration | | | | change relates to a | | | | base station with | | | | built-in sensor, DM | | | | sends the corresponding | | | | configuration change | | | | notification to NM-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | NM-RMS receives the | | | | configuration change | | | | notification from | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | Information conveyed in | | | | the configuration | | | | change notification | | | | received by NM-RMS from | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM | | | | cannot be treated by | | | | NM-RMS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | NM-RMS has received the | | | | configuration change | | | | notification from | | | | XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or | | | | DM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | Requirement | | | | **REQ-EECMON-CON-013, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-014, | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-015** in | | | | clause 5.1. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Requirements for solution 1
**REQ-PEECMON-OPT1-FUN-001: for configuration management purposes,
requirements from either 3GPP TS 32.601 [5] clause 4, or from 3GPP TS 32.611
[8] clause 4.3, shall apply.**
**REQ-PEECMON-OPT1-FUN-002: for performance management purposes, requirements
from 3GPP TS 32.411 [6] -- clauses 4 and 5 - shall apply.**
**REQ-PEECMON-OPT1-FUN-003: for fault management purposes, requirements from
3GPP TS 32.111-1 [7] -- clauses 4 and 5 - shall apply.**
### 6.1.2 Requirements for solution 2
**REQ-PEECMON-OPT2-FUN-001: The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
the IRPManager to initiate / stop the retrieval of power, energy and
environmental parameters of selected base stations.**
**REQ-PEECMON-OPT2-FUN-002: The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
the IRPManager to periodically receive measured power, energy and
environmental parameters values, for selected base stations.**
**REQ-PEECMON-OPT2-FUN-003: The** **IRPAgent shall support a capability
allowing the IRPManager to be notified in case of power, energy and
environmental parameters related alarms, for selected base stations.**
**REQ-PEECMON-OPT2-FUN-004: The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
the IRPManager to be notified in case of power, energy and environmental
parameters related configuration changes being detected by the IRPAgent, for
selected base stations.**
## 6.2 Actor roles
### 6.2.1 Actor roles for solution 1
IRPManager at the NM-RMS, controlling and monitoring PEE parameters of base
stations in the radio access network.
IRPAgent at the DM, enabling to control and monitor PEE parameters of base
stations with built-in sensors managed by the subject DM.
### 6.2.2 Actor roles for solution 2
IRPManager at the NM-RMS, controlling and monitoring PEE parameters of base
stations in the radio access network.
IRPAgent at the DM, enabling to control and monitor PEE parameters of base
stations with built-in sensors managed by the subject DM.
IRPAgent at the XCU/DGU, enabling to control and monitor PEE parameters of
base stations with external sensors managed by the subject XCU/DGU.
IRPAgent at the VS- RMS, enabling to control and monitor PEE parameters of
base stations with external sensors managed by the subject VS- RMS, via
XCU/DGU.
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
### 6.3.1 Telecommunication resources for solution 1
**NM-RMS** : The Network Management layer Remote Management Server controlling
and monitoring PEE parameters of one or more base stations.
### 6.3.2 Telecommunication resources for solution 2
All telecommunication resources, as defined in clause 5.3.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Use cases for solution 1
#### 6.4.1.1 Use case: Initiating PEE performance management job
IRPManager initiates a PM job by sending appropriate request to IRPAgent, in
compliance with PM IRP -- cf. 3GPP TS 32.411 [6]. This use case corresponds to
the high-level use case \"Managing the monitoring of PEE parameters\" (cf.
clause 5.4.1 of the present document).
#### 6.4.1.2 Use case: Controlling PEE related threshold
IRPManager sends appropriate request to IRPAgent, in compliance with PM IRP --
cf. 3GPP TS 32.411 [6]. This use case corresponds to the high-level use case
\"Controlling PEE related parameters\" (cf. clause 5.4.2 of the present
document).
#### 6.4.1.3 Use case: Supervising PEE related alarms
In case of PEE related alarms, IRPAgent emits alarm notifications to inform
IRPManager, in compliance with Alarm IRP -- cf. 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [7]. This use
case corresponds to the high-level use case \"Supervising PEE related alarms\"
(cf. clause 5.4.3 of the present document).
#### 6.4.1.4 Use case: Monitoring PEE related configuration changes
In case of PEE related configuration changes, IRPAgent emits configuration
change notifications to inform IRPManager, in compliance with Notification IRP
-- cf. 3GPP TS 32.301 [2]. This use case corresponds to the high-level use
case \"Monitoring PEE related configuration changes\" (cf. clause 5.4.4 of the
present document).
### 6.4.2 Use cases for solution 2
See use cases in clause 5.4.
#