# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this specification is to define a set of Solution Profiles
(SPs) for Interface IRPs. Each SP identifies the necessary and sufficient
subset of the 3GPP IRP defined solutions (solutions) required for the network
management of a specific operating environment or domain, including that
defined for the converged management environments.
A specific operating environment or domain is characterised by a set of
Requirement statements. In other words, the solutions identified in a specific
SP would satisfy the Requirements listed in that same SP.
An SP, in its simplest form, is nothing else than a list of solutions (e.g.
3GPP IRP defined operations). The purpose is to place a combination of
solutions under a common (SP) _name_ so that:
\- Operators and vendors need not decide arbitrarily which solutions are to be
used to satisfy the Requirements;
\- There is one document where readers can have a clear view of solutions,
specified in various IRP specifications, required to satisfy the Requirements.
This version of the TS contains a number of SPs defined in clause 4 and
onwards, one clause for each SP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[2] NGMN Alliance NGCOR: "Next Generation Converged Operations Requirements"
v1.3.
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: "Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part 2:
Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.302: "Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.352: "Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance
(CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.332: "Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.122: "Telecommunication management; Advanced Alarm Management
(AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)".
[8] 3GPP TS 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [8] and TS 32.150 [1] apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[8], TS 32.150 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [8].
FM Fault Management
NGCOR Next Generation Converged Operations Requirements
SP Solution Profile
# 4 NGCOR Fault Management Solution Profile
## 4.1 Requirement statements
These requirement statements, pertaining to fault management, are extracted
from [2]. The REQ-GEN (1..22) statements are from section 2 of [2]. The REQ-FM
(1..8) statements are from section 5 of [2].
**_REQ-GEN (1..22)_**
**REQ-GEN (1) "Plug & Play"**
It must be possible to implement the interfaces between the OSS easy and
efficient by lowest costs and smallest effort (ideally without any development
and/or configuration). The standard specification must enable "Plug&Play"
(e.g. by unambiguously defined interface capabilities). Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (2) Useful**
It must deliver efficient support for the OSS business processes. The standard
specification interface must deliver the needed OSS semantics to support the
process. Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (3) Re-Useable/ Generic**
The standard interface specification must be generic enough, to enable the re-
use in different integration scenarios. Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (4) Simple**
The standard interface specification must be simple (that means: the interface
should offer only really necessary capabilities), so that people which have
not been involved in the specification are able to understand it (or even do
not need to understand the details), so that they are able to implement,
maintain and use the interface. Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (5) Flexible/ Extendible**
The interface can be extended and refined, from basic setup to more complex
implementations without impact on the other communication partners. It must be
possible to extend the interface capabilities (methods and attributes),
without breaking the standard. The standard interface specification must
enable this. Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (6) Fine grained (as far as needed)**
Means: Focus on using valid Use case to motivate the interface design. In such
case, the standard Interface specification will be of the correct grade of
grain. Fine grained functionality ONLY where really needed and absolutely
necessary to support the common basic process. Adding more and more
capabilities into the standard interface specification will lead to complex
and expensive implementations (which often hinders the adoption of the
interface) and might lead to a dilution of the scope of the interface and
overlapping functionality with other interfaces. Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (7) Standardized/ Open**
The requirement means, that we need an "unambiguously standardized
specification" without room for interpretation (which usually hinders Plug &
Play, s.o.). This standard can be an existing specification or a new one.
NGMN-NGCOR will not specify any standard. The specification and everything
needed to make use of the standard (e.g. appendixes to the specification-
document which are not part of the document itself, etc.) must be freely
available and useable for everyone. Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (8) Mature/ Stable**
The standard interface specification must be stable and mature, to avoid
expensive changes on implemented interfaces. Changes in the application or in
the interface implementation at one of the communication partners may not lead
to the need for changes in the application or in the interface implementation
of the other communication partners. (Please consider that this requirement
does not assume any specific type of implementation technology.) The standard
interface specification must enable this capability. Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (9)**
Changes in the application or in the interface implementation at one of the
communication partners may not lead to the need for changes in the application
or in the interface implementation of the other communication partners.
(Please consider that this requirement does not assume any specific type of
implementation technology.) Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (10) Evolutionary**
OSS standard interface specification shall re-use already existing, widely
adopted and mature IT standards (e.g. transport protocols) to avoid
"reinventing the wheel". The interface standard specification must be
independent from underlying infrastructure. The standard must be agnostic to
the implementation-platform (e.g. the standard may not rely on capabilities of
a specific Operating System). Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (11)**
The interface standard specification must be independent from underlying
infrastructure. The standard must be agnostic to the implementation-platform
(e.g. the standard may not rely on capabilities of a specific Operating
System). Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (12) Certifiable**
The Interface must be specified in a way that makes it technically possible to
validate an implementation compliancy. Beside of that, the standard should
include a mechanism to certify the standard compliancy of the interface
implementation. Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (13) Compatible**
It must be possible to implement a new version of an interface specification
at one of the communication partners while the other communication partners
still use an old version of the interface specification. This "mixed versions"
of interface implementations can be used without any impact on the
communication partners or the interface implementations of the communication
partners. The standard interface specification must enable this capability.
Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (14) Interoperable**
The interface implementation shall be based on an interoperable portfolio of
standard interfaces/ interface specifications to support different dynamic and
configurable OSS business workflow and processes using a common architecture
and a common information model. The standard must enable this by delivering
the standard portfolio of interfaces and interface specifications. Priority:
Major
**REQ-GEN (15) Scalable**
The standard interface specification must be able to be enlarged to
accommodate a growth of traffic. Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (16) Secure**
The standard interface specification has to be able to ensure confidentiality,
integrity and availability of the data, which is transferred by the interface.
Priority: Minor
**REQ-GEN (17) Reliable**
The interface implementation has to ensure the reliability of the data, which
is transferred by the interface. The standard interface specification must
enable this capability. Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (18) Interface Robustness**
No interface dependencies on availability between NMS and EMS if one of the
EMSs (Server) communication partners is not available. The standard interface
specification must enable this capability. Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (19) Simple Trace and Logging**
The standard interface specification must deliver a simple "trace and logging"
functionality (in readable text format). Priority: Essential
**REQ-GEN (20) 1:1 Relation between Event MO Instances and Inventory MO
Instances**
Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (21) "MO Instance" Attribute Information Structure for EMS NMS
Event Interfaces**
Priority: Major
**REQ-GEN (22) M : N Connectivity**
Multiple EMS applications might be connected (logically) to multiple NMS
applications (M : N). Priority: Major
**REQ-FM (1) X.733 Event/Alarm Attributes**
The event/alarm must contain structured information according to the X.733
specification. Priority: Essential
**REQ-FM (2) Event/Alarm Transport**
It must be possible to send (Server) [and receive/listen to (Client)
event/alarms]. See also REQ-FM (9), Priority: Essential
**REQ-FM (3) Clear -- Event/Alarm Transport**
It must be possible to send [and receive/listen to] "clear" - event/alarm
events. Priority: Essential
**REQ-FM (4) Unambiguous ID**
It must be possible to correlate between clear--event/alarm and the original
event/alarm, by using an unambiguous ID. Priority: Essential
**REQ-FM (5) Event/Alarm Query**
Priority: Essential
**REQ-FM (6) Heartbeat**
The interface has to support a heartbeat capability which allows EMS to send
heartbeats (configurable) and NMS to receive/listen to heartbeats. Priority:
Essential
**REQ-FM (7) Supplementary Information contained within alarm**
The interface has to provide all information required for correlation.
Priority: Essential
**REQ-FM (8) Co-operative alarm acknowledgement (OPTIONAL)**
The interface shall support a co-operative alarm-acknowledgement function as
described in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 (Optional feature). Priority: Minor
**REQ-FM (9)** **Reliable Event/Alarm Communication (supported by EMS)**
\- EMS buffers event/alarms if they cannot be sent to the NMS
\- EMS sends event/alarms immediately as soon as the connectivity to the NMS
is up again
Priority: Essential
**REQ-FM (10) Configurable EMS Heartbeat Message**
EMS will send heartbeats in regular (configurable) intervals to NMS. Priority:
Essential
**REQ-FM (11) Alarm Suppression**
**The EMS - NMS - Fault Management interface should enable the alarm
suppression.** Priority: Major
**REQ-FM (12) Summary Alarms**
**EMS interface summary should provide summary alarm functionality.**
Priority: Major
**REQ-FM (13) Re-Synchronization**
**The NMS must be able to synchronize the own event/alarm list with the EMS
event/alarm lists.** Priority: Essential
## 4.2 System context
The general definition of "System Context" can be found in 3GPP TS 32.150 [1]
subclause 4.7.
The set of related IRP(s) relevant to this SP is shown in the following
diagram.
Figure 4.2-1: System Context
## 4.3 SP
This section specifies the Fault Management SP for NGCOR. Specifically, this
SP identifies the necessary and sufficient subset of the IRP Interface
operations that can satisfy the fault management requirements stated in [2].
The SP is presented in the Table below.
The column labels identify the fault management specific and the general
requirements stated in [2], presented by column labels as REQ-FM(..) and REQ-
GEN(..). The row labels identify the various IRP Interface operations. An
empty cell means that the related operation does not support the related
requirement. A cell marked has the following meanings.
\- X: The related operation supports the related requirement;
\- A: The related operation supports the related requirement. REQ-FM (1)
requires the use of ITU-T X.733 defined structured information. Current IRP
solution supports the use of all X.733 defined Probable Causes. Current IRP
solution supports a subset of X.733 defined Event Type. Enhancement of current
IRP may need to be considered.
\- B: the related operation supports the related requirement. REQ-FM (5)
requires a 'query' type of service for both alarms and events. Current IRP
supports a 'query' type service for alarms (e.g. result of a query is carried
by the response of the query request). The current IRP supports an export
facility with filtering capability for events (e.g. result of an query is
carried in a file and not in the response of the query request).
\- C: The related operation supports the related requirement. REQ-FM (12)
requires support of Toggle and Transient Rule of activateAAMRule (..) only.
\- *: Some requirements are stated in a general form (e.g. "REQ-GEN (2)
Useful") and are related to the design principle of the protocol and
implementation. They are not related to any particular operation(s) or
notification(s); nevertheless these IRPs in general support those
requirements. Their requirement column headings are marked with a '*' (e.g.
"REQ-FM(9)").
Table 4.3-1: NGCOR FM SP
* * *
                               REQ-FM (..)    REQ-GEN (..)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9* 10 11 12 13 1-18* 19 20-22* **Alarm IRP [3]**  
acknowledgeAlarms X  
getAlarmList A X X X  
notifyNewAlarm A X X  
notifyAckStateChanged X X  
notifyChangedAlarm X  
notifyClearedAlarm X X X  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt X X  
**AAM IRP [7]**  
activateAAMRule C  
deactivateAAMRule X  
getAAMRules X  
**Notification IRP [4]**  
subscribe X X  
unsubscribe X X  
**CS IRP [5]**  
setHeartbeatPeriod X X  
triggerHeartbeat X  
notifyHeartbeat X  
**NL IRP [6]**  
subscribeLog X  
unsubscribeLog X  
exportLogRecords B X
* * *
#