# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 28.404: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Concepts,
use cases and requirements\";**
TS 28.405: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Control and
configuration\";
TS 28.406: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Information
definition and transport\";
One main motivation of mobile network evolution is to improve the user
experience why the evaluation of the same at UE side is vital to network
operators, especially when the operators provide some real-time services which
require for example high date rate and low latency like streaming services
(typically video services). Many of these streaming services are a significant
part of the commercial performance growth rate, therefore the end users'
experience should be in focus.
Quality of Experience (QoE) information collection provides detailed
information at call level on one or more specific UE(s).
The capability to log information, and in particular the QoE of an end user
service, within an UE initiated by an operator, provides the operator with QoE
information. The collected information (specified in Ref. 3GPP TS 26.247 [2])
cannot be deduced from performance measurements in the mobile network.
The QoE information is information collected by the end user application in
the UE.
The collected QoE information is collected by the management system (e.g. an
Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology) for analysis and/or KPI
calculations.
# 1 Scope
The present document addresses concepts, business level use cases and
requirements for the function Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement
collection in UMTS and LTE.
The function includes collecting QoE information from UEs frequenting a
specified area or an individual UE for a specified end user service/end user
service type.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.247: \" Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
(3GP-DASH)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
QoE Quality of Experience
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 _Concepts_
A network request session is a session in the mobile network when the network
checks for UEs that have the capability to provide requested information.
An UE request session is a session in the network when the network has found
an UE that has the capability to provide the requested information and the
request is forwarded to the UE.
A recording session is a session in the UE when it initiates recording of the
requested end user service/end user service type and record the requested
information.
## 4.2 Background
The collection of QoE information for a specified end user service/end user
service type either from UEs in a specified area or a specific UE. The
collected _information_ is transported to a collection centre, where it can be
analysed and/or KPIs can be calculated.
_A collection can be requested by an operator technician via the management
system to the traffic network. As the network do not have any knowledge which
UEs have the capability to record the requested data, therefore the UEs will
report whether they have this capability or not when a session set up. UEs
that has this capability that match the request from the management system
will be requested to start recording the requested information when the
request constraints are met. The UE will make the recorded data available for
management system._
# 5 Business Level Requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-1:** The operator shall have a capability to request
collection of QoE information per end user service/end user service type for a
specified area. The request may include an address of a collection centre to
which the collected information shall be delivered.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-2:** The application providing the end user service
performance information should have the capability to provide this information
to a collection centre.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-3:** It should be possible to restrict the QoE information
collection to a subset of the sessions in a UE using an end user service/end
user service type.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-4:** The management system shall have a capability to request
collection of end user service performance information for one specified UE.
The request may include an address of a collection centre to which the
collected information shall be delivered.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-5:** The management system shall have a capability to request
collection of end user service performance information for a specific service
type provided by specific streaming sources. The request may include
information of streaming sources for which the information shall be collected.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-6:** The 3GPP network shall have a capability to forward an
indication to the management system that a recording session has been started.
Editor's note: This is functionality which depends on the UEs capability to
send an indication to the RAN that needs to be agreed by RAN2.
NOTE: The QoE _information_ to be collected are specified in ref. 3GPP TS
26.247 [2].
## 5.2 Actor roles
## **5.3 Telecommunication resources**
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Collecting QoE information from a specific end user service type
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Allow the operator to obtain QoE information for an end user service type
based on a 5 % of those sessions in a UE(s) in a specified area using a
specific end user service type, in a specified collection centre.
Actors and roles The operator which is the requester of the QoE information.
Telecom resources The management system, the mobile network and the UE.
Assumptions The application providing an end user service type is able to
provide QoE information about its end user service performance.
Pre-conditions Selected end users are using the specified end user service
type.
Begins when The management system receives a request from the operator.
Step 1 (M) The management system receives a request from the operator and
transfers it to the mobile network.
Step 2 (M) The mobile network receives the request, starts a network request
session and starts to check which connections fulfil the request.
Step3 (M) When a connection is found that fulfils the request, the mobile
network starts an UE request session and transfers the request to the UE.
Step 4 (M) When the requested end user service type is started in the UE, it
records the requested information for 5% of sessions of the requested service
type and sends the recorded information to the specified collection centre.
Ends when The network request session expires.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The collected information is present in the specified
collection centre.
Traceability **REQ-EUSPC-CON-1, REQ-EUSPC-CON-2 and REQ-EUSPC-CON-3**
NOTE Step 2 to 4 is repeated for all UEs that access the network in the
specified area during the network request session.
* * *
### 5.4.2 Collecting QoE information from end user service type from a
specific user
* * *
**_Use case stage_** **_Evolution/Specification_** **_\ >\ Related
use_**
_Goal_ _Allow the operator to obtain QoE information for end user service type
for an individual user due to customer complaint or testing of the quality for
a new end user service type before launching a service broadly._
_Actors and roles_ _The operator which is the requester of the QoE
information._
_Telecom resources_ _The management system, the mobile network and the UE._
_Assumptions_ _The application providing an end user service type is able to
provide QoE information about its end user service performance._
_Pre-conditions_ _The selected end user is using the specified end user
service type._
_Begins when_ _The operator requests a QoE information collection for a
specified UE._
_Step 1 (M)_ _When the management system receives a request from the operator,
it transfers the request to the mobile network._
_Step 2 (M)_ _When the mobile network receives the request it starts a network
request session and starts to check for the connections from the specified
UE._
_Step3 (M)_ _When a connection is found, the mobile network starts a UE
request session and transfers the request to the UE._
_Step 4 (M)_ _When the requested end user service type is started in the UE,
it collects the requested information and send it to the specified collection
centre._
_Ends when_ _The network request session expires._
_Exceptions_
_Post-conditions_ _The collected information is present in the specified
collection centre._
_Traceability_ **_REQ-EUSPC-CON-2, REQ-EUSPC-CON-3 and REQ-EUSPC-CON-4._**
* * *
### 5.4.3 Collecting QoE information from end user service type of specific
streaming sources
* * *
**_Use case stage_** **_Evolution/Specification_** **_\ >\ Related
use_**
_Goal_ _Allow the operator to obtain QoE information from end user service
type from specific_ streaming sources _._
_Actors and roles_ _The operator which is the requester of the QoE
information._
_Telecom resources_ _The management system, the mobile network and the UE._
_Assumptions_ _The application providing streaming video service is able to
provide QoE information about its end user performance._
_Pre-conditions_ _The selected end users are using the specified end user
service type from the specified_ streaming sources _._
_Begins when_ _The operator requests a QoE information collection for a
specific service type from specific_ streaming sources _._
_Step 1 (M)_ _When the management system receives a request from the operator,
it transfers the request to the mobile network._
_Step 2 (M)_ _When the mobile network receives the request it starts a network
request session and starts to check_ which connections fulfil the request _._
_Step3 (M)_ _When a connection is found, the mobile network starts a UE
request session and transfers the request to the UE._
_Step 4 (M)_ _When the specified service type is started in the UE, the UE
checks whether the_ streaming source _is consistent with any of the streaming
sources set by the request, and if yes, the UE collects relevant QoE
information and send to the network._
_Ends when_ _The network request session expires._
_Exceptions_
_Post-conditions_ _The collected information is present in the specified
collection center._
_Traceability_ **_REQ-EUSPC-CON-2, REQ-EUSPC-CON-3 and REQ-EUSPC-CON-5._**
* * *
### 5.4.4 Indication of QoE information collection
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Provide the OAM system with an | | | | indication that a recording | | | | session has started and | | | | subsequently allow the OAM | | | | system to modify the QoE | | | | measurement configuration e.g. | | | | the QoE configured area if the | | | | number of sessions are too | | | | small or too large. | | | | | | | | The indication may also be | | | | used to determine whether or | | | | not to terminate the QoE | | | | information collection if | | | | sufficient number of recording | | | | sessions have been started. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and roles | The operator which is the | | | | requester of the QoE | | | | information. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | The management system, the | | | | 3GPP network and the UE. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | Selected end users have been | | | | requested to provide QoE | | | | Information when the specified | | | | end user service type is used. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | A recording session is started | | | | in a UE. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The UE sends an indication to | | | | the 3GPP network that a | | | | recording session has started. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | The 3GPP network receives the | | | | indication and sends it to the | | | | triggering OAM system that a | | | | recording session has been | | | | started. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | The management system has | | | | received an indication that a | | | | recording session has been | | | | started. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The OAM system is able to | | | | decide if the ongoing QoE | | | | measurement collection needs | | | | modification and if sufficient | | | | data has been obtained for | | | | analysis. | | | | | | | | The OAM system can use the | | | | indications to trigger | | | | evaluation of collected data. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-EUSPC-CON-6** | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.a SubSetTitle
## 6.2 Actor roles
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.a UseCaseName
#