# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
whe**r** e:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Traditionally, telecommunication equipment is provided as equipment with
integrated software and hardware. Virtualization technologies decouple the
software and hardware, and the network function software can be executed on
COTS hardware.
The mobile network will be composed of virtualized network functions and non-
virtualized network elements in the future. Virtualized network functions,
like traditional non-virtualized network elements, need also to be managed.
Due to the decoupling of network function software and hardware, ETSI ISG NFV
introduces the NFV Management and Orchestration architecture, which interacts
with 3GPP network management system, to realize the management of virtualized
network functions lifecycle and resource allocation. 3GPP specifies the
management solution of mobile networks that include virtualized network
functions and clarifies the relationship between 3GPP management architecture
and ETSI ISG NFV Management and Orchestration architecture.
The present document specifies the management concept, requirements and
architecture for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the management concepts, the management
requirements and use cases from operators' perspective for mobile networks
that include virtualized network functions which can be part of EPC or IMS,
and provides the management architecture for these mobile networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 010: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Management
and Orchestration; Functional Requirements Specification\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-MAN 001 V1.1.1: \"Network Function Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration\".
[4] ETSI GS NFV 003 V1.2.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Terminology for Main Concepts in NFV\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[9] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 v2.1.1: \"Network Function Virtualization (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo Reference Point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[10] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 v2.1.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm Reference Point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.510: \" Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommuncations management; Architecture\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 32.101 [5], TS 32.111-1 [7], TS 32.150 [8], TS 32.401 [6]
and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Consumer Role:** See service consumer in clause 5 of 3GPP TS 32.101 [5]. See
consumer in ETSI GS NFV‑MAN 001 [3]).
**LifeCycle Management (LCM): Defined in** ETSI GS NFV 003 **[4].**
Note 1: How to define the lifecycle management of 3GPP network and entity is
FFS.
**Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI):** Defined in ETSI GS
NFV 003 [4].
**Network Functions Virtualisation Management and Orchestration (NFV-MANO):**
Defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [4].
**Network Functions Virtualisation Orchestrator (NFVO):** Defined in ETSI GS
NFV 003 [4].
**NS:** Network Service defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [4].
NOTE 2: The NS defined by ETSI NFV documents is not equivalent to 3GPP
services. The latter requires the former for network orchestration in case the
network includes virtualized network functions.
**Physical Network Function (PNF): Defined in** ETSI GS NFV 003 **[4].**
Note 3: From 3GPP perspective, non-virtualized NE is a typical example of PNF.
**Producer Role:** See service producer in clause 5 of 3GPP TS 32.101 [5]. See
producer in ETSI GS NFV-MAN 001[3]).
**Scaling: Defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [4].**
**Virtual Machine (VM): Defined in** ETSI GS NFV 003 **[4].**
**Virtualised Infrastructure Manager (VIM): Defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [4].**
**Virtualised Network Function (VNF): Defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [4].**
Note 4: From 3GPP perspective, it corresponds to the application level
function of NE, which is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [5].
**Virtualised Network Function Manager (VNFM): Defined in ETSI GS NFV 003
[4].**
**Virtualised Network Function Package (VNF Package): Defined in** ETSI GS NFV
003 **[4]**.
**VNF Healing:** Defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA010 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CAPEX CAPital EXpenditure
COTS Commercial Off-The-Shelf
LCM LifeCycle Management
NFV Network Functions Virtualization
NFVO Network Functions Virtualization Orchestrator
NS Network Service
NSD NS Descriptor
OPEX OPerating EXpense
OSS Operations Support System
VIM Virtualized Infrastructure Manager
VNF Virtualized Network Function
VNFM Virtualized Network Function Manager
# 4 Background and concepts
## 4.1 Background
It is expected that future implementation options for the entities of the 3GPP
system include various technologies for virtualization. Network and service
providers make use of different information in several different ways which
also may vary from network to network and from time to time. Hence, entities
of the 3GPP system that have been implemented with virtualization options
should be managed in the same manner as entities implemented with non-
virtualization options, to the extent possible.
Virtualized 3GPP entities still require some underlying hardware resources.
One of the NFV business objectives is that VNFs are procured independently
from the underlying hardware resources. The underlying hardware resources are
expected to be administered independently from the virtualized entities
required for the 3GPP system.
## 4.2 Concepts
### 4.2.1 NE and VNF
1\. The components of NE can be shown as below (see Figure 4.2.1-1), where a
Network Function (NF) is a processing function in a network which has defined
functional behaviour and defined interfaces:
Figure 4.2.1-1: NE components
2\. A VNF is NF(s) that runs on a NFV Infrastructure (NFVI) (see Figure
4.2.1-2):
Figure 4.2.1-2: VNF running on NFVI
Note: A VNF holds the following: a) functionality of the NF(s), b) elements
for supporting the NF functionalities (the set a) and b) referred as
application part of the VNF), and c) elements enabling VNF to run on NFVI
(referred as virtualization-specific part of the VNF). Examples of elements
for supporting the NF functionalities are library, database, protocol stacks.
From this perspective, for the same type of NF, the function of a VNF is
equivalent to the NF realized by an NE. The VNF set-a and set-b are managed by
EM using the Type 1 interface (subclause 5.1.2.1 of [5]) in case the EM is not
realized by the above mentioned VNF. In the case the EM and NF are realized
within one VNF, the managing interface between EM and NF is not defined. The
VNF set-c is managed by VNFM using the ETSI NFV defined Ve-Vnfm-vnf Reference
Point (subclause 5.3 of [10]) between VNFM and VNF.
3\. Examples for the NE instance
The same telecommunication function of an NE instance could be carried as
illustrated in the following examples (see also Figure 4.2.1-3):
Example 1: One VNF instance composed of one or more VNFC instances running on
NFVI.
Example 2: NF(s) running on dedicated hardware, where the the NF is 3GPP
defined mobile network function (as described in Figure 7.3.3.1 in TS 32.102
[12]).
Figure 4.2.1-3 Examples of NE instances: a) virtualized and b) non-
virtualized.
### 4.2.2 The relationship between NE and VNF
From 3GPP perspective, VNF contains the NE's Network Function(s). The relation
between NE instance and VNF instance depends on the relation between the NFs
of NE and the functions contained within VNF.
**Relation1:** The NE instance is 1:1 related to VNF instance if the VNF
contains the whole Network Function(s) of the NE.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 General requirements
**REQ-NFV-CON-1** Operator shall be able to manage mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions and shall be able to identify whether
the managed nodes are virtualized or not.
**REQ-NFV-CON-2** The management of mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions should reuse the 3GPP existing management solutions as much
as possible.
**REQ-NFV-CON-3** NM and EM in 3GPP management system managing the virtualized
3GPP entities shall be able to manage physical 3GPP entities also.
**REQ-NFV-CON-4** 3GPP management system shall support a capability allowing
operators to manage mobile networks that include virtualized network functions
with the assistance from NFV-MANO.
**REQ-NFV-CON-5** The reference points between 3GPP management system and NFV-
MANO shall support a capability allowing 3GPP management system to request
information required for management from NFV-MANO.
**REQ-NFV-CON-6** The performance of the 3GPP management system should be
adequate to achieve the objective of 3GPP service time to market.
**REQ-NFV-CON-7** The virtualized resources from NFVI, on which the VNF
relies, should be collaboratively managed by 3GPP management system and NFV-
MANO.
NOTE: Management of the virtualized resources from NFVI is NFV-MANO's
responsibility, and \"collaboratively managed\" refers to the need for NFV-
MANO to take into account the requirements from 3GPP management system about
the VNF's virtualized resources during the VNF lifecycle management and
deliver to 3GPP management system VNF performance data related to virtualized
resources, VNF fault information related to virtualized resources and VNF
instance information.
### 5.1.2 FM requirements
**REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-1** The Operator shall be able to manage and deal with
the virtualized network function alarms and NFVI alarms, which are not related
to virtualized network function, through 3GPP management system and NFV-MANO
respectively.
**REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-2** 3GPP management system shall be able to receive the
virtualized network function alarm which includes the correlated virtualized
resource fault information and process the alarm.
**REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-3** The virtualized network function alarm, which 3GPP
management system acquired, shall include correct alarm type, alarm severity
and possible cause information.
**REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-4** 3GPP management system shall be able to request NFV-
MANO to recover the virtualized network function when VNF automatic recovery
is not enabled in NFV-MANO.
**REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-5** 3GPP management system shall be able to receive the
virtualized network function alarms when NFV-MANO performs VNF automatic
recovery.
**REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-7** NFV-MANO shall support the subscription capability
allowing 3GPP management system to subscribe to the VNF instance fault report
related to virtualized resource(s) and virtualization-specific failures.
### 5.1.3 CM requirements
**REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-1** 3GPP management system shall be able to manage both
physical and virtualized 3GPP entities with corresponding managed objects and
attributes.
**REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-2** 3GPP management system shall be able to perform
necessary virtualized 3GPP entity configuration due to the VNF lifecycle
management operation from NFV-MANO.
**REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-3** 3GPP management system shall be able to re-configure
involved neighbour physical and virtualized 3GPP entities if needed due to one
NS or VNF LCM operation.
**REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-4** In order to minimize 3GPP service disruption when a
VNF instance is scaled, the scaling shall not modify the existing connections
with other network entities.
**REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-5** 3GPP management system shall be able to request NFV-
MANO to modify non-application information and configuration about a VNF
instance managed by NFV-MANO (supported by requirements Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.019
and Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.020 in [9], and Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcm.008 and Ve-Vnfm-
em.VnfCm.001 in [10]).
**REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-6** 3GPP management system shall be able to query NFV-
MANO non-application information about a VNF instance managed by NFV-MANO
(supported by requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.015 in [9] and Ve-Vnfm-
em.VnfLcm.004 in [10]).
### 5.1.4 PM requirements
**REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-1** The key performance indicators which are defined for
physical entities shall be applicable to virtualized entities in 3GPP core
network.
**REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-2** 3GPP management system shall support the performance
measurements for virtualized 3GPP entity and 3GPP management system shall be
informed of the performance measurement result of virtualized resources on
which the virtualized 3GPP entity relies.
**REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-3** 3GPP management system shall be able to request the
VNF LCM operation towards NFV-MANO to mitigate the VNF performance bottleneck
according to the results of the VNF performance measurements.
**REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-4** NFV-MANO shall be able to provide VNF PM data related
to virtualized resource to 3GPP management system.
**REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-5** NFV-MANO shall support the subscription capability
allowing 3GPP management system to subscribe to the VNF performance
measurement report related to virtualized resource.
### 5.1.5 LCM requirements
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-1** 3GPP management system shall be able to request NFV-
MANO to perform NS LCM operations (defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-2** 3GPP management system shall be able to request NFV-
MANO to perform NSD management operations (defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-3** 3GPP management system shall be able to request NFV-
MANO to perform VNF package/software management operations (defined in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-4** 3GPP management system shall be able to request NFV-
MANO to perform VNF LCM operations (defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [10]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-5** 3GPP management system shall support the capability
to receive NS lifecycle change notifications from NFV-MANO (defined in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-6** 3GPP management system shall support the capability
to receive the NSD management notifications from NFV-MANO (defined in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-7** 3GPP management system shall be able to request
updating the NS instance (defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-8** 3GPP management system shall support the VNF
package/software management notifications from NFV-MANO (defined in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-9** 3GPP management system shall support the capability
to receive the VNF LCM change notifications from NFV-MANO (defined in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 008 [10]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-10** 3GPP management system shall be able to request
scaling a virtualized network function to NFV-MANO (defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA
008 [10]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-11** 3GPP management system shall be able to request
executing the VNF Healing of a virtualized network function to NFV-MANO.**REQ-
NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-12** 3GPP management system shall have the authority to
determine the termination of a VNF instance(s).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-13** NFV-MANO shall have the capability allowing 3GPP
management system to enable/disable the auto-scaling towards the corresponding
VNF instance(s).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-14** NFV-MANO shall support the subscription capability
allowing 3GPP management system to subscribe to the NS lifecycle change
notifications (defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-15** NFV-MANO shall support the subscription capability
allowing 3GPP management system to subscribe to the VNF lifecycle change
notifications (defined in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [10]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-16** NFV-MANO shall have the capability allowing 3GPP
management system to provide the affinity and anti-affinity information in the
NSD.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-17** Operator shall be able to instantiate and manage
multiple NS created using the same NSD but with specific parameterization
(location, capacity, addresses).
## 5.2 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
See detailed telecommunications resources for each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 FM use cases
#### 5.4.1.1 Use case of VNF Healing triggered by 3GPP management system
Note: In the context of this use case, VNF Healing [2] refers to corrective
actions performed by the NFV-MANO to recover a VNF which fails to perform as
expected, and it concerns the actions for which the NFV-MANO is responsible,
e.g. corrective action(s) toward virtualised resources, instantiation of VNFC,
configuration of VNF non-application specific parameters, etc.
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To execute VNF Healing | | | | for a virtualized | | | | network function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | 3GPP management system | | | | requests to execute the | | | | VNF Healing. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | 3GPP management system | | | | is subscribed to VNF | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notifications from the | | | | NFV-MANO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The subject VNF | | | | instance is not being | | | | healed at the moment. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | A faulty | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | aspect of the VNF has | | | | been notified to 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | determines that VNF | | | | Healing of the VNF is | | | | needed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | requests the NFV-MANO | | | | to execute the VNF | | | | Healing based on the | | | | information in the | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NFV-MANO notifies 3GPP | | | | management system about | | | | the end and the result | | | | of the VNF Healing | | | | execution. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | The VNF Healing | | | | procedure in step 2 | | | | fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The faulty | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | aspect of the VNF is | | | | recovered. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ | | | | -NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-11** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.1.2 Use case of virtualization-specific aspect failure detection and
notification by NFV-MANO
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To notify the 3GPP | | | | management system of a | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | failure of a | | | | virtualized network | | | | functions. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | 3GPP management system | | | | receives the fault | | | | report. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO notifies about | | | | VNF-related | | | | virtualization faults. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | 3GPP management system | | | | is subscribed to | | | | VNF-related | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | fault reports from the | | | | NFV-MANO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | A | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | fault affecting the VNF | | | | is notified to | | | | NFV-MANO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NFV-MANO creates | | | | VNF-related | | | | virtualization fault | | | | report about the faulty | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | aspect. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFV-MANO sends the | | | | VNF-related | | | | virtualization fault | | | | report to the 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP management | | | | system is notified | | | | about the | | | | virtualization-specific | | | | failure of the subject | | | | VNF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **R | | | | EQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-7** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.1.3 Use case of alarms correlation by 3GPP management system
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To correlate VNF alarms in a | | | | mobile network that includes | | | | virtualized network functions. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system | | | | correlates VNF alarms. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFV-MANO | | | | | | | | VNF | | | | | | | | NFVI | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management system has the | | | | alarm correlation function. | | | | | | | | 3GPP management system is | | | | subscribed to VNF-related | | | | virtualized resource fault | | | | reports from the NFV-MANO. | | | | | | | | The virtualized resource | | | | failure affects the | | | | corresponding VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NFV-MANO detects the | | | | virtualized resource fault | | | | affecting the VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NFV-MANO creates VNF fault | | | | report related to virtualized | | | | resource and sends it to the | | | | 3GPP management system. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | receives the VNF fault report | | | | related to virtualized | | | | resource. 3GPP management | | | | system also receives VNF | | | | application alarm(s) of a | | | | faulty NE. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | implements alarm correlation | | | | based on the virtualized | | | | resource alarm(s) from | | | | NFV-MANO and VNF application | | | | alarm(s) from NE. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | generates the final VNF | | | | application fault report | | | | including the above correlated | | | | alarm(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed or when | | | | an exception occurs. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | 3GPP management system will | | | | process the alarm(s) based on | | | | the final fault report. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-2, | | | | REQ-NFV_FM_SYS-CON-7** | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.2 CM use cases
Editor\'s note: The following UCs (i.e. 5.4.2.1, 5.4.2.2, 5.4.2.3, 5.4.2.4)
will be revisited when the relationship between MO and VNF instance is clear.
#### 5.4.2.1 Use case of adding a MO related to a VNF
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To add a MO related to a | | | | VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | N/A | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Operator has decided to | | | | add a MO related to the | | | | VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | creates the MO related to | | | | the VNF. | | | | | | | | Note: the MO creation | | | | operation here means Basic | | | | CM IRP. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The MO is available for | | | | 3GPP management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-2** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
#### 5.4.2.2 Use case of associating the MO with a certain VNF instance
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To associate the MO with a | | | | certain VNF instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | 3GPP management system has | | | | known the VNF instance | | | | identifier. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Operator has decided to | | | | associate the MO with a | | | | certain VNF instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | associates the MO with a | | | | certain VNF instance. | | | | | | | | Note: The associating | | | | operation may happen | | | | during the process of | | | | creation of MO or after | | | | it. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The MO is associated with | | | | The VNF instance. And the | | | | MO can be managed by 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-2** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
#### 5.4.2.3 Use case of configuring the VNF by 3GPP management system
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To configure the VNF with | | | | MO attributes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | 3GPP management system has | | | | added a MO related to the | | | | VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Operator has decided to | | | | configure the VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | configures the VNF with MO | | | | attributes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The VNF has been | | | | configured by 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-2** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
#### 5.4.2.4 Use case of removing the MO of a VNF from managed nodes
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To remove the MO of a VNF | | | | from managed nodes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | 3GPP services provided by | | | | the VNF instance have been | | | | released. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO has already | | | | terminated the VNF | | | | instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Operator has decided to | | | | remove the MO of the VNF | | | | instance from managed | | | | nodes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | removes the MO of the VNF | | | | instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The MO of the VNF instance | | | | has been removed from | | | | managed nodes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-2** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
#### 5.4.2.5 Modify non-application information and configuration of a VNF
instance managed by NFV-MANO
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To modify by 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | non-application | | | | information and | | | | configuration of a | | | | subject VNF instance. | | | | Such an information and | | | | configuration is | | | | managed by NFV-MANO | | | | (see clause 9.4.2 in | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 | | | | [10]); for instance, | | | | VNF instance name and | | | | meta data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | 3GPP management system | | | | requests the | | | | modification of VNF | | | | instance information | | | | and/or configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | 3GPP management system | | | | determines to modify | | | | certain non-application | | | | information and/or | | | | configuration held by | | | | NFV-MANO of a subject | | | | VNF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | sends a request to | | | | NFV-MANO to modify the | | | | non-application | | | | information and/or | | | | configuration about the | | | | subject VNF instance | | | | (see related interface | | | | requirements in clause | | | | 5.2.1.1 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 008 [10] and | | | | in clause 5.3.2 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA 013 [9]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFV-MANO modifies the | | | | requested information | | | | and/or configuration | | | | about the subject VNF | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The non-application | | | | information and/or | | | | configuration of the | | | | subject VNF instance | | | | managed by NFV-MANO | | | | instance has been | | | | modified. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-5 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.2.6 Retrieve non-application information of a VNF instance managed by
NFV-MANO
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To retrieve by 3GPP management | | | | system from NFV-MANO | | | | non-application information of | | | | a subject VNF instance. Such | | | | information about a subject | | | | VNF instance is information | | | | managed by NFV-MANO (see | | | | clause 9.4.2 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA 008 [10]). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system queries | | | | the VNF instance information. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | N/A | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | N/A | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | 3GPP management system | | | | determines to retrieve certain | | | | information about a subject | | | | VNF instance that is managed | | | | by NFV-MANO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system sends a | | | | request to NFV-MANO querying | | | | the needed non-application | | | | information about the subject | | | | VNF instance (see related | | | | interface requirements in | | | | clause 5.2.1.1 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 008 [10] and in | | | | clause 5.3.2 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 013 [9]). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFV-MANO returns to 3GPP | | | | management system the | | | | information requested about | | | | the subject VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all steps identified | | | | above are completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | 3GPP management system has the | | | | non-application information | | | | about the subject VNF instance | | | | managed by NFV-MANO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_CM_SYS-CON-6 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.3 PM use cases
#### 5.4.3.1 Use case of mitigating the VNF performance bottleneck
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To mitigate the VNF | | | | performance bottleneck. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFV-MANO | | | | | | | | VNF | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management system is set | | | | up to collect VNF performance | | | | measurements and NFV-MANO is | | | | set up to collect VNF | | | | performance measurements | | | | related to virtualized | | | | resource. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | VNF application threshold | | | | crossing trigger and | | | | VNF-related virtualized | | | | resource threshold crossing | | | | trigger have been set up by | | | | corresponding system(s) (i.e. | | | | 3GPP management system or | | | | NFV-MANO system). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | The VNF performance | | | | measurement report(s), VNF | | | | performance measurement | | | | report(s) related to | | | | virtualized resource or the | | | | thresholds crossing alarm(s) | | | | are generated. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | receives the VNF performance | | | | measurement report(s), VNF | | | | performance measurement | | | | report(s) related to | | | | virtualized resource or the | | | | thresholds crossing alarm(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | 3GPP management system decides | | | | to optimize the VNF | | | | performance and mitigate the | | | | VNF performance bottleneck. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | requests VNF LCM operation | | | | (e.g. expansion) towards | | | | NFV-MANO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | NFV-MANO executes the VNF LCM | | | | operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF performance bottleneck | | | | has been mitigated after the | | | | VNF LCM operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-3** | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.3.2 Use case for collection of VNF PM data related to virtualized
resource from NFV-MANO
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | 3GPP management system | | | | gets the VNF PM data | | | | related to virtualized | | | | resource. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | NFV-MANO is set up to | | | | collect VNF-related | | | | virtualized resource | | | | performance measurements | | | | and generates the report | | | | of VNF PM data related to | | | | virtualized resource. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre-conditions | The collection mechanism | | | | for VNF PM data related to | | | | virtualized resource has | | | | been established both at | | | | 3GPP management system and | | | | NFV-MANO. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | 3GPP management system | | | | needs the VNF PM data | | | | which are related to | | | | virtualized resource and | | | | sets the PM job for them. | | | | And VNF PM data related to | | | | virtualized resource is | | | | generatedby NFV-MANO. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NFV-MANO provides the VNF | | | | PM data related to | | | | virtualized resource to | | | | 3GPP manamement system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | receives the VNF PM data | | | | related to virtualized | | | | resource. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed.** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | None. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post-conditions | 3GPP management system has | | | | the performance data | | | | desired. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-2, | | | | REQ-NFV_PM_SYS-CON-4** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 5.4.4 LCM use cases
#### 5.4.4.1 Use case of NS instance Deployment
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To deploy a NS instance | | | | in a mobile network | | | | that includes | | | | virtualized network | | | | functions | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM part). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NFV-MANO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Existing VNF | | | | instance(s) could be | | | | used by the new NS | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | Any NSD may be reused | | | | for instantiating | | | | multiple NS instances. | | | | | | | | 3GPP management system | | | | is subscribed to | | | | receive NS lifecycle | | | | change notifications. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The NSD to be used for | | | | the NS instantiation | | | | has been on-boarded on | | | | NFV-MANO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | 3GPP management system | | | | determines that a new | | | | NS instance is to be | | | | instantiated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | determines the type and | | | | capacity of a NS | | | | instance, and sets NS | | | | instantiation request | | | | with proper parameters. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | sends NS instantiation | | | | request to NFV-MANO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NFV-MANO instantiates | | | | the NS instance based | | | | on request from 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | 3GPP management system | | | | receives notification | | | | from NFV-MANO that a | | | | new NS instance is | | | | instantiated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | A new NS instance is | | | | ready for service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-1, | | | | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-5, | | | | REQ | | | | -NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-17** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.2 Use case of updating an NS instance to a different NSD version
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | The network operator | | | | through 3GPP management | | | | system can decide when | | | | and has the capacity to | | | | update the NS instance | | | | (created based on an | | | | NSD of certain version) | | | | to correspond to a | | | | different NSD version. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | 3GPP management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NFV-MANO | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The information, to | | | | update an existing NS | | | | instance, to correspond | | | | to a different NSD | | | | version exists. | | | | | | | | The different NSD | | | | version has been | | | | on-boarded on NFV-MANO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | 3GPP management system | | | | needs to update an | | | | existing NS instance | | | | (created based on an | | | | NSD of certain version) | | | | to correspond to the | | | | different NSD version. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | requests to NFV-MANO to | | | | update the NS instance | | | | to correspond to the | | | | different NSD version, | | | | instructing NFV-MANO | | | | not to synchronize | | | | automatically the NS | | | | instance to the | | | | different NSD version. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFV-MANO executes the | | | | NS update operation and | | | | acknowledges to 3GPP | | | | management system the | | | | successful update of | | | | the NS instance to | | | | correspond to the | | | | different NSD version. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | requests to NFV-MANO to | | | | update the NS instance | | | | based on the different | | | | NSD version. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFV-MANO executes the | | | | NS update operation and | | | | acknowledges to 3GPP | | | | management system the | | | | successful NS instance | | | | update. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NS instance has | | | | been updated to | | | | correspond to the | | | | different NSD version. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ | | | | -NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-1,** | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-7 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.3 Use cases of NE deployment in the context of NFV
##### 5.4.4.3.1 Use case of NE deployment in the scenario of Managed Object(s)
creation is after the VNF instantiation
* * *
Use Case Stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal To deploy a NE in a mobile network that includes virtualized network
functions
Actors and Roles 3GPP management system (NM, EM) creates and configures
Managed Object(s) for the corresponding VNF instance.\  
NFV-MANO system instantiates VNF instance according to the request from 3GPP
management system.
Telecom resources 3GPP management system\  
NFV-MANO system
Assumptions 3GPP management system and NFV-MANO system are in operational
status.
Pre-conditions Operator has decided the type and capacity of the NE to be
deployed.
Begins when Operator decides to deploy a new NE.
Step 1 (M) 3GPP management system sends the VNF instantiation request to NFV-
MANO system.
Step 2 (M) NFV-MANO system instantiates the VNF instance.
Step 3 (M) 3GPP management system receives the result of VNF instantiation
from NFV-MANO system.
Step 4 (M) 3GPP management system creates Managed Object(s) for the
instantiated VNF instance when needed.
Step 5 (M) 3GPP management system configures the VNF instance with Managed
Object attributes when needed.
Ends when Ends when all mandatory steps identified above are successfully
completed or when an exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The new NE is deployed and ready for providing service.
Traceability TBD
* * *
#### 5.4.4.4 Use case for notifications about VNF lifecycle changes
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To monitor by 3GPP management | | | | system of lifecycle changes on | | | | VNF instances. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system | | | | subscribes to and receives VNF | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notifications. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO system. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFV-MANO system is running. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | 3GPP management system | | | | determines to monitor VNF | | | | lifecycle changes on a managed | | | | VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | requests a subscription to | | | | NFV-MANO system to receive VNF | | | | lifecycle change notifications | | | | regarding a managed VNF | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFV-MANO system creates a | | | | subscription and acknowledges | | | | the subscription to 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | When managed VNF instance has | | | | a lifecycle change, NFV-MANO | | | | system creates and sends VNF | | | | lifecycle change notification | | | | including information to | | | | identify the VNF instance | | | | subject to lifecycle change, | | | | the type of procedure, and | | | | whether it is the start or end | | | | of the procedure. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | 3GPP management system | | | | unsubscribes to VNF lifecycle | | | | change notifications regarding | | | | the managed VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The 3GPP management system has | | | | information about VNF | | | | lifecycle changes of the | | | | managed VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-9, | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-15** | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
Note: VNF lifecycle change notifications are supported by NFV-MANO system [2].
#### 5.4.4.5 Use case of VNF instance scaling through operation request by
3GPP management system
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Use case stage | Ev | \>\ | | | olution/Specification | Related use | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Goal | To expand/contract a | | | | VNF instance by | | | | scaling the VNF | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management | | | | system detects the | | | | need for scaling and | | | | sends the VNF scaling | | | | request. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management | | | | system. | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO system. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | | | | | | | NFVI. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management | | | | system is subscribed | | | | to VNF lifecycle | | | | change notifications | | | | from the NFV-MANO | | | | system. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pre-conditions | The subject VNF | \"Use case for | | | instance is not being | notifications about | | | scaled at the moment. | VNF lifecycle | | | VNFM (part of | changes\" (see clause | | | NFV-MANO system) does | 5.4.4.4 of TS 28.500) | | | not have any | | | | auto-scaling scripts | \"Retrieve VNF | | | or the policy for | instance information | | | auto-scaling is not | from VNFM by EM\" | | | in use or active. | (see clause 6.4.7 in | | | | TS 28.510 [11]) | | | Note: Determining | | | | whether \"the subject | | | | VNF instance is not | | | | being scaled\" can be | | | | done through the | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notification as | | | | described in clause | | | | 5.4.4.4 of TS 28.500. | | | | Determining whether | | | | \"there is no | | | | auto-scaling scripts | | | | or policy for | | | | auto-scaling is not | | | | used or active\" can | | | | be done by sending a | | | | query request for the | | | | subject VNF instance | | | | from the 3GPP | | | | management system to | | | | the NFV-MANO system | | | | as described in | | | | clause 6.4.7 of TS | | | | 28.510 [11]. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Begins when | 3GPP management | | | | system detected the | | | | need to scale and | | | | have determined the | | | | scaling action | | | | (expand/contract). | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management | | | | system sends to | | | | NFV-MANO system a | | | | request to | | | | expand/contract the | | | | managed VNF instance. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFV-MANO system | | | | executes the scaling | | | | of the VNF instance. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFV-MANO system | | | | notifies 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | about the end of the | | | | VNF scaling | | | | execution. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Ends when | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF instance has | | | | been scaled | | | | (ex | | | | pansion/contraction). | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-N | | | | FV_LCM_SYS-CON-4,** | | | | **REQ-N | | | | FV_LCM_SYS-CON-9,** | | | | **REQ-N | | | | FV_LCM_SYS-CON-10** | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
#### 5.4.4.6 Use case of enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of the
corresponding VNF instance(s)
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal According to the management requirement, operators need to enable/disable
the auto-scaling of a VNF instance(s).
Actors and Roles 3GPP management system requests the enabling/disabling the
auto-scaling of the corresponding VNF instance(s) for an NE.
Telecom resources NFV-MANO, VNF
Assumptions The auto-scaling, which means automatic procedure controlled and
executed by NFV-MANO to scale the capacity of a VNF instance.
Pre-conditions
Begins when The operator decides to enable/disable the auto-scaling of the
corresponding VNF instance(s) for an NE.
Step 1 (M) 3GPP management system requests NFV-MANO to enable/disable the
auto-scaling of the corresponding VNF instance(s) for the subject NE.
Step 2 (M) NFV-MANO enables/disables the auto-scaling function towards the
specific VNF instance(s).
Ends when Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The auto-scaling of the corresponding VNF instance(s) for an
NE is enabled/disabled.
Traceability **REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-13**
* * *
#### 5.4.4.7 Determination on the termination of the corresponding VNF
instance(s)
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal The operator determines to terminate a VNF instance(s) based on the
operator's needs or the pre-configuration policy.
Actors and Roles 3GPP management system requests the termination of the
corresponding VNF instance(s) for an NE.
Telecom resources NFV-MANO, VNF
Assumptions The operator makes the decision to terminate the corresponding VNF
instance(s) for an NE.
Pre-conditions
Begins when 3GPP management system completes the preparation for the VNF
termination.
Step 1 (M) 3GPP management system requests NFV-MANO to terminate the
corresponding VNF instance(s).
Step 2 (M) NFV-MANO completes the termination operation towards the specific
VNF instance(s).
Ends when Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions
Traceability **REQ-NFV_LCM_SYS-CON-12**
* * *
# 6 Management architecture
## 6.1 Overview
The following clauses elaborate the management architecture of mobile networks
which include virtualized network functions and clarify the relationship
between 3GPP management architecture and NFV-MANO framework (ETSI GS NFV-MAN
001 [3]).
The following clauses focus on the aspects of the NFV introduction in mobile
network and the impacts to the existing 3GPP management system, which is
composed of NM and DM/EM (as shown in figure 6.1.1-1). Hence, they mainly
address the functionalities to 3GPP management system and the requirements on
the NFV-MANO through related reference points (i.e. Os-Ma-nfvo, Ve-Vnfm-em,
Ve-Vnfm-vnf). They do not address any of the definitions of the NFV-MANO
framework and interfaces. The detailed descriptions for those are in-scope of
ETSI NFV documents, which are referred to below.
### 6.1.1 Management architecture
Figure 6.1.1-1 illustrates the management architecture of mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions.
Figure 6.1.1-1: The mobile network management architecture mapping
relationship between 3GPP and NFV-MANO architectural framework
Physical mobile network management mainly relies on the interface Itf-N. With
the introduction of NFV, mobile network management needs to also specify the
virtualized network functions management. It involves not only one interface
Itf-N, but also the interaction with NFV-MANO through defined reference
points.
The management architecture in present document aligns with the NFV-MANO
framework (ETSI NFV-MAN 001 [3]) with emphasis on the following aspects:
1) Mobile network is composed of physical and virtualized network elements.
Application-specific aspects of both VNFs and PNFs, corresponding to physical
NEs, shall be managed by 3GPP management system.
2) The architecture identifies the following entities which are defined in TS
32.101 [5], both of them are needed to extend the management functionalities
for virtualized network and VNF:
\- NM, which plays one of the roles of OSS/BSS and is the consumer of
reference point Os-Ma-nfvo.
\- DM/EM, if the EM includes the extended functionality, it can manage both
PNF(s) and VNF(s).
3) The architecture identifies the following entities that share interfaces
with NM, DM/EM and VNF:
\- NFV Orchestrator (NFVO)
\- VNF Manager (VNFM)
4) The architecture identifies the following main interfaces/reference points:
\- Itf-N, the interface between NM and DM/EM
\- Os-Ma-nfvo, the reference point between OSS/BSS and NFVO.
Note: In 3GPP specification, NM plays one of the roles of OSS/BSS.
\- Ve-Vnfm-em, the reference point between EM and VNFM.
\- Ve-Vnfm-vnf, the reference point between VNF and VNFM.
### 6.1.2 Functional blocks in the management architecture
#### 6.1.2.1 NM
NM plays one of the roles of OSS/BSS. It provides the functions for the
management of mobile network which includes virtualized network functions. The
NM supports FCAPS management functions of the mobile network (e.g. IMS, EPC)
and 3GPP service (e.g. data service, voice service) and supports the
management of mobile network lifecycle. NM initiates the lifecycle management
of ETSI-defined NS and VNF, which are related to mobile network, through
interaction with NFV-MANO.
#### 6.1.2.2 EM/DM
EM/DM is responsible for FCAPS management functionality for a VNF on an
application level and physical NE on a domain and element level. This mainly
includes:
\- Fault management for VNF and physical NE.
\- Configuration management for VNF and physical NE.
\- Accounting management for VNF and physical NE.
\- Performance measurement and collection for VNF and physical NE.
\- Security management for VNF and physical NE.
EM/DM participates in lifecycle management functionality for a VNF. This
includes:
\- Request the lifecycle management operation for a VNF to VNFM.
\- Exchange of information regarding the VNF and Virtualized Resources
associated with the VNF.
#### 6.1.2.3 NFV-MANO
NFV-MANO is composed of NFV Orchestrator (NFVO), VNF Manager (VNFM) and VIM.
The main functionalities of those are defined in ETSI GS NFV-MAN 001 [3].
#### 6.1.2.4 NFVI
NFVI is composed of the hardware and software components that together provide
the infrastructure resources where VNFs are deployed. The infrastructure
resources contain the hardware resources, virtualization layer software and
the virtualized resources which the VNF relies on. The main functionalities
are defined in ETSI GS NFV-MAN 001 [3].
## 6.2 Management interfaces
### 6.2.1 Overview
The following clauses describe the high level functionalities of the Itf-N
interface, the Os-Ma-nfvo, Ve-Vnfm-em and Ve-Vnfm-vnf reference points from
3GPP perspective.
### 6.2.2 Itf-N
The interface is used for FCAPS exchanges between NM and EM/DM, which includes
both VNF and physical NE FCAPS management functions.
### 6.2.3 Os-Ma-nfvo
This reference point is used for NS lifecycle management, NS performance
management, NS fault management, NSD management and VNF Package management
produced by NFVO as defined by ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [9].
### 6.2.4 Ve-Vnfm-em and Ve-Vnfm-vnf
These reference points are mainly used for VNF lifecycle management, the
information delivery of VNF and VR failure or performance measurement
information and virtualization configuration, etc.
#