# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
TS 28.515 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Requirements\".
TS 28.516 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Procedures\".
**TS 28.517 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; stage 2\".**
TS 28.518 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Stage 3\".
# 1 Scope
The present document is Fault Management stage 2 specification for mobile
networks that include virtualized network functions which can be part of EPC
or IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.515: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[5] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 (V2.1.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point -- Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [6] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [6] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [6].
# 4 General descriptions
For VNF Fault Management stage 2 solution over Itf-N, the Alarm IRP IS is
applicable. The overall architectural feature of Alarm IRP is specified in TS
32.111-2 [2]. The Alarm IRP IS defines the semantics of alarms and the
interactions visible across the reference point in a protocol neutral way. It
defines the semantics of the operations and notifications visible in the Alarm
IRP. It does not define the syntax or encoding of the operations,
notifications and their parameters. For the purpose of notification,
Notification IRP [3] is needed.
# 5 Information model definition
## 5.1 Itf-N
For Itf-N VNF alarm management, the IOCs defined by AlarmIRP which is
specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [2] shall be used.
## 5.2 Os-Ma-nfvo
None.
## 5.3 Ve-Vnfm-em
For Ve-Vnfm-em alarm management, the information elements and notifications
which are specified in subclause 9.3 of IFA 008 [5] for VNF alarm management
shall be used.
## 5.4 Ve-Vnfm-vnf
None.
## 5.5 Mapping rule for alarm information elements
### 5.5.1 For construction of notifyNewAlarm
The following table shows the rule on how to construct the various attributes
of notifyNewAlarm (see clause 6.8.1 of TS 32.111-2 [2]).
The first column shows the notifyNewAlarm notification attributes.
The second column shows the \"**Attributes of the Alarm information element\"
(see clause 9.3.4.2 of [5]) used by AlarmNotification (see clause 9.3.2 of
[5]) produced by VNFM.**
Table 5.5.1: Mapping rule for notifyNewAlarm
* * *
NotifyNewAlarm attributes of TS 32.111-2 [2] Attributes of Alarm information
elements in AlarmNotification of [5] Notes objectClass This and the next 3GPP
defined attribute are used for the DN of an MOI (whose attribute
vnfInstanceIdList contains one vnfInstanceId). objectInstance See above
notificationId See entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] eventTime
eventTime  
systemDN See entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] notificationType See
entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] probableCause probableCause  
perceivedSeverity perceivedSeverity  
rootCauseIndicator isRootCause  
alarmType faultType  
specificProblem faultDetails  
correlatedNotifications correlatedAlarmId  
backedUpStatus Not used backUpObject Not used trendIndication Not used
thresholdInfo Not used stateChangeDefinition Not used monitoredAttributes Not
used proposedRepairActions Not used additionalText See entry in Table 6.8.1.2
of TS 32.111-2 [2] additionalInformation managedObjectId, vnfcId This is a
list of two elements (encoded as strings) separatred by a semicolon. The first
element is a string "vnfId:abc" where 'abc' is managedObjectId (of second
column). The second element is a string "vnfcId:xyz" where xyz is the vnfcid
(of second column). alarmId alarmId
* * *
### 5.5.2 For construction of notifyClearedAlarm
The following table shows the rule on how to construct the various attributes
of notifyClearedAlarm (see clause 6.8.3 of TS 32.111-2 [2]).
The first column shows the notifyClearedAlarm notification attributes.
The second column shows the "**Attributes of the AlarmClearedNotification (see
clause 9.3.3.3 of [5]) produced by VNFM.**
Table 5.5.2: Mapping rule for notifyClearedAlarm
* * *
NotifyClearedAlarm attributes of TS 32.111-2 [2] Attributes of Alarm
information elements in AlarmNotification of [5] Notes objectClass See Notes
of Table 5.5.1 objectInstance See Notes of Table 5.5.1 notificationId See
entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] eventTime alarmClearedTime  
systemDN See entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] notificationType See
entry in Table 6.8.3.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] probableCause Use the probableCause
of the related notifyNewAlarm perceivedSeverity Use the value 'cleared'.
alarmType Use the alarmType of the related notifyNewAlarm. correlated
Notifications See entry in Table 6.8.3.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] clearUserId Not
used. clearSystemId Not used alarmId alarmId
* * *
### 5.5.3 For construction of notifyChangedAlarm
The following table shows the rule on how to construct the various attributes
of notifyChangedAlarm (see clause 6.8.1 of TS 32.111-2 [2]).
The first column shows the notifyChangedAlarm notification attributes.
The second column shows the "**Attributes of the Alarm information element"
(see clause 9.3.4.2 of [5]) used by AlarmNotification (see clause 9.3.2 of
[5]) produced by VNFM.**
Table 5.5.3: Mapping rule for notifyChangedAlarm
* * *
NotifyChangedAlarm attributes of TS 32.111-2 [2] Attributes of Alarm
information elements in AlarmNotification of [5] Notes objectClass See Notes
of Table 5.5.1 objectInstance See Notes of Table 5.5.1 notificationId See
entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] eventTime alarmChangedTime  
systemDN See entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] notificationType See
entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] probableCause probableCause  
perceivedSeverity perceivedSeverity  
alarmType faultType  
alarmId alarmId
* * *
### 5.5.4 For construction of notifyAckStateChangedAlarm
The following table shows the rule on how to construct the various attributes
of notifyAckStateChangedAlarm (see clause 6.8.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2]).
The first column shows the notifyAckStateChangedAlarm notification attributes.
The second column shows the "**Attributes of the Alarm information element"
(see clause 9.3.4.2 of [5]) used by AlarmNotification (see clause 9.3.2 of
[5]) produced by VNFM.**
Table 5.5.4: Mapping rule for notifyAckStateChangedAlarm
* * *
NotifyAckStateChangedAlarm attributes of [3] Attributes of Alarm information
elements in AlarmNotification of [2] Notes objectClass See Notes of Table
5.5.1 objectInstance See Notes of Table 5.5.1 notificationId See entry in
Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2 [2] eventTime eventTime  
systemDN See above notificationType See entry in Table 6.8.1.2 of TS 32.111-2
[2] probableCause probableCause  
perceived Severity perceivedSeverity  
alarmType faultType  
alarmId alarmId  
ackState ackState  
ackUserId  
ackSystemId
* * *
# 6 Interface definition
## 6.1 Itf-N
For Itf-N VNF alarm management, the operations and notifications defined by
AlarmIRP which is specified in 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [2] shall be used.
## 6.2 Ve-Vnfm-em
For REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-1 specified in 3GPP TS 28.515 [4], the Notify
operation specified in clause 7.5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [5] shall be used.
For REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2 specified in 3GPP TS 28.515 [4], the Notify
operation specified in clause 7.5.3 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [5] shall be used.
For REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-3 specified in 3GPP TS 28.515 [4], the Heal VNF
operation specified in clause 7.2.10 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [5] shall be used.
For REQ-NFV_FM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4 specified in 3GPP TS 28.515 [4], the Subscribe
operation specified in clause 7.5.2 of ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [5] shall be used.
#