# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
> TS 28.520: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements.
>
> **TS 28.521: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures.**
>
> TS 28.522: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2.
>
> TS 28.523: Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM) for
> mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Performance Management procedures for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions S.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.412:\"Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-IFA008 V2.1.1 (2016-10): \"Network Function Virtualization
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm Reference Point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.426: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Packet Core (EPC) network\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Concept, architecture and
requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], in 3GPP TS 28.500 [3] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [7].
# 4 Performance Management procedures
## 4.1 Introduction
The procedures listed in clause 4, as some of all the possibilities, are not
exhaustive.
## 4.2 Threshold creation for monitoring the 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR
Figure 4.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how the 3GPP NF performanc
measurements related VR threshold crossing notification is generated. If the
threshold is created to monitor a performance measurement directly without
association with a PM job, then step 1 to 4 are not needed:
1\. NM sends a request to EM to create a measurement job (see clause 7.3.1 of
[2]) to collect the 3GPP NF performanc measurements related VR. The job is
defined by the parameters, such as iOCName and iOCInstanceList ... etc. as
listed in clause 7.3.1.2 of [2].
2\. EM sends a request with sourceSelector, performanceMetric,
performanceMetricGroup, collectionPeriod, reportingPeriod, reportingBoundary
(see clause 7.6.2.2 of [3]), to VNFM to create a PM job to collect VNF/VNFC PM
data related to VR.
3\. VNFM sends a response with pmJobId (see clause 7.6.2.3 of [3]) to EM to
indicate the PM job that has been created.
4\. EM sends a response to NM with jobId that is mapped from pmJobId, and
status = Success (see clause 7.3.1.3 of [2]).
5\. NM sends a request to EM to create thresholds (see clause 7.4.1 of [2])
that are defined by parameters, such as iOCName, iOCInstanceList, and
thresholdInfoList (see clause 7.4.1.2 of [2]) to monitor the 3GPP NF
performance measurements related VR.
6\. EM sends a request to VNFM with sourceSelector, performanceMetric,
thresholdType, thresholdDetails (see clause 7.6.7.2 of [3]), to create the
thresholds for monitoring the measurement types specified in sourceSelector.
7\. VNFM sends a response to EM with thresholdId (see clause 7.6.7.3 of [3])
to indicate the identifiers of thresholds that have been created.
8\. EM sends a response to NM with monitorId, and status = Success (see clause
7.4.1.3 of [2]).
9\. NM sends a request to EM to subscribe the 3GPP NF performance measurements
related VR threshold crossing notification (see clause 6.3.1 of [4]).
10\. EM sends a request with filter (see clause 7.6.4.2 of [3]) to VNFM to
subscribe the VNF/VNFC performance information related VR threshold crossing
notification.
11\. VNFM sends a response with subscriptionId (see clause 7.6.4.3 of [3]) to
EM to indicate the notification subscription that has been subscribed.
12\. EM sends a response to NM to indicate that the 3GPP NF performance
measurements related VR threshold crossing notification has been subscribed
(see clause 6.3.1 of [4]).
13\. VNFM sends a notification with thresholdId, crossingDirection,
objectInstanceId, performanceMetric, performanceValue (see clause 9.7.9.3 of
[3]) to EM to indicate the threshold identified by objectInstanceId has been
crossed.
14\. EM sends a notification with the object instance ID to NM to indicate
that the threshold identified by object instance has been crossed.
Figure 4.2-1: 3GPP NF performance measurements related VR threshold crossing
notification procedure
## 4.3 VNF PM data related to VR job creation procedure
Figure 4.3-1 depicts a procedure that describes how VNF PM data related to VR
job is created:
> 1\. EM sends a _CreatePmJobRequest_ to VNFM with the following parameters
> (see clause 7.6.2.2 of [3]) to create a PM job:
\- sourceSelector: It identifies the VNF/VNFC for which the PM data is to be
collected.
\- performanceMetric or performanceMetricGroup: It defines the type of
performance metric(s), or the group of performance metric(s). Only one of the
two is present.
\- collectionPeriod: it specifies the periodicity at which the VNFM will
collect performance information.
\- reportingPeriod: It specifies the periodicity at which the VNFM will report
to the EM about performance information,
\- reportingBoundary: It identifies a boundary after which the reporting will
stop, and is optional.
2\. VNFM sends a _CreatePmJobResponse_ to EM with pmJobId (see clause 7.6.2.3
of [3]) to indicate the PM job that has been created.
Figure 4.3-1: VNF PM data related to VR job creation procedure
## 4.4 VNF PM data related to VR subscription procedure
Figure 4.4-1 depicts a procedure that describes howto create a subscription to
monitor VNF PM data related to VR:
1\. EM sends a _SubscribeRequest_ to VNFM with filter (see clause 7.6.4.2 of
[3]) to subscribe the VNF PM data related to VR available notification.
2\. VNFM sends a _SubscribeResponse_ to EM with subscriptionId (see clause
7.6.4.3 of [3]) to indicate the notification subscription that has been
subscribed.
Figure 4.4-1: subscription for VNF PM data related to VR procedure
## 4.5 VNF PM data related to VR available notification procedure
Figure 4.5-1 depicts a procedure that describes how VNF PM data related to VR
available notification is generated. EM has subscribed to receive the
notification from VNFM. NM has subscribed to receive the notification from EM:
1\. VNFM invokes an operation called Notify (see clause 7.6.5 of [3]) to send
a _PerformanceInformationAvailableNotification_ to EM (see clause 9.7.8 of
[3]) with objectInstanceId, the identifier of the VNF or VNFC instances (see
clause 9.7.8.3 of [3]), to indicate the VNF PM data related to VR identified
by objectInstanceId is available.
2\. EM invokes a notification called _notifyFileReady_ (see clause 6.5.1 of
[5]) to NM with object instance IDs to indicate that the VNF PM data related
to VR identified by object instance ID is available.
Figure 4.5-1: VNF PM data related to VR available notification procedure
## 4.6 PM job deletion for VNF/VNFC performance measurements related to VR
Figure 4.6-1 depicts a procedure PM job deletion for VNF/VNFC performance
measurements related to VR.
> 1\. EM sends a _DeletePmJobRequest_ to VNFM with the pmJobId (see clause
> 7.4.3.2 of [3]) to identify the PM jobs to be deleted.
2\. VNFM sends a _DeletePmJobResponse_ to EM with deletedPmJobId (see clause
7.4.3.3 of [3]) to identifiy the PM jobs that have been deleted.
Figure 4.6-1: PM job deletion for VNF/VNFC performance measurements related to
VR
## 4.7 Measurement job suspension for 3GPP NF performance measurements related
to VR
Figure 4.7-1 depicts a procedure on measurement job suspension for 3GPP NF
performance measurements related to VR:
1\. NM invokes the suspendMeasurementJob operation (see clause 7.3.3 of [2])
with jobId to request EM to suspend the measurement job for 3GPP NF
performance measurements related to VR.
2\. EM stops the reporting of the measurement result data for the measurement
job identified by the jobId.
3\. EM responses the suspendMeasurementJob operation (see clause 7.3.1 of [2])
to NM with the result of the measurement job suspension.
Figure 4.7-1: Measurement job suspension for 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR
## 4.8 Measurement job resumption for 3GPP NF performance measurements related
to VR
Figure 4.8-1 depicts a procedure on measurement job resumption for 3GPP NF
performance measurements related to VR:
1\. NM invokes the resumeMeasurementJob operation (see clause 7.3.3 of [2])
with jobId to request EM to resume the measurement job for 3GPP NF performance
measurements related to VR.
2\. If the PM jobs used to support the measurement job identified by the jobId
do not exist anymore, EM requests VNFM to create the PM job(s), according to
the procedure defined in clause 4.3.
3\. EM resumes the reporting of the measurement result data for the
measurement job identified by the jobId.
4\. EM responses the resumeMeasurementJob operation (see clause 7.3.1 of [2])
to NM with the result of the measurement job resumption.
Figure 4.8-1: Measurement job resumption for 3GPP NF performance measurements
related to VR
## 4.9 Performance alarm notification procedure for NF performance
measurements related to VR
Figure 4.9-1 depicts a procedure that describes how EM can generate a
performance alarm when threshold crossing notifications are received from
VNFM. It is assumed that EM has subscribed to receive the threshold crossing
notification from VNFM:
1\. VNFM sends a _ThresholdCrossedNotification_ with the following parameters
(see clause 9.7.9.3 of [3]) to EM to indicate the threshold that has been
crossed:
\- thresholdId: identifies the threshold which has been crossed.
\- crossingDirection: indicates whether the threshold was crossed in upward or
downward direction.
\- objectInstanceId: identifies the VNF or VNFC instance for which the
threshold has been crossed.
\- performanceMetric: indicates the performance metric associated with the
threshold.
\- performanceValue: indicates the value of the metric that resulted in
threshold crossing.
2\. EM maps the performanceValue to the performance measurements for 3GPP NF
related to VR, and determines whether or which alarm notification (i.e.,
notifyNewAlarm, notifyChangedAlarm or notifyClearedAlarm for the measurements
defined in TS 32.426 [6]) should be sent to NM (see Annex B in [2]), based on
the ThresholdMonitor created by NM (see clause 7.4.1.1 in [2]).
Note: How EM to perform mapping depends on the definition/specification of
\"performance measurements for 3GPP NF related to VR\" and of
performanceMetric, which are not defined in the present specification.
3\. If an alarm needs to be generated:
3.1. EM saves the performance alarm to the AlarmList.
3.2.a. If the performance alarm is a new alarm, then EM sends a
_notifyNewAlarm_ notification to NM.
> 3.2.b. If the performance alarm is a changed alarm, then EM sends to NM
> either a _notifyChangedAlarm_ notification, or _notifyClearedAlarm_ follow
> by a _notifyNewAlarm_ notifications if _notifyChangedAlarm_ is not
> supported.
3.2.c. If the performance alarm is a cleared alarm, then EM sends a
_notifyClearedAlarm_ notification to NM.
Figure 4.9-1: Performance alarm notification procedure\ for NF performance
measurements related to VR
#