# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies use cases, requirements, management services
and procedures for provisioning of 5G networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V2.4.1) (2018-02): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Release 2; Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point -
Interface and Information Model Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.261 \"Service requirements for next generation new services and
markets\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.526: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects;System Architecture for the 5G System;Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;NR;
NR and NG-RAN Overall Description;Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 28.530 [4] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] and TS 28.530 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 28.530 [4] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSMF Communication Service Management Function
CSP Communication Service Provider
CP Control Plane
IOC Information Object Class
MANO Management and Orchestration
MnS Management Service
NF Network Function
NFV Network Functions Virtualisation
NRM Network Resource Model
NSaaS Network Slice as a Service
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSMF Network Slice Management Function
NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
NSSMF Network Slice Subnet Management Function
TN Transport Network
VNF Virtualized Network Function
UP User Plane
# 4 General
## 4.1 Overview
5G system consists of 5G Access Network (AN), 5G Core Network (5GC). Network
slicing is one of 5G key features.
The management aspects of a Network Slice Instance (NSI) are described by the
four phases shown in Figure 4.3.1.1 of TS 28.530 [4].
The provisioning of network slicing includes the four phases which are
preparation, commissioning, operation and decommissioning:
\- In the preparation phase the NSI does not exist. The preparation phase
includes network slice design, on-boarding, evaluation of the network slice
requirements, preparing the network environment and other necessary
preparations required to be done before the creation of an NSI.
\- During the NSI lifecycle stage which include commissioning phase, operation
phase and decommissioning phase, the NSI provisioning operations include:
\- Create an NSI;
\- Activate an NSI;
\- Deactivate an NSI;
\- Modify an NSI;
\- Terminate an NSI.
The operations of the provisioning of an NSI occurs during different phases of
a NSI:
a) During the commissioning phase:
\- Create an NSI.
> During NSI creation all resources to the NSI have been created and
> configured to satisfy the network slice requirements. NSI creation may
> trigger NSSI(s) creation or using existing NSSI(s) and setting up the
> corresponding associations.
b) During the operation phase:
\- Activate an NSI;
\- Modify an NSI;
\- Deactivate an NSI.
NSI activation includes any actions that make the NSI active to provide
communication services. NSI activation may trigger NSSI activation.
NSI modification in operation phase could map to several workflows, e.g.
changes of NSI capacity, changes of NSI topology, NSI reconfiguration. NSI
modification can be triggered by receiving new network slice related
requirements, new communication service requirements, or the result of NSI
supervision automatically. NSI modification may trigger NSSI modification.
The NSI deactivation operation may be needed before NSI modification operation
and the NSI activation operation may be needed after the NSI modification
operation. NSI deactivation includes any actions that make the NSI inactive
and not providing any communication services. NSI deactivation trigger NSSI
deactivation to deactivate constituent NSSI(s) which is not used by other
NSI(s). Operator may decide to keep the NSI without termination after
deactivation and reactivate it when receives new communication service
request.
c) During the decommissioning phase:
\- Terminate an NSI.
> NSI termination step includes any action that make the NSI does not exist
> anymore and release resources that are not used by other NSI(s). NSI
> termination may trigger NSSI termination to terminate constituent NSSI(s)
> which is not used by other NSI(s).
Similarly, provisioning for network slice subnet instance includes the
following operations:
\- Create an NSSI;
\- Activate an NSSI and associate it with certain NSI to be used by the NSI;
\- Disassociate the NSSI with certain NSI and deactivate the NSSI if it's not
associated with any NSI;
\- Modify an NSSI;
\- Terminate an NSSI.
The following are NSSI states:
**NSSI_NULL** \-- the NSSI does not exist
**NSSI_NOT_IN_USE** \-- the NSSI exists, but is not used by (associated with)
any NSI or NSSI
**NSSI_IN_USE** \-- the NSSI is used by (associated with) at least one NSI or
at least one NSSI
The following is the state diagram:
Figure 4.1-1
## 4.2 Configuration information for the constituents of an NSI
To use network slice to support communication service or deliver a network
slice as a service, the 3GPP defined constituents of the NSI should be
configured by 3GPP management system according to the types and requirements
of the network slice so that the NSI can be operated and maintained.
The configuration information of these components may include:
_\- Information on the requirements to be applied to every NSI constituent to
satisfy the requirements of multiple NSIs_ if the constituent is shared by
multiple NSIs;
_\- Network function selection information:_ Information on the selection of
the NFs (e.g., AMF) according to the requirements of this NSI;
_\- Connection information_ : _The information of the logical links to carry
the NSI's CP and UP data between the component and other NFs and NSSIs
belonging to the NSI._
NOTE 1: The list of information above is not exhaustive.
NOTE 2: The list of information above is not all necessary for an NSI.
## 4.3 General information for network slice instance
The general information used to describe network slice instance may include:
\- Resource model information, which describes the static parameters and
functional components of network slice, includes service profile, network
slice type (e.g. eMBB), additional system feature (e.g. multicast, Edge
Computing), priority.
\- Management model information, which describes the information model that is
used for network slice lifecycle management, includes configuration profile
(e.g. application configuration parameters).
\- Capability model information, which describes the capability including
supported communication service characteristic information (e.g. service type,
UE mobility level, density of users, traffic density), QoS attributes (e.g.
bandwidth, latency, throughput and so on) and capacity (e.g. maximum number of
UEs), can be exposed to CSC via CSMF.
## 4.4 General information for network slice subnet instance
The general information used to describe network slice subnet instance may
include:
\- Resource model information, which describes the static parameters and
functional component of network slice subnet, includes slice profile, network
slice subnet type (e.g. RAN eMBB, CN eMBB), additional system feature (e.g.
multicast, Edge Computing), priority, QoS attributes (e.g. bandwidth, latency,
number of subscribers and so on), NSD ID.
\- Management model information, which describes the information model that is
used for network slice subnet lifecycle management, includes configuration
profile (e.g. application configuration parameters).
\- Capability model information, which describes the capability including
supported communication service characteristic information (e.g. service type,
UE mobility level, density of users, traffic density), QoS attributes (e.g.
bandwidth, latency, throughput and so on) and capacity (e.g. maximum number of
UEs).
## 4.5 General information for service profile
Depending on industry requirements and operator's design requirements,
different service profiles may be used to represent SLS associated with
instances of Network Slice IOC.
The following are examples for service profile:
\- A service profile is used to capture a set of requirements for the new
network slice instance such as (i.e. eMBB, MIoT, URLLC).
\- A service profile is used to capture a set of specific industry
requirements for creation of network slice instance such as (e.g. V2X, smart
grid, Remote Healthcare).
## 4.6 General information for network slice related identifiers
There are following network slice related identifiers which serve different
purposes:
* * *
**Identifier** **Description** **Identifiers for network slice management
purpose**  
NetworkSlice identifier Represent the management identifier of network slice
instance. Management identifier of network slice instance is defined in TS
28.541[6] as objectinstance attribute of NetworkSlice IOC. NetworkSliceSubnet
identifier Represent the management identifier for a network slice subnet
instance. Management identifier of network slice subnet instance is defined in
TS 28.541[6] as objectinstance attribute of NetworkSliceSubnet IOC.
**Identifiers for network slice selection purpose**  
NSI ID Represent Core Network part of a Network Slice instance when multiple
Network Slice instances of the same Network Slice are deployed, and there is a
need to differentiate between them in the 5GC. Referred to TS 23.501[9].
S-NSSAI Represent network slice. Referred to TS 23.501[9] and TS 38.300[10].
PLMN ID Represent PLMN identifier.
* * *
The NSI ID and S-NSSAI are configured by the management system.
# 5 Specification level requirements
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Network slice instance allocation
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To satisfy request for allocation of a network slice instance with
certain characteristics, by creation of new or using existing network slice
instance.
**Actors and Roles** CSMF, who acts as an example of network slice management
service consumer.\  
NOP operator
**Telecom resources** Network slice instance\  
Network slice subnet instance\  
Transport network\  
NSMF, who acts as an example of network slice management service provider.\  
NSSMF, who acts as an example of network slice subnet management service
provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** NSMF receives the request for allocation of the network slice
instance with network slice related requirements.
**Step 1 (M)** If the requested NSI can be shared and if an existing NSI can
be used, the NSMF decides to use the existing NSI.\  
Modification of the existing NSI may be needed to satisfy the network slice
instance related requirements. Use case is completed go to "Step 8\".\  
Otherwise, the NSMF triggers to create a new NSI, for which the following
steps 2 -- 8 are needed.
**Step 2 (M)** NSMF decides on the constituent NSSIs and the topology of the
NSI to be created using the information from service profile [6]. For the
constituent NSSIs, the NSMF derives network slice subnet related requirements
from the network slice related requirements. If reconfiguration of the
transport network is needed, the NSMF derives transport network related
requirements (e.g., latency, bandwidth) from the network slice related
requirements.
**Step 3 (M)** For the required NSSI(s), the NSMF sends network slice subnet
related requirements to the NSSMF to request allocation of the required
NSSI(s). Network slice subnet instance allocation use case
**Step 4 (M)** NSMF receives the information of the allocated NSSI(s) (e.g,
the management identifier of NSSI, service access point information of NSSI,
external connection point information of NSSI) from NSSMF.
**Step 5 (M)** NSMF, via NSSMF, sends the transport network related
requirements (e.g. , external connection point, latency and bandwidth) to the
TN Manager. The TN manager reconfigures the TN accordingly and responds to the
NSMF via NSSMF.
**Step 6 (M)** NSMF receives the response from TN Manager via NSSMF.
**Step 7 (M)** NSMF associates the NSSI(s) with the corresponding NSI (e.g,
allocation of the management identifier of NSI and mapping the management
identifier of NSI with the received management Identifier of NSSI(s)) and
triggers to establish the links between the service access points of the
NSSI(s).
**Step 8 (M)** NSMF notifies the network slice instance information of NSI
(e.g., the management identifier of NSI).
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** An NSI is ready to satisfy the network slice related
requirements.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-1, REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-3.
* * *
### 5.1.2 Network slice subnet instance allocation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | Create a new network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance or use an | | | | existing network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet related | | | | requirements; | | | | provide the | | | | provisioning service | | | | consumer with | | | | identity of the NFVO | | | | which the consumer | | | | can use for further | | | | access to the | | | | information of the | | | | involved VNFs, PNFs | | | | and NSs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NSMF, who acts as an | | | | example of network | | | | slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network Slice Subnet | | | resources** | instance\ | | | | Network Service | | | | instance\ | | | | NSSMF, who acts as | | | | an example of | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider.\ | | | | The operator | | | | deployed NFVO to | | | | manage the lifecycle | | | | of VNFs and | | | | interconnection | | | | between the VNFs and | | | | PNFs in terms of the | | | | NS instances. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance may include | | | | network functions | | | | which are | | | | virtualized. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | VNF Packages for | | | | virtualized network | | | | functions to be | | | | included in the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance have been | | | | already on-boarded. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The NSMF sends to | | | | the NSSMF a request | | | | for a NSSI to be | | | | associated with the | | | | NSI; the request | | | | contains network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements | | | | including the | | | | SliceProfile [6]. | | | | | | | | NSSMF receives | | | | request for a | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance. The | | | | request contains | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related requirements | | | | in TS 28.541 [6]. | | | | The request may | | | | include guidance for | | | | use of particular | | | | NFVO(s) when VNFs | | | | and PNFs in certain | | | | part of the network | | | | are involved. The | | | | request may also | | | | include query of the | | | | identity of the NFVO | | | | to be used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Based on the network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements | | | | received, NSSMF | | | | decides to create a | | | | new NSSI or use an | | | | existing NSSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | If an existing | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance is decided | | | | to be used, NSSMF | | | | may trigger to | | | | modify the existing | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance to satisfy | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet related | | | | requirements. Go to | | | | "Step 8".\ | | | | Otherwise, NSSMF | | | | triggers to create a | | | | new NSSI, the | | | | following steps are | | | | needed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | If the required NSSI | | | | contains constituent | | | | NSSI(s) managed by | | | | other NSSMF(s), the | | | | first NSSMF derives | | | | the requirements for | | | | the constituent | | | | NSSI(s) and sends | | | | those requirements | | | | to the corresponding | | | | NSSMF(s) which | | | | manages the | | | | constituent NSSI(s). | | | | | | | | The first NSSMF | | | | receives the | | | | constituent NSSI | | | | information from the | | | | other NSSMF(s) and | | | | associates the | | | | constituent NSSI(s) | | | | with the required | | | | NSSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | Based on the network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements | | | | received and | | | | SliceProfile [6], | | | | the NSSMF decides | | | | that to satisfy the | | | | NSSI requirements, | | | | the part of the | | | | network controlled | | | | by certain NFVO | | | | should be involved. | | | | The NSSMF determines | | | | the NS related | | | | requirements (i.e., | | | | information about | | | | the target NSD and | | | | additional | | | | parameterization for | | | | the specific NS to | | | | instantiate, see | | | | clause 7.3.3 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA013 | | | | [3]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | Based on the NS | TS 28.525 [2] | | | related | Clause 6.4.3 NS | | | requirements, NSSMF | instance use cases | | | triggers | | | | corresponding NS | | | | instantiation | | | | request to NFVO via | | | | Os-Ma-nfvo interface | | | | as described in | | | | clause 6.4.3 in TS | | | | 28.525 [2], and | | | | the NFVO performs NS | | | | instantiation(see | | | | note). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | NSSMF associates the | | | | NS instance with | | | | corresponding | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance (e.g., | | | | allocation of the | | | | management | | | | identifier of NSSI | | | | and mapping with the | | | | corresponding | | | | identifiers). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | NSSMF is using the | NF provisioning | | | NF provisioning | service | | | service to configure | | | | the NSSI | | | | constituents. | | | | | | | | In case of RAN NSSI, | | | | the configuration | | | | contains RRM policy | | | | information for | | | | individual Radio | | | | cells. In the cells | | | | shared by multiple | | | | NSSIs such policy | | | | includes guidance | | | | for split of Radio | | | | resources between | | | | the NSSIs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 8 (M)** | NSSMF notifies the | | | | provisioning service | | | | consumer with the | | | | NSSI information | | | | (e.g. the management | | | | identifier of NSSI) | | | | and the NFVO | | | | identity when | | | | relevant. The NSMF | | | | associates the NSSI | | | | with the NSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | A NSSI is ready to | | | | satisfy the network | | | | slice subnet related | | | | requirements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-6, | | | | R | | | | EQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-14. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: According to | | | | the TS 28.525 [2], | | | | for the PNFs, NS | | | | instantiation | | | | includes only | | | | establishment of | | | | interconnection with | | | | other NFs. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.3 Network slice instance deallocation
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To deallocate a network slice instance.
**Actors and Roles** CSMF, who acts as an example of network slice management
service consumer.\  
NOP Operator
**Telecom resources** Network slice instance\  
Network slice subnet instances\  
NSMF, who acts as an example of network slice management service provider.\  
NSSMF, who acts as an example of network slice subnet management service
provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** NSMF receives the request indicating that an existing NSI is
no longer needed to support particular service (identified by service profile
Id). The NSI identification is included in the request.
**Step 1 (M)** Based on the request, NSMF deletes the corresponding slice
profile and checks if there are other services to be supported by the NSI. If
there are none the NSMF may decide to terminate the NSI; then proceed to Step
2.\ NSI modification use case Otherwise, NSMF may decide to trigger to modify
the NSI or to do nothing.\  
The use case is completed; go to step 5.
**Step 2 (M)** If the NSI to be terminated is active, NSMF de-activates the
NSI. Then, the NSI to be terminated is inactive. NSI de-activation use case
**Step 3 (M)** NSMF identifies the network slice subnet instances used by the
NSI, and for every such NSSI sends the request to the corresponding NSSMF(s)
indicating that the NSSI(s) are no longer needed for the NSI. NSSMF(s) may
decide to terminate or modify the NSSI(s) based on the request and
disassociates them with the NSI.
**Step 4 (M)** NSMF receives the response from NSSMF(s) and terminates the
NSI.
**Step 5 (M)** NSMF notifies its consumer of the NSI allocation.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed or
skipped per condition in the Step 1.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NSI has been deallocated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-3
* * *
### 5.1.4 Network slice subnet instance deallocation
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To deallocate a network | | | | slice subnet instance.. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For example, | | | | NSMF plays the role of | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance\ | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. For example, | | | | NSSMF plays the role of | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related request from | | | | its authorized consumer | | | | indicating that an | | | | existing NSSI is no | | | | longer needed to | | | | support a particular | | | | set of network slice | | | | subnet requirements | | | | identified by a slice | | | | profile id). The NSSI | | | | identification is | | | | included in the | | | | request. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Based on the request, | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider decides | | | | whether the NSSI should | | | | be terminated. | | | | | | | | If the decision is the | | | | NSSI should be | | | | terminated, go to the | | | | Step 2. | | | | | | | | If the decision is that | | | | the NSSI should not be | | | | terminated (e.g. the | | | | NSSI is shared or | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider decides to | | | | keep the NSSI for later | | | | use), network slice | | | | subnet management | | | | service provider | | | | disassociates the NSSI | | | | from its consumer and | | | | provides feedback to | | | | the authorized | | | | consumer, maybe with | | | | removing its consumer's | | | | configuration or not. | | | | Go to Step 5. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | If the NSSI consists of | | | | constituent NSSIs that | | | | are not managed | | | | directly by the network | | | | slice subnet management | | | | service provider, the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider sends request | | | | to other network slice | | | | subnet management | | | | service provider | | | | indicating that the | | | | constituent NSSIs are | | | | no longer needed for | | | | the NSSI. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | If the NSSI is | | | | associated with NS | | | | instance, network slice | | | | subnet management | | | | service provider | | | | disassociates the NS | | | | instance from the NSSI | | | | to be terminated, and | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider may trigger | | | | corresponding request | | | | to NFVO for terminating | | | | or updating (e.g. | | | | scaling-in) the NS | | | | instance. (see note). | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | If there exists | | | | transport network | | | | segment used by the | | | | NSSI, the network slice | | | | subnet management | | | | service provider may | | | | indicate that the | | | | transport network | | | | segment is no longer | | | | needed to support the | | | | NSSI. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider sends response | | | | to its consumer. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NSSI has been | | | | dealllocated. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO\\_NSSI-FUN-8, | | | | REQ-PRO\\_NSSI-FUN-11 | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | > NOTE: In case where | | | | > the NS instance is | | | | > not dedicated for the | | | | > NSSI, the network | | | | > slice subnet | | | | > provisioning | | | | > management service | | | | > provider does not | | | | > terminate the NS | | | | > instance. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.5 Obtaining network slice subnet instance information
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable network slice | | | | subnet management | | | | service consumer to | | | | obtain network slice | | | | subnet instance | | | | information (e.g. | | | | Slice/Service type, | | | | network slice subnet | | | | capability | | | | information). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For example, | | | | NSMF or NSSMF plays the | | | | role of network slice | | | | subnet management | | | | service consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance\ | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. For example, | | | | NSSMF plays the role of | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer is authorized | | | | to obtain the network | | | | slice subnet instance | | | | information from | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSSI is created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice subnet instance | | | | information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to network | | | | slice subnet management | | | | service provider to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice subnet instance | | | | information. | | | | | | | | The indication on which | | | | information needs to be | | | | obtained may be | | | | included in the | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider processes this | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider sends the | | | | result of network slice | | | | subnet instance | | | | information to network | | | | slice subnet management | | | | service consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer has obtained | | | | the network slice | | | | subnet instance | | | | information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-7. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.6 Network slice feasibility check
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To check the feasibility of provisioning a network slice to determine
whether the network slice requirements can be satisfied at a particular point
in time (e.g., in terms of resources)
**Actors and Roles** Network slice management service consumer. For example,
CSMF or CSP providing NSaaS plays the role of network slice management service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice management service provider. For example,
NSMF plays the role of network slice management service provider.
**Assumptions** Network slice management service consumer has decided to check
the feasibility of provisioning a network slice based on, for example,
internal decision or to facilitate an external service requests.
**Pre-conditions** Network slice requirements have been derived or received by
network slice management service consumer.
**Begins when** Network slice management service provider receives the request
to evaluate the feasibility of provisioning a network slice according to the
network slice requirements at a particular point in time.
**Step 1 (M)** Network slice management service provider identifies the
network slice subnets according to the requirements.
**Step 2 (M)** Network slice management service provider obtains the
information necessary to evaluate the feasibility of provisioning a network
slice by requesting the network slice subnets service provider(s) to evaluate
the availability of resources under their contol.
**Step 3 (M)** Network slice subnet management service provider(s) checks the
feasibility of provisioning a slice subnet(s) by analysing network
constituents to ensure that their capabilities, e.g., resources, management
services, etc. are (or will be) adequate to provision network slice instance,
satisfying all requirements without impacting existing services. For the
purpose of checking the feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet(s)
of the network slice , network slice subnet management service provider(s) may
obtain information from the network (e.g., current or predicted load level
information from the NWDAF). 5.1.21 Network slice subnet feasibility check
**Ends when** Feasibility check results have been provided to network slice
management service consumer.
**Exceptions** One of the mandatory steps fails.
**Post-conditions** N/A
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-12, REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-13, REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-8.
* * *
### 5.1.7 Network slice instance activation
* * *
**Use case stage** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** To activate an existing network slice instance which is inactive
**Actors and Roles** NetworkSliceActivation service consumer. For example,
CSMF or CSP providing NSaaS plays the role of NetworkSliceActivation service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice instance\  
NetworkSliceActivation service provider. For example, NSMF plays the role of
NetworkSliceActivation service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NSI has already been created and it is inactive.
**Begins when** The NetworkSliceActivation service provider decides to
activate an NSI based on the received network slice related request from its
authorized consumer.
**Step 1 (M)** NetworkSliceActivation service provider checks whether NSSIs
associated with the NSI are all active, if there is an inactive NSSI,
NetworkSliceActivation service provider requests NetworkSliceSubnetActivation
service provider to activate the corresponding NSSI. Network slice subnet
instance activation use case
**Step 2 (M)** NetworkSliceActivation service provider receives response from
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider indicating that the NSSI is
active.
**Step 3 (M)** NetworkSliceActivation service provider activates the NSI and
sends response to the requesting consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** An NSI has been activated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-4
* * *
### 5.1.8 Network slice instance deactivation
* * *
**Use case stage** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** To deactivate an existing network slice instance which is active.
**Actors and Roles** NetworkSliceActivation service consumer. For example,
CSMF or CSP providing NSaaS plays the role of NetworkSliceActivation service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice instance\  
NetworkSliceActivation service provider. For example, NSMF plays the role of
NetworkSliceActivation service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** NSI has already been created and it is active.
**Begins when** The NetworkSliceActivation service provider decides to
deactivate an NSI based on the received network slice related request from its
authorized consumer.
**Step 1 (M)** The NetworkSliceActivation service provider stops the NSI
serving its subscribers
**Step 2 (M)** NetworkSliceActivation service provider checks whether NSSIs
associated with the NSI are all inactive. If there is an active NSSI,
NetworkSliceActivation service provider requests NetworkSliceSubnetActivation
service provider to deactivate the corresponding NSSI.\ Network slice subnet
instance deactivation use case NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider
receives the request and decides if the NSSI will be disassociated and
deactivated.
**Step 3 (M)** The NetworkSliceActivation service provider receives response
from NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider that the NSSI deactivation
request has been processed.
**Step 4 (M)** NetworkSliceActivation service provider deactivates the NSI and
sends response to its authorized consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** An NSI has been deactivated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-5
* * *
### 5.1.9 Network slice instance modification
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To modify an | | | | existing network | | | | slice instance | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. See NOTE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice | | | resources** | instance\ | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. For | | | | example, NSMF plays | | | | the role of network | | | | slice management | | | | service provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | request from its | | | | authorized customer | | | | with new set of | | | | network slice | | | | related requirements | | | | and decides to | | | | modify an existing | | | | NSI. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider identifies | | | | the NSSI(s) | | | | associated with the | | | | NSI to be modified | | | | and generates | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related requirements | | | | for the NSSI(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | Network slice subnet | | | management service | instance | | | provider sends | modification use | | | requests to Network | case | | | Slic | | | | eSubnetConfiguration | | | | service provider | | | | with new sets of | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related | | | | requirements. | | | | | | | | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | request and decides | | | | whether the NSSI | | | | needs to be | | | | modified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider receives | | | | the response from | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. If the | | | | NSSI modification | | | | request cannot be | | | | satisfied by the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider, network | | | | slice management | | | | service provider may | | | | re-generate the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | related requirements | | | | for the NSSI and go | | | | to step 2, or | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider may decide | | | | the modification | | | | request cannot be | | | | satisfied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider sends | | | | response to its | | | | authorized consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NSI is modified. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-6 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: Examples of | | | | roles and actors for | | | | this use case can be | | | | found in TS 28.530 | | | | [4]. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.10 Network slice subnet instance activation
* * *
**Use case stage** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** To activate an existing network slice subnet instance which is
inactive.
**Actors and Roles** NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service consumer. For
example, NSMF or NSSMF plays the role of NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance\  
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider. For example, NSSMF plays the
role of NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NSSI has already been created and it is inactive.
**Begins when** The NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider decides to
activate an NSSI based on the received network slice subnet related request
from its authorized consumer.
**Step 1 (M)** The NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider identifies
inactive constituents (e.g. NSSI, NF) of the NSSI and decides to activate
those constituents.
**Step 2 (M)** If the constituent of NSSI is managed directly by the
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider, NetworkSliceSubnetActivation
service provider activates the NSSI constituent directly.
**Step 3 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is managed by other
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider, NetworkSliceSubnetActivation
service provider requests other NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider
to activate the constituent NSSI.
**Step 4 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is an NF managed by NF related
management service provider, the NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider
request NF related management service provider to activate the NF (e.g.,
activate the NF in sleep mode, turn on the ports).
**Step 5 (M)** NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider receives response
indicating that NSSI constituents are all activated.
**Step 6 (M)** NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider activates the
network slice subnet instance and sends response to its authorized consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** An NSSI has been activated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI--FUN-9
* * *
### 5.1.11 Network slice subnet instance deactivation
* * *
**Use case stage** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** To deactivate an existing network slice subnet instance which is
active.
**Actors and Roles** NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service consumer. For
example, NSMF or NSSMF plays the role of NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service
consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance\  
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider. For example, NSSMF plays the
role of NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NSSI has already been created and is active.
**Begins when** The NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider decides to
deactivate an NSSI based on the received network slice subnet related request
from its authorized customer.
**Step 1 (M)** The NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider identifies
the NSSI constituents that need to be deactivated.
**Step 2 (M)** If the constituent of NSSI is managed directly by the
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider, NetworkSliceSubnetActivation
service provider deactivates the NSSI constituent directly.
**Step 3 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is managed by other
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider, the
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider request other
NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider to deactivate the constituent
NSSI.
**Step 4 (M)** If an NSSI constituent is managed by NF related management
service provider, NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider requests NF
related management service provider to deactivate the NF.
**Step 5 (M)** NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider receives response
indicating that corresponding NSSI constituents are deactivated or not
deactivated (e.g., shared constituents cannot be deactivated).
**Step 6 (M)** NetworkSliceSubnetActivation service provider deactivates the
network slice subnet instance and send response to its authorized consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** A network slice subnet instance has been deactivated.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI--FUN-10
* * *
### 5.1.12 Network slice subnet instance modification
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To modify an existing network slice subnet instance
**Actors and Roles** NetworkSliceSubnet management service consumer.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance\  
NetworkSliceSubnet management service provider. For example, NSSMF plays the
role of NetworkSliceSubnet management service provider.
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** The NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider receives
request from its authorized consumer with new sets of network slice subnet
related requirements and decides to modify an existing NSSI.
**Step 1 (M)** The NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider identifies
the NSSI constituents as well as the transport network (TN) part within the
NSSI that needs to be modified, and generates new sets of requirements for the
NSSI constituents and transport network if needed.
**Step 2 (M)** The NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider checks
whether the requirements for the identified NSSI constituents managed by
itself could be satisfied, and then triggers the modification of the
corresponding NSSI constituents if needed.
**Step 3 (M)** If the NSSI consists of constituent NSSI managed by other
NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider, and the constituent NSSI is
identified to be modified, the NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider
sends modification request to other NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service
provider which manages the constituent NSSI with new sets of constituent NSSI
requirements. Network slice subnet instance modification use case
**Step 4 (M)** If the NS instance associated with the NSSI needs to be
modified, the NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider derives the new
sets of NS related requirements and triggers corresponding NS instance request
to NFVO with Os-Ma-nfvo interface as described in clause 6.4.3 in TS 28.525
[2]. TS 28.525 [2] Clause 6.4.3 NS instance use cases
**Step 5 (M)** If the related TN part of the NSSI is identified to be
modified, the NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider derives new sets
of requirements for the TN part and coordinates with the corresponding TN
management system.
**Step 6 (M)** The NetworkSliceSubnetmanagement service provider generates the
modification result based on the received response and send response to its
authorized consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NSSI is modified.
**Traceability** REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-11
* * *
### 5.1.13 Network slice subnet configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To provide service for | | | | slice-specific | | | | (re)configuration of | | | | NSSI. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NSS management service | | | | consumer (e.g., the | | | | operator or NSMF) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NSS management service | | | | provider (e.g., NSSMF) | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | instance | | | | | | | | NF(s) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Authorized NSS | | | | management service | | | | consumer provide slice | | | | operation information | | | | (see 4.2) for | | | | (re-)configuring NSSI | | | | constituents. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSSI exists. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NSS management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | (re-)configure the | | | | constituents of a NSSI. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NSS management service | | | | consumer sends requests | | | | to NSS management | | | | service provider with | | | | slice operation | | | | information for | | | | (re-)configuring a | | | | network slice subnet. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NSS management service | | | | provider (derives and) | | | | decomposes the received | | | | slice operation | | | | information, and then | | | | makes them as separate | | | | CM requests for each | | | | constituent if | | | | necessary and | | | | applicable. These | | | | (decomposed) requests | | | | may be delegated to | | | | other CM service | | | | providers (e.g., other | | | | NSS service providers, | | | | CM of NFs) with | | | | corresponding slice | | | | operation information. | | | | | | | | These requests may | | | | contain configuration | | | | for specific NFs such | | | | as 1) _Configuration of | | | | dedicated NFs_ (e.g., | | | | configure the SMF with | | | | the information of new | | | | instantiated UPFs, see | | | | 5.3.2, 5.3.3 in [6]) | | | | and 2) _Configuration | | | | of shared NFs_ (see 4.2 | | | | so that this | | | | information can be | | | | accessed by other | | | | constituents of the NSS | | | | (e.g., NSSF, AMF, SMF). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NSS management service | | | | provider sends the | | | | processing result to | | | | NSS management service | | | | consumer (might be | | | | based on applicable | | | | processing results from | | | | other CM service | | | | providers). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The required | | | | (re)configuration is | | | | configured at the | | | | corresponding | | | | constituent(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-16 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.14 Exposure of network slice management data
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer to obtain | | | | network slice | | | | management data (e.g. | | | | PM data, FM data). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For example, | | | | CSMF plays the role of | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. For example, | | | | NSMF plays the role of | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice instance | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer is authorized | | | | to obtain the network | | | | slice management data | | | | from network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSI is created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice management data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to network | | | | slice management | | | | service provider to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice management data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider provides the | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer with the | | | | network slice | | | | management data . | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer obtained the | | | | network slice | | | | management data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-7 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.15 Exposure of network slice management capability
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable authorized | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer to obtain | | | | certain management | | | | capability to manage | | | | the network slice | | | | instance (e.g., | | | | provisioning) through | | | | the exposure interface. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For example, | | | | CSMF or CSP providing | | | | NSaaS plays the role of | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | Network slice instance | | | | | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. For example, | | | | NSMF plays the role of | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer is authorized | | | | to obtain the allowed | | | | management capability | | | | from network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider according to | | | | the pre-defined | | | | agreements. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | Level of management | | | | exposure has been | | | | agreed upon between the | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider and the | | | | network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice management | | | | capability. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to network | | | | slice management | | | | service provider to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice management | | | | capability. | | | | | | | | The information | | | | indicating which | | | | specific management | | | | capability needs to be | | | | obtained may be | | | | included in the | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider provides the | | | | required management | | | | capability to network | | | | slice management | | | | service consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer obtained the | | | | allowed network slice | | | | management capability. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-6 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.16 Network slice subnet instance management capability exposure
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable authorized NSS | | | | management service | | | | consumer to obtain | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management capability | | | | (e.g. obtaining | | | | measurement, updating | | | | resource allocations). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NSS management service | | | | consumer (e.g., the | | | | operator or NSMF or | | | | NSSMF) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NSS management service | | | | provider (e.g., NSSMF) | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | instance | | | | | | | | NF(s) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | NSS management service | | | | consumer is authorized | | | | to obtain the allowed | | | | management capability | | | | from NSS management | | | | service provider. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NSSI is created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NSS management service | | | | consumer wants to | | | | obtain the network | | | | slice subnet management | | | | capability. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NSS management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to NSS | | | | management service | | | | provider to obtain the | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instance management | | | | capability. | | | | | | | | The information | | | | indicating which | | | | specific management | | | | capability need to be | | | | obtained may be | | | | included in the | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NSS management service | | | | provider processes this | | | | request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NSS management service | | | | provider provides the | | | | required exposure | | | | interfaces to NSS | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | NSS management service | | | | consumer obtained the | | | | allowed network slice | | | | subnet instance | | | | management capability. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-15 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.17 Creation of a 3GPP NF
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer to | | | | request creation of an | | | | instance of 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of NF creation service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | VNF package(s) of the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF; | | | | | | | | ETSI NFV MANO system; | | | | | | | | NF creation service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The VNF package(s) of | | | | the virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF have been | | | | on-boarded to ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized consumer | | | | needs to create a new | | | | instance of 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized consumer | | | | requests the NF | | | | creation service | | | | producer to create a | | | | new instance of 3GPP | | | | NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The NF creation service | | | | producer checks the | | | | subject 3GPP NF | | | | contains virtualized | | | | part and/or | | | | non-virtualized part. | | | | If it contains | | | | virtualized part, then | | | | the NF instantiation | | | | service producer | | | | performs the step 3 and | | | | 4 to instantiate the | | | | virtualized part of the | | | | subject 3GPP NF. | | | | | | | | How to instantiate the | | | | non-virtualized part of | | | | the subject 3GPP NF is | | | | out of scope of present | | | | specification. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The NF creation service | | | | producer interacts, or | | | | requests another NF | | | | creation service | | | | producer to interact, | | | | with ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system to instantiate | | | | the VNF(s) that are | | | | realizing the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | subject 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | If all of the contained | | | | parts (i.e., | | | | virtualized part and | | | | non-virtualized part if | | | | any) of the 3GPP NF | | | | have been successfully | | | | instantiated, the NF | | | | creation service | | | | producer informs the | | | | consumer(s) (who have | | | | subscribed to the | | | | notifications for NF | | | | creation) that the | | | | instance of 3GPP NF has | | | | been created, and | | | | creates the MOI(s) for | | | | the subject 3GPP NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | Created MOI(s) may be | | | | maintained by a | | | | Management Function | | | | which has the NF | | | | creation service or the | | | | 3GPP NF. When the | | | | MOI(s) is maintained by | | | | the 3GPP NF, the NF | | | | creation service | | | | producer sends a | | | | request of creating the | | | | MOI(s) to the | | | | corresponding NF | | | | management service | | | | producers in the | | | | created NF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The instance of 3GPP NF | | | | has been created, and | | | | the MOI(s) of the 3GPP | | | | NF have been created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-7 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.18 Configuration of a 3GPP NF instance
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer to | | | | request configuration | | | | of a 3GPP NF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of NF management | | | | service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | ETSI NFV MANO system; | | | | | | | | NF management service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The NF to be configured | | | | has been instantiated; | | | | | | | | The MOI of the NF has | | | | been created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized consumer | | | | needs to configure a | | | | 3GPP NF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The consumer requests | | | | the NF management | | | | service producer to | | | | modify the attribute(s) | | | | of the MOI of the 3GPP | | | | NF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (O)** | If the 3GPP NF contains | | | | virtualized part and | | | | the corresponding VNF | | | | instance(s) need to be | | | | updated, the NF | | | | configuration service | | | | producer interacts, or | | | | requests another NF | | | | management service | | | | producer to interact, | | | | with ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system to update the | | | | corresponding VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The NF management | | | | service producer | | | | configures the 3GPP NF | | | | instance, per the MOI | | | | attribute modification | | | | request received from | | | | the consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The NF management | | | | service producer | | | | modifies the attributes | | | | of the MOI and informs | | | | the consumer that the | | | | 3GPP NF instance has | | | | been configured | | | | successfully. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP NF instance | | | | has been configured. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-6, | | | | REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-3 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.1.19 Creation of a 3GPP sub-network
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer | | | | to request creation | | | | of a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized | | | | consumer of | | | | sub-network creation | | | | service. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | VNF package(s) of | | | resources** | the virtualized part | | | | of 3GPP NF(s); | | | | | | | | NSD(s) of the NS(s); | | | | | | | | ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system; | | | | | | | | Network creation | | | | service producer; | | | | | | | | NF configuration | | | | service producer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The non-virtualized | | | | part of the NFs | | | | (including | | | | completely | | | | non-virtualized NFs) | | | | constituting the | | | | 3GPP sub-network | | | | have been deployed; | | | | | | | | The VNF package(s) | | | | of the virtualized | | | | part of 3GPP NF(s) | | | | have been on-boarded | | | | to ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system; | | | | | | | | The NSD(s) of the NS | | | | realizing the 3GPP | | | | sub-network have | | | | been on-boarded to | | | | ETSI NFV MANO | | | | system. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized | | | | consumer needs to | | | | create a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized | | | | consumer requests | | | | the sub-network | | | | creation service | | | | producer to create a | | | | 3GPP sub-network. | | | | The request needs to | | | | indicate the network | | | | capacity (e.g., the | | | | number of instances | | | | of each kind of NFs, | | | | and the capacity of | | | | each NF instance, | | | | for example, number | | | | of flows with | | | | certain QoS | | | | attributes to be | | | | supported), network | | | | topology information | | | | (e.g., the | | | | connections between | | | | NF instances), and | | | | the network QoS | | | | requirements (e.g., | | | | bandwidth and | | | | latency requirements | | | | of the interface | | | | between two NF | | | | instances). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network creation | | | | service producer | | | | interacts, or | | | | requests another | | | | network creation | | | | service producer to | | | | interact, with ETSI | | | | NFV MANO system to | | | | instantiate the | | | | NS(s) realizing the | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | ETSI NFV MANO system | | | | informs the NF | | | | configuration | | | | service producer | | | | about the | | | | instantiation of the | | | | NSs and the new | | | | VNFs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The NF configuration | | | | service producer | | | | creates the MOI(s) | | | | of the 3GPP NFs that | | | | are realized by the | | | | newly instantiated | | | | VNF(s); there may be | | | | MOI(s) that specify | | | | the topology of the | | | | instantiated NSs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The sub-network | NF configuration | | | creation service | service | | | producer is using | | | | the NF configuration | | | | service to configure | | | | the 3GPP NF | | | | instance(s) that are | | | | constituting the | | | | subject 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP sub-network | | | | has been created. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.20 Configuration of a 3GPP sub-network
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer | | | | to request | | | | configuration of a | | | | 3GPP sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized | | | | consumer of network | | | | configuration | | | | service. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | 3GPP network; | | | resources** | | | | | 3GPP NFs; | | | | | | | | ETSI NFG MANO | | | | system; | | | | | | | | Network management | | | | service producer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The 3GPP sub-network | | | | has been created; | | | | | | | | The MOI(s) related | | | | to the sub-network | | | | has been created. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized | | | | consumer needs to | | | | configure a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized | | | | consumer requests to | | | | configure a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The consumer | | | | requests the network | | | | management service | | | | producer to modify | | | | the attribute of the | | | | MOI(s) related to | | | | the 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | If the 3GPP network | | | | is realized by NS(s) | | | | (ETSI ISG NFV | | | | concept), the | | | | network management | | | | service producer | | | | requests (directly | | | | or indirectly via | | | | another) ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system to | | | | update the NS(s) | | | | realizing the 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (O)** | If there are new | | | | VNFs instantiated by | | | | the NS update, ETSI | | | | NFV MANO system | | | | informs the NF | | | | management service | | | | producer about the | | | | instantiation of | | | | VNFs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (O)** | The NF configuration | | | | service producer | | | | creates the MOI(s) | | | | of the 3GPP NFs that | | | | are realized by the | | | | newly instantiated | | | | VNF(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | The network | NF configuration | | | management service | service | | | producer consumes | | | | the NF configuration | | | | service to configure | | | | the impacted 3GPP NF | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | The network | | | | management service | | | | producer configures | | | | the 3GPP | | | | sub-network, per the | | | | MOI attribute | | | | modification request | | | | received from the | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 8 (M)** | The NF management | | | | service producer | | | | modifies the | | | | attributes of the | | | | MOI(s) of the 3GPP | | | | network and informs | | | | the consumer that | | | | the 3GPP sub-network | | | | has been configured | | | | successfully. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP network has | | | | been configured. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-4 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.21 Network slice subnet feasibility check
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To check the feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet to
determine whether network slice subnet requirements can be satisfied at a
particular point of time (e.g., in terms of resources)
**Actors and Roles** Network slice subnet management service consumer. For
example, when a network slice subnet instance is to be provided as a
constituent of a network slice instance.
**Telecom resources** Network slice subnet instance\  
Network slice management service provider. For example, a management function
that plays the role of network slice management service provider.
**Assumptions** Network slice subnet management service consumer has decided
to check the feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet based on, for
example, internal decision or to facilitate an external service requests.
**Pre-conditions** Network slice subnet requirements have been derived or
received by network slice subnet management service consumer.
**Begins when** Network slice subnet management service provider receives the
request to evaluate the feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet
according to the network slice requirements at a particular point in time.
**Step 1 (M)** Network slice subnet management service provider identifies the
network slice subnets constituents according to the requirements, e.g.,
network services to be requested from MANO.
**Step 2 (O)** For the purpose of checking the feasibility of provisioning a
network slice subnet(s) of the network slice instance, network slice subnet
management service provider(s) may obtain information from the network (e.g.,
current or predicted load level information, current or predicted resource
usage information from management data analytics services).
**Step 3 (M)** Network slice subnet management service provider sends
enquiries with reservation requests to other management providers (e.g., MANO)
to determine availability of network constituents, e.g., network services,
network functions. If some of the responses are negative, network slice subnet
management service provider may send enquiries to different management
providers.
**Ends when** Feasibility check results have been provided to network slice
subnet management service consumer.
**Exceptions** One of the mandatory steps fails.
**Post-conditions** N/A
**Traceability**
* * *
### 5.1.22 Network slice resource capacity planning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To calculate | | | | capacity of network | | | | slice instances and | | | | network slice subnet | | | | instances. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. For | | | | example, NSMF or | | | | NSSMF plays the role | | | | of network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice | | | resources** | instance | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | instance\ | | | | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. For | | | | example, NSMF or | | | | NSSMF plays the role | | | | of network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer has decided | | | | to perform network | | | | slice resource | | | | capacity | | | | optimization | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | Network slice | | | | resource capacity | | | | optimization | | | | objectives are set | | | | by network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | consumer requests | | | | resource capacity | | | | planning of the NSIs | | | | and/or NSSIs when | | | | the pre-set resource | | | | optimization | | | | objectives need to | | | | be satisfied. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider obtains | | | | information needed | | | | for the optimization | | | | process such as | | | | slice provisioning | | | | requirements, | | | | existing active or | | | | non-active NSI | | | | and/or NSSI resource | | | | information, and | | | | performance | | | | measurement data by | | | | requesting | | | | feasibility check | | | | operation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider performs | | | | resource | | | | optimization process | | | | based on the | | | | information obtained | | | | in Step 1. The goal | | | | of the process is to | | | | find an optimal | | | | capacity | | | | availability against | | | | the target objective | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | Network slice | Network slice | | | management service | instance creation or | | | provider proceeds | modification/network | | | with network slice | slice subnet | | | (NSI and/or NSSI) | instance creation or | | | provisioning or | modification use | | | modification | cases | | | processes until it | | | | meets the resource | | | | capacity | | | | optimization | | | | objective. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | Network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider updates | | | | capacity | | | | availability | | | | information after | | | | provisioning or | | | | modification | | | | processes. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | The capacity | | | | resource planning | | | | ends when it meets | | | | the optimization | | | | objective. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the mandatory | | | | steps fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | Capacity planning | | | | policy for either | | | | provisioning or | | | | modification is | | | | generated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-9 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.23 Network slice subnet management with assigned priority
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To assign priority | | | | on existing network | | | | slice subnet | | | | instance(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider (e.g. | | | | NSSMF) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | Network slice subnet | | | resources** | instance (i.e. | | | | NSSI)\ | | | | Network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice subnet | | | | instance is deployed | | | | to support a | | | | communication | | | | service with | | | | priority, set by the | | | | operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | This use case is | | | | based on the | | | | condition that | | | | operator requires a | | | | priority assigned to | | | | network slice | | | | subnet. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The NSSI(s) should | | | | have been assigned | | | | with priority set by | | | | the operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The network slice | Network slice subnet | | | management service | instance | | | provider identifies | modification use | | | the NSSI(s) that | case | | | needs to be | | | | associated with the | | | | priority, requested | | | | by authorized | | | | network slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider assigns | | | | priority to the | | | | identified NSSI(s) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The network slice | | | | management service | | | | provider sends | | | | response to its | | | | authorized consumer | | | | about assigned | | | | priority on | | | | identified NSSI(s). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. Network | | | | slice subnet | | | | priority was | | | | assigned by network | | | | slice subnet | | | | management service | | | | provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-x | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.24 Management interaction with NFV MANO for network service priority
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | authorized consumer to | | | | request creation of a | | | | 3GPP sub-network, | | | | management interactions | | | | with NFV MANO is | | | | needed. This management | | | | interaction will assign | | | | priority on NFV NS(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of 3GPP sub-network | | | | creation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | VNF package(s) of the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF(s); | | | | | | | | NSD(s) of the NS(s); | | | | | | | | ETSI NFV MANO system; | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ETSI NFV VNF | | | | package(s) of the | | | | virtualized part of | | | | 3GPP NF(s) have been | | | | on-boarded to ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system; | | | | | | | | The ETSI NFV NSD(s) | | | | used to instantiate | | | | NS(s) for realizing the | | | | 3GPP sub-network have | | | | been on-boarded to ETSI | | | | NFV MANO system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The authorized consumer | | | | needs to create a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. This | | | | creation operation also | | | | needs to assign | | | | priority on 3GPP | | | | sub-network and on | | | | related ETSI NFV NS(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The authorized consumer | | | | requests the 3GPP | | | | sub-network creation | | | | service producer to | | | | create a 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The sub-network | | | | creation service | | | | producer interacts, or | | | | requests another | | | | sub-network creation | | | | service producer to | | | | interact, with ETSI NFV | | | | MANO system to | | | | instantiate the NS(s) | | | | realizing the 3GPP | | | | sub-network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | ETSI NFV MANO is | | | | informed about NS | | | | priority. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP sub-network | | | | has been created. | | | | Network service | | | | priority is identified | | | | by NFVO to support the | | | | 3GPP sub-network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-2 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
## 5.2 Requirements
### 5.2.1 Requirements for network slice provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-1** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request a network
slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-2** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to send the network slice
related requirements.
NOTE: The network slice related requirements include requirements such as area
traffic capacity, coverage area, isolation/sharing, end-to-end latency,
mobility, overall user density, priority, service availability, service
reliability, UE speed; see TS 22.261 [5] where these parameters are defined
for end user services.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-3** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request the
deallocation of a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-4** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request activation of
a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI--FUN-5** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request deactivation
of a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-6** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request the
modification of a network slice instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-7** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its consumer to obtain the network slice
management data.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-8** The network slice provisioning service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the feasibility
of provisioning the requested network slice instance at a particular point of
time.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-9** The network slice management service provider shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request the capacity
planning of a network slice instance.
### 5.2.2 Requirements for network slice subnet provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-1** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request a
network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-2** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability of interaction with NFVO via the NS lifecycle
management interface.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-3** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to send network
slice subnet related requirements.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-4** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request to
create a new NSSI or use an existing NSSI based on the network slice subnet
related requirements.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-5** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request to
associate the NS instance with corresponding NSSI.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-6** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request the
configuration of the RAN NSSI constituents with the RRM policy information for
simultaneous support of multiple NSIs.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-7** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain network
slice subnet instance information.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-8** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability of allowing its authorized consumer to request the
deallocation of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-9** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
activation of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-10** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
deactivation of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-11** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
modification of a network slice subnet instance.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-12** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its consumer to obtain information
regarding available network slice subnet resources.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-13** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the
feasibility of provisioning a network slice subnet instance at a particular
point of time.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-14** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability to satisfy the request to consume the NF
provisioning service.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-15** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability to expose limited management capability to its
consumer according to mutual agreement.
**REQ-PRO_NSSI-FUN-16** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its consumer to provide slice specific
operation information for the (re)configuration to a NSSI.
**REQ-PRO_NSI-FUN-x** The network slice subnet provisioning service provider
shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to assign priority
of a network slice subnet.
### 5.2.3 Requirements for NF provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-1** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to request creation of an instance
of 3GPP NF.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-2** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to fulfill the consumer's request to create an instance of 3GPP NF.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-3** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to provide the VNF and VNFC related information of the NF instance
to its authorized consumer.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-4** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to request configuration of a 3GPP
NF instance.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-5** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to request updating the VNF(s) that are realizing the virtualized
part of a 3GPP NF.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-6** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to fulfill the consumer's request to configure a 3GPP NF instance.
**REQ-PRO_NF-FUN-7** The NF provisioning service producer shall have the
capability to request NF management service producers working in the concerned
NF instance to create and maintain the MOI(s) for it.
### 5.2.4 Requirements for sub-network provisioning service
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-1** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request creation of a 3GPP
sub-network.
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-2** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability to fulfil the consumer's request to create a 3GPP sub-network.
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-3** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request configuration of a
3GPP sub-network.
**REQ-PRO_NW-FUN-4** The sub-network provisioning service producer shall have
the capability to fulfil the consumer's request to configure a 3GPP sub-
network.
# 6 Management services for provisioning of networks and network slicing
## 6.1 Management services for network slice provisioning
The management services for network slice provisioning are listed in table
6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Management services for network slice provisioning
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MnS Name | MnS Component | MnS Component | Note | | | Type A\ | Type B\ | | | | (operations | (information | | | | and | model) | | | | notifications) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Operations | NSI | This | | for NSI | defined in | information | management | | | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | | 28.532 [8]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | - createMOI | [6] | request | | | operation | | allocating, | | | | | deallocating, | | | - deleteMOI | | or modifying | | | operation | | an NSI.\ | | | | | \ | | | - | | The typical | | | ge | | scenario is | | | tMOIAttributes | | \"Network | | | operation | | Slices as NOP | | | | | internals\" | | | - | | model where | | | modif | | this MnS is | | | yMOIAttributes | | consumed by | | | operation | | operators. | | | | | | | | Operations | | | | | defined in | | | | | clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | | | - allocateNsi | | | | | operation | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | deallocateNsi | | | | | operation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Operations | NSI | This | | data report | defined in | information | management | | for NSI | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | | 28.532 [8]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | - subscribe | [6] | obtain | | | operation | | notifications | | | | | about NSI | | | - unSubscribe | | Information | | | operation | | model data. | | | | | | | | Notifications | | The typical | | | defined in | | scenario is | | | clause 5 of TS | | \"Network | | | 28.532 [8]: | | Slices as NOP | | | | | internals\" | | | not | | model where | | | ifyMOICreation | | this MnS is | | | notification | | consumed by | | | | | operators | | | - | | | | | not | | | | | ifyMOIDeletion | | | | | notification | | | | | | | | | | -no | | | | | tifyMOIAttribu | | | | | teValueChanges | | | | | notification | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Operations | NSI | This | | exposure for | defined in | information | management | | NSI | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | | 28.532 [8]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | - createMOI | [6] | request | | | operation | | allocating, | | | | | deallocating | | | - deleteMOI | | or modifying | | | operation | | an NSI.\ | | | | | \ | | | - | | The typical | | | ge | | scenario is | | | tMOIAttributes | | NSaaS model | | | operation | | where this MnS | | | | | is consumed by | | | - | | vertical | | | modif | | industry. | | | yMOIAttributes | | | | | operation | | | | | | | | | | Operations | | | | | defined in | | | | | clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | | | - allocateNsi | | | | | operation | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | deallocateNsi | | | | | operation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Operations | NSI | This | | data report | defined in | information | management | | exposure for | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | NSI | 28.532 [8]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | - subscribe | [6] | obtain | | | operation | | notifications | | | | | about NSI | | | - unSubscribe | | Information | | | operation | | model data. | | | | | | | | Notifications | | The typical | | | defined in | | scenario is | | | clause 5 of TS | | NSaaS model | | | 28.532 [8]: | | where this MnS | | | | | is consumed by | | | - | | vertical | | | not | | industry. | | | ifyMOICreation | | | | | notification | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | not | | | | | ifyMOIDeletion | | | | | notification | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | no | | | | | tifyMOIAttribu | | | | | teValueChanges | | | | | notification | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.2 Management services for network slice subnet provisioning
The management services for network slice subnet provisioning are listed in
table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1: Management services for NSS provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MnS Name | MnS Component of | MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications) | model) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning for | Operations defined | NSSI information | | NSSI | in clause 5 of TS | model defined in | | | 28.532 [8]: | clause 6.3 of TS | | | | 28.541 [6] | | | - createMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Operations defined | | | | in clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | - allocateNssi | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deallocateNssi | | | | operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning data | Operations defined | NSSI information | | report for NSSI | in clause 5 of TS | model defined in | | | 28.532 [8]: | clause 6.3 of TS | | | | 28.541 [6] | | | - subscribe | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - unSubscribe | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Notifications | | | | defined in clause 5 | | | | of TS 28.532 [8]: | | | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | notification | | | | | | | | -notifyMOIA | | | | ttributeValueChanges | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.3 Management services for network function provisioning
The management services for network function provisioning are listed in table
6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1: Management services for NF provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MnS Name | MnS Component of | MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications) | model) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning for NF | Operations defined | NF(s)/ME(s) | | | in clause 5 of TS | information model | | | 28.532 [8]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [6] | | | - createMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | | | operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning data | Operations defined | NF(s)/ME(s) | | report for NF | in clause 5 of TS | information model | | | 28.532 [8]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [6] | | | - subscribe | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - unSubscribe | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Notifications | | | | defined in clause 5 | | | | of TS 28.532 [8]: | | | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyMOIA | | | | ttributeValueChanges | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.4 Management services for network and sub-network provisioning
The management services for network and sub-networks provisioning are listed
in table 6.4-1.
Table 6.4-1: Management services for network and sub-network provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MnS name | MnS Component of | MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications) | model) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning for | Operations defined | IOC(s) of | | network and | in clause 5 of TS | sub-network, as | | sub-networks | 28.532 [8]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [6] | | | - createMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Operation defined in | | | | clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | - AllocateNetwork | | | | operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning data | Operations defined | IOC(s) of | | report for | in clause 5 of TS | sub-network, as | | sub-networks | 28.532 [8]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [6] | | | - subscribe | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - unSubscribe | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Notifications | | | | defined in clause 5 | | | | of TS 28.532 [8]: | | | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | notification | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyMOIA | | | | ttributeValueChanges | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.5. Operations of provisioning
### 6.5.1 AllocateNsi operation
#### 6.5.1.1 Description
This operation is invoked by allocateNsi operation service consumer to request
the provider to allocate a network slice instance to satisfy network slice
related requirements. The provider may create a new NSI or using existing NSI
to satisfy the request.
#### 6.5.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
attributeListIn M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
parameter specifies the network slice related requirements defined in
ServiceProfile in Clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
#### 6.5.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
attributeListOut M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
list of name/value pairs contains the attributes of the NSI which has been
allocated and the actual value assigned to each. status M ENUM
(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a
specified or unspecified reason. nSId M An attribute uniquely identifies the
network slice instance. It specifies the unifique identifier of the NSI which
has been allocated.
* * *
### 6.5.2 AllocateNssi operation
#### 6.5.2.1 Description
This operation is invoked by allocateNssi operation service consumer to
request the provider to allocate a network slice subnet instance to satisfy
the network slice subnet related requirements. The provider may create a new
NSSI or using existing NSSI to satisfy the request.
#### 6.5.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
attributeListIn M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
parameter specifies the network slice subnet related requirements defined in
SliceProfile in Clause 6.3.4 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
#### 6.5.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
attributeListOut M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
list of name/value pairs contains the attributes of the NSSI which has been
allocated and the actual value assigned to each. status M ENUM
(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a
specified or unspecified reason. nSSId M An attribute uniquely identifies the
network slice subnet instance. It specifies the unifique identifier of the
NSSI which has been allocated.
* * *
### 6.5.3 DeallocateNsi operation
#### 6.5.3.1 Description
This operation is invoked by deallocateNsi operation service consumer to
request the provider to deallocate a network slice instance since the NSI is
no longer needed for the consumer. The provider may terminate the requested
NSI or modify the requested NSI without termination to satisfy the request.
#### 6.5.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment nSId
M An attribute uniquely identifies the network slice instance. It specifies
the unifique identifier of the NSI which need to be deallocated.
* * *
#### 6.5.3.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail
because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
### 6.5.4 DeallocateNssi operation
#### 6.5.4.1 Description
This operation is invoked by deallocateNssi operation service consumer to
request the provider to deallocate a network slice subnet instance since the
NSSI is no longer needed for the consumer. The provider may terminate the
requested NSSI or modify the requested NSSI without termination to satisfy the
request.
#### 6.5.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment nSSId
M An attribute uniquely identifies the network slice subnet instance. It
specifies the unifique identifier of the NSSI which need to be deallocated.
* * *
#### 6.5.4.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
status M ENUM (OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail
because of a specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
### 6.5.5 AllocateNetwork operation
#### 6.5.5.1 Description
This operation is invoked by allocateNetwork operation service consumer to
request the provider to satisfy the network related requirements.
#### 6.5.5.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
attributeListIn M LIST OF SEQUENCE\ This
parameter specifies the network related requirements defined in ServiceProfile
in Clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
#### 6.5.5.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter name Support Qualifier Matching Information / Legal Values Comment
serviceProfileId M String A unique identifier of the network related
requirements which have been supported by the allocated network. status M ENUM
(OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) An operation may fail because of a
specified or unspecified reason.
* * *
# 7 Provisioning procedures of networks and network slicing
## 7.1 General
The procedures of provisioning of 5G networks are listed in this following
subclauses.
## 7.2 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Allocation
The Figure 7.2-1 illustrates the procedure of creating a new NSI or using an
existing NSI to satisfy the required network slice related requirements.
{width="5.767361111111111in" height="5.999305555555556in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Network Slice Instance Allocation Request procedure
1) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_Provider) receives an
AllocateNsi request (see AllocateNsi operation defined in clause 6.5.1) from
Network Slice Management Service Consumer (NSMS_Consumer) with network slice
related requirements (the network slice related requirements are defined as
the attributes in the ServiceProfile see clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541[6]).
2) Based on the network slice related requirements, the NSMS_Provider decides
whether to use an existing NSI or create a new NSI. If the network slice
related requirements allow the requested NSI to be shared and if an existing
suitable NSI can be reused, the NSMS_Provider may decide to use the existing
NSI.
3a) If using an existing NSI and the existing NSI needs to be modified to
satisfy the network slice related requirements, the NSMS_Provider invokes the
procedure to modify the existing NSI as described in clause 7.6.
3b-1) If creating a new NSI, the NSMS_Provider derives the network slice
subnet related requirements from the received network slice related
requirements. Before NSMS_Provider derives the network slice subnet related
requirements, NSMS_Provider may invoke corresponding network slice subnet
capability information querying procedure as described in clause 7.8.
3b-2) The NSMS_Provider invokes the NSSI allocation procedure as described in
clause 7.3.
3b-3) The NSMS_Provider creates the MOI for NSI and configures the MOI with
the DN of MOI for the NSSI, other configuration information may be configured
for the created MOI.
Note: The detailed configuration information is described in network slice NRM
(see NetworkSlice IOC defined in clause 6.3.1 in TS 28.541 [6]).
4) The NSMS_Provider sends NSI allocation result (see AllocateNsi operation
defined in clause 6.5.1) to the NSMS_Consumer. If an existing NSI is modified
or a new NSI is created successfully to satisfy the network slice related
requirements, the result includes the relevant network slice instance
information (see NetworkSlice IOC defined in clause 6.3.1 in TS 28.541 [6]):
\- DN of the MOI for NSI.
Otherwise the result may include the reason of failure, for example, the
required latency or user number cannot be satisfied, or the physical resource
is not enough.
## 7.3 Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Allocation
The Figure 7.3-1 illustrates the procedure of creating a new network slice
subnet instance or using an existing network slice subnet instance to satisfy
the required network slice subnet related requirements.
{width="5.770833333333333in" height="8.49375in"}
Figure 7.3-1: Network Slice Subnet Instance Allocation Request procedure
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) receives an
AllocateNssi request (see AllocateNssi operation defined in clause 6.5.2) from
Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C) with network slice
subnet related requirements (network slice subnet related requirements defined
in SliceProfile see clause 6.3.4 in TS 28.541[6]).
2) NSSMS_P check the feasibility of network slice subnet related requirements.
If the network slice subnet related requirements can be satisfied, the
following step 3) are needed, else go to step 5).
3) Based on the network slice subnet related requirements, NSSMS_P decides
whether to use an existing NSSI or create a new NSSI. If the network slice
subnet related requirements allow the requested NSSI to be shared and if an
existing suitable NSSI can be reused, the NSSMS_P decides to use the existing
NSSI.
4.1a) If using an existing NSSI and the existing NSSI needs to be modified to
satisfy the network slice subnet related requirements, the NSSMS_P invokes the
procedure to modify the existing NSSI as described in clause 7.7.
4.1b.1) If creating a new NSSI, the NSSMS_P creates the MOI for the NSSI to be
created. NSSMS_P derives the corresponding network slice subnet constituent
(i.e. NF, constituent NSS) related requirements and transport network related
requirements (e.g. 3GPP endpoint information, latency requirements, bandwidth
requirements, isolation requirements) from the received network slice subnet
related requirements. Before NSSMS_Provider derives the constituent network
slice subnet related requirements, NSMS_Provider may invoke corresponding
network slice subnet capability information querying procedure as described in
clause 7.8.2.
4.1b.2) If the NSSI to be created contains virtualisation part (i.e. VNF or
VL), NSSMS_P derives the NS instance instantiation information (the NS
instance instantiation information is described in clause 7.3.2.2 and clause
7.3.3.2 [3]) based on network slice subnet related requirements. NSSMS_P
determines VNF instance(s) that need to be deployed according to the necessary
network function(s) and then derives the profile of virtual link(s) according
to the connection requirements between the network functions. NSSMS_P chooses
a proper NSD deployment flavour and creates data concerning the SAPs of the NS
instance. NSSMS_P invokes the NS instantiation procedures to create a NS
instance. NSSMS_P configures the NSS MOI with the NS instance identifier.
Note: NS instantiation procedure is described in TS 28.526 [7].
4.1b.3) For each required NSSI constituent, the following step 4.1b.3a) and
4.1b.3b) are needed:
4.1b.3a) If the required NSSI constituent is constituent NSSI, NSSMS_P invokes
NSSI Allocation Procedure.
4.1b.3b) If the required NSSI constituent is NF instance, NSSMS_P invokes NF
Creation Procedure as described in clause 7.10 or NF Modification Procedure as
described in clause 7.11.
4.1b.4) NSSMS_P configures the MOI for NSSI with the DN of the MOI for NSSI
constituent (i.e. NF, constituent NSSI).
4.1b.5) For each required transport network related requirements, NSSMS_P
invokes corresponding procedure of coordination with relevant TN Manager to
handle the TN part as described in clause 7.9.
5) The NSSMS_P sends the NSSI allocation result (see AllocateNssi operation
defined in clause 6.5.2) to the NSSMS_C. If the NSSI is created successfully,
the result includes the relevant constituent network slice subnet instance
information (see NetworkSliceSubnet IOC defined in clause 6.3.2 in TS 28.541
[6]):
\- DN of the MOI for NSSI.
\- NS instance Info (e.g. NSinstanceId)
Otherwise the result may include the reason of failure, for example, the
required latency or user Number cannot be satisfied, or the physical resource
is not enough.
## 7.4 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Deallocation
Figure 7.4-1 depicts the procedure of deallocating a network slice instance by
the network slice management service provider to satisfy the NSI deallocation
request received from an authorized consumer.
{width="5.177083333333333in" height="4.75in"}
Figure 7.4-1: Network slice instance deallocation procedure
1) The network slice management service provider (NSMS_P) receives a NSI
deallocation request (see DeallocateNsi operation defined in clause 6.5.3)
from network slice management service consumer (NSMS_C) indicating that the
NSI is no longer needed for the consumer.
2) The NSMS_P sends the NSI deallocation response (see DeallocateNsi operation
defined in clause 6.5.3) to NSMS_C.
3) The NSMS_P may decide to terminate the NSI, then it invokes the NSSI
deallocation procedure as described in clause 7.5.
4) The NSMS_P may decide not to terminate the NSI but to modify the NSI, then
it invokes the NSI modification procedure as described in clause 7.6.
## 7.5 Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Deallocation
Figure 7.5-1 depicts the procedure of deallocating a network slice subnet
instance by the network slice subnet management service provider to satisfy
the NSSI deallocation request received from an authorized consumer.
{width="5.375in" height="8.520833333333334in"}
Figure 7.5-1: Network slice subnet instance deallocation procedure
1) The network slice subnet management service provider (NSSMS_P) receives
NSSI deallocation request (see DeallocateNssi operation defined in clause
6.5.4) from network slice subnet management service consumer (NSSMS_C).
2) NSSMS_P sends response (see DeallocateNssi operation defined in clause
6.5.4) of NSSI deallocation service to NSSMS_C.
3-a) NSSMS_P may decide to terminate the NSSI, it invokes (constituent) NSSI
deallocation procedure as described in clause 7.5 if the NSSI consists of
constituent NSSI.
3-b) NSSMS_P invokes NF deletion procedure as described in clause 7.12 or NF
modification procedure as described in clause 7.11 if the NSSI consists of
NFs.
3-c) NSSMS_P invokes TN related coordination procedure with responsible
manager as described in clause 7.9 if the NSSI consists of TN part.
3-d) NSSMS_P invokes NS termination procedure if the NSSI contains virtualized
part.
Note: NS termination procedure is described in TS 28.526 [7].
4) NSSMS_P may decide not to terminate the NSSI, it invokes NSSI modification
procedure as described in clause 7.7.
## 7.6 Procedure of Network Slice Instance Modification
The Figure 7.6-1 illustrates the procedure of modifying an existing NSI.
{width="3.78125in" height="3.6458333333333335in"}
Figure 7.6-1: Network Slice Instance Modification Request procedure
1) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_P) receives a ModifyNsi
request (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from
Network Slice Management Service Consumer (NSMS_C) with the management
identifier of NSI and the new network slice related requirements (see
ServiceProfile defined in clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541[6]).
2) Based on the new network slice related requirements, NSMS_P invokes the
feasibility check procedure. If the modification requirements can be
satisfied, go to step 3), else go to step 5).
3) NSMS_P decomposes the NSI modification request into NSSI modification
request(s), i.e., generating the new network slice subnet related requirements
for each NSSI if needed.
4) NSMS_P, as the role of Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer
(NSSMS_C), invokes the NSSI modification procedure.
5) NSMS_P sends NSI modification result (see modifyMOIAttributes operation
defined in TS 28.532 [8]) to NSMS_C.
## 7.7 Procedure of Network Slice Subnet Instance Modification
The Figure 7.7-1 illustrates the procedure of modifying an existing NSSI.
{width="5.34375in" height="7.677083333333333in"}
Figure 7.7-1: Network Slice Subnet Instance Modification Request procedure
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSM_SP) receives a
ModifyNssi request (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532
[8]) from Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSM_SC) with the
management identifier of NSSI and the new network slice subnet related
requirements (see SliceProfile defined in clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541[6]).
2) Based on the new network slice subnet related requirements, NSSM_SP invokes
the feasibility check procedure. If the modification requirements can be
satisfied, go to step 3), else go to step 5).
3) NSSM_SP decomposes the NSSI modification request into modification requests
for each NSSI constituent.
4a) If the requested NSSI constituent is constituent NSSI, NSSM_SP invokes
NSSI modification procedure as described in clause 7.7.
4b) If the requested NSSI constituent is NF instance, NSSM_SP invokes NF
creation procedure as described in clause 7.10 or NF modification procedure as
described in clause 7.11.
4c) If the NSSI contains the virtualized part, NSSM_SP invokes the NS instance
scaling and/or NS instance updating and/or NS instance instantiation procedure
as described in TS 28.526 [7].
4d) If the NSSI contains the TN part, NSSM_SP invokes the TN related
coordination procedure as described in clause 7.9.
5) NSSM_SP sends NSSI modification results (see modifyMOIAttributes operation
defined in TS 28.532 [8]) to NSSM_SC.
## 7.8 Procedure of Obtaining Network Slice Subnet Capability
### 7.8.1 Introduction
The clause illustrates possible procedures of obtaining network slice subnet
capability information (e.g. supported maximum latency, supported capacity
(e.g. maximum user number)) of network slice subnet instance(s) which can be
provided by network slice subnet management service provider.
### 7.8.2 Querying Network Slice Subnet Capability Information
{width="5.76875in" height="2.216666666666667in"}
Figure 7.8-2: Procedure of querying network slice subnet capability
information
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_C) wants to query
the NSS capability information of the NSSI(s) which can be provided by
corresponding Network Slice Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_P),
NSSMS_C sends NSS capability querying request (see getMOIAttributes operation
defined in TS 28.532 [8]) to NSSMS_P to obtain the NSS capability information
of the NSSI(s) which can be provided by corresponding NSSMS_P.
2) NSSMS_P processes the NSS capability information querying request.
3) NSSMS_P sends the NSS capability information (e.g. supported maximum
latency, supported capacity (e.g. user number)) of NSSI(s) that can be
provided by itself (see getMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [8])
to NSSMS_C.
### 7.8.3 Void
## 7.9 Procedure of TN coordination supporting network slicing
## 7.9.1 Introduction
This clause describes procedures of coordination with TN Manager to handle TN
part supporting network slicing.
NOTE: The present document: addresses interactions with NFVO as TN manager,.
interactions with other types of TN Manager (e.g. Optical, IP bearer transport
network, etc.) have not been addressed.
## 7.9.2 Interaction with NFVO as TN Manager
This clause considers the procedure of interaction between the 3GPP management
system and the NFVO, which behaves as TN Manager, to satisfy the TN related
requirements for the virtual links used in NSSI. The procedure is applicable
to creation and modification of the NSSI.
{width="3.59375in" height="2.0833333333333335in"}
Figure 7.9.2-1: Interaction with NFVO as TN manager to support network slicing
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_P) derives the TN
related requirements (e.g. 3GPP endpoint information, latency requirements,
bandwidth requirements, isolation requirements) for the TN part to be used in
the NSSI.
2) To satisfy the TN related requirements NSSMS_P invokes the corresponding NS
instance lifecycle management procedures as described in TS 28.526 [7].
3) After the NFVO executes the requested operation, it sends the corresponding
notification to the NSSMS_P as described in TS 28.526 [7].
## 7.10 Procedure of NF instance creation
The Figure 7.10-1 illustrates the procedure of creating a new network function
instance to satisfy the required network function related requirements.
{width="5.768055555555556in" height="5.259722222222222in"}
Figure 7.10-1: Network Function Instance Creation procedure
1) Network Function Management Service Provider (NFMS_P) receives a CreateNf
request (see createMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network
Function Management Service Consumer (NFMS_C) with network function related
requirements.
Note: The network function related requirements see information model
definition for NR NRM in clause 4 and information model definition for 5GC NRM
in clause 5 in TS 28.541[6] .
2) If NF instance to be created contains virtualized part, NFMS_P derives the
requirements for VNF instance based on the network function related
requirements.
3) If corresponding VNF Package needs to be on-boarded or changed, the NFMS_P
invoke corresponding VNF Package management procedure as described in clause
4.3 in TS 28.526 [7].
4) The NFMS_P invokes VNF lifecycle management with requirements for VNF
instance as described in clause 4.2.2 in TS 28.526 [7].
5) The NFMS_P creates the MOI for the NF instance to be created. If the NF
instance contains virtualized part, the NFMS_P may send the request of
creating the MOI to the NFMS_P in the NF.
6) The NFMS_P configures the new created MOI with corresponding configuration
information (see information model definition for NR NRM in clause 4 and
information model definition for 5GC NRM in clause 5 in TS 28.541[6]).
7) The NFMS_P sends the CreateNf response (see createMOI operation defined in
TS 28.532 [8]) to NFMS_C with identifier of MOI and with identifier of NFMS_P
which actually maintains the MOI for NF instance.
## 7.11 Procedure of NF instance modification
The Figure 7.11-1 illustrates the procedure of modify NF instance.
{width="5.520833333333333in" height="4.46875in"}
Figure 7.11-1: Network Function Instance Modify procedure
1) Network Function Management Service Provider (NFMS_P) receives a ModifyNf
request (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [8])from
Network Function Management Service Consumer (NFMS_C) with Identifier of MOI
for NF instance and network function related requirements.
Note: The network funcation related requirements see information model
definition for NR NRM in clause 4 and information model definition for 5GC NRM
in clause 5 in TS 28.541[6].
2) If NF instance contains virtualized part, NFMS_P checks whether
corresponding VNF instance needs to be scaled to satisfy the network function
related requirements.
3) If corresponding VNF instance needs to be scaled, NFMS_P invokes
corresponding VNF instance scaling procedure as described in clause 4.2.3 in
TS 28.526 [7].
4) NFMS_P reconfigures corresponding MOI for the NF instance.
5) The NFMS_P sends the ModifyNf response (see modifyMOIAttributes operation
defined in TS 28.532 [8]) to NFMS_C.
## 7.12 Procedure of NF instance deletion
The Figure 7.12-1 illustrates the procedure of deleting NF instance.
{width="4.697916666666667in" height="3.40625in"}
Figure 7.12-1: Network Function Instance Deletion procedure
1) Network Function Management Service Provider (NFMS_P) receives DeleteNf
request (see deletetMOI operation defined in TS 28.532 [8]) from Network
Function Management Service Consumer (NFMS_C) with Identifier of MOI for NF
instance.
2) If the NF instance contains virtualized part, NFMS_P invokes VNF instance
termination procedure as described in clause 4.2.4 in TS 28.526 [7].
3) NFMS_P deletes the MOI for the NF instance.
4) NFMS_P sends the DeleteNf response (see deleteMOI operation defined in TS
28.532 [8]) to NFMS_C.
## 7.13 Procedure of reservation and checking feasibility of NSI
{width="6.695833333333334in" height="3.217361111111111in"}
Figure 7.13-1 Network slice feasibility check procedure
1) Network Slice Management Service Provider (NSMS_Provider) receives a
provisioning NSI request (e.g., AllocateNsi request (see AllocateNsi operation
defined in clause 6.5.1), ModifyNsi request (see modifyMOIAttributes operation
defined in TS 28.532 [8])) from Network Slice Management Service Consumer
(NSMS_Consumer) with network slice related requirements (e.g. Area
information, User Number, traffic demand, QoS Quality, whether the requested
network slice instance could be shared).
2) [Optional] NSMS_Provider may request information and updates from
NSSMS_Provider and Other_MS_Provider regarding the resources.
3) NSMS_Provider sends reservation requests to Network Slice Subnet Management
Service Provider (NSSMS_Provider) and (if needed) Other Management Service
Providers (Other_MS_Provider), e.g., MANO, TN manager. NSMS_Provider receives
responses with information regarding allocated resources, e.g., their
availability, identification information of reserved resources and so on.
4) A reservation request to NSSMS_Provider can trigger NSSI feasibility
checking.
5) NSMS_Provider evaluates the responses to determine if the network slice
requirements can be satisfied.
6) If feasible,
6.a) NSMS_Provider is ready for provisioning.
6.b) [Optional] Acknowledgement regarding reservation check results can be
sent to NSMS_Customer.
7) If not feasible,
7.a) NSMS_Provider cancels reservations, optionally may receive
acknowledgement.
7.b) NSMS_Provider is not ready for provisioning.
7.c) NSMS_Provider may send negative acknowledgement regarding results of
reservation check to NSMS_Customer.
## 7.14 Procedure of reservation and checking feasibility of network slice
subnet
{width="5.272916666666666in" height="2.654861111111111in"}
Figure 7.14-2 Network slice subnet feasibility check procedure
1) Network Slice Subnet Management Service Provider (NSSMS_Provider) receives
a provisioning NSSI request (e.g., AllocateNssi request (see AllocateNssi
operation defined in clause 6.5.2), ModifyNssi request (see
modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [8])) from Network Slice
Subnet Management Service Consumer (NSSMS_Consumer) with network slice subnet
related requirements (e.g. Area information, User Number, traffic demand, QoS
Quality, whether the requested network slice instance could be shared). The
request is evaluated and initial resources to be allocated are identified.
2) [Optional] NSSMS_Provider may request information and updates from
NSSMS_Provider and Other_MS_Provider regarding the resources.
3) NSSMS_Provider sends reservation requests to Other Management Service
Providers (Other_MS_Provider), e.g., MANO, TN manager. NSSMS_Provider receives
responses with information regarding reserved resources, e.g., their
availability, identification information of reserved resources and so on.
4) NSSMS_Provider evaluates the responses to determine if the network slice
subnet requirements can be satisfied.
5) If feasible:
5.a) NSSMS_Provider is ready for provisioning.
5.b) [Optional] Acknowledgement regarding reservation check results can be
sent to NSSMS_Customer.
6) If not feasible,
6.a) NSSMS_Provider cancels reservations, optionally may receive
acknowledgement.
6.b) NSSMS_Provider is not ready for provisioning.
6.c) NSSMS_Provider may send negative acknowledgement regarding results of
reservation check to NSSMS_Customer.
## 7.15 Void
## 7.16 Procedure of allocating network with or without slicing for
communication services
The Figure 7.16-1 illustrates the procedure of allocating network with or
without slicing for communication services.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.6958333333333333in"}
Figure 7.16-1 Allocating network with or without slicing for communication
services
1) Network Service Provider (NS_Provider) receives AllocateNetwork request
(see AllocateNetwork operation defined in clause 6.5.5) from Network Service
Consumer (NS_Consumer). The received request includes network related service
requirements (e.g. isolation, latency, coverage).
2) NS_Provider decides to use the network with or without slicing depending on
these network related service requirements based on some internal admission
control.
3) Based on the decision by NS_Provider:
3a) If NS_Provider decides to use a network with slicing, network slice
instance allocation procedures in clause 7.2 follows. These procedures may
result a new network slice to be created, or use an existing network slice
with modification.
3b) If NS_Provider decides to use network without slicing, the network without
slicing is utilized to satisfy the network related service requirements, there
may be modification of the existing network or creation of a new network.
4) NS_Provider sends the AllocateNetwork response (see AllocateNetwork
operation defined in clause 6.5.5) to NS_Consumer.
# 8 RESTful HTTP-based solution set of provisioning
## 8.1 Mapping of operations
### 8.1.1 Introduction
Table 8.1.1-1: Mapping of IS operations to SS equivalents
* * *
**IS operation** **HTTP Method** **Resource URI** **Qualifier** allocateNsi
POST ObjectManagement/NS/ServiceProfiles M allocateNssi POST
ObjectManagement/NSS/SliceProfiles M deallocateNsi DELETE
ObjectManagement/NS/ServiceProfiles/{ServiceProfileId} M deallocateNssi DELETE
ObjectManagement/NSS/SliceProfiles/{SliceProfileId} M allocateNetwork POST
ObjectManagement/ServiceProfiles M
* * *
### 8.1.2 Operation AllocateNsi
This operation is to allocate a network slice instance provided by the service
provider, the network slice instance may be new or existing.
Table 8.1.2-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** attributeListIn request body
attributeListIn LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M
* * *
Table 8.1.2-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** attributeListOut response body
attributeListOut LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M status
response status codes n/a n/a M nSIId response body href type:string, format:
uri M
* * *
### 8.1.3 Operation AllocateNssi
This operation is to allocate a network slice instance provided by the service
provider, the network slice subnet instance may be new or existing.
Table 8.1.3-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** attributeListIn request body
attributeListIn LIST OF SEQUENCE\ O
* * *
Table 8.1.3-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** attributeListOut response body
attributeListOut LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M status
response status codes n/a n/a M nSSIId response body href type:string, format:
uri M
* * *
### 8.1.4 Operation DeallocateNsi
This operation is to deallocate a network slice instance provided by the
service provider, the network slice instance may be terminated or modified.
This operation does not support any input parameters.
Table 8.1.4-1: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP DELETE)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** status response status codes n/a
n/a M
* * *
### 8.1.5 Operation DeallocateNssi
This operation is to deallocate a network slice subnet instance provided by
the service provider, the network slice subnet instance may be terminated or
modified.
This operation does not support any input parameters.
Table 8.1.5-1: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP DELETE)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** status response status codes n/a
n/a M
* * *
### 8.1.6 Operation AllocateNetwork
This operation is to allocate a network provided by the service provider.
Table 8.1.6-1: Mapping of IS operation input parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** attributeListIn request body
attributeListIn LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M
* * *
Table 8.1.6-2: Mapping of IS operation output parameters to SS equivalents
(HTTP POST)
* * *
**IS operation parameter name** **SS parameter location** **SS parameter
name** **SS parameter type** **Qualifier** serviceProfileId response body
serviceProfileId String M status response status codes n/a n/a M
* * *
## 8.2 Resources
### 8.2.1 Resource definitions
#### 8.2.1.1 Resource ObjectManagement/NS/ServiceProfiles
##### 8.2.1.1.1 Description
This resource represents collects of network slice related requirement (i.e.
ServiceProfiles).
##### 8.2.1.1.2 URI
Resource URI: {URI authority}/ObjectManagement/NS/ServiceProfiles
The URI authority is defined by the service provider.
##### 8.2.1.1.3 HTTP methods
##### 8.2.1.1.3.1 POST {#post .H6}
The POST method create a serviceProfile, the provider may create a NSI or
using existing NSI to satisfy the serviceProfile.
This method shall support the request data structures, and the response data
structures and response codes specified in the following tables.
Table 8.2.1.1.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **DATA TYPE** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** attributeListIn
LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M 1 This parameter
specifies the network slice related requirements or network related
requirements defined in ServiceProfile in Clause 6.3.3 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
Table Y.2.1.1.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **DATA |** P**|** C | **D | | | TYPE** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Href | URI | M | 1 | HTTP | | | | | | reference to | | | | | | an NSI or | | | | | | Network | | | | | | resource. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | attr | LIST OF | M | 1 | For each | | ibuteListOut | SEQUENCE\ | | | pairs for | | | | | | NSI defined | | | | | | in Network | | | | | | Slice IOC. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | status | HTTP | M | 1 | HTTP | | | response | | | response | | | code | | | code 200 | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | "Operatio | | | | | | nSucceeded". | | | | | | | | | | | | All other | | | | | | HTTP | | | | | | response | | | | | | codes | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | "Opera | | | | | | tionFailed". | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
#### 8.2.1.2 Resource ObjectManagement/NSS/SliceProfiles
##### 8.2.1.2.1 Description
This resource represents collects of network slice subnet related requirements
(i.e. SliceeProfiles).
##### 8.2.1.2.2 URI
Resource URI: {URI authority}/ObjectManagement/NSS/SliceProfiles
The URI authority is defined by the service provider.
##### 8.2.1.2.3 HTTP methods
##### 8.2.1.2.3.1 POST {#post-1 .H6}
The POST method create a SliceProfile, the provider may create a new NSSI or
using existing NSSI to support the SliceProfile.
This method shall support the request data structures, and the response data
structures and response codes specified in the following tables.
Table 8.2.1.2.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **DATA TYPE** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** attributeListIn
LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M 1 This parameter
specifies the network slice subnet related requirements defined in
SliceeProfile in Clause 6.3.4 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
Table 8.2.1.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
+--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | **Name** | **DATA |** P**|** C | **D | | | TYPE** | | ardinality**| escription** | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | Href | URI | M | 1 | HTTP | | | | | | reference to | | | | | | an NSSI | | | | | | resource. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | attr | LIST OF | M | 1 | For each | | ibuteListOut | SEQUENCE\ | | | pairs for | | | | | | NSSI defined | | | | | | in Network | | | | | | Slice Subnet | | | | | | IOC. | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+ | status | HTTP | M | 1 | HTTP | | | response | | | response | | | code | | | code 200 | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | "Operatio | | | | | | nSucceeded". | | | | | | | | | | | | All other | | | | | | HTTP | | | | | | response | | | | | | codes | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | "Opera | | | | | | tionFailed". | +--------------+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+
#### 8.2.1.3 Resource ObjectManagement/ServiceProfiles
##### 8.2.1.3.1 Description
This resource represents collects of network related requirements (i.e.
ServiceProfiles).
##### 8.2.1.3.2 URI
Resource URI: {URI authority}/ObjectManagement/NS/ServiceProfiles
The URI authority is defined by the service provider.
##### 8.2.1.3.3 HTTP methods
##### 8.2.1.3.3.1 POST {#post-2 .H6}
The POST method create a serviceProfile.
This method shall support the request data structures, and the response data
structures and response codes specified in the following tables.
Table 8.2.1.3.3.1-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
**Name** **DATA TYPE** **P** **Cardinality** **Description** attributeListIn
LIST OF SEQUENCE\ M 1 This parameter
specifies the network related requirements defined in ServiceProfile in Clause
6.3.3 in TS 28.541 [6].
* * *
Table 8.2.1.3.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
+----------+----------------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Name** | **DATA TYPE** | **P** | * | * | | | | | _Cardinality_ _|_ Description** | +----------+----------------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | status | HTTP response | M | 1 | HTTP response | | | code | | | code 200 | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | "Operat | | | | | | ionSucceeded". | | | | | | | | | | | | All other HTTP | | | | | | response codes | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | "Ope | | | | | | rationFailed". | +----------+----------------+-------+----------------+----------------+
#