# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The management of the 3GPP network is provided by management services. The
service based architecture and interfaces support various management services
of vastly different requirements on network configuration, network
performance, and network fault supervision. The 3GPP network management
architecture evolves supporting operators\' design and management of their
service oriented networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the network management and orchestration
architecture SBMA for 3GPP networks including network slicing. The use cases
and requirements are specified in TS 28.530 [3]. SBMA applies to 5G.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Network
Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Performance
measurements and assurance data\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; 5G End to
end Key Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks;
Provisioning; Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.xxx: \"Management and orchestration; Management services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\"
[11] 3GPP TS 28.510; \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.511; \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.512; \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.513: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.515; \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.516: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.517: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 28.518: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3\".
[19] 3GPP TS 28.520: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.521: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.522: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 28.523: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[24] 3GPP TS 28.526: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[25] 3GPP TS 28.527: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
2\".
[26] 3GPP TS 28.528: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
3\".
[27] ETSI GS NFV 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Terminology
for Main Concepts in NFV V1.3.1 (2018-01)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or NFV-MANO [27].
**Exposure governance management function** : Management Function entity with
the role of management service exposure governance.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], in NFV-MANO [27] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined
in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
LCM Lifecycle Management
MDAS Management Data Analytics Service
MnF Management Function
MnS Management Service
NFV-MANO Network Functions Virtualisation Management and Orchestration
PM Performance Management
# 4 Management framework
## 4.1 Management services
A Management Service (MnS) offers management capabilities. These management
capabilities are accessed by Management Service consumers (MnS consumers) via
standardized service interface composed of individually specified management
service components. A MnS is provided by a MnS producer and can be consumed by
one or multiple MnS comsumer(s).
Figure 4.1.1: MnS producer and MnS consumer
## 4.2 MnS components
### 4.2.1 Introduction
A MnS is specified using different independent components. A concrete MnS is
composed of at least two of these components. Three different component types
are defined, called MnS componenet type A, MnS componenet type B and MnS
componenet type C. These components are defined in the following clauses.
### 4.2.2 MnS component type A
The MnS component type A is a group of management operations and/or
notifications that is agnostic with regard to the entities managed The
operations and notifications as such are hence not involving any information
related to the managed network. These operations and notifications are called
generic or network agnostic.
For example, operations for creating, reading, updating and deleting managed
object instances, where the managed object instance to be manipulated is
specified only in the signature of the operation, are generic.
### 4.2.3 Management information
#### 4.2.3.1 MnS component type B
MnS component type B refers to management information represented by
information models representing the managed entities. A MnS component type B
is also called Network Resource Model (NRM).
MnS component type B examples are:
1) Network resource models as defined in TS 28.622 [x].
2) Network resource models as defined in TS 28.541 [4].
#### 4.2.3.2 MnS component type C
MnS component type C is performance information of the managed entity and
fault information of the managed entity.
The following are examples of Management service component type C:
> 1\. Alarm information as defined in TS 28.532 [9] and TS 28.545 [28].
>
> 2\. Performance data as defined in TS 28.552 [5], TS 28.554 [6] and TS
> 32.425 [7].
## 4.3 Combination of MnS components
A MnS is composed by a MnS component type A and
\- a MnS component type B, or
\- a MnS component type B and a MnS component type C.
The instances of management services carry information about specified
management service components in the metadata attributes. Figure
4.3.1.illustrates examples of management service instances with various
management service components of type A, type B and type C:
{width="5.71875in" height="3.78125in"}
Figure 4.3.1: Example of Management Service and component type A, B and C
## 4.4 Management capability exposure governance
As precondition for Management Service exposure governance offer, producer of
management capability exposure governance should have access to:
An association between information about specified management service
components and instances of management services.
NOTE: The detail creation of an association is left for implementation and out
of scope of 3GPP standardization.
Management capability exposure governance provides exposure governance on
basic elements of management function service based interface:
1) Management service component type A
2) Management service component type B
3) Management service component type C
As described in Figure 4.4.1 left hand part, when there is a Management
Service A exposure without exposure governance, Management Service A Consumer
(e.g. 3^rd^ party) can access all management capability offered by Management
Service A Producer.
As described in Figure 4.4.1 right hand part, when Management Service A is
exposed with applied exposure governance it becomes Management Service A\'.
Management Service A\' Consumer can access Management Service A\' after
following steps:
\- Management Service A, exposed by Management Service A Producer, is consumed
by Management Service A Consumer;
\- Management Service B, exposed by Management Service B Producer, is consumed
by Management Service B Consumer (e.g. operator) who is authorized to access
offered management capabilities exposure governance(s);
\- Management Service B Consumer (e.g. operator) request a specified exposure
governance on Management Service A;
\- Management Service A\' Producer produces Management Service A\' based on
applied exposure governance on consumed Management Service A.
NOTE: The Management Service A Consumer, the Management Service A\' Producer
and Management Service B Producer can be represented as a single Management
Function e.g. a single MnF).
{width="4.072916666666667in" height="4.239583333333333in"}
Figure 4.4.1: Management capability exposure governance applied on exposed
Management Service A
## 4.5 Management Function (MnF) concept
A Management Function (MnF) is a management entity whose externally-observable
behaviour and interfaces are specified by 3GPP as Management Services.
In the service-based management architecture a MnF plays the role of either
Management Service producer or Management Service consumer. A Management
Service produced by MnF may have multiple consumers. The MnF may consume
multiple Management Services from one or multiple Management Service
producers. An example of a MnF playing both roles (Management Service producer
and consumer) illustrated in the figure 4.5.1 below.
{width="3.8534722222222224in" height="2.2493055555555554in"}
Figure 4.5.1: Example of Management Function and Management Services
Management Function can be deployed as a separate entity or embedded in
Network Function to provide MnS(s). Following figure 4.5.2 shows an example
(on the left) which MnF deployed as a separate entity to provide MnS(s) and
another example (on the right) which MnF is embedded in Network Function to
provide MnS(s):
{width="3.9194444444444443in" height="1.9395833333333334in"}
Figure 4.5.1 Examples of MnS deployment scenario
Management Functions may interact by consuming Management Services produced by
other Management Functions. The figure 4.6.2 below illustrates multiple
scenarios:
\- MnF1 produces Management Service MnS-a;
\- MnF2 consumes Management Service MnS-a produced by MnF1 and produces
Management Services MnS-b and MnS-c;
\- MnF3 produces Management Service MnS-c;
\- MnF4 consumes Management Service MnS-b produced by the MnF2;
\- MnF5 consumes Management Services MnS-c produced by the MnF2 and MnF3, and
in turn produces the same Management Service MnS-c. The behaviour of MnF5 may
be seen as aggregation of Management Services MnS-c.
{width="2.0208333333333335in" height="3.5104166666666665in"}
Figure 4.5.2: An example of interactions between Management Functions
NOTE: The specification of a MnF is out of scope of the present docucument.
## 4.6 Management data analytics capability
Mobile networks have the capability to support a wide variety of services and
requirements. This, along with increasing flexibility of the network may
present management and operational challenges and complexities. The management
system can therefore benefit from management data analytics services for
improving networks performance and efficiency to accommodate and support the
diversity of services and requirements. The management data analytics utilize
the network management data collected from the network (including e.g.
service, slicing and/or network functions related data) and make the
corresponding analytics based on the collected information. The information
provided by PM analytics can be used to optimize network performance, and the
information provided by FM analytics can be used to predict and prevent
failures of the network. MDAF can be deployed at different levels, for
example, at a domain level (e.g., RAN, CN, NSSI) and/or in a centralized
manner (e.g., at a PLMN level).
{width="4.251388888888889in" height="1.7756944444444445in"}
Figure: 4.6.1: Service based architecture for management data analytics
## 4.7 Management service discovery
### 4.7.1 Introduction
The MnS consumer in an operator's management system need to discover the
availability of MnS instances provided by other MnS provider(s). In order to
enable the MnS instances to be discovered by MnS consumer, the MnS needs to be
discoverable to the operator's management system when the MnS instance become
operative.
### 4.7.2 MnS data
The MnS data includes the information of MnS instance used for MnS discovery.
### 4.7.3 MnS discovery service
The MnS discovery service enables MnS consumer to discover management
capabilities of MnS instances provided by MnS provider(s). The MnS consumer
sends a MnS query request to MnS discover service provider to discover MnS
instances and receives response with the MnS data of MnS instances which
satisfy the request.
The MnS discovery service is illustrated in Table 4.7.3-1.
Table 4.7.3-1: MnS discovery service
+-----------------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------+ | MnS name | MnS component type A\ | MnS component type B\ | | | (operations and notifications) | (information model) | +-----------------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------+ | MnS discovery service | Operations: | MnS data | | | | | | | - MnSQuery operation | | +-----------------------+--------------------------------+-----------------------+
# 5 Architecture reference model
## 5.1 General concepts
### 5.1.1 Management service providers, consumers and exposure
The management services for a mobile network with or without network slicing
may be produced by any entity. For example, it can be a Network Functions
(NF), or network management functions. The entity may provide (produce) such
management services as, for example, the performance management services,
configuration management services and fault supervision services.
The management services can be consumed by another entity, which may in turn
produce (expose) the service to other entities. Figure 5.1.1-1 shows an
example of the management service X which is initially produced by the entity
A which is an NF, then consumed by another entity B which is a network
management function. Then entity B in turn exposes it to the entity C.
Figure 5.1.1-1. Example of producers and consumers of the management service
Figure 5.1.1-2 shows another example of the management service X which is
produced by the entity A which is a NF, then entity B processes the
information and produce management service Y and exposes it to the entity C.
Figure 5.1.1-2. Example of producers and consumers of management services
### 5.1.2 Interactions between management service producer and management
service consumer
The interactions between the management service producer and management
service consumer follows one of the three following paradigms:
\- \"Request-response\": A management service producer is requested by a
management service consumer to invoke an operation, which either performs an
action or provides information or both. The management service producer
provides response based on the request by management service consumer.
Figure 5.1.1.1: Request-response communication paradigm
\- _\"Subscribe-notify\":_ A management service consumer requests a management
service producer to establish a subscription to receive network events via
notifications, under the filter constraint specified in this operation.
> Subscriptions can be created also by other means than by using such
> operation _._
Figure 5.1.1.2: Subscribe-notify communication paradigm
NOTE: Example of a common aspect applicable to all management services is the
use of notifications. For a management service to use notifications the
management service consumer needs a subscription to notifications it is
interested in. The management service consumer requests the creation of a
subscription by sending a subscribe operation to the management service
producer. To cancel a subscription the consumer sends an unsubscribe operation
to the producer.
\- \"Connect-streaming\": A management producer is provided with the address
the managaement service consumer. The management service producer requests to
establish a connection with the management service consumer for management
data streaming. The management service producer sends the management data,
when they are ready, by streaming to the management service consumer over the
established connection.
Figure 5.1.1.3: Connect-streaming communication paradigm
## 5.2 Management interactions with NFV MANO
3GPP management system shall be capable to consume NFV MANO interface (e.g.
Os-Ma-nfvo, Ve-Vnfm-em and Ve-Vnfm-vnf reference points).
Producer of management services can consume management interfaces provided by
NFV MANO for following purposes:
\- NS LCM.
\- VNF LCM, PM, FM, CM on resources supporting VNF.
## 5.3 Management interactions with NWDAF
3GPP management system interacts with NWDAF in a coordinated way. 3GPP
management system takes the responsibility of management from the network-wide
view, addresses the slow control loop with broad management scope. NWDAF is a
5GC NF as specified in TS 23.288 [29].
# 6 Use cases and requirements
## 6.1 Use cases
### 6.1.1 MnS query
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable MnS discovery service consumer to obtain the available MnS
instance(s).
**Actors and Roles** MnS discovery service consumer
**Telecom resources** MnS discovery service producer
**Assumptions** MnS discovery service consumer is authorized to obtain the
available MnS instance(s) from MnS discovery service producer.
**Pre-conditions** Information of MnS instance(s) is existed in MnS discovery
service producer.
**Begins when** MnS discovery service consumer wants to obtain the available
MnS instance(s).
**Step 1 (M)** MnS discovery service consumer sends a request to MnS discovery
service provider to obatin the available MnS instances with MnS requirements
(e.g. MnS type (e.g. provisioning MnS, fault supervision MnS, performance
assurance MnS), requirement description for MnS components (e.g. class name
and/or instance information of the managedObject)).
**Step 2 (M)** MnS discovery service producer decides the available MnS
instance(s) to satisfy the received MnS requirements.
**Step 3 (M)** MnS discovery service producer sends the available MnS instance
with some information (e.g. MnS Id, MnS component information, MnS producer
information) to MnS discovery service consumer.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the mandatory steps fails.
**Post-conditions** MnS discovey service consumer has obtained the the
available MnS instance(s) and be ready to use this MnS instance.
**Traceability** REQ-MnSD-FUN-X
* * *
## 6.2 Requirements
### 6.2.1 Requirements for MnS discovery service
**REQ-MnSD-FUN-X** The MnS discovery service producer shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the available MnS
instance(s).
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example of deployment model with utilization
of management services
# A.1 Utilization of Management services in network and subnet layers
To deploy a management and orchestration system for the mobile network
including network slice(s), the management system can follow the network and
network slice management model, subnetwork and network slice subnet management
model, and network function management model. As an example, management models
are shown in Figure A.1.1, management services in each management model.
{width="4.626388888888889in" height="3.5131944444444443in"}
Figure A.1.1: Example management layers in layered management model
# A.2 Utilization of management services in network function management.
This subclause describes the network function management model in the example
of management services deployment. In case that a deployment requires
management service in NF management model, management services in NF
management model can provide specific management capability for NFs to
authorized management service consumer through service based interface.
NF management function is an execution entity to provide NF Management
services in NF management model. NF Management function (NFMF) may manage more
than one network functions.
NF management function for multiple managed network functions as shown in
Figure A.2.1 provides:
\- Management services exposure; and
\- Data governance for management service exposure.
NOTE 1: One example of a management object with multiple management services
is NF pooling design. Another example of a management object with this
multiple NF management services is 5G Core control plane.
NOTE 2: NF management function can behave as consumer to ETSI ISG NFV MANO
interfaces (e.g. Ve-Vnfm-em interface exposed by VNFM).
{width="5.64375in" height="1.3423611111111111in"}
Figure A.2.1: Example NF management function layer structure
As shown in Figure A.2.1, an example of NF management function model structure
is given. Exposure governance management function (EGMF) shown in Figure A.2.1
is management function in network function model with the role of management
service exposure governance (i.e. abstraction, simplification, filtering,
etc.). When multiple NF management services are exposed to network management,
the particular group of multiple NF management services can be represented by
a set of NF management services. This set of NF management services are
exposed as a bulk NF management service, by NF management function. Additional
management service abstraction may be needed based on NF management services
because of lack of trust relationship between management service
provider/consumer cannot address management services to build a global view of
subnet or meaningful management purposes.
# A.3 Utilization of management services by Exposure Governance Management
Function (EGMF)
Exposure Governance Management Function (EGMF) offers following management
capability (Figure A.3.1):
\- Exposure governance
NOTE: Details of EGMF management capability exposure governance is FFS.
In Figure A.3.1, EGMF produces exposure governance management capability that
operators can apply on Management Function (MnF) 1 MnS for exposing different
derivation of MnF 1 MnS to:
\- MnF 2 (e.g. from another Operator) and
\- 3^rd^ party (e.g. from vertical industry).
NOTE: Exposure governance can be controlled by a policy for different type of
MnF 1 MnS consumers (e.g. other operator, other management system, 3rd party,
other administrative domain, etc.)
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.015277777777778in"}
Figure A.3.1: MnF-1 Management Service (MnS) exposed through Exposure
Governance Management Function 1 (EGMF 1) and through Exposure Governance
Management Function 2 (EGMF 2)
# A.4 Utilization of interface to NFV-MANO by the producer of management
services
In this deployment scenario the providers of the NSS related management
services and NF related management services are also consuming the management
interfaces provided by the NFV-MANO:
\- -VNF PM, FM and LCM
\- NS PM, FM and LCM
These interfaces are provided via the Os-Ma-nfvo and the Ve-Vnfm-em reference
points as specified in the following specifications:
\- Configuration Management (CM): TS 28.510 [11], TS 28.511 [12], TS 28.512
[13], TS 28.513 [14],
\- Fault Management (FM): TS 28.515 [15], TS 28.516 [16], TS 28.517 [17], TS
28.518 [18],
\- Performance Management (PM): TS 28.520[19], TS 28.521 [20], TS 28.522 [21],
TS 28.523 [22],
\- Life Cycle Management (LCM): TS 28.525[23], TS 28.526 [24], TS 28.527 [25],
TS 28.528 [26].
In this deployment scenario:
\- the entity denoted as NSSMF (NSS Management Function), is capable of
consuming the VNF LCM and NS LCM related services provided by the NFV-MANO
(NFVO). Same entity is also a provider of the NSS related management services.
\- the entity denoted as NFMF (NF Management Function), is capable of
application level management of VNFs and PNFs and is a producer of the NF
Provisioning service that includes Configuration Management (CM), Fault
Management (FM) and Performance Management. Same entity is consumer of the NF
Provisioning service produced by VNFs and PNFs.
{width="5.490277777777778in" height="4.280555555555556in"}
Figure A.4.1 The deployment scenario for NSSI management with interface to
NFV-MANO
_The use case Network slice subnet instance creation in the clause 5.1.2 of
the TS 28.531 [8] shows example of interaction between:_
\- the consumer of the NSS related management services (e.g. NSS provisioning
service) and the NSSMF as the provider of the NSS related management services.
\- the NSSMF and the NFMF.
and also, the interaction between:
\- the NSSMF and the NFV-MANO,
\- the NFMF and the NFV-MANO.
NOTE: Figure A.4.1 shows an example of a deployment scenario, not all
scenarios are captured by this figure.
# A.5 Management Data Analytics Service (MDAS)
A management data analytics service (MDAS) provides data analytics of
different network related parameters including for example load level and/or
resource utilisation. For example, the MDAS for a network function (NF) can
collect the NF\'s load related performance data, e.g., resource usage status
of the NF. The analysis of the collected data may provide forecast of resource
usage information in a predefined future time. This analysis may also
recommend appropriate actions e.g., scaling of resources, admission control,
load balancing of traffic, etc.
A MDAS for a network slice subnet instance (NSSI) provides NSSI related data
analytics. The service may consume the corresponding MDAS of its constituent
NFs\'. The NSSI MDAS may further classify or shape the data in different
useful categories and analyse them for different network slice subnet
management needs (e.g., scaling, admission control of the constituent NFs
etc.). If an NSSI is composed of multiple other NSSIs, the NSSI MDAS acts as a
consumer of MDAS of the constituent NSSIs for further analysis e.g., resource
usage prediction, failure prediction for an NSSI, etc.
A MDAS for a network slice instance (NSI) provides NSI related data analytics.
The service may consume the corresponding MDAS of its constituent NSSI(s). The
NSI MDAS may further classify or shape the data in different useful categories
according to different customer needs, e.g., slice load, constituent NSSI
load, communication service loads. This data can be used for further analysis
e.g., resource usage prediction, failure prediction for an NSI, etc.
# A.6 Utilization of management services in functional management architecture
The management services for a mobile network including network slicing may be
produced by a set of functional blocks. This annex shows an example of such
deployment scenario where functional blocks (such as NSMF, NSSMF, NFMF and
CSMF) are producing and consuming various management services.
{width="6.682638888888889in" height="3.1041666666666665in"}
Figure A.6.1: Example of functional management architecture
In this deployment example:
\- NFMF (Network Function Management Function) provides the management
services for managing one or more NF(s) and may consume some management
services produced by other functional blocks.
\- The NF provides some management services, for example the NF performance
management services, NF configuration management services and NF fault
supervision services.
\- NSSMF provides the management services for one or more NSSI and may consume
some management services produced by other functional blocks.
\- NSMF provides the management services for one or more NSI and may consume
some management services produced by other functional blocks.
\- MDAF provides the Management Data Analytics Service for one or more NF,
NSSI and/or NSI, and may consume some management services produced by other
functional blocks.
\- CSMF consumes the management service(s) provided by the other functional
blocks. This deployment example does not illustrate what management services
the CSMF consumes.
\- EGMF provides management service(s) with applied exspoure governance and a
management service with management capability exposure governance to one or
more management service consumers and may consume some management services
produced by other functional blocks.
\- One functional block may consume the management service(s) provided by
another functional block, depending on the management scope of the functional
block(s). The scope may be expressed in the terms of Management Service
Components (see clause 4.3).
# A.7 Utilization of management data analytics services
A management data analytics service (MDAS) provides data analytics for the
network. MDAS can be deployed at different levels, for example, at domain
level (e.g., RAN, CN, NSSI) or in a centralized manner (e.g., in a PLMN
level). A domain-level MDAS provides domain specific analytics, e.g., resource
usage prediction in a CN or failure prediction in a NSSI, etc. A centralized
MDAS can provide end-to-end or cross-domain analytics service, e.g., resource
usage or failure prediction in an NSI, optimal CN node placement for ensuring
lowest latency in the connected RAN, etc. Figure A.7.1 illustrates an example
of deployment model of the MDAS:
\- Domain MDAF produces Domain MDAS
\- Domain MDAS is consumed by the Centralized MDAF and the other authorized
MDAS Consumers (for example, infrastructure manager, network manager, slice
manager, slice subnet manger, other 3rd party OSS, etc.)
\- Centralized MDAF produces Centralized MDAS
\- Centralized MDAS is consumed by different authorized MDAS Consumers
{width="2.671527777777778in" height="2.7916666666666665in"}
Figure A.7.1: MDAS provided at different levels
# A.8 An example of deployment scenario for network and network slice
This annex shows an example of deployment scenario for management of a mobile
network including network slicing.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.185416666666667in"}
Figure A.8.1: An example of deployment scenario for management of a mobile
network including network slicing
In this deployment scenario:
\- Network and Network Slice Management Function provides the management
services for network or NSI which includes RAN part, CN part and TN part to
the Consumer. Network and Network Slice Management Function consumes
management services for RAN SubNetwork or NSSI produced by RAN Management
Function, management services for CN SubNetwork or NSSI produced by CN
Management Function and interface produced by TN Manager.
\- RAN Management Function provides the management services for RAN SubNetwork
or NSSI and/or management services for RAN NF(s). RAN Management Function may
consume management service for RAN SubNetwork or NSSI and management services
for RAN NF. In this scenario, the following RAN Management Function(s) are
described:
\- RAN Management Function A provides the management services for RAN
SubNetwork or NSSI to Network and Network Slice Management Function. RAN
Management Function A consumes the management services for RAN NSSI(s) and
management services for RAN NF produced by RAN Management Function B, and
management services for RAN NF produced by RAN Management Function C.
\- RAN Management Function B provides the management services for RAN NSSI and
management services for RAN NF to RAN Management Function A.
\- RAN Management Function C provides the management services for RAN NF to
RAN Management Function A.
\- CN Management Function provides the management services for CN NSSI and/or
management services for CN NF. CN Management Function may consume management
service for CN NSSI and management services for CN NF. In this scenario, the
following CN Management Function(s) are described:
\- CN Management Function A provides the management services for CN NSSI to
Network and Network Slicing Management Function. CN A consumes the management
services for CN NSSI and management services for CN NF produced by CN
Management Function B and management services for CN NFs produced by CN
Management Function C.
\- CN Management Function B provides the management services for CN NSSI and
management services for CN NF to RAN Management Function A.
\- CN Management Function C provides the management services for CN NF to CN
Management Function A.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Solutions for management of 5G network and
network slicing
Figure B.1 shows the two solutions for managing the mobile network including
network slicing:
Solution1: Management with combination of existing interface IRP where
applicable and 5G management information (Management service component type B
and Management service component type C).
Solution2: Management with using the management services (Management service
component type A, Management service component type B and Management service
component type C).
{width="3.6743055555555557in" height="2.5069444444444446in"}
Figure B.1: Two solutions for managing a 5G network including network slicing
###### ## Annex C (informative): Example of mapping Management Services (MnS)
to pre-Rel-15 management framework
Figure C.1 depicts an example of management service consumer and producer
interaction shown in the context of the 3GPP pre-Rel-15 management reference
model [10] where Integration Reference Point (IRP) information services are
replaced by the management services. One or more management service producers
are provided by a management function that applies to a network resource model
representing the managed network.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.748611111111111in"}
Figure C.1: Example of Management service producer and consumer interaction
mapped into the pre-Rel-15 management reference model [10]
#