# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.621 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements;
**28.622 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS);**
**28.623 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.**
The interface Itf-N, defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], is built up by a number of
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which
realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure
of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
The present document is part of a set that has been developed for converged
management solutions.
The present document is part of a set that is used for **management and
orchestration of 5G networks and network slicing.**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Generic network resource information that
can be communicated between an MnS producer and MnS consumer for
telecommunication network management purposes, including management of
converged networks and networks that include virtualized network functions.
This document specifies the semantics of information object class attributes
and relations visible across the reference point in a protocol and technology
neutral way. It does not define their syntax and encoding.
This document supports the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) concept
described in [8] in that the relevant Information Object Class (IOC)s defined
in this specification are directly or indirectly inherited from those
specified in the Umbrella Information Model (UIM) of [9].
Note that the present document is applicable to deployment scenarios using the
Service Based Management Architecture (SBMA) as defined in TS 28.533 [32].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and Definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Numbering, addressing and identification\"
[6] 3GPP TS 32.532: \" Telecommunication management; Software Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \"
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1991): \"Common Management Information Service
Definition for CCITT Applications\".
[8] TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\"
[9] TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model (UIM)\"
[10] TS 32.156: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Model Repertoire\"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] ETSI GS NFV 003 V1.1.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Terminology for Main Concepts in NFV\".
[16] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 v2.1.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[17] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 015 v2.1.2: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Report on NFV Information Model\".
[18] ETSI ES 202 336-12 V1.1.1: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring
and control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling and
building environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12: ICT
equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring information
model\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: State management function\".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"State Management Data Definition Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[22] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [22], 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4] and
3GPP TS 32.600 [14] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [22], 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS
32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
1) name bindings,
2) reference attributes, and
3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that name containment associations shall be expressed
through name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other
types of associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate
entities in the object models (UML diagrams). Currently however, all (non-
containment) associations are modelled by means of reference attributes of the
participating MOs.
**Information Object Class (IOC): An IOC represents the management aspect of a
network resource.** It describes the information that can be passed/used in
management interfaces. **Their representations are technology agnostic
software objects.** IOC has attributes that represents the various properties
of the class of objects. See the term \"attribute\" defined in [10].
Furthermore, IOC can support operations providing network management services
invocable on demand for that class of objects. An IOC may support
notifications that report event occurrences relevant for that class of
objects. It is modelled using the stereotype \"Class\" in the UML meta-model.
See TS 32.156 [10] for additional information on IOC.
**Managed Object (MO)** : A MO is an instance of a Managed Object Class (MOC)
representing the management aspects of a network resource. Its representation
is a technology specific software object. It is sometimes called MO instance
(MOI). The MOC is a class of such technology specific software objects. An MOC
is the same as an IOC except that the former is defined in technology specific
terms and the latter is defined in technology agnostic terms. MOCs are
used/defined in SS level specifications. IOCs are used/defined in IS level
specifications.
**Management Information Base (MIB)** : A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document, an MIB consists of:
1) a Name space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names),
2) a number of Managed Objects with their attributes and
3) a number of Associations between these MOs. Also note that TMN (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]) defines a concept of a Management Information
Tre[e]{.underline} (also known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name
space (containment hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1
depicts the relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs (the shown association is of a non-containment type)
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Name space** : A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name
convention (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13]) restricts the name space to a
hierarchical containment structure, including its simplest form - the one-
level, flat name space.\ All Managed Objects in a MIB are included in the
corresponding name space and the MIB/name space shall only support a strict
hierarchical containment structure (with one root object). A Managed Object
that contains another is said to be the superior (parent); the contained
Managed Object is referred to as the subordinate (child). The parent of all
MOs in a single name space is called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all
MOs of all managed systems is called the Global Root.
**Network resource:** discrete entity represented by an Information Object
Class (IOC) for the purpose of network and service management.
NOTE: A network resource could represent intelligence, information, hardware
and software of a telecommunication network.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A collection of IOCs, inclusive of their
associations, attributes and operations, representing a set of network
resources under management.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [22] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [22].
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
IOC Information Object Class
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NFVI Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI): Defined in ETSI
GS NFV 003 [15].
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
SS Solution Set
VNF Virtualised Network Function
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11], notification,
notifyAckStateChanged notifyAckStateChanged 3GPP TS 32.662 [12], notification,
notifyAttributeValueChanged notifyAttributeValueChanged 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyChangedAlarm notifyChangedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyClearedAlarm notifyClearedAlarm 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyComments notifyComments 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyNewAlarm notifyNewAlarm 3GPP TS 32.662 [12], notification,
notifyObjectCreation notifyObjectCreation 3GPP TS 32.662 [12], notification,
notifyObjectDeletion notifyObjectDeletion 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11], notification,
notifyAlarmListRebuilt notifyAlarmListRebuilt 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11],
notification, notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList
3GPP TS 32.532 [6], notification, notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged
notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 32.532 [6], notification,
notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 32.532
[6], notification, notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _Domain__ _Domain__
3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _ManagedElement__ _ManagedElement__ 3GPP TS 28.620
[9], IOC, _Function__ _Function__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _ManagementSystem__
_ManagementSystem__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _TopologicalLink__
_TopologicalLink__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _Top__ _Top__
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagrams
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides the overview of the
relationships of relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
The following figure shows the containment/naming hierarchy and the
associations of the classes defined in the present document. See Annex A of a
class diagram that combines this figure with Figure 1 of [2], the class
diagram of UIM.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="2.5395833333333333in"}
NOTE 1: ManagedElement may be contained either
> \- in a SubNetwork (since _SubNetwork_ inherits from _Domain_ _ and
> _ManagedElement_ inherits from _ManagedElement_ _ and _Domain_ _ name-
> contained _ManagedElement__ as observed in the figure of Annex A) or
>
> \- in a MeContext instance as observed by the above figure or in the figure
> of Annex A.
>
> This either-or relation cannot be shown by using an {xor} constraint in the
> above figure.
>
> ManagedElement may also have no parent instance at all.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
NOTE 3: If the configuration contains several instances of SubNetwork, exactly
one SubNetwork instance shall directly or indirectly contain all the other
SubNetwork instances.
NOTE 4: The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of
SubNetwork is referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
NOTE 5: ManagementNode shall be contained in the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 6: If contained in a SubNetwork instance, IRPAgent shall be contained in
the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 7: Void.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Containment/Naming and Association NRM fragment
Each Managed Object is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of a ManagedElement instance could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,MeContext =MEC-Gbg-1, ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="2.691666666666667in"}
NOTE 8: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs by
virtue of inheritance from the GENERIC NRM.
NOTE 9: The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
Figure 4.2.1-2: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming and Association in GENERIC
NRM diagram
{width="4.6506944444444445in" height="2.283333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.1-3: PM NRM fragment
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.9756944444444444in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1: Inheritance Hierarchy NRM fragment
{width="3.4277777777777776in" height="1.4131944444444444in"}
Figure 4.2.2-2: Inheritance PM NRM fragment
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 Any
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This class represents the classes (e.g. IOC) that are not defined in this
specification but are or will be defined in other IRP specification(s).
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
None
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
_This class does not support any notification._
### 4.3.2 Void
### 4.3.3 ManagedElement
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents telecommunications equipment or TMN entities within the
telecommunications network providing support and/or service to the
subscriber.\ An ME communicates with a manager (directly or indirectly) over
one or more management interfaces for the purpose of being monitored and/or
controlled. MEs may or may not additionally perform element management
functionality.\ An ME contains equipment that may or may not be geographically
distributed. An ME is often referred to as a \"Network Element\".
A telecommunication equipment has software and hardware components. The IOC
described above represents the case when the software component is designed to
run on dedicated hardware component. In the case when the software is designed
to run on ETSI NFV defined NFVI [15], the IOC description would exclude the
NFVI component supporting the above mentioned subject software. A
ManagedElement may be contained in either a SubNetwork or in a MeContext
instance. A single ManagedElement may also exist stand-alone with no parent at
all.
The ManagedElement IOC may be used to represent combined ME functionality (as
indicated by the managedElementType attribute and the contained instances of
different functional IOCs).
Single function ManagedElement IOC instances will have a 1..1 containment
relationship to a function IOC instance (in this context a function IOC
instance is an instance of an IOC derived from the ManagedFunction IOC).
Multiple function ManagedElement instances will have a 1..N containment
relationship to function IOC instances.
NOTE: For some specific functional IOCs a 1..N containment relationship is
permitted. The specific functional entities are identified in the NRMs that
define subclasses of ManagedFunction.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
The ManagedElement IOC includes the attributes inherited from
ManagedElement_IOC (defined in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top
IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable vendorName M T F F T userDefinedState M T T F T swVersion M T F F
T priorityLabel O T F T F measurementsList M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition dnPrefix (inherited) Support Qualifier Condition: The
ManagedElement instance is the local root instance of the MIB; otherwise, the
attribute shall be absent or carry no information.
* * *
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC_. In
addition, the following set of notifications is also valid.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged See Software Management
IRP (3GPP TS 32.532 [6])  
notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged See Software Management IRP (3GPP TS 32.532
[6])  
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged See Software Management IRP (3GPP TS 32.532
[6])
* * *
### 4.3.4 _ManagedFunction_
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. It provides attribute(s) that are
common to functional IOCs. Note that a ManagedElement may contain several
managed functions. The ManagedFunction may be extended in the future if more
common characteristics to functional objects are identified.
This IOC can represent a telecommunication function either realized by
software running on dedicated hardware or realized by software running on
NFVI. Each ManagedFunction instance communicates with a manager (directly or
indirectly) over one or more management interfaces exposed via its containing
ME instance.
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
The ManagedFunction IOC includes the attributes inherited from Function_IOC
(defined in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable vnfParametersList CM T T F T peeParametersList CM T T F T
priorityLabel O T F T F measurementsList M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition vnfParametersList Support Qualifier Condition: The
ManagedFunction instance is realized by one or more VNF instance(s). Otherwise
this attribute shall be absent. peeParametersList Support Qualifier
Condition:The control and monitoring of PEE parameters is supported by the
ManagedFunction or sub-class instance.
* * *
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.5 ManagementNode
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents a telecommunications management system (EM) within the TMN
that contains functionality for managing a number of ManagedElements (MEs).
The management system communicates with the MEs directly or indirectly over
one or more interfaces for the purpose of monitoring and/or controlling these
MEs.
This class has similar characteristics as the ManagedElement. The main
difference between these two classes is that the ManagementNode has a special
association to the managed elements that it is responsible for managing.
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
The ManagementNode IOC includes the attributes inherited from
ManagementSystem_ IOC (defined in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from
Top IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable vendorName M T F F T userDefinedState M T T F T locationName M T
F F T swVersion M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.6 MeContext
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC is introduced for naming purposes. It may support creation of unique
DNs in scenarios when some MEs have the same RDNs due to the fact that they
have been manufacturer pre-configured.\ If some MEs have the same RDNs (for
the above mentioned reason) and they are contained in the same SubNetwork
instance, some measure shall be taken in order to assure the global uniqueness
of DNs for all IOC instances under those MEs. One way could be to set
different dnPrefix for those NEs, but that would require either that:
a) all LDNs or DNs are locally modified using the new dnPrefix for the upper
portion of the DNs, or
b) a mapping (translation) of the old LDNs or DNs to the new DNs every time
they are used externally, e.g. in alarm notifications.
As both the two alternatives above may involve unacceptable drawbacks (as the
old RDNs for the MEs then would have to be changed or mapped to new values),
using MeContext offers a new alternative to resolve the DN creation. Using
MeContext as part of the naming tree (and thus the DN) means that the
dnPrefix, including a unique MeContext for each ME, may be directly
concatenated with the LDNs, without any need to change or map the existing ME
RDNs to new values.
MeContext have 0..N instances. It may exist even if no SubNetwork exists.
Every instance of MeContext contains exactly one ManagedElement during steady-
state operations.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
The MeContext IOC includes the attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined in
TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8)
and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable dnPrefix CM M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition dnPrefix Support Qualifier Condition: The instance of
MeContext is the local root instance of the MIB. Otherwise the attribute shall
be absent or carry no information.
* * *
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.7 SubNetwork
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of managed entities.There may be zero or more
instances of a SubNetwork. It shall be present if either a ManagementNode or
multiple ManagedElements are present (i.e. ManagementNode and multiple
ManagedElement instances shall have SubNetwork as parent).
The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of SubNetwork is
referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
The SubNetwork IOC includes the attributes inherited from Domain_ IOC (defined
in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8)
and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable setOfMcc CM T F F T priorityLabel O T F T F measurementsList M T
F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition dnPrefix (inherited ) Support Qualifier Condition: The
instance of SubNetwork is the local root instance of the MIB. Otherwise the
attribute shall be absent or carry no information. setOfMcc Support Qualifier
Condition: There is more than one value in setOfMcc of the
SubNetwork,otherwise the support is optional.
* * *
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions
### 4.3.8 _Top_
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. All information object classes
defined in all TS that claim to be conformant to 32.102 [2] shall inherit from
Top.
#### 4.3.8.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable objectClass M T F T T objectInstance M T F T T
* * *
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.9 VsDataContainer
#### 4.3.9.1 Definition
The VsDataContainer managed object is a container for vendor specific data.
The number of instances of the VsDataContainer can differ from vendor to
vendor. This IOC shall only be used by the Bulk CM IRP for all the NRMs.
#### 4.3.9.2 Attributes
The VsDataContainer IOC includes the attributes inherited from Top_ IOC
(defined in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable vsDataType M T F F O vsData M T O F O vsDataFormatVersion M T F F
O
* * *
#### 4.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.9.4 Notifications
Support for notification on the change of attribute value is vendor-specific.
### 4.3.10 _Link_
#### 4.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. This IOC represents a
communication link or reference point between two network entities. The Link
IOC does not indicate whether the represented communication link or reference
point is a physical or logical entity.
For the subclasses of Link, the following rules apply:
1) The subclass names shall have the form "Link_\_\", where \ is a
string that represents the IOC at one end of the association related to the
particular Link subclass, and \ is a string that represents the IOC at the
other end of the association. For the order of the two strings, \ shall
come alphabetically before \.
2) In case \ and \ are YyyFunction IOCs (inheriting from ManagedFunction
and on first level below ManagedElement), the \ and \ strings shall have
the same form as the legal values of the managedElementType attribute (see
clause 4.5.1), e.g. "Auc". Otherwise \ and \ shall be the full IOC
names.
Thus, two valid examples of Link subclass names would be: **Link_As_Cscf** and
**Link_Mrfc_Mrfp.**
#### 4.3.10.2 Attributes
The Link IOC includes the attributes inherited from TopologicalLink_ (defined
in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8)
and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable userLabel M T T F T linkType O T F F T protocolVersion O T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.10.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition aEnd and zEnd (inherited from _TopologicalLink_ _) Support
Qualifier Condition: The property multiplicity is 1.
* * *
#### 4.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions
### 4.3.11 _EP_RP_
#### 4.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. This IOC represents an end point
of a link used across a reference point between two network entities.
The detailed subclassed IOC, e.g. EP_X2, will be defined in E-UTRAN NRM IRP,
by inheriting from this EP_RP.
For naming the subclasses of **EP_RP** , the following rules shall apply:
\- The name of the subclassed IOC shall have the form "EP_\", where \
is a string that represents the name of the reference point.
Thus, two valid examples of EP_RP subclassed IOC names would be: EP_S1 and
EP_X2.
#### 4.3.11.2 Attributes
The EP_RP IOC includes the attributes inherited from Top_ (defined in TS
28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8) and
the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable farEndEntity O T - - T userLabel O T T - T measurementsList M T F
F T
* * *
#### 4.3.11.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.11.4 Notifications
_This class does not support any notification._
### 4.3.12 MeasurementControl
#### 4.3.12.1 Definition
This IOC captures the properties of the file-based and stream-based delivery
methods.
The file-based delivery method has properties for the file location, the file
reporting period and the file-based GP. The stream-based delivery method has
properties for the stream target and the stream-based GP.
These properties are labelled as default (e.g. defaultFileBasedGP) in that
they will be ignored in case the same properties captured in MeasurementReader
are used.
Instance of this IOC shall not be created nor deleted by consumer. It shall be
created and deleted by the producer.
Depending on particular deployment context and agreement between operator and
vendor, the isWritable for all attributes could be 'F'.
#### 4.3.12.2 Attributes
The MeasurementControl IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable pMAdministrativeState M T T F T pMOperationalState M T F F T
defaultFileBasedGP M T T F F defaultFileReportingPeriod M T T F F
defaultFileLocation M T T F F streamBasedGP O T T F F defaultStreamTarget O T
T F F
* * *
#### 4.3.12.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.12.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions
### 4.3.13 MeasurementReader
#### 4.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC identifies the entity (derivatives of ManagedFunction) whose
Measurements are required by consumer to be produced and captured. The types
of Measurements required are identified by the attribute measurementTypes.
This IOC captures the properties of the two delivery methods for delivering
the Measurements.
The file-based delivery method has properties: fileLocation, reportingPeriod
and fileBasedGP. The stream-based delivery method has properties: streamTarget
and streamBasedGP.
The MeasurementControl also can capture the properties of the file-based and
stream-based delivery methods.
If the MeasurementReader instance's file-based delivery method has valid
properties, the file-based delivery method is used and the MeasurementControl
instance's file-based delivery method is ignored
If the MeasurementReader instance's stream-based delivery method has valid
properties, the stream-based delivery method is used and the
MeasurementControl instance's stream-based delivery is ignored.
A file-based and stream-based delivery methods can be active at the same time
for a MeasurementReader instance.
The activity of a MeasurementReader instance is independent of that of other
MeasurementReader instances.
This IOC uses attributes managedObjectDNs or managedObjectDNsBasic to identify
specific managed entities whose Measurements are required by consumer.
#### 4.3.13.2 Attributes
The MeasurementReader IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable measurementTypes M T T F F fileBasedGP O T T F F
fileReportingPeriod O T T F F fileLocation O T T F F streamBasedGP O T T F F
streamTarget O T T F F managedObjectDNsBasic CM T T F F managedObjectDNs CM T
T F F
* * *
#### 4.3.13.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition managedObjectDNsBasic, managedObjectDNs Support Qualifier
Condition: It shall be supported if the MeasurementReader is a subordinate of
SubNetwork or NetworkSliceSubnet. If both attributes contain information, the
information in managedObjectDNs is ignored.
* * *
#### 4.3.13.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions
### 4.3.14 Measurements \>
#### 4.3.14.1 Definition
This \> captures the Measurement types supported by its associated
IOC, i.e. ManagedFunction or ManagedElement or _EP_RP_. It also captures the
list of GPs supported, on per Measurement type. This \> indicates
a capability of the associated IOC and therefore its isWritable property is
False and its isInvariant property is False (since vendor product upgrade can
increase or decrease the number of supported Measurement types without the
need to deleting the older-version instance and creating a newer-version
instance.)
#### 4.3.14.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable measurementTypes M T F F F gPs M T F F F
* * *
#### 4.3.14.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.14.4 Notifications
_Not applicable._
### 4.3.15 ManagedEntity \>
#### 4.3.15.1 Definition
This represents an \>SubNetwork, \>ManagedElement or
\>ManagedFunction.
#### 4.3.15.2 Attributes
See that defined in \>SubNetwork, \>ManagedElement or
\>ManagedFunction.
#### 4.3.15.3 Attribute constraints
See that defined in \>SubNetwork, \>ManagedElement or
\>ManagedFunction.
#### 4.3.15.4 Notifications
See respective IOCs.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the
present document.
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | | Allowed Values | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | farEndEntity | The value of this | type: DN | | | | attribute shall be | | | | | the Distinguished | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | Name of the far | | | | | end network entity | isOrdered: N/A | | | | to which the | | | | | reference point is | isUnique: N/A | | | | related. | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | As an example, | | | | | with EP_Iucs, if | isNullable: False | | | | the instance of | | | | | EP_Iucs is | | | | | contained by one | | | | | RncFunction | | | | | instance, the | | | | | farEndEntity is | | | | | the Distinguished | | | | | Name of the | | | | | MscServerFunction | | | | | instance to which | | | | | this Iucs | | | | | reference point is | | | | | related. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | linkType | This attribute | type: String | | | | defines the type | | | | | of the link. | multiplicity: | | | | | 0..* | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | Signalling, | isOrdered: F | | | | Bearer, OAM&P, | | | | | Other or multiple | isUnique: T | | | | combinations of | | | | | this type. | defaultValue: No | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | locationName | The physical | type: String | | | | location of this | | | | | entity (e.g. an | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | address). | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | objectClass | An attribute which | type: String | | | | captures the name | | | | | of the class from | multiplicity: 1 | | | | which the object | | | | | instance is an | isOrdered: N/A | | | | occurrence of. | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | default value | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | objectInstance | An information | type: String | | | | which captures the | | | | | Distinguished Name | multiplicity: 1 | | | | of any object. | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | default value | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | peeParametersList | This attribute | type: String | | | | contains the | | | | | parameter list for | multiplicity: | | | | the control and | 0..* | | | | monitoring of | | | | | power, energy and | isOrdered: N/A | | | | environmental | | | | | parameters of | isUnique: True | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | | instance(s). This | defaultValue: No | | | | list contains the | default value | | | | following | | | | | parameters: | isNullable: True | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | siteIdentification | | | | | | | | | | - siteLatitude | | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | | | - siteLongitude | | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | | | - siteDescription | | | | | | | | | | - equipmentType | | | | | | | | | | - environmentType | | | | | | | | | | - powerInterface | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | iteIdentification: | | | | | The identification | | | | | of the site where | | | | | the | | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | | resides. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | | | siteLatitude: The | | | | | latitude of the | | | | | site where the | | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | | instance resides, | | | | | based on World | | | | | Geodetic System | | | | | (1984 version) | | | | | global reference | | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | | Positive values | | | | | correspond to the | | | | | northern | | | | | hemisphere. This | | | | | attribute is | | | | | optional in case | | | | | of BTSFunction and | | | | | RNCFunction | | | | | instance(s). | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | -90.0000 to | | | | | +90.0000 | | | | | | | | | | siteLongitude: The | | | | | longitude of the | | | | | site where the | | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | | instance resides, | | | | | based on World | | | | | Geodetic System | | | | | (1984 version) | | | | | global reference | | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | | Positive values | | | | | correspond to | | | | | degrees east of 0 | | | | | degrees longitude. | | | | | This attribute is | | | | | optional in case | | | | | of BTSFunction and | | | | | RNCFunction | | | | | instance(s). | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | -180.0000 to | | | | | +180.0000 | | | | | | | | | | siteDescription: | | | | | An operator | | | | | defined | | | | | description of the | | | | | site where the | | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | | instance resides. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | | | **equipmentType:** | | | | | The type of | | | | | equipment where | | | | | the | | | | | managedFunction | | | | | instance resides. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | | clause 4.4.1 of | | | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | | [18]. | | | | | | | | | | environmentType: | | | | | The type of | | | | | environment where | | | | | the | | | | | managedFunction | | | | | instance resides. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | | clause 4.4.1 of | | | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | | [18]. | | | | | | | | | | powerInterface: | | | | | The type of power. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | | clause 4.4.1 of | | | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | | [18]. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | priorityLabel | This is a label | type: Integer | | | | that consumer | | | | | would assign a | multiplicity: 1 | | | | value on a | | | | | concrete instance | isOrdered: N/A | | | | of the managed | | | | | object. The | isUnique: N/A | | | | management system | | | | | takes the value of | defaultValue: No | | | | this attribute | default value | | | | into account. The | | | | | effect of this | isNullable: False | | | | attribute value to | | | | | the subject | | | | | managed entity is | | | | | not standardized | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | protocolVersion | Versions(s) and | type: String | | | | additional | | | | | descriptive | multiplicity: * | | | | information for | | | | | the protocol(s) | isOrdered: F | | | | used for the | | | | | associated | isUnique: T | | | | communication | | | | | link. Syntax and | defaultValue: no | | | | semantic is not | default value | | | | specified. | | | | | | isNullable: False | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | setOfMcc | Set of Mobile | type: Integer | | | | Country Code | | | | | (MCC). The MCC | multiplicity: | | | | uniquely | 1..* | | | | identifies the | | | | | country of | isOrdered: F | | | | domicile of the | | | | | mobile subscriber. | isUnique: T | | | | MCC is part of the | | | | | IMSI (TS 23.003 | defaultValue: No | | | | [5]) | default value | | | | | | | | | This list contains | isNullable: False | | | | all the MCC values | | | | | in subordinate | | | | | object instances | | | | | to this SubNetwork | | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | | clause 2.3 of TS | | | | | 23.003 [5] for | | | | | MCC allocation | | | | | principles. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | swVersion | The software | type: String | | | | version of the | | | | | ManagementNode or | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | ManagedElement | | | | | (this is used for | isOrdered: N/A | | | | determining which | | | | | version of the | isUnique: N/A | | | | vendor specific | | | | | information is | defaultValue: No | | | | valid for the | default value | | | | ManagementNode or | | | | | ManagedElement). | isNullable: False | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | systemDN | The Distinguished | type: DN | | | | Name (DN) of | | | | | IRPAgent. Defined | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | in 3GPP TS 32.300. | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | default value | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | userDefinedState | An operator | type: String | | | | defined state for | | | | | operator specific | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | usage. | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | default value | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | userLabel | A user-friendly | type: String | | | | (and user | | | | | assignable) name | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | of this object. | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | default value | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | vendorName | The name of the | type: String | | | | vendor. | | | | | | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | default value | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | vnfParametersList | This attribute | type: String | | | | contains the | | | | | parameter set of | multiplicity: * | | | | the VNF | | | | | instance(s) | isOrdered: N/A | | | | corresponding to | | | | | an NE. Each entry | isUnique: True | | | | in the list | | | | | contains: | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | | > \- vnfInstanceId | isNullable: True | | | | > | | | | | > \- vnfdId | | | | | > (optional) | | | | | > | | | | | > \- flavourId | | | | | > (optional) | | | | | > | | | | | > \- autoScalable | | | | | > (optional) | | | | | | | | | | vnfInstanceId: VNF | | | | | instance | | | | | identifier | | | | | (vnfInstanceId**, | | | | | see section 9.4.2 | | | | | of [16] and | | | | | section | | | | | B2.4.2.1.2.3 of | | | | | [17]).** | | | | | | | | | | **See Note 1.** | | | | | | | | | | vnfdId: Identifier | | | | | of the VNFD on | | | | | which the VNF | | | | | instance is based, | | | | | see section 9.4.2 | | | | | of [16]. This | | | | | attribute is | | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | | | **Note: the value | | | | | of this attribute | | | | | is identical to | | | | | that of the same | | | | | attribute in | | | | | clause 9.4.2 of** | | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | | 008 **[16].** | | | | | | | | | | flavourId: | | | | | Identifier of the | | | | | VNF Deployment | | | | | Flavour applied to | | | | | this VNF instance, | | | | | see section 9.4.3 | | | | | of [16]. This | | | | | attribute is | | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | | | Note: the value of | | | | | this attribute is | | | | | identical to that | | | | | of the same | | | | | attribute in | | | | | clause 9.4.3 of | | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | | 008 [16]. | | | | | | | | | | autoScalable: | | | | | Indicator of | | | | | whether the | | | | | auto-scaling of | | | | | this VNF instance | | | | | is enabled or | | | | | disabled. The type | | | | | is Boolean. | | | | | | | | | | This attribute is | | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | | | See Note2. | | | | | | | | | | **The presence of | | | | | this attribute | | | | | indicates that | | | | | the** | | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | | **represented by | | | | | the MOI is a | | | | | virtualized | | | | | function.** | | | | | | | | | | **See Note 3.** | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | | | **A string length | | | | | of zero for | | | | | vnfInstanceId | | | | | means the VNF | | | | | instance(s) | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | the MOI does not | | | | | exist (e.g. has | | | | | not been | | | | | instantiated yet, | | | | | has already been | | | | | terminated).** | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | vsData | Vendor specific | type: -- | | | | attributes of the | | | | | type vsDataType. | multiplicity: -- | | | | The attribute | | | | | definitions | isOrdered: -- | | | | including | | | | | constraints (value | isUnique: -- | | | | ranges, data | | | | | types, etc.) are | defaultValue: -- | | | | specified in a | | | | | vendor specific | isNullable: False | | | | data format file. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: -- | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | v | Name of the data | type: String | | | sDataFormatVersion | format file, | | | | | including version. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | vsDataType | Type of vendor | type: String | | | | specific data | | | | | contained by this | multiplicity: 1 | | | | instance, e.g. | | | | | relation specific | isOrdered: N/A | | | | algorithm | | | | | parameters, cell | isUnique: N/A | | | | specific | | | | | parameters for | defaultValue: No | | | | power control or | | | | | re-selection or a | isNullable: False | | | | timer. The type | | | | | itself is also | | | | | vendor specific. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | pMA | It indicates the | type: ENUM | | | dministrativeState | administrative | | | | | state of | multiplicity: 1 | | | | M | | | | | easurementControl. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | It describes the | | | | | permission to use | isUnique: N/A | | | | or prohibition | | | | | against using the | defaultValue: | | | | capability of | "LOCKED" | | | | M | | | | | easurementControl, | isNullable: False | | | | imposed through | | | | | the consumer of | | | | | OAM services | | | | | produced by | | | | | M | | | | | easurementControl, | | | | | | | | | | The measurement | | | | | report production | | | | | would begin when | | | | | pMa | | | | | dministrativeState | | | | | is UNLOCKED and | | | | | pMoperationalState | | | | | is ENABLED. | | | | | | | | | | The meaning of | | | | | these values is as | | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | | 28.625 [21] and | | | | | ITU-T X.731 | | | | | [19]. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | LOCKED, SHUTTING | | | | | DOWN, UNLOCKED. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | pMOperationalState | It indicates the | type: ENUM | | | | operational state | | | | | of | multiplicity: 1 | | | | M | | | | | easurementControl. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | It describes if | | | | | the resource is | isUnique: N/A | | | | physically | | | | | installed and | defaultValue: No | | | | working. | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | ENABLED, DISABLED. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | | | The meaning of | | | | | these values is as | | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | | 28.625 [21] and | | | | | ITU-T X.731 | | | | | [19]. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | managedObjectDNs | It identifies the | type: DN | | | | managed entities | | | | | whose Measurements | multiplicity: * | | | | are required to be | | | | | produced. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | | It identifies | isUnique: True | | | | specific managed | | | | | entities say X, Y, | defaultValue: No | | | | Z. They are | | | | | called, X, Y and | isNullable: False | | | | Z, the base. | | | | | | | | | | In case the base | | | | | is SubNetwork, it | | | | | identifies all, | | | | | including the | | | | | base, managed | | | | | entities that are | | | | | subordinates, in | | | | | the sense of | | | | | name-containment, | | | | | of the base. | | | | | | | | | | The identified | | | | | entities are | | | | | called a | | | | | collection. The | | | | | presence of this | | | | | IOC would mean | | | | | Measurement types | | | | | specified in | | | | | attribute | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | .measurementTypes, | | | | | are required to be | | | | | produced if the | | | | | member (of the | | | | | collection) is | | | | | capable of | | | | | supporting the | | | | | Measurement types. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | man | It identifies the | type: DN | | | agedObjectDNsBasic | managed entities | | | | | whose Measurements | multiplicity: * | | | | are required to be | | | | | produced. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | | It identifies | isUnique: True | | | | specific | | | | | managedentities | defaultValue: No | | | | (say X, Y, Z), it | | | | | would mean | isNullable: False | | | | Measurements type | | | | | specified in | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | .measurementTypes, | | | | | are required to be | | | | | produced if X, Y, | | | | | Z are capable of | | | | | supporting the | | | | | Measurement types. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | managedObjectDNs | | | | | of the same | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | instance has valid | | | | | information, the | | | | | information of | | | | | this attribute is | | | | | ignored. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | measurementsList | It specifies a | type: Measurements | | | | list of supported | | | | | measurements and | multiplicity: * | | | | their GPs. A NULL | | | | | value indicates | isOrdered: N/A | | | | there is no | | | | | measurement | isUnique: N/A | | | | supported. | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | measurementTypes | It identifies one | type: String | | | | or more | | | | | Measurement types. | multiplicity: * | | | | The Measurement | | | | | type can be those | isOrdered: N/A | | | | specified in TS | | | | | 28.552 [20], TS | isUnique: True | | | | 32.404 [21] and | | | | | can be those | defaultValue: No | | | | specified by other | | | | | SDOs or can be | isNullable: False | | | | vendor-specific. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | gPs | It identifies the | type: Integer | | | | supported GPs, see | | | | | Note 4. | multiplicity: * | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | defaultFileBasedGP | This is a property | Same as in | | | | of the file-based | fileBasedGP | | | | delivery method. | | | | | See definition of | | | | | fileBasedGP. This | | | | | value is ignored | | | | | in case the | | | | | property captured | | | | | in | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | is in use. GP unit | | | | | is in minute. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | defaultF | This is a property | Same as in | | | ileReportingPeriod | of the file-based | f | | | | delivery method. | ileReportingPeriod | | | | See definition of | | | | | fileReportingGP. | | | | | This value is | | | | | ignored in case | | | | | the property | | | | | captured in | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | is in use. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | d | This is a property | Same as in | | | efaultFileLocation | of the file-based | fileLocation | | | | delivery method. | | | | | See definition of | | | | | fileLocation. This | | | | | value is ignored | | | | | in case the | | | | | property captured | | | | | in | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | is in use. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | de | This is a property | Same as in | | | faultStreamBasedGP | of the | streamBasedGP | | | | stream-based | | | | | delivery method. | | | | | See definition of | | | | | streamBasedGP. | | | | | This value is | | | | | ignored in case | | | | | the property | | | | | captured in | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | is in use. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | d | This is a property | Same as in | | | efaultStreamTarget | of the | | | | | stream-based | streamTarget | | | | delivery method. | | | | | See definition of | | | | | streamTarget. This | | | | | value is ignored | | | | | in case the | | | | | property captured | | | | | in | | | | | MeasurementReader | | | | | is in use. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | fileBasedGP | This defines the | type: Integer | | | | frequency of | | | | | producing the | multiplicity: 1 | | | | measurement data. | | | | | The measurement | isOrdered: N/A | | | | data would be | | | | | produced | isUnique: N/A | | | | immediately at the | | | | | end of each | defaultValue: No | | | | fileBasedGP. A | | | | | measurement report | isNullable: False | | | | file contains | | | | | multiple | | | | | measurement data. | | | | | GP unit is in | | | | | minute. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | | Note 4. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | f | This defines the | type: Integer | | | ileReportingPeriod | frequency of | | | | | producing the | multiplicity: 1 | | | | measurement report | | | | | files, in | isOrdered: N/A | | | | fileLocation, that | | | | | hold the | isUnique: N/A | | | | measurement | | | | | reports. | defaultValue: No | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Its | isNullable: False | | | | value is a | | | | | multiple of | | | | | fileBasedGP. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | fileLocation | This is used for | type: String | | | | the file-based | | | | | delivery method. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | It is the path to | | | | | a location on | isOrdered: N/A | | | | either the | | | | | producer's file | isUnique: N/A | | | | system or a URI to | | | | | a network file | defaultValue: No | | | | location that is | | | | | not part of the | isNullable: True | | | | producer's file | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | In case it points | | | | | to a location on | | | | | the producer's | | | | | file system, it is | | | | | a relative path | | | | | based on a | | | | | vendor-specified | | | | | root directory for | | | | | measurement files. | | | | | | | | | | The size of this | | | | | fileLocation is | | | | | decided by | | | | | consumer and | | | | | producer. The | | | | | producer is | | | | | expected to remove | | | | | old files to make | | | | | room for new | | | | | files, when | | | | | necessary. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | | applicable. | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | streamBasedGP | It defines the | type: Integer | | | | frequency of | | | | | producing and | multiplicity: 1 | | | | sending the | | | | | Measurement to the | isOrdered: N/A | | | | streamTargets. | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | | Note 4. | defaultValue: No | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | streamTarget | This identifies | type: String | | | | the target of the | | | | | notification | multiplicity: 1 | | | | carrying the | | | | | content of the | isOrdered: N/A | | | | measurement | | | | | report. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | | There are two | defaultValue: No | | | | delivery methods | | | | | (i.e. file-based | isNullable: True | | | | and stream-based) | | | | | via which the | | | | | consumer(s) can | | | | | receive the | | | | | Measurements. This | | | | | attribute is used | | | | | for the | | | | | stream-based | | | | | delivery method. | | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | dnPrefix | It carries the DN | type: DN | | | | Prefix information | | | | | or no information. | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | See Annex C of | | | | | 32.300 [13] for | isOrdered: N/A | | | | one usage of this | | | | | attribute. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | NOTE 1 : The value | | | | | of this attribute | | | | | is identical to | | | | | that of the same | | | | | attribute in | | | | | clause 9.4.2 of | | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | | 008 [16]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The value | | | | | of this attribute | | | | | is identical to | | | | | that of the | | | | | attribute | | | | | isAutoscaleEnabled | | | | | included in | | | | | vnfCo | | | | | nfigurableProperty | | | | | in clause 9.4.2 of | | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | | 008 [16]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3:The | | | | | presence of the | | | | | attribute | | | | | _v | | | | | nfParametersList_ , | | | | | whose | | | | | _vnfInstanceId_ | | | | | with a string | | | | | length of zero, in | | | | | createMO operation | | | | | can trigger the | | | | | instantiation of | | | | | the related | | | | | VNF/VNFC | | | | | instances. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The GP | | | | | defines the | | | | | measurement data | | | | | production rate. | | | | | The supported | | | | | rates are | | | | | dependent on the | | | | | capacity of the | | | | | producer involved | | | | | (e.g. the | | | | | processing power | | | | | of the producer, | | | | | the complexity of | | | | | the measurement | | | | | type involved etc) | | | | | and therefore, it | | | | | cannot be | | | | | standardized for | | | | | all producers | | | | | involved. The | | | | | supported GPs | | | | | reflects the | | | | | agreement between | | | | | producer and the | | | | | consumer involved. | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [11], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [3], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [12], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [3], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Alternate class diagram
This class diagram combines the Figure 4.2.1-1 of this document with Figure 1
of [9], the class diagram of UIM.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.7555555555555555in"}
Figure A-1: Alternate class diagram
#