# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
As a result of the analysis of the requirements for the harmonization of the
3GPP and TM Forum Information Models in the context of FMC basic use cases
were developed [6], [14]. These use cases led to the recognition that it would
be necessary to define common model elements applicable for wire-line and
wireless networks. This document defines these common model elements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ATM Forum, Technical Committee, Network Management, M4 Network View CMIP
MIB Specification, \"CMIP Specification for the M4 Interface\", Sep, 1995.
[2] 3GPP TS 28,652: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\"..
[3] Void.
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 32.622 \"Generic network resources IRP: NRM\".
[6] 3GPP TR 32.833 \"Study on Management of Converged Networks\".
[7] TM Forum GB922,\"Information Framework (SID) Suite, Release
9.5\"http://www.tmforum.org/DocumentsInformation/GB922InformationFramework/45189/article.html.
[8] TM Forum MTOSI
2.1:(http://www.tmforum.org/MTOSIRelease21/11998/home.html).
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] TM Forum \"SD1-18_layers.pdf\" (part of [8]) (Especially \"4.2.7 ATM and
SDH capable STM-4\").
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] TM Forum TR 166 \"Information Model Federation Concepts and Principles\"
(http://collab.tmforum.org/sf/go/doc13634?nav=1).
[15] Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model
(FNIM).
[16] TM Forum MTOSI \"SD1-25_objectNaming.pdf\".
**[17] ITU-T X.200 (07/1994)** \"Information technology -- Open Systems
Interconnection -- Basic Reference Model: The basic model\".
[18] 3GPP TS 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[19] ITU-T G,805: \"TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS AND MEDIA, DIGITAL SYSTEMS AND
NETWORKS Digital networks -- General aspects: Generic functional architecture
of transport networks\".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.622 \"Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this document, the following definitions, symbols and
abbreviations apply. For definitions, symbols and abbreviations not found
here.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[18] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [18].
CP Connection Point
DM Domain Manager
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
FNIM Federated Network Information Model
FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence
IOC Information Managed Object
LR Layer Rate
LT Layer Termination
ME Managed Element
MTNM Multi Technology Network Management (TM Forum)
MTOSI Multi Technology Operations System Interface (TM Forum)
NRM Network Resource Model (3GPP)
SDO Standards Development Organization
SID Shared Information & Data Model (TM Forum)
SLF Subscription Location Function (3GPP)
TPE Termination Point Encapsulation
UIM Umbrella Information Model
VCAT Virtual Concatenation
# 4 UIM -- Partition operational
## 4.1 Introduction
This section introduces a number of classes that form the UIM. These classes
are represented in UML and are implementation neutral views in that they only
capture the semantics of the model from both a purpose neutral and purpose
specific perspective. They do not:
a) Include syntax or representation of the information in a system or on-the-
wire between systems;
b) Relate to the protocol used to create/delete/read/write/modify the NM
information.
Various SDOs and organizations are expected to use the UIM classes for
definition of Domain/Technology-specific model classes. This procedure will
maximize the probability of the domain/technology specific concrete classes
(from various SDOs) being semantically consistent, a necessary characteristic
for FMC NM purposes.
The Generic NRM IRP [20] defines abstract classes and other NRM IRPs such as
E-UTRAN NRM IRP [2] define concrete classes. The Generic NRM IRP abstract
classes are harmonized (if not identical) to those defined in this document.
The UIM defined in this document provides the set of classes etc. that
strengthen consistency of representation in the fixed and mobile environments.
For management of an FNIM solution many other classes will be required in
addition to those in the UIM.
The UIM cannot be used directly for implementation. Implementation classes
must be derived from those in the UIM by Inheritance or some other appropriate
mechanism.
Implementation classes derived from those in the UIM (e.g. for the fixed
environment) must use different names from those used in the UIM.
Where an implementation class is essentially identical to that in UIM the name
of the implementation class should be the same as that of the UIM minus the
underscore, e.g. the UIM class \"_Function_"_ would become "Function\".
## 4.2 Class diagram
The criteria for choosing these classes is their relevance to (e.g. can be
used by) Domain/Technology-specific model classes (e.g. 3GPP network resource
model [2], ATM network management model [1], TMF MTNM [8].
Note that this set of classes is basic in that their definitions and usage are
necessary for the harmonization of various Domain/Technology-specific model
classes, forming the so-called FNIM.
These classes are _abstract_. Other classes are for further study.
_\- Domain__ (similar to SubNetwork of 3GPP [20] and MultiLayerSubNetwork of
SID/MTOSI [7])
_\- Function__ (similar to ManagedFunction of 3GPP [20] and LogicalResource of
SID/MTOSI [7])
_\- LayerTermination__ (similar to a single layer in the layerParameterList_T
structure of SID/MTOSI [7])
_\- ManagedElement__ (similar to ManagedElement of 3GPP [20] and SID/MTOSI
[7])
_\- ManagementSystem__ (similar to ManagementNode of 3GPP [20] and
OperationsSystem of SID/MTOSI [7])
_\- TerminationPointEncapsulation__ (similar to TerminationPoint of SID/MTOSI
[7])
_\- Top__ (similar to _Top_ [20] of 3GPP and RootEntity of SID/MTOSI [7])
_\- TopologicalLink__ (similar to Link [20] of 3GPP and TopologicalLink of
SID/MTOSI [7])
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="2.834722222222222in"}
Figure 1: Class diagram
Note: The above class diagram shows the naming and as well as inheritance
relations.
Figure 2: Inheritance class diagram
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 _Domain__
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This class groups managed entities:
\- Such that the group represents a topological structure which describes the
potential for connectivity;
\- Subject to common administration;
\- With common characteristics.
A domain is a partition of instances of managed entities.
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
The Domain_ IOC includes attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined in clause
4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** dnPrefix M M - - M T F F T userLabel M M M - M T T F T
userDefinedNetworkType M M M - M T T F T
* * *
### 4.3.2 _ManagedElement__
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This (and its contained _Function__(s)) represents telecommunications
resources (e.g. equipment) within the telecommunications network. This group
performs Managed Element (ME) functions, e.g., provides support and/or service
to the subscriber.
This can also provide access to a grouping of equipments for management
purposes.
An ME communicates with a manager (directly or indirectly) for the purpose of
being monitored and/or controlled. MEs may or may not additionally perform
element management functionality.
An ME (and its contained _Function__(s)) may or may not be geographically
distributed. An ME (and its contained _Function__(s)) is often referred to as
a \"Network Element\".
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
The ManagedElement_ IOC includes attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** dnPrefix M M - - M T F F T managedElementTypeList O M - - M T
F F T userLabel M M M - M T T F T locationName M M - - M T F F T Attribute
related to role  
managedBy O M - - M T F F T
* * *
### 4.3.3 _Function__
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This represents a process, task, transformation or a relation between inputs
and outputs.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
The Function_ IOC includes attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** userLabel O M M - M T T F T
* * *
### 4.3.4 _ManagementSystem__
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This represents a telecommunications management system (DM/EM) that contains
functionality for managing a number of MEs. The management system communicates
with the MEs directly or indirectly over one or more interfaces for the
purpose of monitoring and/or controlling these MEs.
This class has similar characteristics as the _ManagedElement_ _. The main
difference between these two classes is that the _ManagementSystem_ _ has a
special association to the MEs that it is responsible for managing.
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
The ManagementSystem_ IOC includes attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** userLabel M M M - M T T F T Attribute related to role  
managedElements O M - - M T F F T
* * *
### 4.3.5 _TopologicalLink__
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
The _TopologicalLink__ represents a communication relationship between network
entities and indicates that information is intended to flow between those
network entities. The _TopologicalLink__ always represents a logical
relationship.
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
The TopologicalLink_ IOC includes attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** userLabel M M M - M T T F T layerProtocolNameList O M - - M T
F F T **Attribute related to role**  
aEnd M M - - M T F F T zEnd M M - - M T F F T
* * *
### 4.3.6 _TerminationPointEncapsulation__
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
The _TerminationPointEncapsulation_ _ (TPE) represents one or more functions
that terminate/originate a signal that adapt a signal for use, and that enable
a signal to propagate. Hence a TPE can represent the end point of a signal
flow (see Annex C (informative): Rationale and Usage of TPE/LT for information
on structure).
The TPE can also represent the intermediate point of a signal flow. See Annex
C (informative): Rationale and Usage of TPE/LT for information on TPE
structure.
A TPE is capable of encapsulating multiple transport functions (G.805
termination functions, adapters, points etc.) at many different layers where
the encapsulated transport functions are all related to the same signal flow.
There are specific rules that guide encapsulation (see Annex C (informative):
Rationale and Usage of TPE/LT for information on usage). The encapsulated
layers may be exposed (of its details of the transport assembly) via usage of
instances of _LayerTermination_ _ (LT).
The TPE deals equivalently with unidirectional and bidirectional flows.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
The TerminationPointEncapsulation_ IOC includes attributes inherited from Top_
IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** tpeType CM M - - M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | tpeType Support Qualifier | The condition is \"The subject class | | | instance name-contains one or more | | | _LayerTermination_ _ instances \". | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
### 4.3.7 _LayerTermination__
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
The _LayerTermination__ (LT) encapsulates the functions and points associated
with one instance of a layer []. The functions include the adapter functions,
the termination functions and the connection points of that layer. In this
case the term layer is essentially synonymous with the term protocol as use by
other standards. All functions encapsulated have the same signal granularity,
closely associated characteristic type and essential rate. A specific
_LayerTermination_ may be equipped with a subset of capabilities. Where the
TPE is semi-transparent the layers encapsulated by a TPE are exposed by the
_LayerTermination__ set that it contains.
The _LayerTermination__ provides the relevant layer parameters for the semi-
transparent TPE cases.
The _LayerTermination_ _ allows for detailed layer description of a TPE
(potentially representing a port) and for precise association of the TPE with
a _TopologicalLink__ (or other representatives of forwarding relationship).
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
The LayerTermination_ IOC includes attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** layerProtocolNameList M M - - M T F F T direction M M - - M T
F F T ltType M M - - M T F F T index CM M - - M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | index Support Qualifier | The condition is "More than one | | | _LayerTermination_ _ instances | | | (named-contained by the same | | | _TerminationPointEncapsulation_ _ | | | instance) are associated with the same | | | signal flow." | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
### 4.3.8 _Top__
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
The _Top__ is a logical construct representing the origin of definitions for
all classes defined for the converged network management purposes. All other
classes specified in this document and in other FNIM specifications must
inherit from _Top__ directly or indirectly.
#### 4.3.8.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** id M M - M - T F T F
* * *
# 5 UIM -- Partition inventory
Void.
# 6 UIM -- Class attribute definitions
## 6.1 Attribute properties
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | direction | Represents the flow | type: String | | | of traffic within | | | | the LT. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: The | isOrdered: False | | | allowed values are: | | | | | isUnique: True | | | - Client-Server: | | | | Signal flows | defaultValue: None | | | down the LT, | | | | e.g. traffic is | isNullable: False | | | taken from a | | | | number of low | | | | rate clients and | | | | multiplexed into | | | | a higher rate | | | | server. | | | | | | | | - Server-Client: | | | | Signal flows up | | | | the LT. | | | | | | | | - Bidirectional; | | | | Signal flow is | | | | both | | | | Client-Server | | | | and | | | | Server-Client. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | dnPrefix | It carries the DN | type: String | | | Prefix information | | | | or no information. | multiplicity: 1 | | | See Annex C of | | | | 32.300 [2] for one | isOrdered: F | | | usage of this | | | | attribute. | isUnique: T | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | type: String | | | class name and value | | | | can be used as an | multiplicity: 1 | | | RDN when naming an | | | | instance of the | isOrdered: False | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | isUnique: True | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | defaultValue: None | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | isNullable: False | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | format of allowed | | | | values to be | | | | conformant with TS | | | | 32.300 [3]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | index | Provides any | type: Integer | | | relevant indexing of | | | | the LT (channel | multiplicity: 1 | | | number, e.g. '3') | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | l | Name(s) and | type: String | | ayerProtocolNameList | additional | | | | descriptive | multiplicity: 1..* | | | information such as | | | | version number for | isOrdered: F | | | the | | | | protocol(s)/layer(s) | isUnique: T | | | used for the | | | | associated | defaultValue: None | | | communication link. | | | | Syntax and semantic | isNullable: True | | | is not specified. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | allowed value | | | | examples: "X2AP", | | | | "LR Optical Channel" | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | locationName | The physical | type: String | | | location (e.g. an | | | | address) of an | multiplicity: 1 | | | entity represented | | | | by a (derivative of) | isOrdered: False | | | _ManagedElement_ _. | | | | It may contain no | isUnique: True | | | information to | | | | support the case | defaultValue: None | | | where the derivative | | | | of | isNullable: False | | | _ManagedElement_ _ | | | | needs to represent a | | | | distributed | | | | multi-location NE. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | ltType | The name of the | type: String | | | specification that | | | | describes the | multiplicity: 1 | | | internal | | | | construction of the | isOrdered: F | | | LT, indicating for | | | | example that it | isUnique: T | | | possesses a G.805 CP | | | | but no G.805 TCP | defaultValue: None | | | (see [11]). | | | | | isNullable: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | ma | It is a multi-valued | type: String | | nagedElementTypeList | attribute with one | | | | or more unique | multiplicity: 1..* | | | elements. Thus, it | | | | may represent one ME | isOrdered: False | | | functionality or a | | | | combination of more | isUnique: True | | | than one | | | | functionality. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | The actual syntax | isNullable: False | | | and encoding of this | | | | attribute is | | | | Solution Set | | | | specific. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | 1) The allowed | | | | values of this | | | | attribute are the | | | | names of the IOC(s) | | | | that are (a) | | | | derived/subclassed | | | | from ManagedFunction | | | | and (b) directly | | | | name-contained by | | | | ManagedElement IOC | | | | (on the first level | | | | below | | | | ManagedElement), but | | | | with the string | | | | "Function" excluded. | | | | | | | | 2) If a | | | | ManagedElement | | | | contains multiple | | | | instances of a | | | | ManagedFunction this | | | | attribute will not | | | | contain repeated | | | | values. | | | | | | | | 3) The | | | | capitalisation | | | | (usage of | | | | upper/lower case) of | | | | characters in this | | | | attribute is | | | | insignificant. Thus, | | | | the NodeB should be | | | | case insensitive | | | | when reading these | | | | values. | | | | | | | | 4) Two examples of | | | | allowed values are: | | | | | | | | - NodeB; | | | | | | | | - HLR, VLR. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | tpeType | The name of the | type: String | | | specification that | | | | describes the | multiplicity: 1 | | | construction of the | | | | TPE emphasising for | isOrdered: False | | | example the access | | | | to the TPE and | isUnique: True | | | whether it is | | | | associated with a | defaultValue: None | | | physical port | | | | directly or not (see | isNullable: False | | | [11]). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | us | Textual information | type: String | | erDefinedNetworkType | indicating network | | | | type, e.g. "UTRAN". | multiplicity: 1 | | | It may contain no | | | | information if there | isOrdered: False | | | is no appropriate | | | | network type can be | isUnique: True | | | used. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | type: String | | | user assignable) | | | | name of this object. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute related to | | | | role | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | aEnd | The value of this | type: DN | | | attribute shall be a | | | | list of | multiplicity: * | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the | isOrdered: False | | | alphabetically first | | | | instance in the Link | isUnique: True | | | subclass name to | | | | which this | defaultValue: None | | | link/relation is | | | | associated (i.e., | isNullable: False | | | pointing to the | | | | instance of \ as | passedById: True | | | described in the | | | | definition of Link | | | | IOC in the present | | | | document).\ | | | | As an example, with | | | | Link\\_As\\_Slf, aEnd | | | | would contain the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the AsFunction | | | | instance, and the | | | | zEnd would contain | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of SlfFunction | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | 1\\) For the instance | | | | whose class is | | | | defined by 3GPP, the | | | | format of the | | | | allowed values would | | | | be in conformant | | | | with that defined in | | | | TS 32.300 \\[3\\]. | | | | | | | | 2\\) See Note1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | managedBy | This relates to the | type: DN | | | role played by | | | | *ManagementSystem\\_* | multiplicity: \\* | | | in the relation | | | | between | isOrdered: False | | | *ManagedSystem*\\_ | | | | and | isUnique: True | | | *ManagedElement*\\_. | | | | This attribute | defaultValue: None | | | contains a list of | | | | the DN(s) of the | isNullable: False | | | related subclasses | | | | of | passedById: True | | | *ManagementSystem\\_* | | | | instance(s). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | managedElements | This relates to the | type: DN | | | role played by | | | | *ManagedElement*\\_ | multiplicity: \\* | | | in the relation | | | | between | isOrdered: False | | | *ManagedSystem*\\_ | | | | and | isUnique: True | | | *ManagedElement*\\_. | | | | This attribute | defaultValue: None | | | contains a list of | | | | the DN(s) of the | isNullable: False | | | related subclasses | | | | of | passedById: True | | | *ManagedElement\\_* | | | | instance(s). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | zEnd | The value of this | type: DN | | | attribute shall be a | | | | list of | multiplicity: \\* | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the | isOrdered: False | | | alphabetically | | | | second instance in | isUnique: True | | | the Link subclass | | | | name to which this | defaultValue: None | | | link/relation is | | | | associated (i.e., | isNullable: False | | | pointing to the | | | | instance of \\\ as | passedById: True | | | described in the | | | | definition of Link | | | | IOC in the present | | | | document). | | | | | | | | As an example, with | | | | Link\\_As\\_Slf, aEnd | | | | would contain the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the AsFunction | | | | instance, and the | | | | zEnd would contain | | | | the Distinguished | | | | Name of SlfFunction | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | 1\\) For the instance | | | | whose class is | | | | defined by 3GPP, the | | | | format of the | | | | allowed values would | | | | be in conformant | | | | with that defined in | | | | TS 32.300 \\[3\\]. | | | | | | | | 2)See Note1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | > Note 1: For the | | | | > instance whose | | | | > class is defined | | | | > by TM Forum, the | | | | > format of the | | | | > allowed values | | | | > would be in | | | | > conformant with | | | | > that defined in TM | | | | > Forum MTOSI | | | | > | | | | SD1-25_objectNaming | | | | > [16]. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
###### ## Annex C (informative): Rationale and Usage of TPE/LT
This Annex provides the rationale and the usage of LT in conjunction with TPE.
**Rational**
A TPE is capable of encapsulating multiple transport functions (G.805 [19]
termination functions, adapters, points etc.) at many different layers where
the encapsulated transport functions are all related to the same signal flow.
See Figure 11: UIM related to TM Forum model and ITU-T concepts.
The TPE is used to both reduce the instances of objects required to represent
a given transport assembly and to also simplify the translation from
traditional environments where layering is not fully represented.
The encapsulation may be opaque, i.e. not exposing the layering, or semi-
transparent, exposing the explicit layering but compacted into a single TPE
instance. In the former case, TPE instance does not need to name-contain any
LT. In the latter case, TPE instance needs to name-contain instances of LT.
The TPE deals equivalently with unidirectional and bidirectional flows. A
bidirectional flow is where pairings of unidirectional flows have some shared
fate or are considered as related in some way such that all entities
associated with the whole bidirectional flow will be encapsulated in one TPE.
Where a bidirectional flow is encapsulated it is possible to connect to only
one of the two directions of flow and this can be represented through
parameters of the TPE.
**Usage**
The TPE provides a place against which to raise alarms, display parameters and
set attributes associated with the signal flow.
The TPE can be related:
\- Directly to one or more physical ports (i.e. that the signal is associated
directly with an externally visible connector)
\- Note that a physical port could also be related to more than one TPE;
\- To logical functions that anchor the signal flow (i.e. it is floating
between flexible functions in the equipment with no externally visible
connector);
\- To another supporting TPE to represent a client signal of the supporting
TPE where there may be many instances of client;
\- Note that there may be many instances of server TPE that feed a single
client (e.g., in the case of VCAT)
For background see SD1-18 Functional Modelling Concepts [11] and naming refer
to SD1-25 Object Naming [16].
Figure 11: UIM related to TM Forum model and ITU-T concepts
#