# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.690 Inventory Management (IM): Requirements
28.631 Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**28.632 Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
28.633 Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
Inventory Management (IM), in general, provides the operator with the ability
to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it evolves. IM
actions have the objective to monitor the actual configuration on the Network
Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and they may be initiated by the
operator or by functions in the Operations Systems (OSs) or NEs. The final
goal of IM is the establishment of an accurate and timely model of the actual
inventory in the NEs or NRs.
IM actions may be requested to reflect changes initiated by Configuration
Management (CM) actions or to make sure that the inventory model is in synch
with the actual inventory. IM actions are initiated either as single actions
on single NEs of the 3G network or as part of a complex procedure involving
actions on many resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource
Model (NRM) that can be communicated between an IRPAgent and an IRPManager for
telecommunication network management purposes, including management of
converged networks.
The present document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information
object class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.662: \"Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM): UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and Definitions\".
[9] Void
[10] 3GPP TS 28.622: \" Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP);Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.690: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management
(IM): Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.466: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Application Part\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [4] and the
following apply:
**Association:** See definition in TS 28.622 [10].
**Managed Element (ME):** See definition in TS 28.622 [10].
**Managed Object (MO):** See definition in TS 28.622 [10].
**Management Information Model (MIM):** See definition in TS 28.622 [10].
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See definition in TS 28.622 [10].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [7])
IM Inventory Management
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Sector
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [7])
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 28.622 [10], Information Object Class, _Top_ Top
28.622 [10], Information Object Class, ManagedElement ManagedElement 28.622
[10], information object class, _ManagedFunction_ _ManagedFunction_
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
The inventory NRM contains two alternatives for inventory data modeling.
Alternative 1 is for NE structure and hardware inventory. Alternative 2 is an
extended version for inventory information modeling consisting of NE
structure, hardware, software and license data inventory.
Alternative 1, hardware inventory model
{width="6.063194444444444in" height="2.6458333333333335in"}
NOTE: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Alternative 1 - Inventory Management NRM Containment/Naming
and Association diagram
Each IOC instance is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [7] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of a IOC representing a InventoryUnit could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,meContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-
Gbg-1,InventoryUnit=Inv-1.
Alternative 2, extended model for hardware, software and licence inventory:
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="2.74375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-2: Alternative 2 - Inventory Management NRM Containment/Naming
and Association diagram
NOTE: Inventory information upload in alternative 2 is done using the FT IRP
and related FT IRP notification capabilities
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 4.2.2 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the IM NRM.
{width="4.707638888888889in" height="2.792361111111111in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1: Inventory Management NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 InventoryUnit
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents inventory information for an Inventory Unit.
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable inventoryUnitType M M - - - vendorUnitFamilyType CM M - - -
vendorUnitTypeNumber CM M - - - versionNumber O M - - - vendorName M M - - -
serialNumber CM M - - - dateOfManufacture O M - - - dateOfLastService O M - -
- unitPosition O M - - - manufacturerData O M - - - **Attribute related to
role**  
relatedFunction O M - - -
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition vendorUnitFamilyType CM Support Qualifier The inventory is
hardware. vendorUnitTypeNumber CM Support Qualifier The inventory is hardware.
serialNumber CM Support Qualifier The inventory is hardware.
* * *
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
_There is no notification defined._
### 4.3.2 InventoryUnitNE
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the logical and physical structure of the NE.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable neId M M - - - customerIdentifier O M - - - productName M M - - -
vendorName M M - - - productType O M - - - salesUniqueId O M - - -
operatorUniqueName O M - - - siteId O M - - - additionalInformation O M - - -
**Attribute related to role**  
mFunction O M - - - lICList O M - - - hWList O M - - - sWList O M - - -
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
_There is no notification defined._
### 4.3.3 InventoryUnitHw
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the hardware components.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable hwId M M - - - hwType M M - - - hwName O M - - - hwVersion M M -
- - vendorName O M - - - salesUniqueId O M - - - hwUnitLocation M M - - -
model O M - - - hwCapability O M - - - modificationDate O M - - -
manualDataEntry O M - - - additionalInformation O M - - - **Attribute related
to role**  
mFunction O M - - - lICList O M - - - nEList O M - - - sWList O M - - -
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
_There is no notification defined._
### 4.3.4 InventoryUnitSw
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the software components.
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable swId M M - - - swName O M - - - swVersion O M - - - vendorName O
M - - - salesUniqueId O M - - - classification M M - - - swStatus O M - - -
swInstallationTime O M - - - swActivationTime O M - - - additionalInformation
O M - - - **Attribute related to role**  
mFunction O M - - - lICList O M - - - nEList O M - - - hWList O M - - -
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
_There is no notification defined._
### 4.3.5 InventoryUnitLic
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents the licence components.
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable licId M M - - - licType O M - - - vendorName O M - - - validity O
M - - - key O M - - - licStatus O M - - - licActivationTime O M - - -
salesUniqueId O M - - - additionalInformation O M - - - **Attribute related to
role**  
mFunction O M - - - sWList O M - - - nEList O M - - - hWList O M - - -
* * *
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
_There is no notification defined._
### 4.3.6 TmaInventoryUnit
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents inventory information for a Tower Mounted Amplifier Unit.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable tmaNumberOfNon-LinearGainValues CM M - - - tmaNon-LinearGainValue
CM M O - - tmaAdditionalDataFieldNumber CO M O - - tmaAntennaModelNumber CO M
O - - tmaAntennaOperatingBands CO M O - - tmaBeamwidthForEachOpBandInBandOrder
CO M O - - tmaGainForEachOpBandInBandOrder CO M O - - tmaInstallationDate CO M
O - - tmaInstallersId CO M O - - tmaMaxSupportedGain CO M O - -
tmaMinSupportedGain CO M O - -
* * *
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition tmaNumberOfNon-LinearGainValues CM Support Qualifier It is
supported over the Iuant interface. tmaNon-LinearGainValue CM Support
Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant interface.
tmaAdditionalDataFieldNumber CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. tmaAntennaModelNumber CO Support Qualifier It is supported
over the Iuant interface. tmaAntennaOperatingBands CO Support Qualifier It is
supported over the Iuant interface. tmaBeamwidthForEachOpBandInBandOrder CO
Support Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant interface.
tmaGainForEachOpBandInBandOrder CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. tmaInstallationDate CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. tmaInstallersId CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. tmaMaxSupportedGain CO Support Qualifier It is supported
over the Iuant interface. tmaMinSupportedGain CO Support Qualifier It is
supported over the Iuant interface.
* * *
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
_There is no notification defined._
### 4.3.7 AntennaInventoryUnit
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents inventory information for an Antenna Unit.
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable maxTiltValue CO M O - - minTiltValue CO M O - - mechanicalOffset
CO M O - - baseElevation CO M O - - latitude CO M O - - longitude CO M O - -
patternLabel CO M O - -
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition maxTiltValue CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. minTiltValue CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. mechanicalOffset CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. baseElevation CO Support Qualifier It is supported over
the Iuant interface. latitude CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the
Iuant interface. longitude CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant
interface. patternLabel CO Support Qualifier It is supported over the Iuant
interface.
* * *
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
_There is no notification defined._
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several
Information Object Classes of the present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | baseElevation | The elevation in | type: Integer | | | meters above sea | | | | level at the base of | multiplicity: 1 | | | the antenna | | | | structure. This | isOrdered: N/A | | | value, when | | | | subtracted from | isUnique: N/A | | | height (see TS | | | | 28.662 [5]), | defaultValue: None | | | provides the height | | | | of the antenna above | isNullable: True | | | the ground. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: An | | | | integral value | | | | representing a | | | | number of meters in | | | | 0.1 meter | | | | increments. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | a | Supplementary | type: String | | dditionalInformation | information about | | | | inventory data (if | multiplicity: 1 | | | any) | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | classification | Name of installed SW | type: String | | | (e.g. SW release, SW | | | | build, SW patches) | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | customerIdentifier | Unique | type: String | | | identification of a | | | | vendors' customer | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfManufacture | Date of Manufacture | type: DateTime | | | of inventory unit. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dateOfLastService | Date of last service | type: DateTime | | | or repair of | | | | inventory unit. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwCapability | Hardware capability | type: String | | | e.g. capacity, size | | | | (empty value is | multiplicity: 1 | | | possible) | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwName | Mnemonic of hw | type: String | | | inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. | multiplicity: 1 | | | Fan, PSU) assigned | | | | by vendor. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwType | Type of the HW unit | type: String | | | e.g. equipment | | | | holder, carriage | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwUnitLocation | Unique physical / | type: String | | | logical location | | | | identifier within NE | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwVersion | Version / revision | type: String | | | no. of current unit | | | | e.g. firmware | multiplicity: 1 | | | version (empty value | | | | possible in case no | isOrdered: N/A | | | versioning is | | | | available) | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitId | An attribute whose | type: DN | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | multiplicity: 1 | | | naming an instance | | | | of this object | isOrdered: N/A | | | class. This RDN | | | | uniquely identifies | isUnique: N/A | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of | defaultValue: None | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | isNullable: True | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inventoryUnitType | Type of inventory | type: String | | | unit (see TS 32.690 | | | | [11]) | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | key | License activation | type: String | | | key according to the | | | | used licensing | multiplicity: 1 | | | system | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | licActivationTime | It indicates the | type: DateTime | | | date and time when | | | | the license was | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | activated. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: All | | | | values indicating | isUnique: N/A | | | valid time. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | licId | Unique identifier of | type: String | | | a license (e.g. | | | | name, code) | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | licStatus | License status -- | type: String | | | applicable only for | | | | managed licenses | multiplicity: 1 | | | (e.g. scheduled, | | | | valid, expired, | isOrdered: N/A | | | invalid, capacity | | | | violated) | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | licType | Describing type of | type: String | | | current license | | | | (e.g. capacity, | multiplicity: 1 | | | particular feature, | | | | no. of subscribers) | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | manualDataEntry | Indicates whether | type: String | | | unit is passive | | | | (manual insertion of | multiplicity: 1 | | | inventory data is | | | | needed) or active | isOrdered: N/A | | | (inventory data can | | | | be read from the | isUnique: N/A | | | unit) | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | latitude | The latitude of the | type: Real | | | antenna location | | | | based on World | multiplicity: 1 | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | isOrdered: N/A | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | isUnique: N/A | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to the | defaultValue: None | | | northern hemisphere. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Valid | | | | values described in | | | | 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | [13]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | longitude | The longitude of the | type: Real | | | antenna location | | | | based on World | multiplicity: 1 | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | isOrdered: N/A | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | isUnique: N/A | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to | defaultValue: None | | | degrees east of 0 | | | | degrees longitude. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Valid | | | | values described in | | | | 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | [13]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | manufacturerData | Manufacturer | type: DateTime | | | specific data of | | | | inventory unit. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | model | Equipment | type: String | | | configuration, e.g. | | | | standard hardware | multiplicity: 1 | | | unit or a variant | | | | that may contain | isOrdered: N/A | | | additional disk | | | | capacity (empty | isUnique: N/A | | | value possible) | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | modificationDate | Date/time stamp of | type: DateTime | | | last change (e.g. | | | | repair action) | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neId | Vendor defined | type: String | | | unique identifier of | | | | a logical or | multiplicity: 1 | | | physical network | | | | element unit | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operatorUniqueName | Unique NE identifier | type: String | | | used by operator | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | productName | NE name classifying | type: String | | | a vendor's product | | | | family or function | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | productType | Identifier of the | type: String | | | e.g. platform, in | | | | case the product can | multiplicity: 1 | | | be based on | | | | different HW/SW | isOrdered: N/A | | | platforms (not used | | | | for logical NEs) | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | salesUniqueId | Unique identifier | type: String | | | used by vendor (used | | | | e.g. for ordering a | multiplicity: 1 | | | new unit) | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hwId | Hardware identifier | type: String | | | allocated by the | | | | vendor, e.g. the | multiplicity: 1 | | | serial number | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable:True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxTiltValue | The maximum amount | type: Integer | | | of tilt the RET | | | | system can support. | multiplicity: 1 | | | Note: See \"Maximum | | | | supported tilt\" in | isOrdered: N/A | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mechanicalOffset | This is a value | type: Integer | | | representing a | | | | non-adjustable tilt | multiplicity: 1 | | | value, which is | | | | imparted to the | isOrdered: N/A | | | antenna due to the | | | | physical | isUnique: N/A | | | installation.\ | | | | The actual tilt at | defaultValue: None | | | any point in time is | | | | the summation of | isNullable: True | | | mechanicalOffset and | | | | retTiltValue. | | | | | | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | A single integral | | | | value corresponding | | | | to an angle in | | | | degrees between 0 | | | | and 360 with a | | | | resolution of 0.1 | | | | degrees. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minTiltValue | The minimum amount | type: Integer | | | of tilt the RET | | | | system can support. | multiplicity: 1 | | | Note: See\"Minimum | | | | supported tilt\" in | isOrdered: N/A | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | patternLabel | The pattern name is | type: String | | | a textual, | | | | alpha-numeric string | multiplicity: 1 | | | to allow | | | | identification of | isOrdered: N/A | | | the antenna pattern | | | | along with the | isUnique: N/A | | | antenna vendor | | | | information such as | defaultValue: None | | | model number, etc. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serialNumber | Serial number of | type: String | | | inventory unit. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteId | NE site in customer | type: Integer | | | network | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swActivationTime | It indicates the | type: DateTime | | | date and time when | | | | the software was | multiplicity: 1 | | | activated. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: All | | | | values indicating | isUnique: N/A | | | valid time. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swId | Unique identifier of | type: String | | | a SW unit | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swName | Software release | type: String | | | name used | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swInstallationTime | It indicates the | type: DateTime | | | date and time when | | | | the software | multiplicity: 1 | | | installation process | | | | ended and the | isOrdered: N/A | | | sotware was | | | | installed. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: All | defaultValue: None | | | values indicating | | | | valid time. | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swStatus | Status of the SW | type: String | | | unit (e.g. | | | | installed, archived) | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersion | Version identifier | type: String | | | of the software unit | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaAddit | This attribute | type: Integer | | ionalDataFieldNumber | identifies a | | | | standard data field | multiplicity: 1 | | | which has no | | | | operational impact. | isOrdered: N/A | | | Used by the | | | | procedures | isUnique: N/A | | | SetDeviceData and | | | | GetDevicedata. | defaultValue: None | | | Defined in Table B.3 | | | | of 3GPP TS 25.466 | isNullable: True | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | t | A data field defined | type: String | | maAntennaModelNumber | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaA | A data field defined | type: Integer25 RET | | ntennaOperatingBands | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | system can | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | supp | | | | ort,0000000000000000 | | | allowedValues: See | 00000000000000000000 | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | 00000000000000000000 | | | | 00000000000000000000 | | | | 00000000000000000000 | | | | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaBeamwidthForE | A data field defined | type: BitString | | achOpBandInBandOrder | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaGainForE | A data field defined | type: BitString | | achOpBandInBandOrder | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaInstallationDate | A data field defined | type: String | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaInstallersId | A data field defined | type: String | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMaxSupportedGain | A data field defined | type: Integer | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMinSupportedGain | A data field defined | type: Integer | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tm | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | aNon-LinearGainValue | 25.466 [12]. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: See | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaNumberOf | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | Non-LinearGainValues | 25.466 [12]. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: See | | | | TS 25.466 [12]. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | unitPosition | Position of | type: String | | | inventory unit (e.g. | | | | Rack, shelf, slot, | multiplicity: 1 | | | etc.). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | Depending on the | | | | implementation of | isUnique: N/A | | | the inventory unit | | | | in the managed | defaultValue: None | | | system, the value | | | | and meaning of this | isNullable: True | | | attribute may vary. | | | | | | | | For example, if a | | | | system has three | | | | levels and types of | | | | inventory units | | | | representing Rack, | | | | Shelf and Slot | | | | respectively (i.e. | | | | the Managed Element | | | | contains multiple | | | | Rack inventory | | | | units, each Rack | | | | inventory unit | | | | contains multiple | | | | Shelf inventory | | | | units and each Shelf | | | | inventory unit | | | | contains multiple | | | | Slot inventory | | | | units), then for | | | | this example: | | | | | | | | - for the Inventory | | | | Unit representing a | | | | Rack, the Frame | | | | Identification code | | | | may be used as the | | | | value of this | | | | attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the Inventory | | | | Unit representing a | | | | Shelf, the Rack | | | | Shelf code may be | | | | used as the value of | | | | this attribute; | | | | | | | | - for the Inventory | | | | Unit representing a | | | | Slot, the position | | | | code may be used as | | | | the value of this | | | | attribute. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | validity | License validity | type: String | | | which may include | | | | one of the elements | multiplicity: 1 | | | duration, end | | | | (expiration date) or | isOrdered: N/A | | | forever | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | Name of inventory | type: String | | | unit vendor (or | | | | vendors may provide | multiplicity: 1 | | | manufacturer name) | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitFamilyType | Mnemonic of | type: String | | | inventory unit | | | | family type (e.g. | multiplicity: 1 | | | Fan, PSU) assigned | | | | by vendor. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorUnitTypeNumber | A | type: String | | | vendor/manufacturer | | | | defined and assigned | multiplicity: 1 | | | number which | | | | uniquely identifies | isOrdered: N/A | | | the unit type and | | | | optionally for | isUnique: N/A | | | backward | | | | compatibility | defaultValue: None | | | reasons only, also | | | | version (used for | isNullable: True | | | replacing HW units, | | | | spares). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | versionNumber | The version | type: String | | | information related | | | | to | multiplicity: 1 | | | v | | | | endorUnitTypeNumber. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hWList | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries the set of | | | | DN(s) of related | multiplicity: 1..* | | | InventoryUnitHw(s). | | | | | isOrdered:False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lICList | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries the set of | | | | DN(s) of related | multiplicity: 1..* | | | InventoryUnitLic(s). | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mFunction | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries the DN of | | | | related | multiplicity: 1 | | | ManagedFunction. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nEList | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries the set of | | | | DN(s) of related | multiplicity: 1..* | | | InventoryUnitNE(s). | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedFunction | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries the DN of | | | | related | multiplicity: 1 | | | ManagedFunction. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sWList | This attribute | type: DN | | | carries the set of | | | | DN(s) of related | multiplicity: 1..* | | | InventoryUnitSw(s). | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
None.
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications
None.
#