# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.701: **\"** Core Network (CN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
**28.702: \"Core Network (CN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".**
28.703: \"Core Network (CN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimization programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
\"Core Network NRM IRP\", through which an \'IRPAgent\' (typically an Element
Manager or Network Element) can communicate Configuration Management
information to one or several \'IRPManagers\' (typically Network Managers)
concerning CN resources.
The present document specifies the protocol neutral Core Network NRM IRP;
Information Service. It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in 3GPP TS
28.622 [9], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that
defines CN specific Information Object Classes.
Finally, in order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface
IRP is needed, such as the Basic CM IRP 3GPP TS 32.602 [10]. However, which
Interface IRP that is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point; Information Service (IS)\".[4]
ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1991): \"Common management information service
definition for CCITT applications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point: Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) service
description; Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"Telecommunication Management; State Management Data
Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.652: \"Telecommunication management; UTRAN Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.655: \"Telecommunication management; GERAN Network Resource
Model (NRM)Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[16] ITU-T Rec. M.3100: \"Generic Network Information Model\" (7/95).
[17] 3GPP TS 28.672: \"Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem
(HNS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.236: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Intra-domain connection of Radio Access Network (RAN) nodes to
multiple Core Network (CN) nodes\".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [7] and the following
apply:
**Association:** See definition in TS 28.622 [9].
**Managed Element (ME):** See definition in TS 28.622 [9].
**Managed Object (MO):** See definition in TS 28.622 [9].
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM - see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See definition in TS 28.622 [9].
**Node B: a** logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment\ It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AUC AUthentication Centre
AS Application Server
BG Border Gateway
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
BS Billing System
CBC Cell Broadcast Center
CGF Charging Gateway Functionality
CN Core Network
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [6])
EIR Equipment Identity Register
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
FNR Flexible Number Register
GDMO Guidelines for the Definition of Managed Objects
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
GMSC Server Gateway MSC Server
GMSC Gateway MSC
GPRS General Packet Radio System
HNB GW Home NodeB Gateway
ICSCF Interrogating Call Session Control Function
IDL Interface Definition Language
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ISO International Standards Organization
IWF InterWorking Function
ME Managed Element
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MGW Media GateWay
MIM Management Information Model
MNP-SRF Mobile Number Portability-Signalling Relay Function
MO Managed Object
MOI Managed Object Instance
MRFC Multimedia Resource Function Controller
MRFP Call Session Control Function Processor
MSC Server Mobile Services Switching Centre Server
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NPDB Number Portability DataBase
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OSI Open Systems Interconnection
PCSCF Proxy Call Session Control Function
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [6])
SCF Service Control Function
SCSCF Serving Call Session Control Function
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SGW Signalling GateWay
SLF Subscription Locator Function
SMLC Serving Mobile Location Center
SMS Short Message Service
SMS-GMSC SMS Gateway MSC
SMS-IWMSC SMS InterWorking MSC
SRF Specialized Resource Function
SSF Service Switching Function
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VLR Visitor Location Register
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 28.622 [9], information object class, Link Link
TS 28.622 [9], information object class, ManagedElement ManagedElement TS
28.622 [9], information object class, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction TS
28.622 [9], information object class, VsDataContainer VsDataContainer TS
28.652 [14], information object class, RncFunction RncFunction TS 28.655 [15],
information object class, BssFunction BssFunction TS 28.655 [15], information
object class, ExternalBssFunction ExternalBssFunction TS 28.655 [15],
information object class, ExternalGsmCell ExternalGsmCell TS 28.655 [15],
information object class, GsmCell GsmCell **TS 28.625 [13],** attribute,
proceduralStatus proceduralStatus
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
{width="5.760416666666667in" height="4.147222222222222in"}
Figure 4.2.1.1: CN NRM Containment/Naming relationships 1
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="2.908333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.1.2: CN NRM Containment/Naming relationships 2
{width="5.751388888888889in" height="2.8027777777777776in"}
NOTE: The association between MscServerFunction and CsMgwFunction is optional
and is only mandatory when they belong to different ManagedElements.
Figure 4.2.1.3: CN UTRAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association
{width="5.771527777777778in" height="3.433333333333333in"}
NOTE 1: The association between MscServerFunction and CsMgwFunction is
optional and is only mandatory when they belong to different ManagedElements.
NOTE 2: The association between MscServerFunction and GsmCell, and
SgsnFunction and GsmCell are optional. It may be valid if both the
MscServerFunction and GsmCell, or SgsnFunction and GsmCell are managed by the
same management node.
Figure 4.2.1.4: CN GERAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [6] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example, the DN of
an IOC representing a cell could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden, MeContext =MEC-Gbg-1, ManagedElement =MSC-Gbg-1,
MscServerFunction=MSC-1.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.9972222222222222in"}
Figure 4.2.1.5: CN MBMS NRM Containment/Naming and Association
{width="3.25in" height="4.5in"}
Figure 4.2.1.6: CN CircuitEndPointSubgroup related NRM Containment/Naming and
Association
{width="5.760416666666667in" height="2.4618055555555554in"}
Figure 4.2.1.7: CN MscPool related NRM Containment/Naming and Association
{width="5.739583333333333in" height="3.8020833333333335in"}
Figure 4.2.1.8: CN SgsnPool related NRM Containment/Naming and Association
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
The figures below show the inheritance hierarchy for the CN NRM.
{width="5.736111111111111in" height="4.102777777777778in"}
Figure 4.2.2.1: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 1
{width="5.76875in" height="3.582638888888889in"}
Figure 4.2.2.2: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 2
{width="5.083333333333333in" height="2.5in"}
Figure 4.2.2.3: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 3
{width="2.84375in" height="2.4479166666666665in"}
Figure 4.2.2.4: CN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy 4
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 MscServerFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definitions
This IOC represents MSCserver functionality. For more information about the
MSC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable mccList M M M - M mncList M M M - M lacList M M M - M sacList M M
M - M gcaList O M M - M mscId M M M - M nriList M M - - M defaultMsc O M - - M
Attribute related to role  
mscServerFunction-GsmCell M M - - M mscServerFunction-ExternalGsmCell M M - -
M mscServerFunction-CsMgwFunction M M - - M mscServerFunction-MscPool O M - -
M
* * *
####
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.2 HlrFunction
#### 4.3.2.1 Definitions
This IOC represents HLR functionality. For more information about the HLR, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.3 VlrFunction
#### 4.3.3.1 Definitions
This IOC represents VLR functionality. For more information about the VLR, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.4 AucFunction
#### 4.3.4.1 Definitions
This IOC represents AUC functionality. For more information about the AUC, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.5 EirFunction
#### 4.3.5.1 Definitions
This IOC represents EIR functionality. For more information about the EIR, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.6 SmsIwmscFunction
#### 4.3.6.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SMS-IWMSC functionality. For more information about the
SMS-IWMSC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.7 SmsGmscFunction
#### 4.3.7.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SMS-GMSC functionality. For more information about the
SMS-GMSC, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.8 GmscFunction
#### 4.3.8.1 Definitions
This IOC represents GMSC functionality. For more information about the GMSC,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.8.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.9 SgsnFunction
#### 4.3.9.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SGSN functionality. For more information about the SGSN,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.9.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Support | is | is | isI | isNo | | ttribute | Q | Readable | Writable | nvariant | tifyable | | name | ualifier | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | mccList | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | mncList | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | lacList | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | racList | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sacList | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sgsnId | M | M | M | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | procedur | O | - | - | - | M (see | | alStatus | | | | | Note 2) | | (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | nriList | M | M | - | - | M | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **A | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | role** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sgsn | M | M | - | - | M | | Function | | | | | | | -GsmCell | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sgsn | M | M | - | - | M | | Function | | | | | | | -Externa | | | | | | | lGsmCell | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sgsnF | O | M | - | - | M | | unction- | | | | | | | SgsnPool | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | No state | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | pagation | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | implied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | conveyed | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | otifySta | | | | | | | teChange | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 4.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.9.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC. In
addition, the following set of notification, defined in 3GPP TS 32.662 [19],
is also valid.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyStateChange O
* * *
### 4.3.10 GgsnFunction
#### 4.3.10.1 Definitions
This IOC represents GGSN functionality. For more information about the GGSN,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.10.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | A | Support | is | is | isI | isNo | | | ttribute | Q | Readable | Writable | nvariant | tifyable | | | name | ualifier | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | procedur | O | - | - | - | M (see | | | alStatus | | | | | Note 2) | | | (see | | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | No state | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | pagation | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | implied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | conveyed | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | otifySta | | | | | | | | teChange | | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
#### 4.3.10.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC. In
addition, the following set of notification, defined in 3GPP TS 32.662 [19],
is also valid.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyStateChange O
* * *
### 4.3.11 BgFunction
#### 4.3.11.1 Definitions
This IOC represents BG functionality. For more information about the BG, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.11.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.11.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.11.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.12 SmlcFunction
#### 4.3.12.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SMLC functionality. For more information about the SMLC,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.12.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.12.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.12.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.13 GmlcFunction
#### 4.3.13.1 Definitions
This IOC represents GMLC functionality. For more information about the GMLC,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.13.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.13.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.13.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.14 ScfFunction
#### 4.3.14.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SCF functionality (also referred to as gsmSCF). For more
information about the SCF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.14.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.14.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.14.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.15 SrfFunction
#### 4.3.15.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SRF functionality (also referred to as gsmSRF). For more
information about the SRF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.15.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.15.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.15.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.16 CbcFunction
#### 4.3.16.1 Definitions
This IOC represents CBC functionality. For more information about the CBC, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.16.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.16.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.16.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.17 CgfFunction
#### 4.3.17.1 Definitions
This IOC represents CGF functionality. For more information about the CGF, see
3GPP TS 23.060 [11].
#### 4.3.17.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.17.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.17.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.18 GmscServerFunction
#### 4.3.18.1 Definitions
This IOC represents GMSCServer functionality. For more information about
GMSCServer, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.18.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.18.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.18.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.19 IwfFunction
#### 4.3.19.1 Definitions
This IOC represents IWF functionality. For more information about IWF, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.19.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.19.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.19.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.20 MnpSrfFunction
#### 4.3.20.1 Definitions
This IOC represents MNP-SRF functionality (also known as FNR). For more
information about MNP-SRF, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.20.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.20.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.20.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.21 NpdbFunction
#### 4.3.21.1 Definitions
This IOC represents NPDB functionality. For more information about NPDB, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.21.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.21.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.21.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.22 SgwFunction
#### 4.3.22.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SGW functionality. For more information about SGW, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.22.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.22.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.22.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.23 SsfFunction
#### 4.3.23.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SSF functionality. For more information about SSF, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.23.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.23.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.23.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.24 BsFunction
#### 4.3.24.1 Definitions
This IOC represents BS functionality. For more information about BS, see 3GPP
TS 23.060 [11].
#### 4.3.24.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.24.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.24.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.25 IucsLink
#### 4.3.25.1 Definitions
This IOC represents an Iu-cs interface link connecting an MSCserver to the
RNC, BSC and HNB GW. For more information about the Iu interface, see 3GPP TS
23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.25.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
connectedRnc O M - - M connectedBss O M - - M connectedHNBGW O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.25.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc shall be supported when the Iucs interface is
between the MSCServer node and an RNC node connectedBss shall be supported
when the Iucs interface is between the MSCServer node and a BSC node
connectedHNBGW shall be supported when the Iucs interface is between the
MSCServer node and a HNB GW node [17]
* * *
Note: The attributes connectedRnc, connectedBss and connectedHNBGW are
mutually exclusive.
#### 4.3.25.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.26 IupsLink
#### 4.3.26.1 Definitions
This IOC represents an Iu-ps interface link connecting a SGSN to the RNC, BSC
and HNB GW. For more information about the Iu interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002
[8].
#### 4.3.26.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
connectedRnc O M - - M connectedBss O M - - M connectedHNBGW O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.26.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition connectedRnc shall be supported when the Iups interface is
between the SGSN node and an RNC node connectedBss shall be supported when the
Iups interface is between the SGSN node and a BSC node connectedHNBGW shall be
supported when the Iups interface is between the SGSN node and a HNB GW node
[17]
* * *
Note: The attributes connectedRnc, connectedBss and connectedHNBGW are
mutually exclusive.
#### 4.3.26.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.27 IubcLink
#### 4.3.27.1 Definitions
This IOC represents an Iu-bc interface link connecting a CBC to the RNC and
HNB GW. For more information about the Iu interface, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.27.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
connectedRnc O M - - M connectedHNBGW O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.27.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.27.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.28 ALink
#### 4.3.28.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the A interface link connecting a MSC to the GERAN. For
more information about the GERAN, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.28.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
connectedBss O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.28.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.28.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.29 GbLink
#### 4.3.29.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the Gb interface link connecting a SGSN to the GERAN. For
more information about the GERAN, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.29.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
connectedBss O M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.29.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.29.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.30 CsMgwFunction
#### 4.3.30.1 Definitions
This IOC represents CS-MGW functionality. For more information about CS-MGW,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.30.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
csMgwFunction-MscServerFunction M M - - M csMgwFunction-IucsLink M M - - M
csMgwFunction-ALink M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.30.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.30.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.31 BmScFunction
#### 4.3.31.1 Definitions
This IOC represents BM-SC functionality. For more information about BM-SC see
3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.31.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.31.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.31.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.32 **Link_BmSc_Ggsn**
#### 4.3.32.1 Definitions
This IOC models the Gmb and Gi reference points as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.32.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.32.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.32.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.33 **Link_Ggsn_Sgsn**
#### 4.3.33.1 Definitions
This IOC models the Gn and Gp reference points as defined in TS 23.002 [8].
#### 4.3.33.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.33.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.33.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.34 CircuitEndPointSubgroup
#### 4.3.34.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the Circuit End Point Subgroup, relating to definitions in
ITU-T M.3100 (see [16]). A Circuit End Point Subgroup is a set of circuit end
points that directly interconnect one network element with another (e.g. MSC,
BSC). It is derived from Top.
#### 4.3.34.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.34.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.34.4 Notifications
This IOC would not emit notification.
### 4.3.35 MscPool
#### 4.3.35.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the MSC server pool. For more information about the MSC
server pool, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8]
#### 4.3.35.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
mscPool-MscServerFunction M M - - M mscPool-MscPoolArea M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.35.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.35.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.36 MscPoolArea
#### 4.3.36.1 Definitions
concepts related to MSC Pool Area are:
  * An MSC Pool Area is defined as an area within which an UE may be served without the need to change the serving MSC. It is a collection of complete Location Areas (LAs).
  * A particular LA can be a member of one or more MSC Pool Areas. In the latter case, the MSC Pool Areas involved are called **\"** overlapping MSC Pool Areas**\"**.
#### 4.3.36.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable lacList M M - - M pLMNIdList O M - - M **Attribute related to
role**  
mscPoolArea-MscPool M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.36.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.36.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.37 SgsnPool
#### 4.3.37.1 Definitions
This IOC represents the SGSN pool. For more information about the SGSN pool,
see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8]
#### 4.3.37.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable **Attribute related to role**  
sgsnPool-SgsnFunction M M - - M sgsnPool-SgsnPoolArea M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.37.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.37.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.38 SgsnPoolArea
#### 4.3.38.1 Definitions
This IOC represents SGSN Pool Area. For more information about the SGSN Pool
Area, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [8]. Key concept related to SGSN Pool Area is:
An SGSN Pool Area is defined as an area within which an UE may be served
without the need to change the serving SGSN. It is a collection of complete
Routing Areas (RAs).
#### 4.3.38.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable racList M M - - M pLMNIdList O M - - M **Attribute related to
role**  
sgsnPoolArea-SgsnPool M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.38.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.38.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes that are specified in
the present document.
Table 4.4.1: Attributes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | **Documentation and |** Properties**| | | Allowed Values** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | defaultMsc | Whether this MSC | type: Integer | | | Server is default CN | | | | node in MscPool or | multiplicity: 1 | | | not (Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | 23.236 [18]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | A value of 0 | isUnique: N/A | | | represents that this | | | | MSC Server is not | defaultValue: None | | | default CN node and | | | | a value of 1 | isNullable: True | | | represents that it | | | | is default CN node. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: 0..1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gcaList | List of Group Call | type: String | | | Area (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | multiplicity: 1..* | | | [12]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lacList | List of Location | type: String | | | Area Codes (Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | multiplicity: 1..* | | | [12]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mccList | List of Mobile | type: String | | | Country Codes, MCC | | | | (part of the PLMN | multiplicity: 1..* | | | Id, Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [12]). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mncList | List of Mobile | type: String | | | Network Codes, MNC | | | | (part of the PLMN | multiplicity: 1..* | | | Id, Ref. | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [12]). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscId | Unique MSC ID (Ref. | type: String | | | 3GPP TS 23.002 | | | | [8]). | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nriList | NRI shall be part of | type: String | | | the TMSI. The NRI | | | | has a configurable | multiplicity: 1..* | | | length of 0 to 10 | | | | bits. (Ref. 3GPP TS | isOrdered: N/A | | | 23.003 [12]). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pLMNIdList | It is a list of | type: Integer | | | PLMN-Id, PLMN-Id= | | | | Mobile Country Codes | multiplicity: 1..* | | | (MCC)\|\| Mobile | | | | Network Codes(MNC) | isOrdered: N/A | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS | | | | 23.003[12]) | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | The | defaultValue: None | | | Ms | | | | cPoolArea.pLMNIdList | allowedValues: N/A | | | purpose is to | | | | identify the PLMNs | isNullable: True | | | (related to | | | | MscFunction) the Msc | | | | Pool is serving. | | | | | | | | The | | | | Ms | | | | cEunction.pLMNIdList | | | | purpose is as | | | | following. One | | | | operator may have | | | | several PLMN Ids and | | | | accordingly RAN | | | | broadcasts these Ids | | | | to enable UEs of | | | | different PLMN (i.e, | | | | UEs with different | | | | MNC in their IMSIs) | | | | to access its | | | | network. If CN node | | | | does not know this | | | | PLMN list, UEs of | | | | different PLMN than | | | | the one combined in | | | | Msc might be treated | | | | as UEs from other | | | | operators. This will | | | | affect Location | | | | Update and Inter-Msc | | | | handover procedures, | | | | and also the | | | | changing rate. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: A | | | | list of at most six | | | | entries of PLMN | | | | Identifiers. The | | | | PLMN Identifier is | | | | composed of a Mobile | | | | Country Code (MCC) | | | | and a Mobile Network | | | | Code (MNC). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | proceduralStatus | See definition in | See 3GPP TS 28.625 | | | 3GPP TS 28.625 | [13]. | | | [13] (State | | | | Management Data | | | | Definition IRP IS). | | | | | | | | There are two cases | | | | resulting in a | | | | status change to be | | | | reported: | | | | | | | | - Case 1: A | | | | notification may | | | | be generated to | | | | indicate that | | | | restart | | | | procedure is | | | | about to begin | | | | or has just | | | | begun but has | | | | not finished. - | | | | the value for | | | | this attribute | | | | indicates | | | | original state | | | | == **\"** Not | | | | | | | | Initialized**\"** | | | | and new state == | | | | **\"_| | | |_ Initializing**\"**. | | | | | | | | - Case 2: A | | | | notification | | | | shall be | | | | generated to | | | | indicate that a | | | | restart | | | | procedure has | | | | completed | | | | successfully - | | | | the value for | | | | this attribute | | | | indicates | | | | original state | | | | == | | | |** \" | | | | **Initializing** \"** | | | | to new state == | | | | NULL (see | | | | [13]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | racList | List of Routeing | type: String | | | Area Codes covered | | | | by MSC (Ref. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [12]). | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sacList | List of Service Area | type: String | | | Codes covered by MSC | | | | (Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | multiplicity: 1..* | | | [12]). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sgsnId | Unique SGSN ID (Ref. | type: String | | | 3GPP TS 23.002 | | | | [8]). | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute related to | | | | role | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscSe | This holds a set of | type: DN | | rverFunction-GsmCell | DNs of GSMCell . | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gsmCe | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | ll-MscServerFunction | an | | | | MscServerFunction. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscServerFunc | This holds a set of | type: DN | | tion-ExternalGsmCell | DNs of | | | | ExternalGsmCell. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | externalGsmCe | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | ll-MscServerFunction | an | | | | MscServerFunction. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscServerFu | This holds a set of | type: DN | | nction-CsMgwFunction | DNs of | | | | CsMgwFunction. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | csMgwFuncti | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | on-MscServerFunction | an | | | | MscServerFunction. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sgsnFunction-GsmCell | This holds a set of | type: DN | | | DNs of GSMCell . | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | gsmCell-SgsnFunction | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | | an SgsnFunction. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sgsnFunc | This holds a set of | type: DN | | tion-ExternalGsmCell | DNs of | | | | ExternalGsmCell. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | external | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | GsmCell-SgsnFunction | an SgsnFunction. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cs | This holds a set of | type: DN | | MgwFunction-IucsLink | DNs of IucsLink. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connectedRnc | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | | an RncFunction or an | | | | ExternalRncFunction. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | csMgwFunction-ALink | This holds a set of | type: DN | | | DNs of ALink. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | connectedBss | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | | an BssFunction or an | | | | ExternalBssFunction. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscPo | This holds a set of | type: DN | | ol-MscServerFunction | DNs of | | | | MscServerFunction. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscSe | This holds a set of | type: DN | | rverFunction-MscPool | DNs of MscPool. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscPool-MscPoolArea | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | | an MscPoolArea. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mscPoolArea-MscPool | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | | an MscPool. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | gsnPool-SgsnFunction | an SgsnFunction. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | gsnFunction-SgsnPool | an SgsnPool. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | gsnPool-sgsnPoolArea | an SgsnPoolArea. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | This holds the DN of | type: DN | | gsnPoolArea-SgsnPool | an SgsnPool. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [5], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [3], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[5])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [5])
* * *
### Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [19], that IRPManager
can receive. The notification header attribute objectClass/objectInstance,
defined in [3], would capture the DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this
IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS
32.662 [19])  
notifyObjectCreation See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [19])  
notifyObjectDeletion See Kernel CM IRP (3GPP TS 32.662 [19])
* * *
#