# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Subscription Management is a feature that permits Service Providers, Value
Added Service Providers and Mobile Operators to provision services for a
specific subscriber. Subscription Management is an area of Service Operation
Management that sets a complex challenge for Service Providers and Operators
in their support of new or existing subscribers during their every day network
operation.
The present document is part a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
TS 32.140: Subscription Management (SuM) requirements.
TS 32.141: Subscription Management (SuM) architecture.
**TS 28.751: Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements.**
TS 28.752: Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS).
**TS 28.753: Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.**
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2], [3] and [4], requirements for the present IRP: SuM NRM IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.140: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.141: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.140 [3], 3GPP TS 32.141 [4] and
3GPP TS 32.600 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
SuM Subscription Management
# 4 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
a) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
b) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
c) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.140 [3].
d) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.141 [4].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
a) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
b) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [6] and its
information is derived from the FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [7].
#