# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Network slicing is a key feature for the next generation network. It is about
transforming the network/system from a static \"one size fits all\" paradigm,
to a new paradigm where logical networks/partitions are created, with
appropriate isolation, resources and optimized topology to serve a particular
purpose or service category (e.g. use case/traffic category, or for internal
reasons) or even individual customers (logical system created \"on demand\").
It can be enriched by use of NFV and SDN.
The network slicing concept consists of 3 layers:
1) Service Instance Layer,
2) Network Slice Instance Layer, and
3) Resource layer where each layer requires management functions, see
reference 3GPP TR 23.799 [2]. This document specifies use cases for management
of network slicing, potential requirements, potential solutions and
recommendations.
# 1 Scope
**The present document investigates and makes recommendations on management
and orchestration for network slicing on the** Network Slice Instance Layer
[2] and for non-virtualised NE\'s also the Resource layer**:**
1) Use cases and requirements for management and orchestration of network
slicing
2) Management and orchestration terminology and concepts for slices. The
relationship between network slice management and orchestration concepts
developed in the present document and the management and orchestration
concepts defined by ETSI NFV.
3) Management of network function sharing in the context of network slicing
(e.g. network function sharing support, and lifecycle management functions of
the mobile network resources for network slices).
4) Impacts to management when a slice instance is shared between multiple
parties (e.g. multiple partners and multiple domains etc.) based on the slice
sharing, see reference 3GPP TR 23.799 [2].
5) Isolation of management data between different parties within a slice
instance if needed.
6) Impacts derived from Management of 3GPP Network Slices on the ETSI MANO
architecture and procedures.
7) Automation of management and orchestration of network slice instances and
the related policy configurations.
8) Management and orchestration mechanisms to support the isolation/separation
of mobile network resources used by different network slice instances and the
corresponding configuration of isolation/separation.
9) Solution for management and orchestration of network slicing and how it
affects the specifications (e.g. Interface IRPs, Network Resource models and
trace specifications).
Furthermore, the 3GPP role for Service Instance Layer has been investigated.
The Resource layer for VNFs is excluded from the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.799: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Study on Architecture for
Next Generation System (Release 14)\"
[3] 3GPP TR 22.864: \"Feasibility Study on new Services and Markets Technology
Enablers -- Network Operation v14.0.0.\"
[4] NGMN 5G WS P1 Sub -- Task Network Management and Orchestration, v2.6.0.
[5] NGMN Alliance: \"Description of Network Slicing Concept\", Version 1.0,
January 13, 2016 (http://www.ngmn.org/publications/technical.html).
[6] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"Technical Specification Group Services and Systems
Aspects; System Architecture for the 5G system; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TR 38.801: \" Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Study on new radio access technology: Radio access architecture and
interfaces\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.130: \"Telecommunication management; Network sharing; Concepts
and requirements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.502: \" Technical Specification Group Services and Systems
Aspects; Procedures for the 5G system; Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**network slice instance** : a set of network functions and the resources for
these network functions which are arranged and configured, forming a complete
logical network to meet certain network characteristics.
NOTE 1: The concepts related to a network slice instance are described in
clause 4.2.
**network slice subnet instance:** a set of network functions and the
resources for these network functions which are arranged and configured to
form a logical network.
NOTE 2: The concepts related to a network slice subnet instance are described
in clause 4.3.
**network slice subnet template:** description of the structure (and contained
components) and configuration of the network slice subnet.
**network slice template:** description of the structure (and contained
components) and configuration of a network slice.
**physical resource isolation:** regime of resource management when a physical
resource used by one network slice instance cannot be shared with another
network slice instance.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MANO Management and Orchestration
NF Network Function (as defined in [2])
NFV Network Functions Virtualisation
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSMF Network Slice Management Function
NSSAI Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
NST Network Slice Template
NSST Network Slice Subnet Template
NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
NSSMF Network Slice Subnet Management Function
CSMF Communication Service Management Function
VNF Virtualized Network Function
# 4 Concepts and Background
## 4.1 Network Slice Instance (NSI) lifecycle
A Network Slice Instance (NSI) is a managed entity in the operator\'s network
with a lifecycle independent of the lifecycle of the service instance(s). In
particular, service instances are not necessarily active through the whole
duration of the run-time phase of the supporting NSI. The NSI lifecycle
typically includes an instantiation, configuration and activation phase, a
run-time phase and a decommissioning phase. During the NSI lifecycle the
operator manages the NSI.
The following phases describe the network slice lifecycle:
\- Preparation phase
\- Instantiation, Configuration and Activation phase
\- Run-time phase
\- Decommissioning phase
Figure 4.1.1: Lifecycle phases of an NSI
Each phase defines high level tasks and should include appropriate
verification of the output of each task in the phase.
Preparation phase
In the preparation phase the NSI does not exist. The preparation phase
includes the creation and verification of network slice template(s) [5], the
on boarding of these, preparing the necessary network environment which are
used to support the lifecycle of NSIs and any other preparations that are
needed in the network.
Instantiation, Configuration and Activation phase
During instantiation/configuration all resources shared/dedicated to the NSI
have been created and are configured, i.e. to a state where the NSI is ready
for operation. The activation step includes any actions that makes the NSI
active, e.g. diverting traffic to it, provisioning databases (if dedicated to
the network slice, otherwise this takes place in the preparation phase) etc.
Network slice instantiation, configuration and activation can include
instantiation, configuration and activation of other shared and/or non-shared
network function(s).
NOTE: The term common NF used in TR 23.799 [2] means the same as shared NF in
the present document and the term slice specific NF used in TR 23.799 [2]
means the same as non-shared NF in the present document.
Run-time phase
In the run-time phase the NSI is capable of traffic handling to support
communication services of certain type(s). The run-time phase includes
supervision/reporting (e.g. for KPI monitoring), as well as activities related
to modification. Modification could map to several workflows related to
runtime tasks, e.g. upgrade, reconfiguration, NSI scaling, changes of NSI
capacity, changes of NSI topology, association and disassociation of network
functions with NSI.
Decommissioning phase
The decommissioning phase includes deactivation (taking the NSI out of active
duty) as well as the reclamation of dedicated resources (e.g. termination or
re-use of network functions) and configuration of shared/dependent resources.
After decommissioning the NSI does not exist anymore.
## 4.2 Network slice concepts
### 4.2.1 General
Network slice concept includes the following aspects.
**1) Completeness of an NSI**
A network slice instance (NSI) is complete in the sense that it includes all
functionalities and resources necessary to support certain set of
communication services thus serving certain business purpose.
**2) Components of an NSI**
The NSI contains NFs (e.g. belonging to AN and CN).
If the NFs are interconnected, the 3GPP management system contains the
information relevant to connections between these NFs such as topology of
connections, individual link requirements (e.g. QOS attributes), etc.
For the part of the TN supporting connectivity between the NFs, the 3GPP
management system provides link requirements (e.g. topology, QoS attributes)
to the management system that handles the part of the TN supporting
connectivity between the NFs.
**3) Resources used by the NSI**
The NSI is realized via the required physical and logical resources.
**4) Network Slice Template**
The Network Slice is described by a Network Slice Template (NST). The Network
Slice Instance is created using the NST and instance-specific information.
**5) NSI policies and configurations**
Instance-specific policies and configurations are required when creating an
NSI.
Network characteristics examples are ultra-low-latency, ultra-reliability,
etc.
NSI contains Core Network part and Access Network part.
**6) Isolation of NSIs**
An NSI may be fully or partly, logically and/or physically, isolated from
another NSI.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc492544926 .anchor}4.2.2 Information model attached to
network slices
Assumption No. 1: An NSI may support zero or more communication services
Assumption No. 2: A communication service (refer to clause 4.8) may be served
by one or more (e.g. in case of communication service bundle fulfilled through
more than one PDU connectivity service) NSIs, possibly with different
characteristics.
Assumption No. 3: An NSI may be composed of network slice subnets of Physical
Network Functions and/or Virtualized Network Functions.
Assumption No. 4: Physical Network Functions and Virtualized Network Functions
may belong to one or more network slice subnet(s).
Assumption No. 5: Virtualized Network Functions are deployed on top of
virtualized resources.
{width="3.8631944444444444in" height="5.333333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.2.1: Network Slice related information model
NOTE: Figure 4.2.2.1 is not a Network Resource Model IRP IS class diagram.
## 4.3 Network slice subnet concepts
The management concept of Network slice subnet instance (NSSI) is introduced
for the purpose of NSI management. For example, for instantiation of a NSI
that contains RAN and CN components, these components can be defined and
instantiated as two NSSIs: NSSI1 (RAT1) in RAN and NSSI3 in CN. Then the
targeted NSI will be instantiated by combining the NSSI1 and NSSI3. Combining
NSSI3 with another RAN NSSI, denoted NSSI2 (RAT2), another NSI can be
instantiated.
Some of the concepts of a network slice subnet are:
\- A network slice subnet instance (NSSI) constituent may include NF(s) and
other NSSI(s).
\- A NSSI may be shared by two or more NSIs, this is called a shared
constituent of NSI.
\- A NF may be shared by two or more NSSI(s), in which case it is called a
shared constituent of NSSI.
\- A NSSI may be shared by two or more NSSI(s), this is also called a shared
constituent of NSSI.
\- An NSSI that is dedicated to one NSI and is not shared as a constituent by
two or more NSSI(s) is called a non-shared NSSI.
\- An NSSI may contain CN functions only or AN functions only or both CN
functions and AN functions.
\- The resources comprise physical and logical resources. In case of
virtualization, virtualization resources may be used.
## 4.4 Lifecycle management aspects
A communication service can, depending on the communication service
requirements use an existing NSI or be the trigger for the creation of a new
NSI. The new NSI may be created just for this communication service or it may
be created to support multiple communication services with similar network
slice requirements. The lifecycle of a communication service is related but
not dependent on that of a NSI. The NSI may exist before the communication
service uses the NSI and may exist after the communication service stopped
using the NSI.
An NSI can, depending on the NSI requirements, be created using one or more
existing NSSI(s) or initiate the creation of one or more new NSSI(s). The new
NSSI(s) may be created just for this NSI or it may be created to support
multiple NSIs. The lifecycle of an NSI is related but not dependent on that of
an NSSI. The NSSI may exist before the NSI is created and may exist after the
NSI is not needed anymore.
## 4.5 SON concepts in network slicing
**To improve the operational sustainability in 5G, SON concepts, as key
enablers introduced in 4G, may be reused for 5G. Evolution to 5G may bring
increased network scale and complexity, especially considering variety of
services/devices/tenants in 5G networks. In this context, operators may want
to use concepts of SON as key feature to leverage 5G network slicing
management.**
The lifecycle phases of NSI typically include preparation phase,
instantiation, configuration and activation phase, run-time phase and
decommissioning phase. During the lifecycle phases of NSI, application of
certain SON concepts would be helpful for automation of management and
orchestration of NSIs.
The main aspects of SON concepts that can potentially be used to leverage
network slicing management include but are not limited to:
\- NSI Automated Configuration. Automated configuration of an NSI can happen
during the Instantiation, Configuration, and Activation phase, a newly created
NSI can be automatically configured with appropriate parameters before it is
activated.
\- NSI Automated reconfiguration. Automated reconfiguration happens during
Run-time phase, an activated NSI can be reconfigured automatically because of
change of service requirements.
\- NSI Automated Optimization. The NSIs can be modified automatically to avoid
degradation of services in case of network function overload, dynamic topology
change, etc. The status of the target NSIs is monitored, including the status
of network functions and services. Examples of parameters to be monitored on
the network functions and for the services are throughput, latency, the number
of connections, etc. Based on pre-configured targets and/or policies, the
management system may automatically configure some slice-specific parameters
for the NSIs to improve the performance of the services provided via the NSIs.
For example, based on SON outputs, which are driven by network / services
performance data, the management system may re-configure some network
functions and/or the links between the network functions and/or modify the
topology of the NSI for improvement in resource utilization and/or in the QoE
of services supported by the NSI.
\- NSI Automated Healing. For the running NSIs, SON algorithms could identify
the failures of NSIs and apply some corrective actions. The network functions
which compose the NSI support fast failure recovery and healing mechanisms,
thus enabling automatic convergence of the affected network functions to a
stable desired state. The results of the Self-Healing needs to be notified to
the operator.
## 4.6 Key issues for network slicing management
The potential key issues for network slicing management to be addressed in the
present document are as following:
**Issue 1. Align slice instance related terms**
**Issue 2. Creation of the network slice to support services provided by the
operator**
How the services are requested via the 3GPP management system and how they are
facilitated using an NSI.
**Issue 3. NSI FCAPS management**
How to use FCAPS management for network slicing management.
**Issue 4. SON evolution for network slice management**
How to apply SON concept for network slicing management.
**Issue 5. Orchestration of network slice**
What are the components of a network slice and how it is orchestrated?
**Issue 6. Shared slice instance management**
Management of a network slice that supports multiple services.
**Issue 7. Orchestration of Slice across multiple administrative domains**
## 4.7 High-level functional model of business roles
In the context of next generation networks, responsibilities regarding
operations have to be clearly defined and assigned to roles. High-level
business roles include:
  * Communication Service Customer (CSC): Uses communication services.
  * Communication Service Provider (CSP): Provides communication > services (see clause 4.8). Designs, builds and operates its > communication services.
  * Network Operator (NOP): Provides network services. Designs, builds > and operates its networks to offer such services.
  * Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider (VISP): Provides > virtualized infrastructure services. Designs, builds and operates > its virtualization infrastructure(s). Virtualization > Infrastructure Service Providers may also offer their virtualized > infrastructure services to other types of customers including to > Communication Service Providers directly, i.e. without going > through the Network Operator.
  * Data Centre Service Provider (DCSP): Provides data centre services. > Designs, builds and operates its data centres.
  * Network Equipment Provider (NEP): Supplies network equipment. For > sake of simplicity, VNF Supplier is considered here as a type of > Network Equipment Provider.
  * NFVI Supplier: Supplies network function virtualization > infrastructure to its customers.
  * Hardware Supplier: Supplies hardware.
Depending on actual deployments, the roles defined above can be played by one
single organization or by several ones. Hence, an organization can play one or
several roles defined above.
NOTE 1: the list of roles above is not exhaustive.
{width="6.531944444444444in" height="3.8229166666666665in"}
Figure 4.7.1: High-level model of roles
NOTE 2: The above diagram does not carry the notion of hierarchy or layering,
in particular the diagram does not preclude relations between non-neighbouring
role nodes.
NOTE 3: In case the Network Operator offers network services partly or wholly
based on Physical Network Functions, the responsibility for designing,
building and operating such parts of the network services is under the
responsibility of the Network Operator. It does not involve the Virtualization
Infrastructure Service Provider.
NOTE 4: In the rest of this document, the role \"Communication Service
Provider\" is also referred to as \"Service Provider\", and the role \"Network
Operator\" is also referred to as \"Operator\". Unless they are explicitly
differentiated, these two roles are used in an inter-changeable way.
## 4.8 Types of communication services
Communication services offered by Communication Service Providers to
Communication Service Customers are of various categories, among which:
\- B2C services, e.g. mobile web browsing, VoLTE, Rich Communication Services,
etc.
\- B2B services, e.g. Internet access, LAN interconnection, etc.
\- B2B2X services: e.g. services offered to other Communication Service
Providers (e.g. international roaming, RAN sharing, etc.) or to Verticals
(e.g. eMBB, etc.) offering themselves communication services to their own
customers. B2B2X service type includes B2B2 applied recursively, i.e. B2B2B,
B2B2B2B, etc.
A communication service offered by Communication Service Providers can include
a bundle of specific B2C, B2B or B2B2X type of services. Taking as an example
the B2C type of services, a bundle could include: data (for mobile web
browsing), voice (through VoLTE), and messaging (via Rich Communication
Services). In this case, each one of the individual B2C may be fulfilled by
different PDU connectivity services provided via corresponding PDU sessions.
According to 3GPP TR 23.501 [7], a specific PDU session makes use of a single
network slice, and different PDU sessions may belong to different network
slices.
## 4.9 Services using the Network Slice concept
### 4.9.1 Network Slices as NOP internals
Types of services listed in clause 4.7 are offered by CSPs to their customers,
relying on Network Operator(s) network services. Depending on CSP requirements
and/or Network Operator own policies, the Network Operator can decide to
provide required network services using network slices. In such a case, only
the Network Operator has knowledge of the existence of network slices; the CSP
and its customers have not.
### 4.9.2 Network Slice as a Service
Network slice as a Service can be offered by CSPs to their customers, leaving
the latter ones the possibility to offer their own services on top on network
slice services (B2B2X). Such network slice services could be characterized by
e.g.
  * radio access technology,
  * bandwidth,
  * end-to-end latency,
  * guaranteed / non-guaranteed QoS,
  * security level, etc.
Depending on service offering, CSP imposes limits on the network slice
characteristics that will be exposed to the CSC, and CSP imposes limits on the
network slice management capabilities that will be exposed to the CSC.
A CSP offering Network Slices as a Service relies on network services offered
by one or more network Operators.
### 4.9.3 Services using network slice instances
As an example, services using NSI(s) are illustrated in the figure 4.9.3.1.
Figure 4.9.3.1: End to End services provided by NSI(s)
Different NSIs (NSI A, NSI B and NSI C) contains NFs (e.g. belonging to AN
NSSI and CN NSSI) as well as all information relevant to the interconnections
between these NFs. Different communication services are provided by service
provider through using different NSIs. For example, Service 1 and Service 2
use NSI A which contains dedicated NSSIs (CN NSSI 1 and AN NSSI 1), Service 3
uses NSI C which contains a dedicated NSSI (CN NSSI 3) and a shared NSSI (AN
NSSI 2) with NSI B.
NOTE: The dashed lines in figure 4.9.3.1 mean connectivity supported by TN.
## 4.10 Network slice related management functions
The following management functions are needed to manage the NSIs to support
communication services:
\- Communication Service Management Function (CSMF):
\- Responsible for translating the communication service related requirement
to network slice related requirements.
\- Communicate with Network Slice Management Function (NSMF).
\- Network Slice Management Function (NSMF):
\- Responsible for management and orchestration of NSI.
\- Derive network slice subnet related requirements from network slice related
requirements.
\- Communicate with the Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF) and
Communication Service Management Function.
\- Network Slice Subnet Management Function (NSSMF):
\- Responsible for management and orchestration of NSSI.
\- Communicate with the NSMF.
{width="2.0625in" height="3.0833333333333335in"}
Figure 4.10.1: Network slice related management functions
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Use cases related to Network Slice management
### 5.1.1 Network Slice Instance(s) lifecycle management
#### 5.1.1.1 Create a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.1.1.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants an NSI which includes CN (Core Network) part and RAN part.
NOTE: The use case does not make any assumption on any potential RAN internal
slicing.
##### 5.1.1.1.2 Description
In some case, a network slice which includes CN part and RAN part is needed.
Both CN part and RAN part of network slice can be shared by different NSIs.
Operator wants an NSI to support a communication service.
The main aspects of management to support network slice creation includes:
\- The NSMF determines to reuse an existing NSI or create a new NSI. If an
existing NSI can be reused, the operator may reconfigure the existing NSI. If
no existing NSI is available, the NSMF will determine to create a new NSI and
the following steps are included.
NOTE: Two scenarios for reusing an existing NSI:
\- An existing NSI which is used to support existing communication services
may be shared for the requested communication service.
\- An existing NSI which is not used to support any communication service
(e.g. retained previously) may be used for the requested communication
service.
\- The NSMF determines the CN part-related requirements and RAN part-related
requirements based on customer requirements.
\- For the CN part-related requirements, the NSMF determines to utilize the
new or existing CN NFs.
\- For the RAN part-related requirements, the NSMF determines to utilize
existing RAN NEs or new RAN NEs.
\- The management system can translate network slice requirements into the
real deployment location of network functions. For example, determine the
location of serving NFs to satisfy low latency requirement.
##### 5.1.1.1.3 Post-conditions
An NSI which includes CN part and RAN part is created.
#### 5.1.1.2 Create a Network Slice Instance with shared and non-shared CN
network functions
##### 5.1.1.2.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to have multiple NSIs. The NSIs may contain some functions
that are shared between multiple NSIs and some that are not shared.
##### 5.1.1.2.2 Description
In some cases, (e.g. described as \"group B\" and \"group C\" in annex D of
3GPP TR 23.799 [2]) shared CN network functions can be shared among multiple
NSIs. The shared CN network functions can be virtualized or non-virtualized.
The operator selects some shared CN network functions and non-shared network
functions to compose an NSI. The operator specifies the associated parameters
to create an NSI (e.g. loading and geographic constraints).
When creating a new NSI, the operator determines if there are existing shared
CN network functions that can be used for creation of a new NSI. The network
functions that are already part of an existing NSI being added to a new NSI
become shared network functions:
\- In the case that where some shared (those that are shared or become shared)
CN network functions are available, only additional (non-shared CN) network
functions may need to be created. The existing shared CN network functions may
need to be reconfigured, and the resources supporting the shared CN network
functions may need to be added in order to ensure that the shared CN network
functions can serve both the existing NSI(s) and the NSI being created.
\- In the case where no existing CN network functions are available for the
new NSI, the shared CN network functions need to be created and the non-
shared CN network functions may need to be created respectively. The new
shared CN network functions that are created only belong to the new single NSI
at this point until being shared by other NSIs (where they become \"shared\").
##### 5.1.1.2.3 Post-conditions
An NSI is created where some of the CN network functions may be shared between
multiple NSIs and some are not shared.
#### 5.1.1.3 Create Network Slice Instance with shared Network Slice Subnet
Instances
##### 5.1.1.3.1 Pre-conditions
None.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 Description
Network slice can be created using NSSIs according to different requests from
the customer. One possible method of NSI creation is described below for
example.
NSSI A, NSSI B and NSSI C are composed by NFs, as exhibited in Figure
5.1.1.3.2.1 for example:
a) NSSI A is described by NFs (i.e. NF1-NF4);
b) NSSI B is described by NFs (i.e.NF7-NF9);
c) NSSI C is described by NFs (i.e. NF5 and NF6).
NSSI A is connected to NSSI B and NSSI C, composing two NSIs, where NSSI B and
NSSI C are independent. NSI X is composed of NSSI A and NSSI C, NSI Y is
composed of NSSI A and NSSI B.
Figure 5.1.1.3.2.1: NSI X and Y composed by NSSI A, B and C
##### 5.1.1.3.3 Post-conditions
NSI is created with shared NSSIs.
#### 5.1.1.4 Activate a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.1.4.1 Pre-conditions
An NSI is configured.
The NSI is not providing telecommunication service.
##### 5.1.1.4.2 Description
The NSMF activates the NSI for providing the intended telecommunication
service through activating all necessary CN network functions of the NSI, RAN
NEs of the NSI, and possibly other part of the NSI. Activation is performed by
using management interfaces to request managed entities to move to a state
which relates to activation of the telecommunication service supported by the
NSI. The activation of the CN network functions, RAN NEs and other parts of an
NSI may follow a sequential order.
The NSMF changes the NSI status to activated.
##### 5.1.1.4.3 Post-conditions
The NSI is providing telecommunication service.
#### 5.1.1.5 De-activate a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.1.5.1 Pre-conditions
An NSI is activated.
##### 5.1.1.5.2 Description
The NSMF deactivates the NSI to stop providing telecommunication service on
current NSI through deactivating all CN network functions of the NSI, RAN NEs
of the NSI, and possibly other part of the NSI. The ongoing telecommunication
service supported by the NSI is terminated if it is not supported by any other
NSI. Deactivation is performed by using management interfaces to request
managed entities to move to a state which relates to deactivation of the
telecommunication service supported by the NSI. The deactivation of the CN
network functions, RAN NEs and other parts of an NSI may follow a sequential
order.
The NSMF changes the NSI status to deactivated.
##### 5.1.1.5.3 Post-conditions
The NSI is not providing telecommunication service.
#### 5.1.1.6 Modify a Network Slice Instance with shared and non-shared CN
network functions and a shared AN
##### 5.1.1.6.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to modify an existing NSI that is composed of network
functions that are shared between multiple NSIs and not shared.
The shared AN supporting multiple slices is available.
##### 5.1.1.6.2 Description
The operator determines whether the shared CN network functions or non-shared
CN network functions of the NSI are modified:
\- The operator may decide that for modification of the NSI it is enough to
modify the identified non-shared CN network functions. Otherwise the operator
may decide to create new non-shared CN network functions to satisfy the
network slice modification needs and then delete the obsolete non-shared CN
network functions which are replaced by the newly created non-shared CN
network functions.
\- If the operator wants to modify the shared CN network functions, the
operator checks whether the modification of shared CN network functions may
impact other NSIs and takes appropriate actions as below:
\- If there is no impact, then the operator updates the shared CN network
function where needed. If the modification of the shared CN network functions
is not applicable, then the operator may decide to create new shared CN
network functions to satisfy the modification needs.
\- If there is impact, the operator may not perform the modification of shared
CN network functions or may decide to create new CN network functions only for
the NSI being modified to satisfy the modification needs and avoid the impact
on other NSIs. The newly created CN network functions only belong to the NSI
being modified until being shared with other NSIs by configuration.
##### 5.1.1.6.3 Post-conditions
An NSI that is composed of shared CN network functions and non-shared CN
network functions is modified by the operator without negatively impacting the
other NSIs.
#### 5.1.1.7 Terminate a Network Slice Instance with shared and non-shared CN
network functions and shared AN
##### 5.1.1.7.1 Pre-conditions
No service is provided any more by the NSI to be terminated.
The shared AN supporting multiple slices is available.
##### 5.1.1.7.2 Description
Operator terminates an existing NSI. If the NSI to be terminated depends on
shared CN network functions which are used by multiple NSIs, the shared CN
network functions may need to be configured and the non-shared network
functions may be terminated. The relation between the shared CN network
functions and the NSI is released when terminating the NSI. The shared AN of
the NSI is re-configured.
##### 5.1.1.7.3 Post-conditions
An NSI is terminated by the operator.
#### 5.1.1.8 Change capacity of a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.1.8.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to change the capacity of an NSI by changing the capacity
of an identified network function. The identified network function can be
shared between multiple NSIs or not shared.
##### 5.1.1.8.2 Description
The operator determines whether the NSI capacity needs to be increased or
decreased:
\- If the operator wants to increase the capacity of the NSI, the operator may
decide that it is enough to increase the capacity of identified network
functions. If it is not possible, then the operator may decide to create new
identified network functions to the NSI.
\- If the operator wants to decrease the capacity of the NSI, the operator
determines whether the capacity of shared or non-shared network functions of
the NSI needs changing.
a) The operator may decide that to decrease the capacity of the NSI, it is
enough to change the capacity of identified non-shared network functions. If
it is not applicable, then the operator may decide to remove some of the
identical non-shared network functions from the NSI.
b) If the network functions identified by the operator for the change of
capacity are shared network functions between multiple NSIs, the operator
checks if the desired capacity change may negatively impact other NSIs and
takes appropriate actions as outlined below:
\- If there is no anticipated negative impact, then the operator changes the
capacity of identified shared network functions. Alternatively, the operator
may decide to remove some of the shared network functions.
\- If there is anticipated negative impact on other NSI, the operator may not
change the capacity of the shared network functions.
\- In all cases as part of the capacity modification the operator may need to
perform appropriate reconfiguration of the existing network functions.
##### 5.1.1.8.3 Post-conditions
The capacity of NSI is changed by the operator.
NOTE: The modification of an NSI can include changing the capacity of an NSI.
Effectively change capacity can be considered a sub-use case of modify.
#### 5.1.1.9 Instantiate, configure and activate a Network Slice Instance in a
network with virtualized NFs
##### 5.1.1.9.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to create an NSI in the network that includes virtualized
NFs. The NSI is needed to support certain telecommunication services designed
in the preparation phase (see clause 4.1).
##### 5.1.1.9.2 Description
The NSMF receives requirements to be satisfied for establishment of the
planned services, such as network latency. Some requirements may be triggering
immediate allocation of network resources while others are defined in terms of
the policy for allocation at a later time, when particular services are
activated.
According to the requirements, the NSSMF, per request from the NSMF, creates
needed NSSIs:
\- Configures and triggers the components of NFV-MANO [6] to instantiate
and/or configure all needed VNFs and NSs and/or scale them as needed, for the
operations of the NSSI. Such configuration takes into account sharing of the
VNFs and NSs with other NSSIs where relevant.
\- Triggers necessary components of the network management system to affect
the application level configuration of the NFs to be used by the NSSI. Such
configuration takes into account sharing of the NFs with other NSSIs where
relevant.
The NSMF activates the NSI.
##### 5.1.1.9.3 Post-conditions
The NSI is operational in the network that includes virtualized NFs.
### 5.1.2 Network Slice Instance(s) fault management
#### 5.1.2.1 Supervise a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.2.1.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to supervise an instantiated network slice to be aware of
and resolve problems or potential problems with an NSI based on the received
alarm notifications.
The NSI is composed of NSSIs consisting of network functions and resources. AN
NSSI can be associated with only one NSI or with multiple NSIs.
The NSMF knows which NSSIs are associated with each NSI.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Description
The NSI is configured so that appropriate alarm notifications are generated
and sent to the NSMF. The NSMF receives alarm notifications for an NSI:
\- In case the NSMF receives alarm notifications related to the dedicated
NSSI, all alarm notifications related to the dedicated NSSI are applicable to
the associated NSI. The NSMF supervises the NSI based on the alarm
notifications.
\- In case the NSMF receives alarm notifications related to the shared NSSI,
the alarm notifications might be applicable to some specific associated NSI
that is using that shared NSSI. The NSMF identifies to which NSI the alarm
notification belongs, and supervises the NSI(s) based on the identified alarm
notifications.
The NSMF may allow or suppress alarm notifications related to the NSSI to
satisfy the fault management requirements of the associated NSI(s).
##### 5.1.2.1.3 Post-conditions
The NSMF provides alarm supervision of an NSI to the operator.
### 5.1.3 Network Slice Instance(s) performance management
#### 5.1.3.1 Monitor the performance of a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.3.1.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to understand the performance of the network slice to
ensure SLA compliance. The network slice is instantiated and configured by the
NSMF so that the appropriate performance data is generated.
The NSMF knows which NSSIs are associated with each NSI. A NSSI can be
associated with multiple NSIs.
##### 5.1.3.1.2 Description
Network slice performance management is carried out at both NSI level and NSSI
level. An example is shown in the following figure 5.1.3.1.2.1 NSI 1 is
composed by network slice subnet instance 1 and network slice subnet instance
2. Firstly, performance data of network slice subnet instances is collected.
Then performance data of an NSI can be generated based on all the performance
data related to network slice subnet instances.
Figure 5.1.3.1.2.1: Example of network slice performance management
\- Performance data generation at NSI level
In order to understand the performance of an NSI, some performance data at NSI
level need to be obtained. For example, performance data at the NSI level may
include traffic load data of the whole NSI, service performance data provided
by the NSI. Traffic load data of an NSI indicates the level of both the total
user traffic and the signalling traffic within an NSI. The service performance
data includes the total user traffic, the signalling traffic and QoS data
corresponding to a particular service instance. QoS data of services can
indicate whether the NSI delivers services at expected QoS level.
In order to obtain NSI level performance data, the NSMF firstly collects
performance data related to NSSIs associated with the NSI. The NSMF then
generates NSI level performance data based on performance data related to
NSSIs.
\- Performance data collection at NSSI level
The NSMF decides to create measurement jobs on network functions in NSSIs.
Measurement jobs includes measurement parameters, scheduling information and
an indication for pointing out the NSI for which performance data needs to be
collected. The data is collected and provided to the NSMF by the NSSIs.
An NSSI can be dedicated to an NSI or can be shared by multiple NSIs:
a) In case of a dedicated NSSI all performance data from the network slice
subnet is identified per NSI that is using that NSSI. The data may be
collected for different QoS levels or for different service instances included
in the NSI as per the request from the network management function.
b) In case of a shared NSSI the performance data is segregated per NSI that is
using that shared NSSI. The data may be collected for different QoS levels,
for different service instances or for different slice instance level as per
the request from the network management function.
##### 5.1.3.1.3 Post-conditions
The NSMF has the performance data of all NSSIs that are associated with the
NSI.
The NSMF generates slice instance level performance data of an NSI based on
the performance data of all NSSIs that are associated with the NSI.
#### 5.1.3.2 Monitor Network Slice Instance performance threshold
##### 5.1.3.2.1 Pre-conditions
An NSI is in service.
Operator wants to monitor performance parameters in an NSI by setting
thresholds and receiving alarms notifications.
##### 5.1.3.2.2 Description
In order to monitor performance of an NSI, the NSMF determines thresholds for
performance parameters that need to be monitored by several NFs of the NSI.
The NSMF can set thresholds on both shared and non-shared NFs for monitoring
performance parameters of the NSI. The performance parameters of the NSI are
monitored by NFs. Once the thresholds are met, NFs will generate threshold
crossing/reaching alarm notifications specific to the NSI.
##### 5.1.3.2.3 Post-conditions
Thresholds for performance parameters of an NSI have been created on NFs.
The NSMF is ready to receive performance alarm notifications related to an
NSI.
### 5.1.4 Network Slice Instance(s) configuration management
#### 5.1.4.1 Configure RRM policy for Network Slice Instance(s)
##### 5.1.4.1.1 Pre-conditions
A RAN NF supports multiple NSIs.
Operator wants to configure the policy for the radio resource management for
NSIs.
##### 5.1.4.1.2 Description
A RAN NF needs a RRM policy to support multiple (see clause 8.1 of 3GPP TR
38.801 [8]).
The NSSMF configures the RRM policy for the NSIs.
##### 5.1.4.1.3 Post-conditions
The RRM policy for the NSIs has been configured.
#### 5.1.4.2 RAN configuration management supporting network slice
##### 5.1.4.2.1 Pre-conditions
The NSMF may have received the requirements for NSI, for example, latency,
bandwidth, QoS.
The NSMF is configuring a network slice.
The NSMF has identified that a RAN part of a network slice needs to be
configured.
The virtualized RAN part has not been deployed.
##### 5.1.4.2.2 Description
The 3GPP management system configures the RAN part of the network slice.
including, for example one or more of the following.
\- Configure the suitable air interface parameters to the RAN part (e.g.
gNB/eLTE eNB), to satisfy the requirement of the specific radio link
characteristics.
\- Determine to deploy the virtualized RAN part to a suitable location (e.g.
closely to air interface), to satisfy the requirement of low user plane
latency for RAN.
The NSMF configures the RAN part of the network slice with information about
the related CN part of the network slice.
##### 5.1.4.2.3 Post-conditions
The RAN part of the network slice has been configured.
1) The specific radio link characteristics are configured.
2) The virtualized RAN part has been deployed in a suitable location.
#### 5.1.4.3 Slice specific information configuration for CN
##### 5.1.4.3.1 Pre-conditions
A network slice instance has been created. The operator determines the slice
specific information for the network slice instance.
NOTE: The use case is a generic use case at this stage, details about the
information that needs to be configured and is applicable to the CN part, TS
23.502 [10], of a network slice is not relevant and may be subject for
discussion in the normative phase.
##### 5.1.4.3.2 Description
The operator requests network slice management function to configure CN
functions with slice specific information. The NSMF may send a request to
NSSMF to configure corresponding CN functions with the slice specific
information. The NSMF and the NSSMF configure the corresponding CN functions
with the slice specific information.
##### 5.1.4.3.3 Post-conditions
The CN function is configured with the slice specific information.
#### 5.1.4.4 Management support for TN
##### 5.1.4.4.1 Pre-conditions
Operator wants the TN to support connectivity between different 3GPP nodes
belonging to CN and/or RAN part of network slice instance.
##### 5.1.4.4.2 Description
Regarding the TN supporting connectivity between different 3GPP nodes
belonging to CN and/or RAN parts of network slice instance, 3GPP management
system derives the link requirements (e.g. topology, QOS parameters) from the
network slice related requirements.
3GPP management system provides link requirements to the management system
that handles the TN or 3GPP management system determines to uses the existing
links if the information of existing links is known by 3GPP management system.
3GPP management system configures the 3GPP nodes to use the links.
##### 5.1.4.4.3 Post-conditions
The connectivity between the different 3GPP nodes belonging to CN and/or RAN
part of network slice instance is supported.
### 5.1.5 Network Slice Instance(s) policy management
#### 5.1.5.1 Management support for policy configuration
##### 5.1.5.1.1 Pre-conditions
The NSMF has decided to create a new network slice and the policies for the
operation and management of the respective slice need to be created.
##### 5.1.5.1.2 Description
Policy management functionality is required to derive appropriate policies for
NSI operation and management according to the service requirements and
available network resources.
The policy may be accompanied by the information on what needs to be done if
the configuration based on the policy is violated
##### 5.1.5.1.3 Post-conditions
Appropriate policies are configured and enforced to ensure the proper
operation and management of the NSIs.
### 5.1.6 Communication service support with network slice
#### 5.1.6.1 Management support for network slicing
##### 5.1.6.1.1 Pre-conditions
**Operator wants to create and manage NSIs based on customers\' needs.**
##### 5.1.6.1.2 Description
Network slicing is a key enabler for new business models. By exploiting the
network non-shared customization, the mobile network customers and industry
customers could share the same network infrastructure, where each customer
could have the corresponding NSI to fulfil each own different requirement such
as policy control, security, mobility, charging, latency, reliability, etc.
The main aspects of management support to the network slicing include:
\- The operator creates NSIs either to satisfy the needs of different
customers or based on different service requirements from the same customer.
In one example, the operator may create two NSIs for two different
requirements: one NSI with medium throughput and low latency (e.g. for V2X
communication) and the other NSI with high throughput and high latency
toleration (e.g. for HD video streaming). In another example, the operator may
create two NSIs for two different customers even if their service requirements
are similar. In some cases, operator may choose to use the same NSI to support
multiple services from the same customer.
\- The operator monitors the status of the NSIs, such as network functions,
services, throughput, latency, the number of connections, etc., and may
configure some slice-specific parameters.
\- When a particular service is no longer needed, the operator may delete the
corresponding NSI if that NSI does not support any other services.
##### 5.1.6.1.3 Post-conditions
**Different NSIs fulfil different requirements of customers using the same
network infrastructure**.
#### 5.1.6.2 Management support to provide a customer\'s service request using
a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.6.2.1 Pre-conditions
The network operator has a catalogue of the types of business services it can
offer to the customers with their own end user/device population distributed
in a geographical area.
NOTE: Customer can be a 3rd party service provider or network operator\'s own
service department.
The customer has obtained the type of business services that can be provided
by the network operator.
##### 5.1.6.2.2 Description
The customer requests the network operator to support a specific business
service. This request includes the service requirements such as isolation,
security and performance requirements (e.g. traffic demand requirements for
the coverage areas, QoS for services, etc.).
The management system determines whether the service can be provided checking
the available network resources and remaining network capacity in the
specified geographical areas for the specified durations.
If service can be provided, the management system will negotiate for an
appropriate agreement with the customer.
The NSMF creates an NSI to provide the agreed service requirements including
the required isolation and security.
The NSMF monitors the fault and performance of the NSI and ensure meeting the
agreed service requirements including providing necessary monitoring
information to the customer.
##### 5.1.6.2.3 Post-conditions
An NSI is created to provide the service to the satisfaction of the SLA and
network KPIs required by the customer.
#### 5.1.6.3 Provide network slice as a service with guaranteed quality of
service
##### 5.1.6.3.1 Pre-conditions
**The customer has different type of business services which can be served by
the network operator with customized network slice instance.**
**The operator has the capability to provide network slice as a service to the
customer.**
##### 5.1.6.3.2 Description
The customer inputs a set of service requirements (e.g. business scenario,
isolation, throughput, latency, coverage, etc.) to the operator.
Network operator provides a customized end-to-end network slice instance as a
service which can serve customer\'s requirements and sign an SLA with the
customer.
After activating the network slice instance, the network slice management
system will expose part of the service-related performance data to the
customer. If current performance cannot meet the SLA, some actions (e.g. scale
in/out, modification, etc.) are executed to guarantee end-to-end performance
of the network slice instance.
##### 5.1.6.3.3 Post-conditions
**A performance-guaranteed network slice instance is operated by the network
operator to serve customer\'s specific service requirement.**
### 5.1.7 Management data isolation
#### 5.1.7.1 Management data isolation when multiple customers share the same
Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.7.1.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to use one slice instance to serve multiple customers (i.e.
other network operator or enterprises etc.) simultaneously and customers want
to get the management data of the slice instance, such as performance
measurements. It is assumed that the NSMF is capable of generating the
management data separate per customer for different customers.
##### 5.1.7.1.2 Description
When the service requirements of multiple customers can be fulfilled by the
same NSI, the operator may decide to create a single NSI. The created NSI is
shared to serve multiple customers.
In case of there is a fault or performance degradation in the slice instance,
the quality of service provided may be influenced. The customer may want to
know the fault information or the performance information of the slice
instance which cause the service problem.
The management data (e.g. fault management data, performance data, etc.) for
different customers may be separated.
It is up to the operator to decide whether a communication service is to be
served by the same NSI or by different NSIs.
If the service requirements of one of the customers sharing the slice instance
changes, the operator may decide to modify the slice instance without
negatively impacting the service to other parties, if possible. For example,
the operator may check if the modification or reconfiguration is against the
resource usage policies of other services provided by the same NSI. If there
is no conflict, the operator then modifies or reconfigures the NSI.
##### 5.1.7.1.3 Post-conditions
Multiple customers are served by the same NSI with access to their network
management data.
#### 5.1.7.2 Management data isolation with shared AN or shared CN network
functions
##### 5.1.7.2.1 Pre-conditions
**There exist two network slice instances in operator\'s network with shared
AN or shared CN network functions.**
##### 5.1.7.2.2 Description
Configurations of shared AN or shared CN network functions (e.g. network slice
selection related information) are coordinated to make sure the normal
operation of the services running onto these two network slice instances. In
the case of performance management, the monitoring data is collected and
generated separately.
If the shared part in one slice instance has changed, the related management
on the shared AN or shared CN network functions will not impact current
operating status of the other slice.
##### 5.1.7.2.3 Post-conditions
**Management data in different network slice instances with shared AN or
shared CN network functions is isolated.**
### 5.1.8 Multiple operator coordination management
#### 5.1.8.1 Management support to facilitate UE roaming between Network Slice
Instances in different administrative domains
##### 5.1.8.1.1 Pre-conditions
The UE may move across multiple administrative domains.
Multiple operators have roaming agreements.
##### 5.1.8.1.2 Description
The operator knows the information of other NSIs which belongs to other
operators. An example of the information is the network slice selection
assistant information (NSSAI).
The operators configure the network to support the UEs roaming from the
coverage area of one NSI to the coverage area of another NSI. For example,
when NSSAI is not standardized, operator A may configure some network
functions (e.g. network slice selection function) of the NSI to be aware of
the NSSAI of NSIs from operator B to facilitate the mapping between NSSAIs
since the UE may provide the NSSAI of the NSI from operator B when it moves
from the administrative domain of operator B to the administrative domain of
operator A.
##### 5.1.8.1.3 Post-conditions
NSIs from different administrative domains can provide desired service to the
customer.
#### 5.1.8.2 Create an end-to-end Network Slice Instance across multiple
operators
##### 5.1.8.2.1 Pre-conditions
An operator wants to create an end-to-end NSI across multiple operators. Non-
management pre-requisites, such as trust relationships between operators,
legal and business related, to create such a slice are assumed to exist. The
operators in this use case have agreed upon to the limits of exposure of the
management interface.
NOTE: The use case does not make any assumption on any potential operator
internal slicing.
##### 5.1.8.2.2 Description
An operator A wants to create an end-to-end NSI to support a telecommunication
service across multiple operators, Operator A and Operator B. The end-to-end
NSMF for this network slice resides with Operator A. This end-to-end NSI
across multiple operators will be composed of NSSIs from operator A and NSSIs
from Operator B.
Operator A\'s management system performs the following actions for the
creation of an end-to-end NSI across multiple operators:
\- Operator A determines to use its own and Operator B\'s network to create
the end-to-end NSI, decomposes the service request of the end-to-end network
slice for Operator A\'s and Operator B\'s network, and requests the creation
of NSSIs to each operator\'s management system.
\- Both operators\' management system may either create a new NSSIs or use an
existing one as a part of the end-to-end NSI.
\- When requested, Operator B\'s management system provides management data
(e.g. performance data) to Operator A\'s management system for the NSSI hosted
by operator B and belonging to operator A\'s end-to-end NSI
NOTE: Operator A may determine to use more than two operators to support the
end-to-end NSI. Operator A remains responsible for the management of the end-
to-end NSI.
##### 5.1.8.2.3 Post-conditions
An NSI extending multiple operators is created.
### 5.1.9 Management exposure
#### 5.1.9.1 Limited level of management exposure for multiple Network Slice
Instances
##### 5.1.9.1.1 Pre-conditions
Customers want specific NSIs created by the operator.
##### 5.1.9.1.2 Description
Multiple network slices required by different customers may have the same type
of service but with different KPI and/or QoS/QoE.
According to NSI creation described in clause 5.1.1.2, the operator may create
multiple network slices served by the same NFs and management system to
provide the agreed service requirements including the required management
exposure.
Currently, operators provide service management exposures to the customers,
that the network management (i.e. NMs and EMs) and the infrastructure
management not typically expose to customers. Operators will need to extend
the current service management offers into limited level of management
exposures in network and infrastructure, which the management exposure is
agreed by both operator and the customer. These limited level of exposure
should be part of the operator extended offer to NSI customer. Typical example
for this use case is from the Enterprise communication market where each
company is represented as a tenant.
##### 5.1.9.1.3 Post-conditions
The limited level of management exposure agreed by customer and operator of
the created specific NSIs are provided to the customers.
### 5.1.10 Automation of the network slice management
#### 5.1.10.1 Automated reconfiguration of a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.10.1.1 Pre-conditions
**The NSI already exists.**
##### 5.1.10.1.2 Description
When the service requirements are changed by the Customer, it is desirable
that the NSI can be reconfigured automatically to support the updated service
requirements.
CSMF updates the network slice requirements based on the change of service
requirements received from Customer, and sends the updated requirements to
NSMF.NSMF, which may be pre-configured with a policy for automated
reconfiguration of NSI, upon receipt of the updated network slice
requirements, triggers the automated reconfiguration of the NSI. The NSMF may
decide to modify the existing NSSIs and/or add new NSSIs for the automated
reconfiguration of the NSI, and sends the corresponding Network Slice Subnet
related requirements to NSSMF.
NSSMF, upon receipt of the updated and/or new network slice subnet
requirements, modifies the NSSI and/or adds the new NSSI accordingly.
Human intervention should be allowed during the steps described above.
##### 5.1.10.1.3 Post-conditions
The NSI has been automatically reconfigured.
#### 5.1.10.2 Automated optimization of a Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.10.2.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants an NSI to be optimized automatically to adapt to the
changing status of network and communication services.
The optimization targets defined by the operator have a
correspondence/relationship with NSI characteristics; for example, the targets
may be set in terms of:
\- NSI resources utilization (KPIs)
\- E2E service performance (KQIs), such as QoE of Video streaming
The NSI is activated.
##### 5.1.10.2.2 Description
The NSMF has pre-configured NSI automated optimization policies that may
include trigger condition of automated optimization actions, slice-specific
optimization targets, value range for the slice-specific parameters, KPIs
and/or KQIs, and rules for preventing or solving the automated optimization
conflicts.
Following the NSI optimization policies, the NSMF performs NSI automated
optimization actions to reach the network slice instance optimization goals
derived from the optimization targets defined by the operator. The NSMF
monitors the performance of the NSI. When trigger condition is satisfied, the
NSMF performs automated optimization actions for the NSI according to the pre-
configured policies. For the purpose of automated optimization, the NSMF may
decide to modify the existing NSSIs and/or add new NSSIs. To do that, the NSMF
may send the corresponding Network Slice Subnet related requirements to the
NSSMF. The NSSMF performs accordingly based on the received Network Slice
Subnet related requirements. The optimization action may include also
application level re-configuration of the Network Functions, performed by the
management system.
The NSMF evaluates the results of the NSI automated optimization by
examination of the targeted KPIs and/or KQIs after the optimization action.
There may be conflicts between the optimization actions for different goals.
The NSMF prevents or resolves the conflicts according to automated
optimization policies.
##### 5.1.10.2.3 Post-conditions
An NSI is automatically optimized.
#### 5.1.10.3 Automated healing of Network Slice Instance
##### 5.1.10.3.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants an NSI to be healed automatically.
An NSI is activated.
##### 5.1.10.3.2 Description
The NSMF monitors the alarms for the NSI. If the fault is detected and cannot
be fixed on the constituent NSSI or NF level, the NSMF triggers the automated
healing for the NSI based on the pre-configured automated healing policies.
The NSMF may decide to add a new NSSI to take over the faulty one, or modify
the existing NSSIs to compensate the fault part for instance by requesting
NSSMF to add new NF to take over the faulty one or configure the existing NFs
to compensate the faulty one. The NSMF sends the corresponding Network Slice
Subnet related requirements to NSSMF. The NSSMF performs accordingly based on
the received Network Slice Subnet related requirements.
After implementing automated healing operations for an NSI, the NSMF evaluates
the results of the automated healing actions for an NSI, and reports the
results of the automated healing actions.
##### 5.1.10.3.3 Post-conditions
An NSI is automatically healed.
### 5.1.11 Other Network Slice Instance(s) management use cases
#### 5.1.11.1 Priority of Network slice instance for re-allocating the limited
resources
##### 5.1.11.1.1 Pre-condition
Different NSIs are allocated with different priorities by operator according
to the different CSPs\' service requests. The priority information of the NSI
is sent to the NSSMF by the NSMF.
The alarms regarding insufficient resources of the specific NSI(s) are
notified to the management system.
##### 5.1.11.1.2 Description
The management system checks the resource types of the associated NSIs and
discover other NSIs with the same type of resources.
The management system terminates and/or changes the resources of the NSIs with
lower priority to increase the available resource for the NSIs with higher
priority.
The resources of the affected NSIs are re-allocated when the alarms are
cleared.
##### 5.1.11.1.3 Post-condition
Resources are re-allocated to address the alarm condition.
#### 5.1.11.2 Coordination of NSI management actions
##### 5.1.11.2.1 Pre-conditions
**The NSI is activated.**
**Two or more of the following NSI management actions are requested
concurrently:**
\- automated reconfiguration of NSI to support the updated network slice
requirements received from CSMF:
\- If NSI is shared to multiple communication services, NSMF may receive
updated network slice requirements for each communication service respectively
\- automated optimization of NSI;
\- automated healing of NSI;
\- manual modifications of NSI.
##### 5.1.11.2.2 Description
There may be conflicts when two or more of the management actions mentioned in
the pre-conditions are requested concurrently. For example, for a component NF
which is shared between multiple NSIs, when one NSI is requesting
optimization/reconfiguration by changing the parameter of this NF (e.g.
coverage related parameters of a cell), and another NSI is concurrently
requesting to compensate a faulty NF using this NF by the changing the
same/relevant parameter with a conflicting or opposite value. Since the actual
modifications on the component NSSI and NF are delegated to NSSMF, NSMF
coordinates these management actions with NSSMF to prevent if possible, or to
resolve the conflicts to minimize the negative impact to the NSI(s). A policy,
with consideration of the assigned priority of the NSIs, may be pre-configured
to NSMF for coordination of management actions of NSI.
##### 5.1.11.2.3 Post-conditions
The conflicts between the management actions of NSI are prevented, or
resolved.
## 5.2 Use cases related to Network Slice Subnet(s) management
### 5.2.1 Network Slice Subnet Instance(s) lifecycle management
#### 5.2.1.1 Create a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.1.1.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSMF determines that a new NSSI is
needed.
##### 5.2.1.1.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to create an NSSI. The NSSMF analyses the request
from the NSMF and determines which network functions and resources are needed.
The NSSMF creates and configures the NSSI constituent parts which may include
both virtualized and non-virtualized NFs.
##### 5.2.1.1.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been created and is configured and not in run-time phase. The
NSSMF has informed the NSMF of the creation of the NSSI.
#### 5.2.1.2 Activate a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.1.2.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. An NSSI is configured and is not active,
and part of an NSI. The connectivity between the NSSI and the other parts of
the NSI has been pre-provisioned.
##### 5.2.1.2.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to activate an NSSI. The NSSMF activates the NSSI
through activating all necessary constituents of the NSSI. The NSSMF changes
the NSSI status to activated and informs the NSMF that the NSSI has been
activated.
##### 5.2.1.2.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been activated and the NSMF has been informed. The NSSI is in
run-time phase.
#### 5.2.1.3 Change capacity of a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.1.3.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSSI is handling traffic.
##### 5.2.1.3.2 Description
The NSMF determines if the capacity of an NSSI needs to be increased or
decreased. The NSMF requests the NSSMF to increase or decrease the capacity of
the NSSI.
In case of increasing the NSSI capacity the NSSMF may decide to increase the
capacity of the NSSI constituents or add new constituents to the NSSI. When
adding new constituents to the NSSI the NSSMF may need to re-configure the
added constituents.
In case of decreasing the capacity of the NSSI the NSSMF may decide to
decrease the capacity of the NSSI constituents or to remove constituents from
the NSSI if the NSSI constituents are non-shared or changing the capacity of
shared NSSI constituents has no negative impacts on other NSSIs. In case of
removing constituents from the NSSI the NSSMF may need to re-configure the
remaining constituents.
##### 5.2.1.3.3 Post-condition
The capacity of an NSSI has been changed.
NOTE: Various methods of NSSI capacity change exist, for example the capacity
of an NSSI can be expressed by number of subscribers which may be controlled
with a license, in such case the method of capacity change can be
configuration change. Another example can be the change of the capacity of the
resources used by the NSSI such as change capacity of the VNF\'s and or
VNFC\'s.
#### 5.2.1.4 De-activate a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.1.4.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and the NSSMF are operational. An NSSI is activated and in run-time
phase.
##### 5.2.1.4.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to de-activate an NSSI. The NSSMF de-activates the
NSSI by de-activating all necessary constituents of the NSSI.
The NSSMF changes the NSSI status to de-activated and informs the NSMF that
the NSSI has been de-activated.
##### 5.2.1.4.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been de-activated and the NSMF has been informed. The
connectivity between the NSSI and other parts of the NSI is still pre-
provisioned.
NOTE: The de-activation of shared NSSI\'s is investigated in the corresponding
solutions in clause 7.9.4.
#### 5.2.1.5 Terminate a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.1.5.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSSI is not in run-time phase. The
NSMF determines that the NSSI is not required. The NSMF requests the NSSMF to
terminate the NSSI.
##### 5.2.1.5.2 Description
The NSSMF terminates an existing NSSI by terminating the constituents of the
NSSI. If a constituent of the NSSI to be terminated is shared with other
NSSI\'s that constituent needs to be re-configured. The relation between the
shared NSSI constituents and the terminated NSSI needs to be released.
##### 5.2.1.5.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been terminated and the NSSMF has informed the NSMF.
#### 5.2.1.6 Modification of a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.1.6.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSI is in run-time phase. The NSMF
requires the modification of an NSSI. The change of the capability in the NSI
is within the existing network slice definitions as defined in the NST.
##### 5.2.1.6.2 Description
The NSSMF modifies the constituents of the NSSI. The NSSMF receives and
analyses the modification request from the NSMF. The NSSMF determines which of
the constituents needs to be modified.
In the case a constituent of an NSSI is shared with other NSSI(s) the NSSMF
determines whether the modification of the NSSI may impact the shared
constituents:
\- If there is no impact the NSSMF modifies the shared constituents of the
NSSI where needed.
\- If there is impact, the NSSMF may not modify the shared constituents or may
decide to create new or remove existing constituents for the NSSI being
modified to satisfy the modification request. The newly created constituents
are added to the NSSI being modified or existing constituents are removed from
the NSSI being modified.
##### 5.2.1.6.3 Post-condition
The NSSI has been modified and the NSMF has been informed.
NOTE: Modification of an NSSI constituent may result in an NS scale or NS
update request.
### 5.2.2 Network Slice Subnet Instance(s) fault management
#### 5.2.2.1 Supervise a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF wants to supervise an instantiated and activated NSSI to be aware of
and resolve problems or potential problems with an NSSI based on the received
alarm notifications. The NSSI is configured by the NSSMF so that appropriate
alarm notifications are generated and sent to the NSSMF.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Description
The NSSMF supervises the NSSI and its constituents. The NSSMF receives alarm
notifications for an NSSI from its constituents.
In case of the constituents of the NSSI are dedicated to the NSSI all alarm
notifications from the constituents are applicable to the NSSI.
In case the constituents of the NSSI are shared with other NSSI(s) the alarm
notifications might be applicable a specific NSSI that is using that shared
constituent.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 Post-conditions
The NSSMF provides alarm supervision of an NSSI to the NSMF.
### 5.2.3 Network Slice Subnet Instance(s) performance management
#### 5.2.3.1 Monitor performance of a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.3.1.1 Pre-condition
The NSMF and NSSMF are operational. The NSMF requires to monitor the
performance of an active NSSI. The NSSI is instantiated and configured by the
NSSMF. The appropriate performance data is generated by the constituent of the
NSSI.
##### 5.2.3.1.2 Description
The NSMF requests the NSSMF to provide the performance management data of an
NSSI. The NSSMF creates a performance management job for the constituent parts
of the NSSI to enable collection of the performance data for an NSSI.
Measurement jobs includes measurement parameters, scheduling information and
an indication for pointing out the NSSI for which performance data needs to be
collected. The data is collected for and provided to the NSSMF by the
constituents of the NSSI.
a) In case of a non-shared NSSI the performance data is collected by the
NSSMF, filtered if necessary, and made available to the NSMF that created the
NSI using the non-shared NSSI.
b) In case of a shared NSSI the performance data is collected by the NSSMF,
segregated by the NSSMF, filtered if necessary and made available to the
NSMF(s) that created the NSI using the shared constituent of the NSSI.
##### 5.2.3.1.3 Post-condition
The NSSMF has the performance data of the constituents of an NSSI. The NSSMF
can provide the requested performance data to the NSMF.
NOTE: Details about the performance management data generated by the NF\'s
participating in an NSSI is not relevant at this stage and may be subject for
discussion in the normative phase.
### 5.2.5 Automation of Network Slice Subnet Instance(s) management use cases
#### 5.2.5.1 Automated optimization of a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.5.1.1 Pre-conditions
An NSSI is activated.
##### 5.2.5.1.2 Description
The NSSMF has NSSI automated optimization policies that may include trigger
condition of automated optimization actions, Network Slice Subnet related
parameters to be optimized, value range for the Network Slice Subnet related
parameters, and policies for preventing or solving automated optimization
conflicts.
The NSSMF may perform NSSI automated optimization actions for different goals.
The NSSMF monitors the performance of the NSSI. When trigger condition is
satisfied, the NSSMF performs automated optimization actions for the NSSI
according to the pre-configured policies, by modifying the Network Slice
Subnet specific parameters. The NSSMF evaluates the results for the NSSI
automated optimization. The NSSMF reports the automated optimization results.
There may be conflicts between the optimization actions for different goals.
The NSSMF prevents or resolves the conflicts according to automated
optimization policies. The NSSMF reports the results of conflict resolution.
##### 5.2.5.1.3 Post-conditions
An NSSI is automatically optimized.
#### 5.2.5.2 Automated healing of a Network Slice Subnet Instance
##### 5.2.5.2.1 Pre-conditions
The operator wants NSSI to be healed automatically.
An NSSI is activated.
##### 5.2.5.2.2 Description
The NSSMF monitors the alarms for the NSSI. When necessary, the NSSMF triggers
the automated healing for the NSSI based on the pre-configured automated
healing policies. For instance, the NSSMF may add a new NSSI constituent to
take over the faulty one, or modify the existing NSSI constituent to
compensate the fault part.
After implementing automated healing actions for the NSSI, the NSSMF evaluates
the results of the automated healing actions for the NSSI, and reports the
results of the automated healing actions.
##### 5.2.5.2.3 Post-conditions
An NSSI is automatically healed.
### 5.2.6 Other Network Slice Subnet Instance(s) management use cases
#### 5.2.6.1 Coordination of NSSI management actions
##### 5.2.6.1.1 Pre-conditions
**The NSSI is activated.**
**Two or more of the following NSI management actions are requested
concurrently** :
\- automated reconfiguration of NSSI to support the updated network slice
subnet related requirements received from NSMF;
\- automated optimization of NSSI;
\- automated healing of NSSI;
\- manual modification of NSSI.
##### 5.2.6.1.2 Description
There may be conflicts when two or more of the management actions mentioned in
the pre-conditions are requested concurrently. Different management actions
may request to change the same or relevant parameters of a component NF with
conflicting or opposite value. NSSMF coordinates these management actions to
prevent if possible, or to resolve the conflicts to minimize the negative
impact to the NSSI.
A policy may be pre-configured to NSSMF for coordination of management actions
of NSSI.
##### 5.2.6.1.3 Post-conditions
The conflicts between the management actions of NSSI are prevented, or
resolved.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Introduction
The following requirements are potential requirements to be used in a future
normative work. The usage of normative terminology should not be interpreted
as mandatory in the present document.
## 6.2 Network slice management requirements
### 6.2.1 General requirements
**REQ-NSM -CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to evaluate the feasibility of
providing a new NSI without impacting other network slices in operation.
**REQ-NSM -CON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
create an NSI according to the customer\'s business service requirements.
**REQ-NSM -CON-03** The NSMF should have the capability to provide network
management data to multiple customers correspondingly when the customers are
served by the same NSIs.
**REQ-NSM-CON-04** The management system should have a functionality to relate
the service requirements into network slice capabilities.
**REQ-NSM-CON-05** The NSMF should have the capability of exposing the limited
level of management agreed by operator.
**REQ-SLM-CON-6** An operator\'s management system shall be able to expose
agreed upon interface to manage a network slice or an NSSI to another
operator\'s management system.
> NOTE: The agreement between operators is considered out of scope of 3GPP.
**REQ-NSM-CON-06** The NSMF should have the capability to notify the CSMF
about any changes of the capability to support the network slice related
requirements.
**REQ-NSM-CON-07** The operator should have the capability of determining the
priority of the NSIs.
**REQ-NSM-CON-08** The management system should have the capability of re-
allocating the resources of NSIs according to the priority.
**REQ-NSM-CON-09** The CSMF shall have the capability to translate the service
related requirements into network slice related requirements.
### 6.2.2 Network slice lifecycle management
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to create an NSI which includes
CN part and RAN part.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-02** The operator shall be able to create NSIs which may
contain some functions that are shared between multiple NSIs and some that are
not shared.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities when creating a new NSI:
\- Creation of new network functions.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-04** The operator shall be able to modify an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-05** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities for modifying an NSI:
\- Instantiate a new network function and add it to the NSI.
\- Update an existing network function.
\- Add an existing network function to the NSI.
\- Remove an existing network function from the NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-06** The operator shall be able to manage the NSI lifecycle.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-07** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities:
\- Creation of NSIs.
\- Activation of NSIs.
\- Modification of NSIs.
\- Deactivation of NSIs.
\- Termination of NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-08** The operator shall be able to terminate an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-09** The NSMF should be able to support the following
capabilities when terminating an NSI for non-shared network functions:
  * Termination of the network function which is no longer needed.
  * Remove the network function from the slice instance.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-10** The NSMF shall have the capability to determine to
reuse an existing NSI or create a new NSI according to communication service
requirements.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-11** The NSMF shall be able to derive the CN part-related
requirements and RAN part-related requirements from customer requirements.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-12** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capabilities for changing capacity of an NSI:
\- Change the capacity of an existing network function.
\- Create a new network function and add into the NSI.
\- Add an existing network function into the NSI.
\- Remove an existing network function from the NSI.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-13** The NSMF shall be able to use existing NSSIs when
creating a new network slice instance.
**REQ-NSM_LCM-CON-14** An operator\'s management system shall be able to
create, instantiate, activate, modify, deactivate and terminate an NSSI on the
request of another operator\'s management system subject to pre-agreed terms.
NOTE: The agreement between operators is considered out of scope of 3GPP.
### 6.2.3 Network slice fault management
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to support the fault management
of NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-02** The operator\'s management system shall be able to
separate the fault management data related to different communication
services.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to identify which alarm
notifications belong to which NSSI.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-04** The NSMF shall be able to identify which alarm
notifications belong to which NSI.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-05** The NSMF shall be able to identify which alarm
notifications belong to which network function.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-06** The NSMF shall be able to apply alarm filters on alarm
notifications for NSSI.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-07** The NSMF shall be able to apply alarm filters on alarm
notifications for NSI.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-08** The NSMF shall be able to apply alarm filters on alarm
notifications for network functions.
**REQ-NSM_FM-CON-09** An operator\'s management system shall be able to
request and provide agreed upon fault management data for an NSSI to another
operator\'s management system.
NOTE: The agreement between operators is considered out of scope of 3GPP.
### 6.2.4 Network slice performance management
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to support the monitoring the
performance of the NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to set thresholds for performance
parameters related to an NSI on NFs.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to get the network function
performance alarm which is generated due to the value of monitoring
performance parameter crosses/reaches the threshold.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-04** The operator\'s management system shall be able to
support the monitoring of thresholds for performance parameters corresponding
to different communication services.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-05** The NSMF shall support creation and management of
measurement jobs for the network functions in an NSSI.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-06** The NSMF shall support a method to indicate the NSI
being measured when creating and managing measurement jobs for the network
functions.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-07** The NSMF shall support handling of the performance
measurement data related to NSSIs
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-08** The NSMF shall provide a method for monitoring and
collection of performance measurement data related to the NSSI which is
aggregated per QoS level, or per NSI.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-09** The NSMF shall be able to generate performance data of
an NSI based on performance measurement data related to NSSIs.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-10** An operator\'s management system shall be able to report
agreed upon management data (e.g. performance data of a network slice or NSSI)
to another operator\'s management system.
NOTE: The agreement between operators is considered out of scope of 3GPP.
**REQ-NSM_PM-CON-11** The management system should have the capability of
exposing the limited level of monitoring parameter (e.g. performance data) to
the customer which is agreed by operator when network slice instance is
provided as a service.
### 6.2.5 Network slice configuration management
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capability when creating a new NSI with shared and non-shared network
functions:
\- Configuration of existing shared network functions to support a new NSI.
\- Configuration of existing non-shared network functions to support a new
NSI.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capability when modifying an NSI:
\- Configuration of an existing network function.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to support the configuration of
NSI.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-04** The NSMF shall be able to support the following
capability when terminating an NSI for shared network functions:
\- Configuration of the network functions.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-05** The 3GPP network management system shall be able to
support the following capabilities when configuring the RAN part of a network
slice:
Configuration of the RAN network functions of the network slice, which
includes:
\- Configuration of specific radio link characteristics.
\- Configuration of the virtualised RAN part deployed location.
Configuration of the RAN network functions of the network slice with
information about the related CN part of the NSI.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-06** The NSMF shall be able to configure the NSI to support
UEs moving from another administrative domain.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-07** The NSSMF shall be able to configure the RAN NF with
appropriate RRM policy for NSIs.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-08** The NSSMF shall be able to configure the CN NFs with
slice specific information.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-09** The 3GPP management system shall be able to provide link
requirements related to the network slice (e.g. topology, QOS parameters) to
the appropriate management system that handles the TN part related to the
slice (e.g. via NFV MANO).
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-10** The 3GPP management system shall be able to obtain
information about the capabilities of the transport network parts from the
appropriate management system that handles the TN part related to the slice.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-11** The 3GPP management system shall be able to determine
the parameter values corresponding to the transport network parts required for
the slice related communications.
**REQ-NSM_CM-CON-12** An operator\'s management system shall be able to handle
agreed upon requests for configurations of an NSSI from another operator\'s
management system.
NOTE: The agreement between operators is considered out of scope of 3GPP.
### 6.2.6 Network slice policy management
**REQ-NSM_SPM-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall include policy
management functionality capable of configuring slice-specific or non-slice-
specific policies related to operation and management of NSIs.
### 6.2.7 Network slice automated reconfiguration
**REQ-NSM_AR-CON-01** The CSMF shall be able to update the network slice
requirements based on the change of the service requirements received from
Customer.
**REQ-NSM_AR-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to support automated
reconfiguration of an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AR-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to allow the operator to provide
a policy for automated reconfiguration of NSI.
### 6.2.8 Network slice automated optimization
**REQ-NSM_AO-CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to trigger automated optimization
actions for an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AO-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to evaluate automated
optimization results for an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AO-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to prevent the conflicts of
automated optimization actions for an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AO-CON-04** The NSMF shall be able to resolve the conflicts of
automated optimization actions for an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AO-CON-05** The NSMF shall be able to allow the operator to provide
a policy for NSI automated optimization.
### 6.2.9 Network slice automated healing
**REQ-NSM_AH-CON-01** The NSMF shall be able to trigger automated healing
actions for an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AH-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to evaluate automated
optimization results for an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AH-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to report the automated
optimization results for an NSI.
**REQ-NSM_AH-CON-04** The NSMF shall be able to allow the operator to provide
a policy for automated healing of NSI.
### 6.2.10 Network slice management action coordination
**REQ-NSM_CA-CON-01** The NSMF should be able to prevent, when possible, the
conflict between automated NSI management actions, and the conflict between
automated and non-automated NSI management actions.
**REQ-NSM_CA-CON-02** The NSMF shall be able to resolve the conflict between
automated NSI management actions, and the conflict between automated and non-
automated NSI management actions.
**REQ-NSM_CA-CON-03** The NSMF shall be able to allow pre-configuration of
policy for coordination of NSI management actions.
## 6.3 Network slice subnet management requirements
### 6.3.1 General requirements
**REQ-NSSM-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall support management of
NSSIs.
**REQ-NSSM-CON-02** The NSSMF should have the capability to notify the NSMF
about any change of the capability to support the network slice subnet related
requirement.
**REQ-NSSM-CON-03** _The NSSMF should have the capability to determine the
particular NSSI constituents, based on the requirements related to the NSSI._
### 6.3.2 Network slice subnet lifecycle management
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to act to a change capacity
request from the NSMF
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-02** The NSSMF shall be able to support changing capacity
of an existing NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-03** The NSSMF shall be able to add constituent parts to an
NSSI
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-04** The NSSMF shall be able to remove constituent parts
from an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-05** The NSSMF shall be able to create an NSSI when
receiving a creation request from the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-06** The NSSMF shall be able to terminate an NSSI when
receiving a termination request from the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-08** The NSSMF shall be able to create an NSSI and its
constituent parts which may be shared with other NSSI(s).
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-09** The NSSMF shall be able to inform the NSMF that an
NSSI has been terminated.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-10** The NSSMF shall support the configuration of the
constituent parts of an NSSI. which may be shared with other NSSI(s).
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-11** The operator shall be able to terminate an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-12** The NSSMF should be able to support termination of an
unused dedicated constituent part of the NSSI when terminating an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-13** The NSSMF shall be able to receive a modification
request from the NSMF and act according to the request.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-14** The NSSMF shall be able to modify an NSSI and its
constituents.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-15** The NSSMF shall be able to support adding a new
constituent to an NSSI that is being modified.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-16** The NSSMF shall be able to support removing a
constituent from an NSSI that is being modified.
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-17** An operator shall be able to create an NSSI based on
the request of another operator.
### 6.3.3 Network slice subnet fault management
**REQ-NSSM_FM-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to send alarm data of the NSSI
to the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_FM-CON-02** The NSSMF shall be able to receive alarm data of the
constituents and associate it with corresponding NSSI(s).
### 6.3.4 Network slice subnet performance monitoring
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to monitor the performance of
an NSSI upon reception of such request from the NSMF.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-02** The NSSMF shall support performance monitoring of the
NSSI and its constituents.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-03** The NSSMF shall support creation and management of
measurement jobs of the constituents of an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-04** The NSSMF shall support a method to indicate the NSSI
being measured when creating and managing measurement jobs for the NFs.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-05** The NSSMF shall support reception and handling of the
performance measurement data from the constituents of an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_PM-CON-06** The NSSMF shall support the setting of thresholds for
performance parameters related to an NSSI on the constituents of the NSSI.
### 6.3.5 Network slice subnet configuration management
**REQ-NSSM_LCM-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to create an NSSI and its
constituent parts which may be shared with other NSSI(s).
### 6.3.6 Network slice subnet automated optimization
**REQ-NSSM_AO-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to receive policies for
automated optimization of NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_AO-CON-02** The NSSMF shall be able to trigger automated
optimization actions for an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_AO-CON-03** The NSSMF shall be able to evaluate automated
optimization results for an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_AO-CON-04** The NSSMF shall be able to resolve the conflicts of
automated optimization actions for an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_AO-CON-05** The NSSMF shall be able to prevent the conflicts of
automated optimization actions for an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_AO-CON-06** The NSSMF shall be able to report the results of
automated optimization actions for an NSSI.
### 6.3.7 Network slice subnet automated healing
**REQ-NSSM_AH-CON-01** The NSSMF shall be able to trigger automated healing
actions for an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_AH-CON-02** The NSSMF shall be able to evaluate automated healing
results for an NSSI.
**REQ-NSSM_AH-CON-03** The NSSMF shall be able to report the automated healing
results for an NSSI.
### 6.3.8 Network slice subnet management action coordination
**REQ-NSSM_CA-CON-01** The NSSMF should be able to prevent, when possible, the
conflict between automated NSSI management actions, and the conflict between
automated and non-automated NSSI management actions.
**REQ-NSSM_CA-CON-02** The NSSMF shall be able to resolve the conflict between
automated NSSI management actions, and the conflict between automated and non-
automated NSSI management actions.
**REQ-NSSM_CA-CON-03** The NSSMF shall be able to allow pre-configuration of
policy for coordination of NSSI management actions.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Network slicing management functions
### 7.1.1 Introduction
{width="2.0625in" height="3.4375in"}
Figure 7.1.1.1: Network slicing management functions
The CSMF receives the Communication Service (see note) related requirements
from the Communication Service Customer, and manages the Communication
Services (see note) provided by the Network Operator.
NOTE: The Communication Service can be the 3GPP service running on the NSI.
The CSMF converts the Communication Service related requirements to the
network slice related requirements (such as network type, network capacity,
QoS requirements, etc.). The CSMF delegates management of the network slice by
providing the network slice requirements to the NSMF
The NSMF manages the NSIs based on the network slice related requirements
received from the CSMF.
The NSMF converts the network slice related requirements to the network slice
subnet related requirements. The NSMF delegates management of the network
slice subnet by providing the network slice subnet related requirements to the
NSSMF.
The NSSMF manages the NSSIs based on the network slice subnet related
requirements received from the NSMF.
### 7.1.2 Example of how roles relate to network slicing management functions
Management functions (Communication Service Management Function, Network Slice
Management Function, Network Slice Subnet Management Function) are used by
various business roles (Communication Service Customer, Communication Service
Provider, Network Operator) to manage entities (Communication Service, Network
Slice, Network Slice Subnet).
These relationships become more complex when the actors in use cases are
considered. Each actor may play one or more business roles. To explain the
relationships between actors, business roles, management functions, and
managed entities, Figure 7.2.1 shows an example of a general solution.
{width="6.6875in" height="4.535416666666666in"}
Figure 7.1.2.1: General example of network slicing management functions
Figure 7.1.2.1 shows a very general example, where each actor plays only one
role. To allow interactions between actors, mutual trust relationships are to
be created, which are normally based on business agreements.
Table 7.1.2.1 describes the management actors for this general example in more
detail.
Table 7.1.2.1: Description of management personas for general example
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Actor | Role | Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Customer | Communication | Consumes a | | | Service Customer | Communication | | | | Service | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Service Provider | Communication | Provides a | | | Service Provider | Communication | | | | Service | | | | | | | | Consumes Network | | | | Slice(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Slice | Network Operator | Provides a Network | | Provider | | Slice | | | | | | | | Consumes Network | | | | Slice Subnet(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Slice Subnet | Network Operator | Provides a Network | | Provider | | Slice Subnet | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In a real use case, it is common for an actor to play multiple roles, thereby
reducing the number of needed mutual trust relationships. For example, a use
case may have an actor \"Tenant\" who simultaneously plays both roles of CSP
and CSC. As another example, an actor \"Network Provider\" could
simultaneously provide the Communication Service, Network Slice, and Network
Slice Subnet.
Table 7.1.2.2 describes some typical management actors which may be found in
use cases.
Table 7.1.2.2: Description of management personas for typical use cases
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Actor | Role | Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Basic customer | Communication | Consumes a | | | Service Customer | Communication | | | | Service but does not | | | | use CSMF | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Advanced customer | Communication | Consumes a | | | Service Customer | Communication | | | | Service and has some | | | | capability (as | | | | limited by the CSP) | | | | to manage the | | | | Communication | | | | Service via the CSMF | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network slice tenant | Communication | Consumes and manages | | | Service Customer and | a Communication | | | Communication | Service | | | Service Provider | | | | | Consumes Network | | | | Slice(s) and manages | | | | the Network Slice(s) | | | | via the NSMF(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Communication | Communication | Provides | | Network Provider | Service Provider and | Communication | | | Network Operator | Service Network | | | | Slice(s) and Network | | | | Slice Subnet(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network-as-a-service | Network Operator | Provides a Network | | Provider | | Slice and Network | | | | Slice Subnet(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 7.2 Multiple operator coordination management
### 7.2.1 Solution options for Network Slice Instance creation across multiple
operators
#### 7.2.1.1 General
The potential options for creating an NSI extending multiple operators are
summarized in the following sub-clauses.
#### 7.2.1.2 Option 1: A communication service across multiple operators\'
Network Slice Instance
In this option the customer contacts multiple operators to create NSIs for
supporting a communication service hosted across multiple operators. Figure
7.2.1.2.1 shows the Customer who, in this option, owns the communication
service management functionality which has an interface to each operator for
the life cycle management of NSI.
The customer\'s communication service management function (CSMF) requests the
creation of an NSI to the multiple operator management systems (OMS). Each OMS
internally requests the creation of the NSI to its NSMF. The NSMF creates the
NSI and returns a success to the OMS which returns the success response to the
customer\'s CSMF together with an agreed upon management exposure to the NSI
provided to the customer\'s CSMF.
This option requires the customer\'s CSMF to manage to multiple instances of
NSI to make them support a single service instance.
NOTE: This option is the combination of multiple NSI or NSSI to host a
communication service and is not per se an extension of a single NSI to
multiple operators.
{width="4.9125in" height="5.1715277777777775in"}
Figure 7..2.1.2.1: Option 1: Customer to operator interface for hosting a
communication service over NSIs across multiple operators
#### 7.2.1.3 Option 2: Multi-operator slice creation by operator management
system to management system interfaces
In this option, the customer requests the communication service to a single
operator\'s management system (OMS), operator A in Figure 7.2.1.3.1. The
operator A\'s service management function can decide to request an NSSI to
another operator\'s management system, operator B.
The steps for creating and requesting an NSI begin with the customer
contacting a single operator\'s management system and that operator\'s
management system requests the other operator\'s management system for the
life cycle management of the NSI (to be) hosted therein.
In this option, the communication service management functionality is hosted
in Operator A and it exposes an agreed upon management interface to the
customer. Operator A is responsible for the management of the NSI.
{width="4.9125in" height="5.1715277777777775in"}
Figure 7.2.1.3.1: Option 2: Operator management system (OMS) to OMS interface
for multi-operator NSI creation
#### 7.2.1.4 Option 3: Multi-operator NSI creation by operator NSMF to NSSMF
interface
This option is similar to Option 2 in sub-clause 7.2.1.3. The operator A
forwards the request to its NSMF. The NSMF of operator A then decides to use
another operator NSSMF to realize the NSSI.
The procedures for creating and requesting an NSI are similar to option 2
except that in this case the interface between the OMS of option 2 is replaced
by the interface from NSMFs to NSSMF for life cycle management of the NSSI
hosted in the other operator domain.
NOTE: This option may require the establishment of mutual trust relationships
between the operator A and B, which is currently considered out of scope of
3GPP.
{width="4.9125in" height="5.223611111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.1.4.1: Option 3: NSMF to NSSMF interface for multi-operator NSI
creation
### 7.2.2 Management support to facilitate UE roaming between Network Slice
Instances in different administrative domains
The solution assumes the Operators have a roaming agreement, and roaming is
supported through network slicing:
1\. The Operator B notifies the Operator A about the slice selection related
information for the NSI.
2\. If needed, the NSMF of Operator A maps the slice selection related
information of Operator B to the slice selection related information of
Operator A based on roaming agreement.
3\. The NSMF of Operator A provides the slice selection related information to
the related network functions of NSI to support the roaming users from the NSI
of Operator B.
## 7.3 Customer service support with network slice
### 7.3.1 Making a service request with commonly agreed service types and
attributes for service provision automation
This clause addresses the use case, where a mobile network operator provides
the types of services to the customers with their own end user/device
population distributed in a geographical area and how the customer should
specify the services it needs with the related requirements. The operator uses
the service management functionality in the 3GPP management system for this
purpose.
The customer can identify the available types of business services and the
attribute values that need to be specified in order to uniquely identify the
customer service request. The service requirements may be finalized in several
steps of negotiation which may involve iterative changes of these attribute
values.
The network management system should have the capability to assess the types
of services it can offer knowing the network infra-structure capabilities and
make it available to the service management functionality.
An operator may decide to slice the network using different criteria, such as
application types (e.g. MTC, v2V, URLLC), QoS types, mobility, security etc.
An operator may have multiple categorizational criteria or have a hybrid
categorization. The global service categorization should allow for any such
categorization and a standard service request format may be designed so that
there is a mutual understanding for customer-operator negotiation or for the
negotiations between different administrative domains.
The network management system also needs to see the feasibility of
facilitating those service types considering the issues such as resource
availability and capacity limits, and identify all the attributes related to
each service classification and prepare the attributes according to the global
categorization format.
There can be several levels of service type categorizations each higher level
service category having multiple sub-categories in order to cover numerous
possible customer service types that can be provided by a network operator.
The main classifications may be based on the following two aspects (1) Based
on the business service type; (2) based on high level service characteristics.
These are further described below.
**1) First level of categorization based on type of business service:**
The following 3 types of telecommunication services are examples of services
that may be offered by an MNO.
**a) End to end (E2E) connectivity as a service:** providing E2E
telecommunication service (e.g. user to a server) with multiple end
users/devices (single user is a subset of this case).
**b) Network as a service (NaaS):** providing a \'connected\' network that can
be used by another MNO or service provider.
**c) Asset as a service - also termed infra-structure as a service (IaaS):**
providing resources that can be used for connectivity.
This first level service category may need to be identified in any type of
negotiation, i.e. customer to operator or negotiation between different
administrative domains.
**2) Second level of categorization based on high level service
characteristics facilitated by the slices:**
In this level the key service characteristics that impacts the composition of
the network slice are used for categorization. Several examples of such key
characteristics are service function chain, security, mobility, QoS, traffic
types, and geographical locations. Different operators may choose different
characteristics when forming different slice or service types to offer to the
customers.
An operator, for example, may map all its services into one of the three
network slice types such as eMBB, URLLC, mMTC, when serving a customer.
On the other hand, another operator may categorize the services according to
the QoS ranges and prepare slices to map a combination of different ranges of
QoS and different service function chains. For example, the MEC (mobile edge
computing) applications requiring low delay may be classified as a one service
category and best effort traffic may be categorized as another.
**3) Further classification and specific attributes corresponding to each
classification**
Certain service types with much more variation in service requirements may be
further classified into sub-categories to allow for an operator to offer more
granularity to its customers. For example, eMBB type may be further classified
into QoS ranges or QoS based categorization may be further classified into
user to server and user to user service (service function chain based).
Finally, there needs to have a set of attributes to specify different options
and other service requirements, which can be different for different service
types discussed above. Some of these options include:
\- end user authentication method,
\- physical or logical isolation requirements,
\- congestion control mechanisms,
\- resource specification,
\- charging method,
\- dynamic policy change possibilities,
\- network exposure possibilities,
\- traffic monitoring and controlling possibilities for customer,
\- penalising methods for not meeting the SLA, etc.
Other service requirements may include performance requirements such as
capacity, delay, number of users, geographical coverage, traffic profiles etc.
The Table 7.3.1.1 illustrates the multiple levels of service categorization
described above.
Table 7.3.1.1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Level 1 | Level 2 | Optional | Attributes, | | | categorization | additional | and their | | Categorization | based on | levels (3, 4, | ranges | | based on | service | 5), e.g. | | | Business | ch | exposure | e.g.: | | Service Type | aracterization | levels | Capacity, | | | | | throughput, | | (A, B, C) | (A: A1, A2, | | delay, number | | | A3) | | of users, | | | | | geographical | | | (B: B1, B2) | | id | | | | | entifications, | | | (C1, C2, C3, | | authentication | | | C4) | | level etc. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.4 Network Slice (Subnet) Instance(s) fault management
### 7.4.1 Network Slice Instance performance alarms monitoring
Figure 7.4.1.1: NSI performance alarms monitoring
Figure 7.4.1.1 shows a high-level solution of NSI performance alarms
monitoring. More details are depicted as follows:
1) The NSMF determines to monitor the performance alarms for PM parameters of
an NSI.
2) The NSMF determines to create threshold monitoring jobs for monitoring PM
parameters on non-shared NFs, and shared NFs of the NSI. In case of non-shared
NFs, threshold monitoring job information contains PM parameters and threshold
values.
3) The NSMF receives performance alarm notifications specific to an NSI.
## 7.5 Network slicing related performance measurement data aggregation
### 7.5.1 General
The different functions at different network levels may have different
requirements for the corresponding performance measurement data information.
For network slicing related performance measurement management, there are two
categories of performance measurement data:
\- Network related performance measurement data.
\- Communication service related performance measurement data.
### 7.5.2 Network related performance measurement data
Network related performance measurement data include three levels of
performance measurement data further:
1) NF performance measurement data:
a. In order to know the performance of a NF, performance measurement data at
NF level needs to be obtained.
b. The NF performance measurement data is also needed by other network
management entities besides the network slicing management.
2) NSSI performance measurement data:
a. In order to understand the performance of an NSSI, some performance
measurement data at NSSI level needs to be obtained.
b. NSSMF generates the NSSI performance measurement data based on the
performance measurement data related to NF(s) associated with the NSSI. NSSMF
may also generate the NSSI performance measurement data by using other way
which is FFS.
3) NSI performance measurement data:
a. In order to understand the performance of a NSI, some performance
measurement data at NSI level need to be obtained.
b. NSMF generates the NSI performance measurement data based on performance
measurement data related to NSSI(s) and/or NFs associated with the NSI.
For the case of NFs shared by multiple NSSIs, whether the shared NFs need to
maintain a tag for the corresponding NSSIs and/or NSIs or whether it is the
job of NSSMF, will be decided in the normative phase.
### 7.5.3 Communication service related performance measurement data
Communication service related performance measurement data:
1) In order to understand the performance of a service, some performance
measurement data at service level need to be obtained.
2) In order to obtain the service related performance measurement data, the
NSMF firstly collects performance measurement data related to NSI associated
with the service and then sends the NSI performance measurement data to CSMF.
3) The CSMF generates the service related performance measurement data based
on the received NSI performance measurement data from NSMF and other
information may owned by CSMF. Some service performance measurement data may
be provided to the CSC.
4) Customer, i.e. the CSCs of the NSI, may have a service level agreement with
the operator (as CSP) of the network slice that states that the operator
provides performance measurement data that pertains to network slice resources
used by the CSCs.
5) In some cases, the operator, who plays the role of CSP, may provide a
shared NSI to some CSCs (for example, the enterprises of an industry segment),
each CSC may have own management function, i.e. Customer Management Function
(CMF) which is out of scope of 3GPP, which will be interested to get the
service level performance measurements based on filter conditions relevant to
that CSC. Therefore, CSCs may obtain the performance measurement data related
to the corresponding service from CSMF.
## 7.6 Network slicing related alarm data aggregation
### 7.6.1 General
The different functions at different network levels may have different
requirements for the corresponding fault information. For network slicing
related fault management, there are two categories of alarm data:
\- Network related alarm data.
\- Communication service related alarm data.
### 7.6.2 Network related alarm data
Network related alarm data include three levels of alarm data:
1) NF alarm data:
a. In order to know the fault information of a NF, alarm data at NF level need
to be obtained.
b. The NF alarm data is also needed by other network management entities
besides the network slicing management.
2) NSSI alarm data:
a. In order to understand the fault information of a NSSI, some alarm data at
NSSI level need to be obtained.
b. In order to obtain NSSI alarm data, the NSSMF firstly collects alarm data
related to NF(s) associated with the NSSI. Then the NSSMF generates NSSI alarm
data based on the received alarm data related to the corresponding NF(s).
3) NSI alarm data:
a. In order to understand the fault information of a NSI, some alarm data at
NSI level need to be obtained.
b. In order to obtain NSI alarm data, the NSMF firstly collects alarm data
related to NSSI(s) associated with the NSI. Then the NSMF generates NSI alarm
data based on the received alarm data related to the corresponding NSSI(s)
and/or the received alarm data related to the corresponding NF(s).
For the case of NFs shared by multiple NSSIs, the alarm handling in network
sharing TS 32.130 [9] may be used in the normative phase.
### 7.6.3 Communication service related alarm data
Communication service related alarm data:
1) In order to understand the fault information of a communication service
which is supported by NSI, some alarm data at service level need to be
obtained.
2) In order to obtain the service related alarm data, the NSMF firstly
collects alarm data related to NSI associated with the service and then sends
the NSI alarm data to CSMF.
3) The CSMF generates the communication service related alarm data based on
the received NSI alarm data from NSMF and other information may be owned by
CSMF. Some service related alarm data may be provided to CSC.
4) Customer, i.e. the CSCs of the NSI, may have a service level agreement with
the operator (as CSP) of the network slice that states that the operator
provides Fault Management (FM) data that pertains to network slice resources
used by the CSCs.
5) In some cases, the operator, who plays the role of CSP, may provide a
shared NSI to some CSCs (for example, the enterprises of an industry segment),
each CSC may have own management function, i.e. Customer Management Function
(CMF) which is out of scope of 3GPP, which will be interested to get the
service alarm data based on filter conditions relevant to that CSC. Therefore,
CSCs may subscribe to CSMF as service alarm data receiver to obtain the alarm
data related to the corresponding service from CSMF.
## 7.7 Supervising alarm related to a NSI
1\. The NSMF determines the corresponding NSI and the corresponding NSSI alarm
notifications subscription request based on the association of NSSI(s) and the
NSI.
2\. The NSMF sends NSSI alarm notifications subscription request to the NSSMF
for receiving the alarm notifications related to the faulty NSSI.
3\. After receiving the NSSI alarm notifications subscription request from
NSMF, the NSSMF subscribes to the NF or NSSI alarm notifications for receiving
the alarm notifications related to the corresponding NFs or NSSIs that compose
the NSSI.
4\. In case fault happens on a NSSI, for example, if the NSSI fault is caused
by the faulty NF(s) which composing the NSSI, the NSSMF will receive the
corresponding NF(s) or NSSI(s) alarm notifications, supervise the NSSI, and
generate the appropriate NSSI alarm notifications related to the faulty NSSI.
5\. The NSSMF sends NSSI alarm notifications related to the faulty NSSI to the
NSMF based on the alarm notification subscription. The faulty NSSI may be
shared by multiple NSIs. The NSSMF knows which NSSIs are associated with each
NSI.
6a. If the alarm notifications are related to a dedicated NSSI, the NSMF
supervises the NSI based on the alarm notifications.
6b. If the alarm notifications are related to a NSSI shared by multiple NSIs,
the NSSMF identifies which NSI(s) the alarm notifications are applicable to,
and then the NSMF supervises the identified NSI(s) based on the alarm
notifications.
7\. The NSMF generates the NSI alarm notifications based on the received NSSI
alarm notifications.
## 7.8 Network Slice Instance performance management
1\. The NSMF determines to collect performance data of a NSI.
2\. The NSMF determines to collect performance data related to NSSIs which are
associated with the NSI.
3\. The NSMF requests a NSSMF to create performance measurement jobs in order
to collect the performance data related to the NSSI constituents (i.e. NFs and
NSSIs). The request may include: measurement types such as parameters
indicating QoS of communication services, traffic load and etc., measurement
scheduling information, and etc.
4\. The NSSMF creates performance measurement jobs to collect the performance
data related to the NSSI constituents (i.e. NFs and NSSIs).
\- For a dedicated NSSI, all performance data is identified by the NSI using
the NSSI.
\- For a NSSI shared by NSIs, the NSSMF identifies which NSI(s) the
performance data are applicable to.
5\. The NSSMF collects the performance data related to the NSSI(s) and report
to the NSMF.
6\. The NSMF generates NSI performance data based on performance data related
to NSSIs associated with the NSI.
## 7.9 Network Slice (Subnet) Instance(s) lifecycle management
### 7.9.1 Provision of different types of services by an operator
#### 7.9.1.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for different services provided to a
customer. Three generic service types provided by an operator are listed
below:
A. Providing a communication service
B. Network slice as a service
C. Network slice subnet as a service
The following sub-clauses describe potential solutions for these cases.
#### 7.9.1.2 Providing a communication service using a network slice instance
The potential solution for creating an NSI to support a communication service
is described below. In this case, a network provider as a CSP, provides a
communication service to a CSC.
1\. CSC makes the communication service request. This includes specifying the
service requirements to the CSP which may contain geographical traffic
demands, isolation requirements, application requirements and network KPIs.
2\. The Communication Service Management Function of the CSP translates
service related requirements into network slice related requirements.
3\. The information indicating whether the requested NSI could be shared with
other communication services may be included in the network slice related
requirements.
NOTE: The information indicating whether the requested NSI can be shared with
other communication services may be determined by the Communication Service
Management Function based on the service isolation requirements.
4\. The CSMF sends a request to the NSMF to allocate an NSI with network slice
related requirements.
5\. NSMF may estimate the viability of the request and may reject the request
if the service is estimated to be not viable.
6\. If there is information indicating the requested NSI can be shared with
other communication services and if an existing available NSI can be used, the
NSMF may use the existing NSI. Otherwise, the NSMF may create a new NSI to
satisfy the network slice related requirements.
7\. The NSMF derives the network slice subnet related requirements from the
network slice related requirements. The information indicating whether the
requested NSSI can be shared with other NSIs may be included in the network
slice subnet related requirement to the NSSMF.
8\. If a new NSI needs to be created, the NSMF identifies the NSSIs to be
reused and the NSSIs to be created.
9\. If an existing NSI needs to be reused, the NSMF identifies the NSSIs to be
reused.
10\. The NSMF sends the network slice subnet related requirement to the NSSMF.
11\. If the NSSI is to be created, the NSSMF creates a new NSSI with the
network slice subnet requirements.
12\. If the NSSI is to be reused, the NSSMF may reconfigure or modifies it
with the network slice subnet requirements if needed.
13\. The NSMF associates NSSIs with the corresponding NSI.
#### 7.9.1.3 Providing a network slice as a service
The following steps are required to provide a network slice as a service to a
network slice customer.
1\. CSMF of the Network slice customer checks the service catalogue of the
network provider that describes the type of network slices the network
provider can support.
2\. The CSMF makes a request with specific network slice requirements to the
NSMF of the network provider. These requirements may include the network slice
subnet characteristics, network topology, specific resource requirements, NF
related requirements such as placement, and capabilities, network KPIs such as
network outage, specific link requirements, etc.
NOTE: For security reasons, the connection from CSMF to NSMF may be routed
through a security gateway to enforce the limitations of management data
exposure. This security gateway is not in the scope of the present document.
3\. NSMF may estimate the viability of the request and may reject the request
if the service is estimated to be not viable. If viable, the NSMF creates a
new NSI.
4\. If the management of a NSI is needed to be exposed to the network slice
customer, the NSMF separates certain management functionalities in NSMF
according to the network slice requirements as a set of exposed slice specific
management functions and access is provided to the network slice customer.
#### 7.9.1.4 Providing a network slice subnet as a service
The following steps are required to provide a network slice subnet as a
service to a network slice subnet customer.
1\. NSMF of the network slice subnet customer sends a service request for a
network slice subnet to the network provider with the network slice subnet
requirements.
2\. The NSMF of the network slice subnet customer makes a request with
specific network slice subnet requirements to the NSSMF of the slice subnet
provider. These requirements may include the network slice subnet
characteristics, network topology, specific resource requirements, NF related
requirements such as placement, and capabilities, network KPIs such as network
outage, specific link requirements, etc.
NOTE: It is assumed that there is "interfacing" between NSMF to NSSMF across
customer and provider domains. For security reasons, the connection from NSMF
to NSSMF may be routed through a security gateway to enforce the limitations
of management data exposure. This security gateway is not in the scope of the
present document.
3\. NSSMF may estimate the viability of the request and may reject the request
if the service is estimated to be not viable.
4\. NSSMF creates new NSSIs and associates the NSSIs with the corresponding
NSI.
5\. If the management of a NSSI is needed to be exposed to the network slice
subnet customer, the NSSMF separates certain management functionalities in
NSSMF according to the slice subnet requirements as a set of exposed slice
subnet specific management functions and access is provided to the network
slice subnet customer.
### 7.9.2 Activating a Network Slice Instance
1\. The NSMF identifies the corresponding NSSIs to be activated.
2\. For the NSSIs to be activated, the NSMF sends NSSI activation request to
corresponding NSSMF.
3\. The NSSMF activates the NSSI through activating all necessary constituents
(i.e. NF and NSSI) and notifies the NSMF after the NSSI is activated.
4\. When all the NSSIs are activated, the NSMF changes the state of NSI to
active.
### 7.9.3 Modifying a Network Slice Instance
The potential solution for modifying an NSI is described as follows:
1\. The NSMF receives an NSI modification request or the NSMF decides to
modify an NSI based on a pre-defined policy. For example, the modification of
NSI may include changing the capacity of the NSI, changing the topology of the
NSI, and associating/de-associating network functions with the NSI.
2\. The NSMF determines the set of NSSIs that need to be modified and sends a
request to the respective NSSMF of each of the NSSI in the set with the
network slice subnet related requirements for modification.
3\. The NSSMF determines whether the received request with related requirement
could be performed.
4a. If the request with the requirement can be performed, the NSSMF determines
which of the NSSI constituents needs to be modified. The NSSMF then modifies
the NSSIs in the following way:
\- If the target NSSI constituent is shared with other NSSIs, the NSSMF
determines whether the modification of the NSSI may impact the constituents
shared by the other NSSIs:
a. If there is no negative impact, the NSSMF modifies the target NSSI
constituents and configures them according to the requirements.
b. If there is negative impact, the NSSMF decides not to modify the NSSI
constituents, or the NSSMF creates new NSSI constituents only for this NSSI
being modified to avoid the negative impact. The original NSSI constituents
are reconfigured and will no longer be associated to the NSSI being modified.
The newly created NSSI constituents are configured according to the
requirements.
\- If the target NSSI constituent is not shared with other NSSI, the NSSMF
modifies the target NSSI constituents and configures them according to the
requirements.
4b. If the request with the related requirement cannot be performed, the NSSMF
rejects the request send the feedback to NSMF accordingly.
### 7.9.4 Deactivating a Network Slice Instance
1\. The NSMF identifies the corresponding NSSIs to be deactivated. The NSSIs
shared with other NSIs are not deactivated.
2\. For the NSSIs to be deactivated, the NSMF sends NSSI deactivation request
to corresponding NSSMF.
3\. The NSSMF deactivates the NSSI through deactivating all necessary
constituents (i.e. NF and NSSI) and notifies the NSMF after the NSSI is
deactivated.
4\. When all the NSSIs are inactive, the NSMF changes the state of NSI to
inactive.
### 7.9.5 Terminating a Network Slice Instance
The following is a high-level solution for terminating an NSI.
1\. The NSMF determines to terminate the NSI which is not necessary any
longer.
2\. The NSMF de-activates the NSI. Then the NSI to be terminated is in de-
activated state.
NOTE: The solution for NSI de-activation is studied in other clauses.
3\. The NSMF identifies corresponding NSSIs to be terminated and NSSIs to be
retained.
4\. If the NSSI needs to be terminated, the NSMF sends NSSI termination
request to corresponding NSSMF. Then the NSSMF terminates the NSSI.
5\. The NSMF deletes the NSI information.
### 7.9.6 Management of the NSSI and NF used by multiple NSIs
#### 7.9.6.1 Management of the NSSI
This clause addresses the management issue when the NSSI is used by multiple
NSIs:
1\. Every NSSI is only managed by a single NSSMF. The lifecycle management of
the NSSI is performed by this NSSMF which manages it.
2\. When NSMF determines to perform the management operation (e.g. change
capacity, de-activate, terminate, modify, monitor performance), it sends the
request to the NSSMF, the NSSMF performs the corresponding operation on NSSI.
3\. When NSSMF determines to perform the management operation on NSSI, the
operation results are notified to the NSMF, the NSMF then determines whether
the other NSSMF needs to perform further.
#### 7.9.6.2 Network slice related management of the NF
This clause addresses the management issue when the NF is used by multiple
NSIs:
1\. The network slice related management of the NF is only performed by the
NSSMF which manages it.
2\. When NSMF determines to perform the management operation (e.g. change
capacity, de-activate, terminate, modify, monitor performance), it sends the
request to the NSSMF, the NSSMF performs the corresponding operation on NF.
3\. When NSSMF determines to perform the management operation on NF, the
operation results are notified to the NSMF, the NSMF then determines whether
the other NSSMF needs to perform further.
## 7.10 Configuring a Network Slice Instance
The potential solution for configuring an NSI is described as follows:
1\. The NSMF wants to configure the NSI and identifies the corresponding NSSIs
to be configured.
2\. For the NSSIs to be configured, the NSMF sends NSSI related configuration
requirements to corresponding NSSMF.
3\. The NSSMF configures the NSSI through configuring all necessary
constituents (i.e. NF or constituent NSSI) and notifies the NSMF after the
NSSI is configured.
## 7.11 Association of TN parameters to Network Slice Instance
In the process of creating an NSI, the NSMF is required to ensure the usage of
the TN parts for the network slice to meet the network slice requirements.
In order to achieve isolation between NSIs when using the TN links, it may be
beneficial to allow traffic corresponding to different NSIs to be
differentiated at the TN level. This is achieved by providing NSI specific TN
parameters to each node. These TN parameters may correspond to NSI specific IP
address allocation, or L2 parameters such as VLAN tags.
For this purpose, during the instantiation of a network slice, information
about this NSI specific TN parameters must be made available to the various
RAN and CN nodes. This information includes the corresponding TN parameters to
be used for associated transport links.
## 7.12 Management data exposure and isolation when NSI is shared by multiple
customers
### 7.12.1 Introduction
Operator may use one NSI to serve multiple customers (e.g. other network
operator or enterprise) simultaneously and customers want to get the
management data (e.g. performance data, fault data) related to itself.
There are two scenarios:
1\. Scenario 1: Network slice as NOP internals. In this scenario, the customer
wants to get communication service related management data.
2\. Scenario 2: Network slice as service. In this scenario, the customer wants
to get network slice related management data.
### 7.12.2 Communication service related management data
In the scenario1, the customers want to get the communication service related
management data.
\- Customer subscribes the communication service related management data from
CSMF.
\- CSMF collects and generates the communication service related management
data for each customer. The communication service related management data for
each customer needs to be collected and generated separately.
\- CSMF provides the communication service related management data to
corresponding customer.
Figure 7.12.2.1: Communication Service related management data provided by
CSMF
## 7.13 Limited level of management exposure for NSI
The NSI is created according to customer\'s service request, where the
management exposure may be one of requirements. The potential solution for
management exposure is to enforce management isolation as described below:
1\. The operator (or the operator\'s management system) receives the
management exposure request as a part of the customer\'s request.
2\. The NSMF identifies the type of the management exposure as below:
a) If the NSSI is shared by the other NSIs, the management isolation of the
NSSI is configured to only allow the management data and management operations
relates to the specific NSI to be exposed via the management system.
b) If the NSSI is not shared by the other NSIs, no management isolation
configuration is needed.
3\. Based on the identified type of management exposure, the CSMF derives the
valid management exposure.
4\. The operator (or the operator\'s management system) grants the permission
of the agreed management exposure (e.g. management data and management
operation). An access to the appropriate management function is authorised.
5\. The NSI management request is sent to the appropriate management function
via the authorised access.
6\. The management data and management operation result is feedback to both
the requester and the operator.
## 7.14 NSI related management data exposure to customer
When the NSI is offered as service to customer, the customer needs to access
the management data (performance measurements, alarm information, etc.)
related to NSI by the following way:
1\. Customer requests to collect the management data related to NSI from CSMF.
2\. Per the request from customer, CSMF requests to collect the management
data related to NSI from NSMF.
3\. NSMF collects the management data related to NSI and informs the CSMF
about the availability of the management data.
4\. CSMF gets the management data from NSMF.
5\. CSMF informs the customer about the availability of the management data.
6\. Customer gets the management data from CSMF.
Figure 7.14.1: NSI related management data exposure to customer
NOTE: The provisioning of management data to the customer is not addressed in
the present document.
## 7.15 Controlling of automated healing of Network Slice Instance
Figure 7.15.1: Controlling of automated healing of an NSI
Figure 7.15.1 shows a high-level potential solution for automated healing of
NSI. Policies for automated healing need to be configured before the process
of the automated healing triggered. The NSMF receives the automated healing
policies for the NSI.
Case 1: Automated healing at NSSI level
1\. NSMF derives the automated healing policies for NSSI and forwards them to
NSSMF.
2\. When failure or severe performance degradation detected on the
constituents of NSSI, the NSSMF receives the alarm notifications for NSSI
constituents, generates and sends alarm notifications for the NSSI to the
NSMF.
3\. The NSSMF, bases on the information step 1 and policies received,
determine if actions are required such as trigger the automated healing for
NSSI, evaluate the results of automated healing, and report the results of
NSSI automated healing to NSMF.
Case 2: Automated healing at NSI level
1\. The NSMF triggers the automated healing for the NSI based on the automated
healing policies for the NSI. For example, the NSMF may request the NSSMF to
add a new NSSI to take over the fault-affected NSSI or request the NSSMF to
modify the existing NSSI to compensate the fault part. If there are conflicts
among different automated healing actions, the NSSMF solves conflicts
according to automated healing policies.
2\. The NSSMF performs according to the request from the NSMF and reports the
results of the healing actions to the NSMF
3\. The NSMF evaluates the results of automated healing actions for the NSI.
4\. The NSMF reports the results of automated healing for the NSI.
## 7.16 Controlling of automated optimization of Network Slice Instance
Figure 7.16.1: Controlling of NSI automated optimization
The Figure 7.16.1 shows a high-level solution for controlling of NSI automated
optimization. More details are depicted as follows in which step 1 and step 2
are pre-requisites of the whole control loop through step 3-6:
Case 1: Automated optimization at NSI level
1\. The NSMF receives automated optimization policies for a NSI. Automated
optimization policies include trigger condition, slice-specific parameters
being optimized and their valid range, policies for solving automated
optimization conflicts.
2\. The NSMF collects performance data related to the NSSIs that are
associated with the NSI. Based on the performance data related to the NSSIs,
the NSI performance indicators are generated and monitored.
3\. If the trigger condition of NSI automated optimization is satisfied, the
NSMF triggers NSI automated optimization action.
4\. The NSMF requests NSSMF to modify the existing NSSIs and/or add new NSSIs
for the NSI automated optimization
5\. The NSSMF performs optimization actions as requested from NSMF. The
optimization actions may result in reconfiguration of the network functions in
the NSSIs. The results of optimization actions and the performance data are
reported to the NSMF.
6\. The NSMF evaluates NSI automated optimization results. Optionally, the NSI
automated optimization results are reported to the operator.
Case 2: Automated optimization at NSSI level
1\. NSMF derives the automated optimization policies for NSSI and forwards
them to NSSMF.
2\. The NSSMF performs NSSI optimization automatically according to NSSI
automated optimization policies received from the NSMF and report the
optimization result to NSMF. If there are conflicts among different automated
optimization actions, the NSSMF solves conflicts according to automated
optimization policies.
## 7.17 State management
### 7.17.1 States for a Network Slice Instance
A Network Slice Instance (NSI) will support the following states:
\- Inactive -- An identifier exists for the NSI. The NSI is associated with
the relevant NSSIs. The NSI is ready to be activated.
\- Active -- An identifier exists for the NSI. The NSI is associated with the
relevant NSSIs. The associated NSSIs are active.
The NSMF maps NSI requirements to NSI state transitions. It is the
responsibility of the NSMF to decide when it is appropriate and safe to
perform an NSI state transition.
An NSI will support the following transitions:
\- Create -- A new NSI identifier is allocated. An initial configuration of
the NSI is created. According to this configuration, existing NSSIs may be
associated with the NSI, or new NSSIs may be created and associated with the
NSI.
\- Activate -- The associated NSSIs are activated.
\- Deactivate -- The associated NSSIs are deactivated if they are not shared
with another active NSI.
\- Terminate -- Associations to NSSIs are released. The NSI identifier is
deallocated.
The NSI states and transitions are illustrated in Figure 7.17.1.1.
{width="2.65625in" height="2.7395833333333335in"}
Figure 7.17.1.1: Network Slice Instance state diagram
### 7.17.2 States for a Network Slice Subnet Instance
A Network Slice Subnet Instance (NSSI) will support the following states:
\- Inactive -- An identifier exists for the NSSI. The NSSI is associated with
the relevant constituents (NSSIs and/or NFs). The NSSI is ready to be
activated.
\- Active -- An identifier exists for the NSSI. The NSSI is associated with
the relevant constituents (NSSIs and/or NFs). The constituents of the NSSI are
active.
The NSSMF maps NSSI requirements to NSSI state transitions. It is the
responsibility of the NSSMF to decide when it is appropriate and safe to
perform an NSSI state transition.
An NSSI will support the following transitions:
\- Create -- A new NSSI identifier is allocated. An initial configuration of
the NSSI is created. According to this configuration, existing constituents
may be associated with the NSSI, or new constituents may be created and
associated with the NSSI.
\- Activate -- The associated constituents are activated.
\- Deactivate -- The associated constituents are deactivated if they are not
shared with another active NSSI.
\- Terminate -- Associations to constituents are released. The NSSI identifier
is deallocated.
The NSSI states and transitions are illustrated in Figure 7.17.2.1.
{width="2.65625in" height="2.7395833333333335in"}
Figure 7.17.2.1: Network Slice Subnet Instance state diagram
### 7.17.3 States for a Network Function Instance
The states of a Network Function Instance are not defined in the present
document.
# 8 Conclusions
The study has identified few management concepts, 42 use cases, 112
requirements and 17 solutions for management and orchestration of network
slices.
The study has identified three management functions involved in management and
orchestration of network slicing. The management functions are; the CSMF, the
NSMF, and the NSSMF.
The study has identified that for the management and orchestration of the CN
part and RAN part management concepts are needed such as an abstract
representation of the network slice and network slice instance. An abstract
representation allows the management functions to interact with each other and
provide management and orchestration functions to support network slicing.
The naming of an abstract representation of an NSI is not addressed (Network
Slice Instance used in the present document).
The naming of an abstract representation of an NSSI is not addressed (Network
Slice Subnet Instance used in the present document).
The relationship between the management functions and the management
architecture [11] is not addressed in the present document.
The relationship between the abstract representations (NSSI, NSI and NF) of a
managed network slice has not been decided.
The present document has identified use cases for the normative work.
# 9 Recommendations
It is recommended to do normative work for the management and orchestration of
network slicing for the 5G network.
It is recommended that the normative work includes specification of management
and orchestration of the CN and RAN as specified in [7], [10] and [8].
It is recommended to provide the naming of the management representation for
the managed network slice and managed network slice subnet in the normative
phase.
It is recommended that for the TN part supporting connectivity within and
between CN and RAN parts, the management system will provide link requirements
(e.g. topology, QOS parameters) to the TN management system.
It is recommended to specify the managed object models for the network slice
and the network slice subnet.
It is recommended to specify interfaces for the CSMF; the NSMF and NSSMF.
###### ### Annex A: Analysis of potential management related aspects for
network slice based on the related content in other 3GPP specifications and
SDOs
# A.1 Introduction
This clause summarizes the potential management related aspects based on the
related content discussed in other 3GPP specifications and SDOs.
# A.2 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the
requirements in TR 22.864 [3]
The following table describes the potential management related aspects based
on the requirements in TR 22.864 [3].
Table A.1: Analysis the potential management related aspects\ based on the
related requirements in TR 22.864[3]
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Related Requirements | Potential management | | | in TR 22.864 Clause | related aspect | | | 5.1.2.1 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-001] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to compose | | | | and manage network | | | | slices. A network | | | | slice consists of a | | | | set of network | | | | functions (e.g. | | | | potentially from | | | | different vendors), | | | | the resources to run | | | | these network | | | | functions as well as | | | | policies and | | | | configurations. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-002] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to | | | | dynamically create a | | | | network slice to | | | | form a complete, | | | | autonomous and fully | | | | operational network | | | | customised for | | | | different market | | | | scenario. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-003] | The 3GPP system | FFS | | | shall be able to | | | | associate specific | | | | services, devices, | | | | UEs, and subscribers | | | | with a particular | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-004] | The 3GPP system | FFS | | | shall enable a UE to | | | | simultaneously | | | | access services from | | | | one or more network | | | | slices of one | | | | operator e.g. based | | | | on subscription or | | | | terminal type. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-005] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall support | related.** | | | mechanisms to enable | | | | the operator to | | | | operate and manage | | | | network slices that | | | | fulfil required | | | | criteria for | | | | different market | | | | scenarios. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-006] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to | | | | simultaneously | | | | operate network | | | | slices in a manner | | | | that prevents a | | | | service in one slice | | | | from negatively | | | | impacting services | | | | offered by other | | | | slices. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-007] | The 3GPP system | Out of 3GPP | | | shall have the | management scope. | | | capability to | | | | conform to | | | | service-specific | | | | security assurance | | | | requirements in a | | | | single network | | | | slice, rather than | | | | the whole network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-008] | The 3GPP system | Out of 3GPP | | | shall have the | management scope. | | | capability to | | | | provide a level of | | | | isolation between | | | | network slices which | | | | confines a potential | | | | cyber-attack to a | | | | single network | | | | slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-009] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall allow the | related.** | | | operator to | | | | authorize 3^rd^ | | | | parties to create | | | | and manage a network | | | | slice via suitable | | | | APIs, within the | | | | limits set by the | | | | network operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-010] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall support the | related.** | | | elasticity of a | | | | network slice in | | | | terms of capacity | | | | with minimal impact | | | | on the services of | | | | this slice or other | | | | slices. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-011] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall be able to | related.** | | | support | | | | modifications to | | | | network slices (e.g. | | | | adding, deleting, | | | | modifying network | | | | slices) with minimal | | | | impact to active | | | | subscriber services. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-012] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall be able to | related.** | | | support E2E (e.g. | | | | RAN, CN) resource | | | | management in a | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-013] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall enable | related.** | | | operators to use the | | | | network slicing | | | | concept to | | | | efficiently support | | | | multiple 3^rd^ | | | | parties (e.g. | | | | enterprises) that | | | | require similar | | | | network | | | | characteristics. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-014] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall enable | related.** | | | operators to define | | | | and identify network | | | | slices with common | | | | functionality to be | | | | available for home | | | | and roaming users. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-015] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall enable | | | | operators to specify | | | | the network | | | | functionalities that | | | | a network slice is | | | | required to provide. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-016] | The 3GPP system | **3GPP management | | | shall support the | related.** | | | inclusion of 3GPP | | | | defined functions as | | | | well as proprietary | | | | 3^rd^ party or | | | | operator provided | | | | functions in a | | | | network slice, | | | | including | | | | | | | | - Hosting multiple | | | | 3^rd^ parties | | | | (e.g. | | | | enterprises) or | | | | MVNOs. | | | | | | | | - Serving home and | | | | roaming user | | | | | | | | - Supporting | | | | diverse market | | | | scenarios. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-017] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall support a | | | | mechanism for the | | | | VPLMN to assign a UE | | | | to a network slice | | | | with the required | | | | functionality or to | | | | a default network | | | | slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-018] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall be able to | | | | change the network | | | | slices to which UEs | | | | are connected. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-019] | A network slice | **3GPP management | | | shall support a set | related.** | | | of end-user services | | | | as defined by the | | | | network operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-020] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall enable the | | | | operator to assign a | | | | UE to a network | | | | slice based on | | | | services provided by | | | | the network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [PR 5.1.2.1-021] | The 3GPP system | FFS. | | | shall support a | | | | mechanism for an | | | | operator to | | | | authorize a UE to | | | | receive service on a | | | | specific slice in | | | | response to a | | | | request from a 3^rd^ | | | | party. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: This note is | | | | applicable to row | | | | starting with first | | | | cell "[PR | | | | 5.1.2.1-016]". The | | | | specific functional | | | | areas for which the | | | | system should | | | | support proprietary | | | | or operator provided | | | | functions should be | | | | identified | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# A.3 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the related
content in TR 23.799 [2]
The following table describes the potential management related aspects based
on the related content in TR 23.799 [2].
**Table A.2: Analysis of potential management related aspects\ based on the
related content in TR 23.799 [2]**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Related content in | Potential management | | | TR 23.799 Clause 5.1 | related aspect | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.1 | How to achieve | **3GPP management | | | isolation/separation | related.** | | | between network | | | | slice instances and | | | | which levels and | | | | types of | | | | isolation/separation | | | | will be required; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.2 | How and what type of | **3GPP management | | | resource and network | related.** | | | function sharing can | | | | be used between | | | | network slice | | | | instances; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.3 | How to enable a UE | Is not addressed in | | | to simultaneously | the present | | | obtain services from | document. | | | one or more specific | | | | network slice | | | | instances of one | | | | operator; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.4 | What is within 3GPP | **3GPP management | | | scope with regards | related.** | | | to Network Slicing | | | | (e.g. network slice | | | | c | | | | reation/composition, | | | | modification, | | | | deletion); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.5 | Which network | **3GPP management | | | functions may be | related.** | | | included in a | | | | specific network | | | | slice instance, and | | | | which network | | | | functions are | | | | independent of | | | | network slices; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.6 | The procedure(s) for | Out of 3GPP | | | selection of a | management scope. | | | particular Network | | | | Slice for a UE; | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.7 | How to support | Is not addressed in | | | Network Slicing | the present | | | Roaming scenarios; | document. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Study Solution.8 | How to enable | Is not addressed in | | | operators to use the | the present | | | network slicing | document. | | | concept to | | | | efficiently support | | | | multiple 3rd parties | | | | (e.g. enterprises, | | | | service providers, | | | | content providers, | | | | etc.) that require | | | | similar network | | | | characteristics. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#1 | **Network Slice | Is not addressed in | | | Instance Selection | the present | | | and Association** | document. | | | | | | | 1) Initial network | | | | slice instance | | | | selection to support | | | | UE\'s service | | | | establishment and | | | | re-selection to | | | | support UE mobility | | | | and other scenarios | | | | that are TBD, | | | | | | | | 2) Network slice | | | | instance | | | | identification, | | | | | | | | 3) Authorization | | | | for UE association | | | | with network slice | | | | instance\ | | | | Network provided and | | | | UE provided | | | | assistance | | | | information support | | | | for network slice | | | | instance selection. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#2 | > **Network Slicing |** 3GPP management | | | > Isolation**| related.** | | | | | | | 1) Security | | | | isolation. | | | | | | | | 2) Resource | | | | isolation | | | | | | | | 3) OAM support | | | | isolation (e.g. | | | | Usage and Fault | | | | isolation etc.) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#3 | **Network Slicing |** 3GPP management | | | Architecture**| related.** | | | | | | | 1) Identifying | | | | impacted network | | | | functions and | | | | interfaces to | | | | support one or more | | | | network slice | | | | instances on top of | | | | a shared RAN and a | | | | shared | | | | infrastructure. | | | | | | | | 2) Identifying the | | | | common functions (if | | | | any) that need to be | | | | available in the | | | | core network and/or | | | | RAN to enable | | | | network slicing\ | | | | Identifying the | | | | approach to enable | | | | UE to associate with | | | | multiple slices | | | | simultaneously. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#4 | **Network Slicing | Is not addressed in | | | Roaming support** | the present | | | | document. | | | 1) Determination | | | | what visiting and | | | | home Network | | | | Function(s) are | | | | required to support | | | | roaming. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NS_WT_#5 | **Network Slicing |** 3GPP management | | | terminology & | related.**| | | definitions** | | | | | | | | 1) If Network Slice | | | | Instance is agreed | | | | to apply E2E system, | | | | then, we should | | | | consider new | | | | terminology for | | | | Access slice | | | | instance and Core | | | | slice instances. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: This note is | | | | applicable to row | | | | starting with first | | | | cell "NS_WT_#1". | | | | More scenarios | | | | beyond the mobility | | | | need to be | | | | identified that may | | | | trigger network | | | | slice instance | | | | re-selection. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This note is | | | | applicable to row | | | | starting with first | | | | cell "NS_WT_#2". | | | | Whether all items | | | | listed here are | | | | within the scope of | | | | the 3GPP | | | | architecture is Is | | | | not addressed in the | | | | present document. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# A.4 Analysis of potential management related aspects based on the related
content in NGMN
The following tables describes the potential management related aspects based
on the related content in NGMN NWMO [4] and NGMN \"Description of Network
Slicing Concept\" [5].
**Table A.3: Analysis the potential management related aspects\ based on the
related content in NGMN NWMO [4]**
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Related content in NGMN NWMO in | Potential management related | | Clause 9.1.1 [4] | aspect | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 9.1.1 Slice Creation User Story | 3GPP management related. | | | | | 9.1.1.1 As a 5G Operator, I want | | | to | | | | | | To design a 5G Management & | | | Orchestration Architecture to be | | | able to manage and control my | | | multi-domain network | | | infrastructure, which can be, | | | for example, 5G vs Non-5G, NFV | | | vs Non-NFV composed of 5G RATs, | | | 4G RAT, maybe 2G / 3G RAT, Fixed | | | Access, Non-3GPP RATs, Backhaul, | | | EPC Core, 5G Core | | | | | | 9.1.1.2 So that I can | | | | | | Create, deliver, manage & | | | orchestrate Slices to fulfil | | | various kinds of customers\' | | | needs (end users and Enterprises | | | e.g. MVNO) and guarantee | | | Autonomic service assurance, | | | Autonomic dynamic service | | | delivery and provide Proactive | | | CEM dashboard | | | | | | 9.1.1.3 To do this I need | | | | | | 1. Pre-conditions | | | | | | • Deploy a multi-domain network | | | infrastructure, | | | | | | • Expose via Network APIs the | | | capabilities of this | | | multi-domain network | | | infrastructure | | | | | | • Deploy management and | | | orchestration system which | | | includes: | | | | | | - Editors for various items and | | | definitions, including | | | High-Level Network | | | Objectives/Goals, Policy | | | Generators that generate | | | Policies from High-Level Network | | | Objectives/Goals and Policy | | | Validators against conflicts | | | (Goals conflict resolution, | | | Policy conflict resolution, | | | Resolution), | | | | | | - ETSI MANO components (NFVO, | | | VNF Manager, VIM), | | | | | | - SDN Controllers, | | | | | | - Legacy OSS (NMS / EMS), | | | | | | - E2E Service orchestration | | | | | | 2. To create slice | | | | | | E2E Service orchestration | | | interprets and translates | | | service definition / Service | | | Design into configuration of | | | resources (physical and | | | virtualized) needed for service | | | establishment. The configuration | | | of resources may be for actual | | | amount of resources or the | | | policy of their allocation at | | | later time, when the service is | | | activated. | | | | | | The E2E Service orchestration | | | further triggers the components | | | of the management and | | | orchestration system (ETSI NFVO, | | | VNF Manager, VIM, SDN | | | Controller, legacy OSS to apply | | | the configuration of the | | | required resources which for | | | some resources may result in | | | their actual allocation. | | | | | | NOTE: In case when the needed | | | resources were not allocated at | | | the previous step, they will be | | | actually allocated at the time | | | of service activation, according | | | to the configuration / policies. | | | | | | - Make available a Self-Service | | | Portal and Self-Ordering APIs to | | | my customers (Residential and | | | Enterprises) to allow them for | | | self-ordering their slices with | | | SLAs and update them dynamically | | | when needed. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Table A.4: Analysis of potential management related aspects\ based on the
related content in NGMN \"Description of Network Slicing Concept\" [5]**
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Related content in NGMN | Potential management related | | \"Description of Network Slicing | aspect | | Concept\"[5] | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | As depicted in Figure B.1-1, the | 3GPP management related | | network slicing concept consists | | | of 3 layers: 1) Service Instance | | | Layer, 2) Network Slice Instance | | | Layer, and 3) Resource layer. | | | | | | The Service Instance Layer | | | represents the services | | | (end-user service or business | | | services) which are to be | | | supported. Each service is | | | represented by a Service | | | Instance. Typically services can | | | be provided by the network | | | operator or by 3rd parties. In | | | line with this, a Service | | | Instance can either represent an | | | operator service or a 3rd party | | | provided service. | | | | | | A network operator uses a | | | Network Slice Blueprint to | | | create a Network Slice Instance. | | | A Network Slice Instance | | | provides the network | | | characteristics which are | | | required by a Service Instance. | | | A Network Slice Instance may | | | also be shared across multiple | | | Service Instances provided by | | | the network operator. | | | | | | NOTE: Whether there is a need to | | | support sharing of Network Slice | | | Instances across Service | | | Instances provided by different | | | 3rd parties is up for discussion | | | in SDOs. | | | | | | The Network Slice Instance may | | | be composed by none, one or more | | | Sub-network Instances, which may | | | be shared by another Network | | | Slice Instance. Similarly, the | | | Sub-network Blueprint is used to | | | create a Sub-network Instance to | | | form a set of Network Functions, | | | which run on the | | | physical/logical resources. | | | | | | Figure A.1: Network slicing | | | conceptual outline | | | | | | **Service Instance:** An | | | instance of an end-user service | | | or a business service that is | | | realized within or by a Network | | | Slice. | | | | | | **Network Slice Instance:** a | | | set of network functions, and | | | resources to run these network | | | functions, forming a complete | | | instantiated logical network to | | | meet certain network | | | characteristics required by the | | | Service Instance(s): | | | | | | - A network slice instance may | | | be fully or partly, logically | | | and/or physically, isolated from | | | another network slice instance. | | | | | | - The resources comprises of | | | physical and logical resources. | | | | | | - A Network Slice Instance may | | | be composed of Sub-network | | | Instances, which as a special | | | case may be shared by multiple | | | network slice instances. The | | | Network Slice Instance is | | | defined by a Network Slice | | | Blueprint. | | | | | | - Instance-specific policies | | | and configurations are required | | | when creating a Network Slice | | | Instance. | | | | | | - Network characteristics | | | examples are ultra-low-latency, | | | ultra-reliability etc. | | | | | | **Network Slice Blueprint:** A | | | complete description of the | | | structure, configuration and the | | | plans/work flows for how to | | | instantiate and control the | | | Network Slice Instance during | | | its life cycle. A Network Slice | | | Blueprint enables the | | | instantiation of a Network | | | Slice, which provides certain | | | network characteristics (e.g. | | | ultra-low latency, | | | ultra-reliability, value-added | | | services for enterprises, etc.). | | | A Network Slice Blueprint refers | | | to required physical and logical | | | resources and/or to Sub-network | | | Blueprint(s). | | | | | | **Sub-network Instance:** A | | | Sub-network Instance comprises | | | of a set of Network Functions | | | and the resources for these | | | Network Functions: | | | | | | - The Sub-network Instance is | | | defined by a Sub-network | | | Blueprint. | | | | | | - A Sub-network Instance is not | | | required to form a complete | | | logical network. | | | | | | - A Sub-network Instance may be | | | shared by two or more Network | | | Slices. | | | | | | - The resources comprises of | | | physical and logical resources. | | | | | | **Sub-network Blueprint:** A | | | description of the structure | | | (and contained components) and | | | configuration of the Sub-network | | | Instances and the plans/work | | | flows for how to instantiate it. | | | A Sub-network Blueprint refers | | | to Physical and logical | | | resources and may refer to other | | | Sub-network Blueprints. | | | | | | **Physical resource:** A | | | physical asset for computation, | | | storage or transport including | | | radio access: | | | | | | - Network Functions are not | | | regarded as Resources. | | | | | | **Logical Resource:** Partition | | | of a physical resource, or | | | grouping of multiple physical | | | resources dedicated to a Network | | | Function or shared between a set | | | of Network Functions. | | | | | | **Network Function (NF):** | | | Network Function refers to | | | processing functions in a | | | network: | | | | | | - This includes but is not | | | limited to telecom nodes | | | functionality, as well as | | | switching functions e.g. | | | Ethernet switching function, IP | | | routing functions. | | | | | | - VNF is a virtualized version | | | of a NF (refer to ETSI NFV for | | | further details on VNF). | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#