# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the management aspects of next generation network
architecture and features.
**The study includes:**
\- the use cases for management aspects of the next generation network in
terms of network architecture and high level features;
\- the potential impact of the next generation network architecture and high
level features to the functional blocks of 3GPP management system;
\- the location and role of management functionality to support next
generation network architecture;
\- the potential management related requirements for the next generation
network in terms of network architecture and high level features;
\- the possible solutions to support the management requirements brought from
the end to end next generation network architecture;
\- the possible solutions of management aspects to support the key features of
the next generation network.
The study also makes conclusions on the preferred solution(s), and provides
recommendations based on the conclusions of the study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TR 38.801: \"Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Access
Architecture and Interfaces\".
[4] 3GPP TR 38.804: \"Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Interface
Protocol Aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.300: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN);
General description; Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TR 26.909: \"Study on improved streaming Quality of Experience (QoE)
reporting in 3GPP services and networks\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.708: \"Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TR 32.864: \"Telecommunication management; Study on management
aspects of virtualized network functions that are part of the New Radio
(NR)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace concepts and requirements\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace data definition and management\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.441: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.442: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.446: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[18] 3GPP TR 28.801: \"Study on management and orchestration of network
slicing for next generation network\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**5G Core Network:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**5G QoS Indicator (5QI):** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**AMF Region:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**AMF Set:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**Network Function:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**New RAN:** Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801 [3].
**New Radio:** Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801 [3].
**ng-eNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].
**NG-RAN:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**Non-standalone NR** : Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801 [3].
**Non-standalone E-UTRA** : Defined in 3GPP TR 38.801 [3].
**gNB** : Defined in 3GPP TS 38.300 [8].
**Master eNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 36.300 [5].
**Secondary eNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 36.300 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
5QI 5G QoS Indicator
AF Application Function
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
ANR Automatic Neighbour Relation
AUFS Authentication Server Function
DC Dual Connectivity
EPC Evolved Packet Core
KQI Key Quality Indicator
MeNB Master eNB
MOI Managed Object Instance
NEF Network Exposure Function
NR New Radio
NRF NF Repository Function
OTT Over The Top
PCF Policy Control function
PM Performance Management
QoE Quality of Experience
SDSF Structured Data Storage Function
SeNB Secondary eNB
SMF Session Management Function
UDM Unified Data Management
UDSF Unstructured Data Storage Function
UPF User Plane Function
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 General
The potential issues to be studied for management aspects of 5G network
architecture and features are listed in the following subclauses.
## 4.2 QoE measurement collection
One main motivation of mobile network evolution is to improve the user
experience, so the user experience evaluation at UE side is vital to network
operators, especially when the operators provide some real-time services which
require high date rate and low latency, for example, operators regard
streaming services (typically video services) as the key booster of the
commercial outstanding performance growth rate, customers\' experience should
be focused on.
There may have following two mechanisms for operators to know the user
experience at UE side:
1) UE sends QoE info to the application servers via user plane path, for
example, the application software installed in smartphone can realize this
way. This way does not require extra functionality from network, but it costs
extra expense of end user, and also lead to that network operators are
shielded from these QoE information.
2) Network collects QoE measurement via control plane path. This way enables
operators can control who, when, where and how often to collect QoE
measurements, for the needs may vary from place to place.
Video streaming information for QoE evaluation is specified in 3GPP TR 26.909
[7], the QoE Measurement Collection for streaming service in UTRAN is
specified in 3GPP TS 25.300 [6], and the QoE Measurement Collection for
streaming service in E-UTRAN is specified in 3GPP TS 36.300 [5].
## 4.3 NR and NG-RAN architecture
### 4.3.1 NR deployment option 3/3A/3X
In 5G initial deployment phase, a likely scenario is to deploy NR according to
NR deployment option 3/3A/3X (i.e. LTE-NR Dual Connectivity via EPC scenario):
LTE eNB and non-standalone gNB are assumed to have the role similar to MeNB
and SeNB respectively. Since LTE eNB as MeNB is already connected to EPC,
leveraging EPC can further drive cost effective and early launch of the NR
service for eMBB.
### 4.3.2 NG-RAN architecture
According to NG-RAN architecture definition in TS 38.300 [8], An NG-RAN node
is either a gNB (providing NR RAT towards the UE) or an ng-eNB (providing
E-UTRA RAT towards the UE). The Xn and NG interfaces are used for NG-RAN nodes
interconnection and connections towards the 5GC respectively. The NG-RAN
overall architecture is illustrated in Figure 4.3.2-1 [8] below.
Figure 4.3.2-1: NG-RAN overall architecture
### 4.3.3 NG-RAN deployment options
When the 5GC is introduced, depending on possible existing early 5G network
and 5G deployment strategy, operator can establish NG-RAN with one or more
deploying options, including:
\- Option 2: Standalone gNB is connected to the 5GC.
\- Option 4/4A: the gNB is connected to the 5GC with non-standalone ng-eNB.
The non-standalone ng-eNB\'s user plane connection to the 5GC goes via the gNB
(Option 4) or directly (Option 4A).
\- Option 5: the standalone ng-eNB is connected to the 5GC.
\- Option 7/7A, the ng-eNB is connected to the 5GC with non-standalone gNB.
The non-standalone gNB\'s user plane connection to the 5GC goes via the ng-eNB
(Option 7) or directly (Option 7A).
NG-RAN option 2, 4, 5 and 7 are specified in 3GPP TR 38.801 [3].
An ng-eNB can be connected to either 5GC only or both EPC and 5GC
simultaneously.
### 4.3.4 Functional Split of the gNB
According to NG-RAN architecture specified in TS 38.401 [9], gNB may consist
of a gNB-CU and gNB-DUs, this leads to two gNB deployment scenarios, as
described in the following:
1) Deployment scenario of gNB without functional split.
The gNB is deployed without functional split, this deployment scenario is
similar to the current eNB deployment.
2) Deployment scenario of gNB with functional split.
The gNB\'s functions are distributed over different locations, namely DU
(Distributed Unit) and CU (Central Unit). The study on splitting the RAN
architecture into CU (Centralized Unit) and DU (Distributed Unit) has been
specified in TR 38.801 [3]. As mentioned in the conclusion on functional split
between CU and DU of the TR, two approaches are identified:
\- Higher Layer Split:
The architecture and the F1 interface between a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU are
defined in TS 38.401 [9].
\- Lower Layer Split.
The architecture of NG-RAN composed of gNB with CU-DU split is illustrated in
figure 4.3.4-1 [9] below.
Figure 4.3.4-1: Architecture of NG-RAN composed of gNB with CU-DU split
According to TS 38.401 [9], the relationships among gNB, gNB-CU and gNB-DU are
specified as following:
a) One gNB with CU-DU split consists of one gNB-CU and one or multiple gNB-
DUs.
b) A gNB-CU and a gNB-DU is connected via F1 logical interface.
c) One gNB-DU is connected to only one gNB-CU.
d) One gNB-CU can belong to only one gNB, one gNB-DU can belong to only one
gNB.
e) gNBs can be interconnected through the Xn interface.
f) gNB is connected to the 5GC through the NG interfaces.
g) For a gNB with CU-DU split, the NG and Xn-C interfaces are terminated in
the gNB-CU.
h) The gNB-CU and connected gNB-DUs are only visible to other gNBs and the 5GC
as a gNB.
## 4.4 5GC architecture
In the 5G system architecture specified in TS 23.501[2], besides CP and UP
separation, 5GC control plane is modularized into multiple NFs to enable
flexible deployment and efficient network slicing. Meanwhile, the service
based architecture is introduced in 5G control plane to further enable the
flexibility, so the interaction between network functions of 5GC is described
in following two representations:
\- Reference point representation
\- Service-based interface representation
Also, the identified data storage functions (i.e. UDSF and SDSF) are presented
in data storage architecture diagram.
5GC architecture is documented in TS 23.501 [2].
## 4.5 SON evolution for 5G
How to apply SON concept for 5G network management.
LTE SON has been primarily focused on several use cases affecting the RAN.
There are increasing network dimension and complexity in 5G networks,
especially considering the multiple services/devices/tenants in 5G networks.
SON supporting for 5G should be considered.
## 4.6 Management support for functionality supporting for edge computing
Edge computing enables operator and 3rd party services to be hosted close to
the UE\'s access point of attachment, so as to achieve an efficient service
delivery through the reduced end-to-end latency and load on the transport
network.
The 5G core network may expose network information and capabilities to an Edge
Computing Application Function. The functionality supporting for edge
computing includes, see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]:
\- Local Routing: the 5G Core Network selects UPF to route the user traffic to
the local Data Network.
\- Traffic Steering: the 5G Core Network selects the traffic to be routed to
the application servers in the local Data Network.
\- Session and service continuity to enable UE and application mobility.
\- User plane selection and reselection, e.g. based on input from Application
Function.
\- An Application Function may influence UPF (re)selection and traffic routing
as described in clause 5.6.7 [2].
\- Network capability exposure: 5G Core Network and Application Function to
provide information to each other via NEF as described in clause 7.4 or
directly as described in clause 7.3 [2].
\- QoS and Charging: PCF provides rules for QoS Control and Charging for the
traffic routed to the local Data Network.
From 3GPP network management point of view, some of the above functionality
may need the management supporting to align with the architecture of 5G.
3GPP management system may utilize edge computing-related information (such as
target topology, traffic usage, topological locations of application servers)
for the configuration and reconfiguration of NFs.
NOTE: Details about the edge computing-related information and which entity
provides the edge computing-related information are not addressed in the
present document.
# 5 Business level use cases
## 5.1 QoE information collection
### 5.1.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services
#### 5.1.1.1 Goal
The operator gets QoE information for end user services (including own managed
services and OTT services) that are using the operator\'s mobile network based
on a 3 - 8 % sampling of UEs using a specific end user service.
#### 5.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
The application providing end user services (including managed and OTT
services) is able to provide QoE information about its end user service
performance that is relevant to a 3GPP mobile system.
#### 5.1.1.3 Steps
To receive QoE information for an end user service, the operator requests
collection of end user service performance information through the management
system to the mobile network.
The request is propagated through the mobile network to the UE, which in its
turn request the application providing the end user service to provide
requested information.
The end user service application provides performance information to the UE,
which transfers it to a predefined end user performance information collector
in the management system via the mobile network.
The end user performance information collector will process the information to
calculate end user service KQIs which are presented to the operator.
### 5.1.2 Customer complaint or VIP customer service guarantee on a video
streaming service
#### 5.1.2.1 Goal
The operator wants to check the quality of the video streaming service for a
specific user that has reported a problem to the Customer Care.
Operator needs to monitor service quality of VIP UEs to make sure their
network is guaranteed, especially when they use a specific service.
#### 5.1.2.2 Pre-conditions
The UE application providing end user services (including managed and OTT
services) is able to provide QoE information about its end user service
performance that is relevant to a 3GPP mobile system.
#### 5.1.2.3 Steps
The operator requests collection of end user service performance information
for a specific user through the management system to the mobile network node
in the core network that can identify the user and what service is used.
When a session for the video streaming is for the specified user is found, the
request is propagated through the mobile network to the UE, which in its turn
request the application providing the end user service within the UE to
provide requested information.
The end user service application provides performance information to the UE,
which transfers it to a predefined end user performance information collector
in the management system via the mobile network.
The end user performance information collector will process the information to
calculate end user service KQIs which are presented to the operator.
### 5.1.3 Testing of a video streaming service before launching the service
broadly
#### 5.1.3.1 Goal
The operator wants to check the quality of a new video steaming service on an
own test mobile and/or with a number of friendly users before the service is
offered broadly to all subscribers.
#### 5.1.3.2 Pre-conditions
The new video steaming service is able to provide QoE information about its
end user service performance that is relevant to a 3GPP mobile system.
#### 5.1.3.3 Steps
The operator requests collection of end user service performance information
for one or several specific UE(s) through the management system to the mobile
network node that can identify different users and what services they use.
When a session for the video streaming of a specified user is found, the
request is propagated through the mobile network to the UE, which in its turn
request the application providing the end user service within the UE to
provide requested information.
The end user service application provides performance information to the UE,
which transfers it to a predefined end user performance information collector
in the management system via the mobile network.
The end user performance information collector will process the information to
calculate end user service KQIs which are presented to the operator.
## 5.2 Management of NR deployment option 3/3A/3X
### 5.2.1 Goal
Based on existing LTE/EPC management system, the operator can manage the Non-
standalone gNB involved in NR deployment option 3/3A/3X appropriately.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy the Non-
standalone gNB in deployment option 3.
The LTE eNB and EPC are available, and managed by existing management system
appropriately.
### 5.2.3 Steps
1\. The Non-standalone gNB is initially configured with basic setup
information (e.g. local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) to establish
OAM connection, then it will be configured with planned configuration data
(e.g. anchored MeNB configuration data, etc.).
2\. After the Non-standalone gNB taking into operation, operator can be
informed about any fault detected by the gNB via alarms or event reports.
3\. The operator monitors the status of the Non-standalone gNB and collect
performance measurement data from the Non-standalone gNB, which can be used
for NR related KPI assessment.
4\. If necessary, operator re-configures the Non-standalone gNB for purpose of
radio network optimisation or adjustment.
Note: Management procedures related to virtualized RAN are studied in TR
32.864 [11], and not specified in the present document.
## 5.3 Management of NG-RAN
### 5.3.1 Management of NR
#### 5.3.1.1 Goal
The operator establishes NG-RAN with gNB according to option 2, and manages
the involved standalone gNB appropriately.
#### 5.3.1.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy standalone
gNB.
The 5GC is available, and managed by management system appropriately.
#### 5.3.1.3 Steps
1\. The standalone gNB is initially configured with basic setup information
(e.g. local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) to establish OAM
connection, then it will be configured with planned configuration data (e.g.
radio configuration data, 5GC connectivity data etc.).
2\. After the gNB taking into operation, operator can be informed about any
fault detected by the gNB via alarms or event reports.
3\. The operator monitors the status of the gNB and collect performance
measurement data from the gNB, which can be used for NR related KPI
assessment.
4\. If necessary, operator re-configures the gNB for purpose of radio network
optimisation or adjustment.
Note: Management procedures related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864 [11], and not specified in the present document.
### 5.3.2 Management of gNB with functional split
#### 5.3.2.1 Goal
The operator deploys and manage gNB with functional split appropriately.
#### 5.3.2.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has installed or instantiated each split function of NB with
functional split, for example, the operator has instantiated one gNB-CU
instance and installed multiple gNB-DUs.
#### 5.3.2.3 Steps
1\. The operator request the management system to initially setup a gNB with
specified gNB-CU and gNB-DU(s) through interconnection establishment.
2\. The management system configured the new-established gNB with planned
configuration data (e.g. radio configuration data, 5GC connectivity data
etc.).
3\. Operator can be informed about fault detected by any splitting function of
gNB via alarms or event reports from associated splitting function.
4\. The operator monitors the status of each splitting function of gNB and
collect performance measurement data from each splitting function of gNB,
which can be used for gNB level KPI assessment.
5\. If necessary, operator can re-configure the gNB with modification of
association relation between split functions, for example, adding or removing
gNB DU from the gNB-CU, for purpose of radio network optimisation or
adjustment.
Note: Management procedures related to virtualized RAN are studied in TR
32.864 [11], and not specified in the present document.
### 5.3.3 Management of ng-eNB connected to 5GC only (option 4, 5 and 7)
#### 5.3.3.1 Goal
The operator establishes NG-RAN with ng-eNB according to option 4, 5 and 7,
and manages the involved ng-eNB and gNB (if applied) appropriately. Operator
can collect and manage E-UTRA and NR related performance respectively if NR is
deployed.
#### 5.3.3.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy ng-eNB.
The 5GC is available, and managed by management system appropriately.
#### 5.3.3.3 Steps
1\. The ng-eNB is initially configured with basic setup information (e.g.
local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) to establish OAM connection,
then it will be configured planned configuration data (e.g. radio
configuration data, DC configuration data if applied, and 5GC connectivity
data etc.).
2\. After the ng-eNB taking into operation, operator can be informed about any
fault detected by the ng-gNB via alarms or event reports.
3\. The operator monitors the status of the ng-eNB and collect performance
measurement data from the ng-eNB, which can be used for E-UTRA related KPI
assessment.
4\. If requested, operator re-configures the ng-eNB for purpose of radio
network optimisation or adjustment.
### 5.3.4 Management of ng-eNB connected to 5GC and EPC simultaneously
#### 5.3.4.1 Goal
Based on existing E-UTRAN and EPC network, the operator establishes NG-RAN
with ng-eNB connected to 5GC and EPC simultaneously, and manages the involved
ng-eNB and gNB (if applied) appropriately. Operator can collect and manage
E-UTRA/EPC and E-UTRA/5GC related performance respectively.
#### 5.3.4.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy ng-eNB.
The 5GC and EPC are available, and managed by management system appropriately.
#### 5.3.4.3 Steps
1\. The ng-eNB is initially configured with basic setup information (e.g.
local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) to establish OAM connection,
then it will be configured with planned configuration data, including core
network (both 5GC and EPC) connectivity data. As a result, the ng-eNB is
connected to 5GC and EPC simultaneously.
2\. After the ng-eNB taking into operation, operator can be informed about any
fault detected by the ng-gNB via alarms or event reports.
3\. The operator monitors the status of the ng-eNB and collect performance
measurement data from the ng-eNB, which can be used for E-UTRA/5GC and
E-UTRA/EPC related KPI assessment respectively.
4\. If requested, operator re-configures the ng-eNB for purpose of radio
network optimisation or core network connectivity adjustment
## 5.4 Management of 5GC
### 5.4.1 Management of 5GC NFs
#### 5.4.1.1 Goal
The operator establishes 5GC with multiple NFs/NEs according to 5G reference
architecture, and operator manages the 5GC and involved NFs/NEs appropriately.
#### 5.4.1.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy 5GC with
complete or partial set of 5GC NFs/NEs.
#### 5.4.1.3 Steps
1\. The 5GC NF/NE is initially configured with basic setup information (e.g.
local OAM IP address and EM information and etc.) to establish OAM connection,
and then self-configuration related instance (e.g. EM) will execute autonomous
configuration operation on the 5GC NF/NE with planned configuration data
(including application configuration data).
2\. After the 5GC NF/NE takes into operation, operator can be informed about
any fault detected by the NF/NE via alarms or event reports.
3\. The operator monitors the status of the 5GC NF/NE and collect performance
measurement data from the NE, which can be used for 5GC related KPI
assessment.
4\. If necessary, operator re-configures the NF/NE for purpose of 5GC
optimisation or adjustment.
Note: Management procedures related to network slicing is studied in TR
28.801[18], and are not specified in the present document.
### 5.4.2 Management of UDSF/SDSF
#### 5.4.2.1 Goal
The management operations on UDSF(s)/SDSF(s) and associated 5GC NFs (NF that
stores and retrieves its data into/from the UDSF/SDSF) are executed in
coordination manner.
#### 5.4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has deployed UDSF(s)/SDSF(s) and 5GC NFs that store and retrieve
their corresponding data into/from the UDSF(s)/SDSF(s). In case of UDSF(s),
the UDSF(s) supports data storage/retrieval from different groups of 5GC NFs
(e.g. group for different type of NFs from same vendor, or group for same type
of NFs from different vendors), the unstructured data stored in UDSF(s) for
different groups of NFs may require to be distinguish.
#### 5.4.2.3 Steps
1\. According to planned relationship between UDSF(s)/SDSF(s) and associated
5GC NFs, the management system establishes the relation between
UDSF(s)/SDSF(s) with associated NFs.
2\. The management system monitors UDSF/SDSF performance, in case of UDSF(s),
the management system may also monitor storage related performance for
different groups of NFs. When total utilization rate or utilization rate for
certain group of NFs approaches or exceeds the pre-defined threshold, besides
generating related alarms, the management system may trigger some mitigation
operations (e.g. UDSF capacity expansion) automatically.
3\. Before adding a new associated 5GC NF or expanding the capacity of an
associated 5GC NF automatically, the management system needs to check the
availability of required capacity of corresponding UDSF/SDSF. If needed, the
management system trigger capacity expansion operation on the UDSF/SDSF.
4\. After removing an associated 5GC NF or reducing the capacity of an
associated 5G NF automatically, the management system need to check it is
necessary to trigger capacity reduction operation on related UDSF/SDSF.
### 5.4.3 Management support for NRF
#### 5.4.3.1 Goal
The operator wants to keep up to date the discovery information (e.g. NF id,
IP address) of the 5GC NF instances in the NRF instance which is used for NF
instance and service discovery [2].
Note: the detailed discovery information of NF and service depends on the
output of TS 23.501 [2].
#### 5.4.3.2 Pre-conditions
The NRF instance which stores the discovery information for the available 5GC
NF has been deployed.
#### 5.4.3.3 Steps
1\. When a new 5GC NF instance is deployed, the 3GPP management system or the
new 5GC NF instance needs to make the NRF instance aware of the discovery
information (e.g. NF id, IP address) of the new 5GC NF instance.
2\. When the discovery information of a 5GC NF instance is changed, the 3GPP
management system or the 5GC NF instance needs to update the 5GC NF discovery
information maintained by NRF instance.
3\. When a 5GC NF instance is removed, the 3GPP management system needs to
make the NRF instance aware that the 5GC NF is removed.
### 5.4.4 Management for AMF Set
#### 5.4.4.1 Goal
The operator can manage AMF Set with basic management operations
appropriately.
#### 5.4.4.2 Pre-conditions
Operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy a group of
AMFs which compose a AMF Set.
#### 5.4.4.3 Steps
1\. The AMF instances in one AMF set are initially configured with appropriate
AMF Set information (e.g. AMF identifier including AMF Region ID, AMF Set ID
and AMF Pointer, weight factors and etc.) via management system according to
planned AMF configuration data.
2\. After the AMF instances take into operation, the operator monitors the
status of each AMF instance of AMF Set and collect performance measurement
data from each AMF, which can be used for AMF Set related KPI assessment.
3\. Operator can be informed about performance alarms related to AMF Set, e.g.
alarm caused by the threshold crossing.
4\. If necessary, operator re-configures the AMF Set for purpose of AMF Set
optimisation or adjustment.
## 5.5 SON
### 5.5.1 Self-configuration for NG-RAN
#### 5.5.1.1 Goal
The new-installed NG-RAN node (i.e. gNB or ng-eNB) to be configured in
automated manner with no or minimal manual intervention, to go to the
operational state.
#### 5.5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The NG-RAN node (i.e. gNB or ng-eNB) has been physically installed.
The self-configuration function for NG-RAN node is activated.
#### 5.5.1.3 Steps
1\. The NG-RAN node (i.e. gNB or ng-eNB) is configured with initial OAM setup
information (e.g. local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) in automated
manner, and the OAM connection is established automatically after initially
installed.
2\. After the OAM connection is established, the self-configuration function
of the management system executes self-configuration operations on the NG-RAN
node with appropriate configuration data (e.g. radio configuration data,
connectivity data, etc.).
3\. After the configuration is done and the configured external interfaces
have been established, the NG-RAN node is operational.
Note: Management procedures related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864 [11], and not specified in the present document.
### 5.5.2 Automatic Neighbour Relation management for NG-RAN
#### 5.5.2.1 Goal
Update (e.g. add or remove) the neighbour cell relation information in the
deployed NG-RAN nodes (i.e. gNB and/or ng-eNB) in automated manner.
#### 5.5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The NG-RAN nodes (i.e. gNB and/or ng-eNB) are in the operational status.
Automatic neighbour relation function was deployed in the management system
for NG-RAN.
#### 5.5.2.3 Steps
1\. In case of a newly created NG-RAN node or cell is taking into service, the
automatic neighbour function assists this new NG-RAN node to build its
neighbouring cell relation information in automated manner, the automatic
neighbour relation function also assists the neighbouring NG-RAN nodes to
include new cells data in their neighbour cell relation information
automatically.
2\. In case when network conditions or topology change, the automatic
neighbour relation function assists the NG-RAN nodes in update of the
neighbouring cell relation information in automated manner. For example, when
an existing NG-RAN node or cell is taken out of service, the automatic
neighbour relation function assists the neighbouring NG-RAN nodes to remove
the related cells data from their neighbour cell relation information
automatically.
### 5.5.3 Automated configuration for 5GC NF
#### 5.5.3.1 Goal
The newly instantiated 5GC NFs (e.g. AMF, SMF or UPF) to be configured in
automated manner with no or minimal manual intervention, and go to the
operational state.
#### 5.5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The 5GC NF has been instantiated.
The automated -configuration function for 5GC NF is activated.
#### 5.5.3.3 Steps
1\. The newly instantiated 5GC NF is configured with initial OAM setup
information (e.g. local OAM IP address and EM information etc.) in automated
manner, and the OAM connection is established automatically after initially
installed.
2\. After the OAM connection is established, the automated configuration
function of management system executes configuration operations on the 5GC NF
with appropriate configuration data.
3\. After the configuration is done and the configured external interfaces
have been established automatically, the 5GC NF is operational.
### 5.5.4 Automated optimization for 5GC NF
#### 5.5.4.1 Goal
The deployed 5GC NFs (e.g. AMF, SMF or UPF) should be optimized (e.g.
reconfiguration or scaling) in automated manner to adapt the change of network
situation or service requirements.
#### 5.5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The 5GC NFs have taken into operation status.
The automated optimization function for 5GC has been deployed.
#### 5.5.4.3 Steps
1\. The 3GPP management system monitors the 5GC NFs\' performance (e.g.
utilization rate of NF, or QoS/QoE KPIs).
2\. When automated optimization triggering event (e.g. the pre-defined KPI
threshold is exceeded) is detected, the management system performs automated
optimization actions on impacted 5GC NFs, for example:
\- When the virtualized 5GC NF\'s utilization rate exceeds the pre-defined
threshold, the management system would trigger auto-scaling operation on it,
aiming to pertain the utilization rate in normal range.
\- When detecting the utilization rates among a group of same type 5GC NFs are
in a significant imbalance status, the management system would perform
reconfiguration actions on relevant NFs to pertain load balance among them.
\- When detecting service success rate dropped due to overload from some
signalling interfaces, the management system would reconfigure the relevant
NFs to remove or mitigate the impact issue.
3\. When multiple automated optimization triggering events are detected which
may lead to conflict automated optimisation actions, coordination is needed to
select the appropriated optimization actions.
4\. After performing automated optimization actions, the management system
would evaluate the optimisation result via monitoring the performance, and may
perform further actions (e.g. rollback or new optimization action) if needed.
### 5.5.5 Automated healing for 5GC NF
#### 5.5.5.1 Goal
The deployed 5GC NFs (e.g. AMF, SMF or UPF) to be healed in automated manner
when encountering failure or outage.
#### 5.5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The automated healing function for 5GC has been deployed.
The 5GC NFs have been taken into operational status.
#### 5.5.5.3 Steps
1\. The 3GPP management system collects the 5GC NFs\' alarm information, as
well as monitors their performance.
2\. When a failure or outage is detected, the management system would perform
automated healing actions on impacted 5GC NF(s) to recover or mitigate the
failure, for example, locating and isolating the physical or logical resource
which is identified as root cause of failure, activating backup NF to replace
faulted NF, etc.
3\. When multiple automated healing triggering events are detected which may
lead to conflict automated healing actions, coordination is needed to select
the appropriated healing actions.
4\. After performing automated healing actions, the management system would
evaluate the healing result via collecting alarm and monitoring performance,
and may perform further actions if needed.
### 5.5.6 Automated management for AMF Set
#### 5.5.6.1 Goal
The management system can support automated management operations (i.e.
automated configuration, automated optimization and automated healing) for AMF
Set.
#### 5.5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Operator plans to deploy AMF Set with automatic management manners.
The AMF Set may consist different vendor\'s AMF nodes.
#### 5.5.6.3 Steps
1\. Based on AMF Set planning plan, the management system instantiates a AMF
Set with planned integration data configured. The consistent of configuration
data on AMF instances need to be maintained in the AMF Set.
2\. Before AMF Set activation, the management system configures AMF selection
related settings in NG-RAN and/or 5GC NFs (e.g. NRF or neighbouring AMFs) if
necessary.
3\. After AMF Set running, performance of each AMF node will be collected. If
unbalance of AMF node load exceeds preconfigured threshold, the management
system executes mitigation operations (e.g. AMF selection weight adjustment,
offloading) to reach load balancing again.
4\. When the management system executes some modification operation related to
AMF Set, for example, to increase/shrink AMF Set\'s capacity, to add/remove an
AMF node from the AMF Set, the service provided by the AMF Set shall not be
interrupted.
5\. When one AMF node is found fault, the management system executes some
recovery operations (e.g. failure detection, root cause analysis and recovery
action) to restore it. Before the fault node recovered, the signalling traffic
will be routed to available AMF nodes in the AMF Set, After the fault node is
recovered, the management system may help to take traffic under load balance
control again, so the service provided by the AMF Set shall not be impacted.
6\. When major service outage happened (e.g. overload of AMF Set, or UDSF
failure) insides AMF Set, the management system executes recovery or
mitigation operations (e.g. signalling reduction, node restart, redundancy
activation) to rescue the AMF Set from the outage situation.
## 5.6 Management support for edge computing
### 5.6.1 Introduction
Edge computing, as one of the key emerging technologies for 5G networks, helps
satisfying the demanding 5G requirements of high data throughput, low latency,
high scalability and automation.
The edge computing represents a major new business potential to the Mobile
Network Operators. It opens up the opportunities where the MNOs can introduce
new and innovative services in the most flexible and efficient way, allowing
their fast trialing and deployment. In the 5G era the computing at the edge
may even be the only feasible approach for delivering the promise of ultra-low
latency, deployment flexibility and unparalleled user experience.
The following figure summarizes the benefits of the edge computing.
Figure 5.6.1-1: Stakeholders and benefits of the edge computing
From management point of view, management support for edge computing includes
the following aspects:
a) Management of 5GC NFs supporting edge computing:
In 5G network, some 5GC NFs provide the functionality supporting for edge
computing, see clause 5.13 of TS 23.501 [2]. As an example, the 5GC network
functions SMF, PCF and UPF provide the local routing functionality to let the
5G Core Network select UPF to route the user traffic to the local Data
Network, see TS 23.501 [2]. Another example is, to provide traffic steering,
the network functions SMF, PCF and UPF select the traffic to be routed to the
application servers in the local Data Network, see TS 23.501 [2].
The management of these 5GC NFs would ensure the successful providing of edge
computing.
b) Management support for edge computing services:
The 5G network function services are specified in clause 7 of TS 23.501 [2].
Edge computing enables operator and 3rd party services to be hosted close to
the UE\'s access point of attachment, so as to achieve an efficient service
delivery through the reduced end-to-end latency and load on the transport
network. To support the abundant edge computing services which are provided by
edge computing AFs and 5GC NFs supporting edge computing, efficient management
support for edge computing services needs to be provided together with the
management of other 5G NF services.
NOTE 1: The related management work in other SDOs (ETSI ISG MEC, ETSI ISG NFV)
should be considered in the normative phase to avoid any duplicated work.
NOTE 2: Whether the management of edge computing AFs is needed in 3GPP SA5 is
not determined in the present document.
### 5.6.2 Management of 5GC NFs supporting edge computing
#### 5.6.2.1 Goal
The operator establishes 5G network with multiple 5GC NFs supporting edge
computing according to 5G reference architecture, and the operator manages the
5G network supporting edge computing appropriately.
#### 5.6.2.2 Pre-conditions
The operator has prepared infrastructure environment used to deploy the 5G
network with multiple 5GC NFs supporting edge computing according to 5G
reference architecture.
#### 5.6.2.3 Steps
The 5GC NFs supporting edge computing are initially configured with basic
configuration policy data, which may be derived using edge computing related
information.
After the 5GC NFs supporting edge computing have been put into operation, the
operator can be informed about any faults detected by the 5GC NFs via alarms
or event reports.
The operator monitors the status of the 5GC NFs supporting edge computing and
collects the performance measurement data from the NFs, which can be used for
5G network edge computing related KPI assessment.
If necessary, the operator re-configures the 5GC NFs for purpose of
optimisation or adjustment for edge computing. For example, the operator may
re-configure new policy (such as a new DNS rule) to some 5GC NFs, or re-
configure some 5GC NFs to be deployed at new topological locations.
## 5.7 Subscriber and equipment trace management
### 5.7.1 Subscriber trace management
#### 5.7.1.1 Goal
The operator gets trace information for the specified subscriber that is using
the operator\'s mobile network.
#### 5.7.1.2 Pre-conditions
The management system is requested to collect trace information for a
particular subscriber with specified subscriber identifier.
#### 5.7.1.3 Steps
1\. The management system receive a request to collect trace information for a
subscriber with specified subscriber identifier.
2\. The management system activates a trace via sending a trace request
towards the 5G system, which request the relevant 5G NF to collect trace
information on the subscriber.
3\. When a trace event on the traced subscriber is detected, the 5G NF
generates trace report and sends it to the management system.
4\. When the trace is not needed, the management system deactivates the trace
via sending a trace deactivation request towards the 5G system.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Requirements on end user service performance collection
**REQ-ESPC-CON-1:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
request to collect end user service performance information that is relevant
to a 3GPP mobile system per end user service/end user service type via the
mobile network and the UE. The request may include an address of an end user
service information collector to which the collected information shall be
delivered.
**REQ-ESPC-CON-2:** The application providing the end user service performance
information that is relevant to a 3GPP mobile system should have the
capability to provide end user service performance information to an end user
service information collector via the UE and the mobile network.
**REQ-ESPC-CON-3:** The end user service information collector shall have the
capability to process the end user service performance information collected
to provide the operator with KQI information for the end user service/end user
service type.
**REQ-ESPC-CON-4:** It should be possible to restrict the information
collection to a subset of the population of the UEs using an end user
service/end user service type.
**REQ-ESPC-CON-5:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
request to collect end user service performance information for one or several
specific end user(s)/UE(s) that is relevant to a 3GPP mobile system per end
user service/end user service type via the mobile network and the UE. The
request may include an address of an end user service information collector to
which the collected information shall be delivered.
## 6.2 NR deployment option 3/3A/3X management requirements
**REQ-NRO3-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD of MOI) on the Non-standalone gNB via
maximizing existing E-UTRAN management system.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall know the non-standalone
gNB mode information, including the relation between anchored LTE eNB (aka
MeNB) and secondary Non-standalone gNB (similar to SeNB), and the option 3, 3A
or 3X used on one specific Non-standalone gNB.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support smooth
management migration from the Non-standalone gNB in option 3/3A/3X to other
NG-RAN options.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-4** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect LTE and
NR related performance data respectively.
**REQ-NRO3-CON-5** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the Non-standalone gNB.
Note: Management requirement related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864 [11], and not specified in the present document.
## 6.3 NR management requirements
**REQ-NROM-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD MOI) on the standalone gNB connected to
5GC.
**REQ-NROM-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect NR
related performance data from the standalone gNB.
**REQ-NROM-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the standalone gNB.
**REQ-NROM-CON-4** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD MOI) on either gNB without functional
split or gNB with functional split.
**REQ-NROM-CON-5** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect gNB
related performance data from the gNB with functional split.
**REQ-NROM-CON-6** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the gNB with functional split.
**REQ-NROM-CON-7** The NR NRM shall support a model of a complete NR that has
separate components as defined by TS 38.401 [9].
**REQ-NROM-CON-8** The NR NRM shall support model of a partial NR (i.e. not a
complete NR) such that composition of appropriate partial NRs forms a complete
NR.
**REQ-NROM-CON-9** The NR NRM shall support the use of Distinguished Name for
NR components such that fault information, configuration data and performance
measurements can be identified on NR components basis.
**REQ-NROM-CON-10** The NR NRM shall support a deployment scenario where the
partial NRs of a complete NR are managed by different management systems.
Note: Management requirement related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864 [11], and not specified in the present document.
## 6.4 ng-eNB (option 4, 5 and 7) management requirements
**REQ-NGLTE-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD MOI) on the ng-eNB.
**REQ-NGLTE-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall know the non-standalone
ng-eNB mode information, including the relation between anchored gNB and
secondary non-standalone ng-eNB, and the option 4 or option 4A used on one
specific ng-eNB.
**REQ-NGLTE-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to know the non-
standalone gNB mode information in option 7, including the relation between
anchored ng-eNB and secondary non-standalone gNB, and the option 7 or option
7A used on one specific gNB.
**REQ-NGLTE-CON-4** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect E-UTRA
and NR related performance data respectively.
**REQ-NGLTE-CON-5** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the ng-eNB.
**REQ-NGLTE-CON-6** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management on the ng-eNB connected to 5GC and EPC
simultaneously.
**REQ-NGLTE-CON-7** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect
E-UTRA/5GC and E-UTRA/EPC related performance data respectively from the ng-
eNB connected to 5GC and EPC simultaneously.
Note: Management requirement related to virtualized RAN will be studied in TR
32.864 [11], and not specified in the present document.
## 6.5 5GC management requirements
**REQ-5GCN-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management (e.g. CRUD MOI) on the 5GC NF/NE.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect
performance data from the 5GC NF/NE.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management on the 5GC NF/NE.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-4** The 3GPP management system should reflect the service based
architecture characteristic in the NRM of 5GC CP NF/NE.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-5** The 3GPP management system shall be able to establish the
relationship between DSF and associated 5GC NFs.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-6** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
coordination between lifecycle management operations on associated 5GC NFs and
lifecycle management operations on DSF.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-7** The 3GPP management system or 5GC NF instance shall be able
to register/de-register with NRF instance the discovery information of 5GC NF
instance.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-8** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management of AMF Set.
**REQ-5GCN-CON-9** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support AMF Set
related performance management, such as AMF Set performance reporting or
alarm.
Note: Management requirements related to network slicing is studied in TR
28.801, and are not specified in the present document.
## 6.6 SON requirements
### 6.6.1 Self-configuration management for NG-RAN
**REQ-SCM5GR-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
initial OAM connectivity establishment for NG-RAN nodes in a fully automated
manner.
**REQ-SCM5GR-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support self-
configuration operations for NG-RAN nodes with no or minimum manual
intervention.
### 6.6.2 ANR management for NG-RAN
**REQ-ANR5GR-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support the
neighbour cell relation information update (e.g. add or remove) automatically
according to radio network conditions and topology.
### 6.6.3 Automated configuration for 5GC NF
**REQ-ACCN-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support initial
OAM connectivity establishment for 5GC NFs in a fully automated manner.
**REQ-ACCN-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
automated configuration operations for 5GC NFs with no or minimum manual
intervention.
### 6.6.4 Automated optimization for 5GC NF
**REQ-ARCN-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to trigger
automated optimization actions for 5GC NFs.
**REQ-ARCN-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to evaluate the
result of automated optimization actions for 5GC NFs.
**REQ-ARCN-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to make
coordination to avoid conflict when multiple automated optimization actions
are triggered in parallel.
**REQ-ARCN-CON-4** The 3GPP management system should be able to rollback to
the status of before execution of automated optimization if the result is
negative.
### 6.6.5 Automated healing for 5GC NF
**REQ-AHCN-CON-1** The 3GPP management system should be able to trigger
automated healing actions for 5GC NFs when needed.
**REQ-AHCN-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to evaluate the
result of automated healing actions for 5GC NFs via monitoring the
performance.
**REQ-AHCN-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to make
coordination when multiple automated healing actions are triggered in
parallel.
**REQ-AHCN-CON-4** The 3GPP management system should be able to trigger
rollback to the status of before execution of automated healing if the result
is negative.
### 6.6.6 Automated management for AMF Set
**REQ-AMAMFS-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
automated configuration operations on AMF Set, and to keep configuration data
consistent among AMF instances in one AMF set.
**REQ-AMAMFS-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
automated optimisation operations on AMF Set to keep load balancing among AMF
instances in one AMF Set.
**REQ-AMAMFS-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support self-
healing operations on AMF Set to cope with single AMF instance failure or
major service outage in one AMF set.
## 6.7 Edge computing management requirements
**REQ-ECM-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
configuration management of 5GC NFs supporting edge computing.
**REQ-ECM-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support
performance management of 5GC NFs supporting edge computing.
**REQ-ECM-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall be able to support fault
management of 5GC NFs supporting edge computing.
## 6.8 Trace management requirements
**REQ-TRACE-CON-1:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
request 5G system to collect trace information on a specified subscriber.
**REQ-TRACE-CON-2:** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
request 5G system to collect trace information on a specified equipment.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Collecting QoE information
### 7.1.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services
As NR is a mobile data network, it is very important for the operator to
optimise the mobile network according to the needs of the end user services.
So it is foreseen that a similar function will be developed for NR.\ The
management solution should be the same regardless of which 3GPP mobile system
the QoE collection is implemented in. So the use case(s), requirement(s) and
the solution should be valid for older generations of mobile systems as well
as NG-RAN.
Proposed management solution:
A new interface IRP should be developed for collecting the QoE information. It
should contain:
\- An operation for activation of collection QoE information to be sent to the
appropriate traffic node including what QoE information is to be collected, an
address to a collection point where the QoE information is to be collected.
\- An operation for deactivation of collection QoE information to be sent to
the appropriate traffic node including what QoE information is to be stopped.
\- An operation for listing requested QoE collections to be sent to the base
stations that should answer with what QoE collections has been requested.
\- An operation for listing active sessions that are collecting QoE
information to be sent to the base stations that should answer with what
sessions has QoE collection ongoing.
\- A notification for when a QoE collection job has become active.
The base station requests the QoE information collection towards the UE. It
should be possible to execute more than one QoE information collection
simultaneously in the UE.
The QoE information collections should survive handover within a PLMN.
A specification that describes the feature from end to end should be
developed.
The solution is intended to be used for previous 3GPP systems that supports
this function.
NOTE: The solution detail (e.g. collected performance information detail, the
mechanism to propagate the request to the appropriate UE) need to be addressed
during the normative phase.
### 7.1.2 Collecting QoE information from end user services from a specific
user
Proposed management solution:
The new interface IRP solution in clause 7.1.1 should be extended with the
following capability:
\- An operation for activation of collection QoE information to be sent to the
appropriate traffic node including what QoE information is to be collected for
one or several specified user(s)/UE(s), an address to a collection point where
the QoE information is to be collected.
A Core Network node that can identify individual users/UEs and what services
they use requests collection of the QoE information collection towards the UE
via intermediate nodes. It should be possible to execute more than one QoE
information collection simultaneously in the UE.
The QoE information collections should survive handover within a PLMN.
A specification that describes the feature from end to end should be
developed.
The solution is intended to be used for previous 3GPP systems that supports
this function.
NOTE: The performance information that should be collected, the propagation of
the request to the UE and for the UE to deliver the requested information, and
the propagation of the request on traffic interfaces are out of the scope of
the present document.
## 7.2 Management of NR deployment option 3/3A/3X
As NR option 3 relies on legacy E-UTRAN and EPC, so the management solution
for NR option 3 should support E-UTRAN and EPC management simultaneously.
Also, considering NR option 3 is developed for \"early deployment\" of 5G
service with limited features, and would be migrated to NG-RAN in short term,
so the potential solution for non-standalone gNB management should fulfil
severe time-to-market requirement, and minimize the deployment efforts.
Proposed management solution for NR option 3 is to enhance existing E-UTRAN
management solution to adapt non-standalone gNB management requirement, with
reusing existing management solution as much as possible.
In order to support configuration management of NR option 3, a new NRM IRP
should be developed to support configuration management operations on the non-
standalone gNB. The non-standalone gNB NRM IRP should contain:
\- IOC for the non-standalone gNB, represents the non-standalone gNB
functionality specified in NR option 3/3A/3X, with attribute which can be used
for identifying the non-standalone gNB and option 3, 3A or 3X used. Also, the
relationship with IOCs of E-UTRAN and EPC need to be clarified.
NOTE: The IOC definition for non-standalone gNB with functional split can
refer to NR NRM definitions (see clause 7.3.1.3).
\- IOC for NR Cell, represents the common properties of a NR cell. And the
interworking relationships between NR cell with other RAN need to be
clarified.
\- IOCs for non-standalone gNB related reference points, including X2
reference point and S1-U reference point involved in NR option 3A/3X.
Meanwhile, above IOCs associated to existing E-UTRAN NRM and EPC NRM need to
be added to corresponding NRM IRP specifications.
## 7.3 Management of NR
### 7.3.1 NR NRM
#### 7.3.1.1 Introduction
Depending on the functional split, there have two gNB deployment scenarios:
gNB without functional split and gNB with functional split, the corresponding
NRM of gNB may be varied.
Note: The detail design of NR NRM will be decided in the normative phase.
#### 7.3.1.2 NRM for gNB without functional split
The NRM for gNB without functional split can be similar to that of eNB in LTE.
#### 7.3.1.3 NRM for gNB with functional split
According to the NG-RAN architecture description specified in TS 38.401[9],
the gNB with functional split is only visible as a gNB to other gNBs and the
5GC, so NRM for gNB with functional split is expected to be represented by an
IOC that supports such visibility:
\- Capture the composition of its split functions.
\- Reflect the NG and Xn-C interface description which connect to the 5GC and
other gNBs respectively.
\- Maintain the NRM of NR, NG-RAN, 5GC or other interworking NFs stable when
adopting of potential new functional split options.
Note: The study on gNB functional split options can be found in TR 38.801 [3].
Based on abovementioned analysis, there have at least following non-mutually
exclusive solutions for NRM for gNB with functional split:
1) Solution 1: NRM for gNB with functional split includes an IOC containing
other IOCs representing gNB split functions (e.g. GNBCUFunction and
GNBDUFunction).
2) Solution 2: NRM for gNB with functional split includes an IOC without
containing IOCs representing gNB split functions. In this case, the IOC
includes functional split information.
### 7.3.2 Performance management for NR
As NR is brand-new radio access technology supported by a new NG-RAN node, new
performance measurements and KPIs for NR need to be defined particularly. The
NR performance measurement definitions should support management for various
NR deployment options (both standalone gNB and gNB in dual-connectivity mode)
and various gNB architecture options (i.e. gNB without functional split and
gNB with functional split).
Depending on gNB functional split option and corresponding NR NRM definitions,
the NR performance measurements for gNB with functional split may be defined
with various granularity of measurement objects.
### 7.3.3 Fault management for NR
Depending on the NR functional split options and corresponding NR NRM
definitions, NR related alarms can be collected from different monitored
entities.
## 7.4 Management of ng-eNB
As another type of NG-RAN node, the ng-eNB is similar to the gNB from the
perspective of 5G architecture, so the potential gNB management solutions
would be applicable to ng-eNB after addressing following differences:
1) The radio access technology (RAT) towards UE: the ng-eNB provides E-UTRA
RAT towards UE while gNB provides NR RAT towards UE.
2) The core network connectivity: the ng-eNB can connect to 5GC and EPC
simultaneously or 5GC only, also, ng-eNB can connect to 5GC via multiple
connectivity options (refer to option 4, 5, 7 defined in TR 38.801 [3]).
3) Functional split: the ng-eNB would not support functional split, or support
different functional split option from the one defined for the gNB.
The abovementioned first two differences lead to ng-eNB management have closer
relationship with existing E-UTRAN management data definitions (e.g. E-UTRAN
cell IOC definition in E-UTRAN NRM or E-UTRAN performance measurements on
E-UTRAN cell level), so management data (including NRM, performance
measurements and KPIs) definitions for ng-eNB may take existing E-UTRAN
management data definitions as a reference, besides keeping aligned with NR
management data definitions.
## 7.5 Management of 5GC
### 7.5.1 Configuration management of 5GC
#### 7.5.1.1 NRM for 5GC
In order to support configuration management of 5GC, a new NRM IRP should be
developed to support configuration management operations on 5GC NFs. The 5GC
NRM IRP should contain:
\- IOCs for each type of 5GC network function, such as AMF, AUSF, NEF, NRF,
PCF, SMF, UDM, UPF and N3IWF, a list of network functions in the 5GC see
clause 6 of TS 23.501 [2]. The attribute of these IOCs should be able to show
the supported network slice information if applicable.
\- IOCs for 5GC related reference points between 3GPP managed NFs, such as N2,
N3, N4, N7, N8, N9, N10 and N11 reference point, a list of reference points in
the 5GC see clause 4.2.7 of TS 23.501 [2].
\- IOCs for service-based interfaces insides 5GC, such as Namf, Nausf, Nnef,
Nnrf, Npcf, Nsmf and Nudm, a list of service-based interfaces insides the 5GC
see clause 4.2.6 of TS 23.501 [2].
\- IOCs for 5G QoS, including 5QI.
\- IOCs for each type of 5GC network function pool or service area (e.g. AMF
Set and AMF Region).
Meanwhile, 5GC NRM IOCs associated to existing EPC NRM (e.g. IOC of AMF or Nx
reference point) need to be added to the corresponding NRM IRP specifications.
Also, in order to support interworking between 5GS and EPC/E-UTRAN, several
dedicated NEs with co-located 5GC NF and EPC NF (such as PCF+PCRF, SMF+PGW-C,
UPF+PGW-U and UDM+HSS) are specified, so it is expected that 5GC NRM is
aligned with existing EPC NRM to facilitate a seamless coexistence with 5GC
and EPC management system.
#### 7.5.1.2 NRM for 5GC data storage architecture
According to 5GC data storage architecture defined in TS 23.501 [2], 5GC
architecture allows any NF to store and retrieve its unstructured data
into/from a UDSF. Also, like UDC in EPC, 5GC architecture allows UDM, PCF and
NEF to store data in UDR. The NRM definition for UDSF and UDR have following
characteristics:
\- According to 5GC architecture defined in TS 23.501 [2], the connections to
UDSF have not been depicted in the point-to-point 5GC architecture diagrams
because any NF can interact with the UDSF as necessary, so the class diagram
of UDSF in 5GC NRM would be depicted with link to unspecified NFs, Similar to
UDSF, UDR can be interacted from multiple types of NF, so the class diagram of
UDR in 5GC NRM can be treated in same way with UDSF.
\- Besides possible ambiguous link information, the definition of IOC for UDSF
or UDR may include some more information used to determine the possible link
provided, such as vendor id, storage type, and etc.
#### 7.5.1.3 NRM for NRF and NEF
Because NRF and NEF have very similar connectivity characterise with UDSF and
UDR in 5GC architecture point of view, so NRM for NRF or NEF can use NRM
definition for UDSF and UDR as a reference.
#### 7.5.1.4 NRM for AMF Set management
The 5GC NRM IRP should support AMF Set management. The definition of AMF Set
in 5GC is some similar with the definition of MME Pool in EPC. But because the
5G characteristic of network slicing, compared to the definition of IOC
MMEPool and MMEPoolArea [10], there have some differences on the relationship
between AMF Region, AMF Set and AMF, i.e. one AMF Region consists of one or
more AMF Sets and one AMF Set consists AMFs serve the given network slice(s),
which is shown in following comparison table.
Table 7.5.1.4-1: Comparison table between AMF Set and MME pool
* * *
Counterpart IOC Name AMFSet MMEPool IOC Definition One AMF Set consists of one
or multiple AMFs that serve the given area and network slice An MME Pool
consists of one or more MME nodes. A particular node can be a member of one
and only one MME Pool Counterpart IOC Name AMFRegion MMEPoolArea IOC
Definition One AMF Region consists of one or more AMF Sets, One MME Pool Area
can be served by at most one MME Pool.
* * *
When defining IOC AMFSet and AMFRegion in 5GC NRM, the definition of IOC
MMEPool and MMEPoolArea in EPC NRM [10] can be used as a reference, as well as
addressing the abovementioned differences shown in the Table 7.5.1.4-1.
### 7.5.2 Performance management of 5GC
The existing PM IRP can be reused for collection and monitoring of 5GC
performance measurements data.
In order to support identified performance management requirement, following
specific issues should be addressed via appropriate definition on 5GC
performance measurements.
\- In order to support AMF Set management, object of AMF performance
measurements related to radio access should be on TA level or even smaller
granularity, then operator can derive KPI on a specific geographical area (or
radio access network) via aggregating performance data from each AMF instance
in the related AMF set
### 7.5.3 Fault management of 5GC
The existing alarm IRP can be reused for collecting alarms from 5GC NFs.
## 7.6 SON management and automated management
With the introduction of Self-Organizing Network (SON) features, operators can
approach automated network management target via automating the configuration,
optimization, and maintenance of mobile networks. Based on identified SON
related use cases and corresponding requirements, it is envisioned that most
of SON functions used in E-UTRAN would still be needed in 5G system, such as
\- Automatic Neighbour Cell Relation (ANR) function
\- Load Balancing Optimization (LBO) function
\- Handover Parameter Optimization function
\- Coverage and Capacity Optimization (CCO) function
\- SON coordination function
\- etc.
It is proposed to start a new study item or work item to address 5G SON
related solutions in future.
## 7.7 Edge computing management
### 7.7.1 Management of functionality supporting edge computing
For management of 5GC NFs supporting edge computing, the management solution
of 5GC in clause 7.5 is applicable.
## 7.8 Trace management
### 7.8.1 Trace session activation and deactivation
The 3GPP management system initiates Trace session activation/deactivation via
corresponding message to the 5GS network functions. These include NG-RAN
network functions and 5GC network functions, specifically:
\- NG-RAN network functions involved in 5GS Trace activation/deactivation
include gNB and ng-eNB.
\- 5GC network functions involved in 5GS Trace activation/deactivation include
AMF and SMF.
NOTE: The complete list of 5GC network functions involved in 5GS Trace
activation/deactivation (e.g. UDM, UDR, SMSF, UPF, PCF and UDSF) is to be
determined in the normative phase.
Depending on different trace scenarios, both types of Trace session
activation/deactivation) defined in TS 32.421 [12] also apply to 5GS, i.e.
management based Trace activation (and deactivation) and signalling based
Trace activation (and deactivation).
### 7.8.2 Trace control and configuration parameters
Together with the Trace Session activation message, following Trace control
and configuration parameters (non-exclusive list) are sent or propagated to
the involved network functions:
\- Subscriber or equipment identifier (i.e. SUPI or PEI used in 5GS, see
clause 5.9 in TS 23.501 [2]).
\- Trace reference.
\- Triggering events.
\- Trace depth.
\- List of NF types to trace.
\- Trace Collection Entity (TCE) information.
NOTE: Whether other existing Trace control and configuration parameters
defined in TS 32.422 [13] (e.g. List of interfaces) apply to 5G Trace
management will be determined in the normative phase.
### 7.8.3 Trace data definitions
It is envisioned that trace data definitions (see TS 32.423 [14]) will need to
be updated.
### 7.8.4 Trace management interface
The existing Trace interface IRP (see TS 32.441 [15], TS 32.442 [16] and TS
32.446 [17]) may be applicable to 5G Trace management and will need to be
updated in alignment with 5G management architecture.
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services
The use cases, requirements and solutions can be used for UMTS, LTE and 5G.
## 8.2 NR management
### 8.2.1 NR NRM
Based on potential solution of NR NRM described in clause 7.3, it is concluded
that new NRM IRP for NR should be defined to support NR management, covering
various NR connectivity options and various architecture options identified in
TR 38.801 [3] and TS 38.401[9].
### 8.2.2 Configuration management for NR
Whether the existing CM related interface IRPs can be applicable to NR
configuration management depends on the 5G management architecture
definitions, and will be decided in the normative phase.
### 8.2.3 Performance management for NR
Based on potential solution of NR performance management described in clause
7.3, it is concluded that new performance measurements and KPIs definitions
for NR are needed to be specified to support NR management, covering various
NR connectivity options and various architecture options identified in TR
38.801 [3] and TS 38.401[9].
Whether the existing PM related interface IRPs can be applicable to NR
performance management depends on the 5G management architecture definitions,
and will be decided in the normative phase.
### 8.2.4 Fault management for NR
Whether the existing FM related interface IRPs can be applicable to NR fault
management depends on the 5G management architecture definitions, and will be
decided in the normative phase.
## 8.3 Ng-eNB management
Based on potential solution of ng-eNB management described in clause 7.4, it
is concluded that new NRM IRP of ng-eNB should be defined to support ng-eNB
management, referring to NR NRM IRP definitions as much as possible. It is
expected that the configuration management, fault management and performance
management interface IRPs for NR can apply to ng-eNB.
Considering ng-eNB may have closer relationship with EPC and E-UTRAN than gNB
(in particular when ng-eNB is connected to both EPC and 5GC simultaneously),
it is envisioned that ng-eNB management solutions may bring some impact to
existing EPC and E-UTRAN management solutions.
## 8.4 5GC management
### 8.4.1 5GC NRM
Based on potential solution of 5GC NRM described in clause 7.5.1, it is
concluded that new NRM IRP for 5GC should be defined to support management of
5GC NFs and respective interfaces which are defined in TS 23.501[2]. For
example, to support the following highlighted 5GC management capabilities
(non-exclusive):
\- Management of 5GC service-based architecture;
\- Management of 5GC data storage architecture;
\- Management of AMF Set and AMF Region.
\- Management of 5GC NFs supporting edge computing.
### 8.4.2 Configuration management for 5GC
Whether the existing configuration management (CM) related interface IRPs can
be applicable to 5GC configuration management depends on the 5G management
architecture definitions, and will be decided in the normative phase.
### 8.4.3 Performance management for 5GC
Based on potential solution of 5GC performance management described in clause
7.5.2, it is concluded that new performance measurements and KPIs definitions
for 5GC NFs are needed to be specified to support 5GC NF performance
management, including performance management for AMF Set.
Whether the existing performance management (PM) related interface IRPs can be
applicable to 5GC performance management depends on the 5G management
architecture definitions, and will be decided in the normative phase.
### 8.4.4 Fault management for 5GC
Whether the existing fault management (FM) related interface IRPs can be
applicable to 5GC fault management depends on the 5G management architecture
definitions, and will be decided in the normative phase.
## 8.5 SON management and automated management
The present document has identified some use cases and corresponding
requirements for SON management and automated management, both in RAN and CN
aspects, but the potential solutions has not been addressed sufficiently, so
it is proposed to start a new study item or work item to address 5G SON
related management issues in future.
## 8.6 Edge computing management
As no special management functionality is identified in the edge computing
management solution study (see clause 7.7), it is concluded that identified
edge computing management requirements can be fulfilled by 5GC management
solutions which are addressed in the normative phase.
## 8.7 Trace management
Based on potential solution of 5GS Trace management described in clause 7.8,
it is concluded that 5GS trace management solution should be defined to
support Trace on either NG-RAN nodes or identified 5GC nodes, including both
management based Trace activation and signalling based Trace activation type.
# 9 Recommendations
## 9.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services
A Work Item should be started based on the use cases, requirements and
solutions outlined in the present document. They can be used for UMTS, LTE and
5G when the traffic functions support QoE collection.
## 9.2 NR management
### 9.2.1 NR NRM
It is recommended to start normative work on a new NRM IRP for NR based on
identified use cases, requirements and solution outlined in the present
document.
### 9.2.2 Configuration management for NR
It is recommended to start normative work to support configuration management
for NR, and whether the existing CM related interface IRPs can be applicable
to NR configuration management will be decided in the normative phase.
### 9.2.3 Performance management for NR
It is recommended to start normative work on a new performance measurements
and KPIs definitions for NR based on identified use cases, requirements and
solution outlined in the present document. And whether existing PM related
interface IRPs can be applicable to NR performance management will be decided
in the normative phase.
### 9.2.4 Fault management for NR
It is recommended to start normative work to support fault management for NR,
and whether the existing FM related interface IRPs can be applicable to NR
fault management will be decided in the normative phase.
## 9.3 Ng-eNB management
It is recommended to start normative work on ng-eNB NRM IRP definitions
together with NR NRM IRP definitions, and start normative work on
configuration management, fault management and performance management for both
ng-eNB and gNB.
## 9.4 5GC management
### 9.4.1 5GC NRM
It is recommended to start normative work on a new NRM IRP for 5GC based on
identified use cases, requirements and solution outlined in the present
document.
### 9.4.2 Configuration management for 5GC
It is recommended to start normative work to support configuration management
for 5GC, and whether the existing CM related interface IRPs can be applicable
to 5GC configuration management will be decided in the normative phase.
### 9.4.3 Performance management for 5GC
It is recommended to start normative work on a new performance measurements
and KPIs definitions for 5GC based on identified use cases, requirements and
solution outlined in the present document. And whether existing PM related
interface IRPs can be applicable to 5GC performance management will be decided
in the normative phase.
### 9.4.4 Fault management for 5GC
It is recommended to start normative work to support fault management for 5GC,
and whether the existing FM related interface IRPs can be applicable to 5GC
fault management will be decided in the normative phase.
## 9.5 SON management and automated management
It is recommended to start a new study item or work item to address 5G SON
related management issues in future.
## 9.6 Edge computing management
It is recommended that 5GC management solution definitions in normative phase
should consider the requirements for management of functionality supporting
edge computing.
## 9.7 Trace management
It is recommended to start normative work to support 5G Trace management based
on corresponding identified use cases, requirements and solution outlined in
the present document.
#