# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The Study on management and orchestration architecture of next generation
networks and services is to align the next generation management architecture
with consideration of support the next generation management functions.
Studying the management and orchestration architecture will evaluate whether
the existing management mechanisms can be applicable or need to be enhanced to
support the next generation management and orchestration features.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates and makes recommendations on management and
orchestration architecture of next generation networks and services which
include:
\- The terminology associated with management and orchestration of next
generation networks and services.
\- The use cases on the management and orchestration architecture from the
output of other next generation management functional studies (e.g. management
and orchestration of network slicing, management of next generation features,
service management and orchestration, etc.).
\- The use cases that may impact the management and orchestration architecture
which are not addressed by functional studies.
\- The management and orchestration architecture to support network
operational features such as real-time, on demand, automation etc. as
evolution from LTE management.
\- The management and orchestration architecture to support vertical
applications (e.g. management architecture support to the V2X, critical
communications etc.) in the next generation network based on the other
management functional studies.
\- The management and orchestration architecture to support the scenario in
which the applications are hosted close to the access network based on the
other management functional studies.
\- The management and orchestration architecture to support management and
orchestration aspect of E2E user services in the next generation network based
on the other management functional studies.
\- Investigate whether the existing 3GPP management architecture can be
reused, or needs to be enhanced.
\- Take into consideration the outcome on next generation network architecture
and study the potential management and orchestration architecture aspects of
the end to end architecture.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.799: \"Study on Architecture for Next Generation System\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Terminology for
Main Concepts in NFV\".
[4] 3GPP TR 28.802: \"Study on management aspect of next generation work
architecture and feature\".
[5] NGMN Description of Network Slicing Concept.
[6] 3GPP TR 38.801: \"Study on New Radio Access Technology; Radio Access
Architecture and Interfaces\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TR 28.801: \"Study on management and orchestration of network slicing
for next generation network\"
[9] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**5G NE:** refers to a Network Element that is considered part of a 5G system
[7].
**Infrastructure Resource:** network components that build up the environment
for 3GPP NFs.
Note: Example of Infrastructure Resource can be Physical Resource, Logical
Resource, and Network Functions Virtualization Infrastructure.
**Physical Resource:** A physical asset for computation, storage or transport
including radio access. Defined in NGMN Description of Network Slicing Concept
[5].
**Logical Resource:** Partition of a physical resource, or grouping of
multiple physical resources dedicated to a Network Function or shared between
a set of Network Functions. Defined in NGMN Description of Network Slicing
Concept [5].
**Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI):** totality of all
hardware and software components which build up the environment in which VNFs
are deployed. **Defined in** ETSI GS NFV 003 **[3].**
**Network Function:** Network function is a 3GPP adopted or 3GPP defined
processing function in a network, which has defined functional behaviour and
3GPP defined interfaces. Defined in 3GPP TR 23.799 [2].
**Virtualized Network Function:** implementation of an NF that can be deployed
on a Network Function
Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI). Defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 **[3]**.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Management architecture introduction
The management system of next generation network will include the management
features of the network, the network slicing instances and slice subnet
instances etc.
The next generation network may be composed of virtualized network elements
and non-virtualized network elements. The management of next generation
network could make use of the management functions for the virtualized network
functions. The management of the network element may include the network
function management and resource management.
For the management of the virtualized network elements, the virtualized
resource supporting the network element is managed by NFV-MANO. The 3GPP
network functions are managed by 3GPP network management functions. The
management of virtualized core network nodes in LTE is supported in Rel-14.
For the management of the non-virtualized network elements, both network
function and network resource is managed by 3GPP network management functions.
The next generation network may also include LTE nodes, ref. [6].
If an evolution of the LTE management system is chosen, the following needs to
be done to get basic management standards for NR and LTE. Management of new
functions will need enhancement of the LTE management systems.
1) New NRMs (object models) are needed for the radio access network and core
network for the next generation network.
2) New measurement specifications are needed for NR features and nodes.
3) The existing 3GPP management specifications needs to be checked for which
functions will be supported in the first release of the next generation
network (e.g. with respect to features like trace and MDT).
New features like Network Slicing and virtualised functions which are part of
RAN may need new management features/support.
# 5 Use cases related to management and orchestration architecture
## 5.1 Management and orchestration of networks containing non-5G NE and 5G NE
### 5.1.1 Introduction
This use case highlights potential management options/scenarios for possible
network deployments, specifically at the early stages of introducing 5G
network elements along with existing non-5G generation 3GPP network(s).
Operator wants to manage a network containing both non-5G NE(s) and 5G NE(s).
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The network contains non-5G NE(s) and 5G NE(s).
The non-5G NE(s) are managed by existing management functions.
### 5.1.3 Description
There are following scenarios for operator to manage the 5G NE functions:
1\. Operator enhances the existing management and orchestration function to
manage both 5G NE(s) and non-5G NE(s). For example, operator may enhance the
fault management function to retrieve the faults information from both non-5G
NE and 5G NE; or
2\. Operator creates new management functions to manage both 5G NE and non-5G
NE. For example, operator may create new management function to manage the
next generation network feature massive Internet of Things.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The non-5G network elements and 5G network elements are both managed.
## 5.2 Use case of management and orchestration architecture for network
slicing
### 5.2.1 Introduction
The operator wants to manage the next generation network slice instances; thus
the management architecture needs to provide the corresponding support.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The requirements on the network slicing management are available.
### 5.2.3 Description
Refer to the network slicing management use cases specified in TR 28.801 [8].
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The management architecture can support the network slicing management
requirements.
## 5.3 FM and PM data collection and reporting (single operator scenario)
### 5.3.1 Pre-conditions
The 5G network provides multiple communication services to the communication
service customers. The 5G network may be composed of virtualized network
elements and non-virtualized network elements provided by different vendors.
The management of the 5G networks and services includes network services
management, network management and network elements management. The network
elements management includes the NF management and resource management.
There are different types of network management functions, for example, the 5G
network slicing management functions are NSSMF, NSMF and CSMF, the LTE nodes
management functions are NM, EM, and the NFV-MANO management functions are
NFVO, VNFM, VIM.
### 5.3.2 Description
For different management purposes, some of the network management functions
request access to network management data, i.e. FM data and PM data, such as:
\- NF related FM and PM data;
\- Network related FM and PM data;
\- Communication service related FM and PM data.
Different network management functions may request same data. For example, as
data consumers, EM, NM and NSSMF may all need the alarm data or performance
measurement data of some specific NFs although they focus on different aspects
of network management.
The request comes to a logical function whose responsibility is collection and
re-distribution of the FM and PM data of NFs. Then, the multiple network
management functions get the FM and PM data from the logical data collection
and reporting function. For example, the PM data of NFs is collected somewhere
(data repository = X) and the logical data collection and reporting function
notifies subscripted consumers of availability and location of recently
arrived data in X. The consumers can then fetch the PM data at their leisure.
Editor\'s note 1: the location (i.e., whether it exists as a single entity) of
the \"logical data collection and reporting function\" is FFS.
### 5.3.3 Post-conditions
The operator manages FM and PM data that pertains to communication services
and network elements in a simple way.
## 5.4 FM and PM data collection and reporting (multi-operator scenario)
### 5.4.1 Pre-conditions
A communication service provider provides a communication service to
communication service customer. The communication services provider requests
operator A to host the service. The operator A decides to use multiple other
operators\' networks to host the service.
The service has been instantiated and is in operation.
### 5.4.2 Description
For different management purposes (as described in the clause 5.3), some of
the network management functions request access to network management data,
i.e. FM and PM data. To gather the FM/PM data for the communications service
Operator A then agrees with all participating operators on how the PM/FM data
is collected. All operators provide the PM/FM data in accordance with the said
agreement.
Operator A indicates the availability of FM/PM data to the communication
services customer. The communication services provider can then fetch the
PM/FM data at their convenience for the customer.
### 5.4.3 Post-conditions
FM and PM data that pertains to communication services and network elements
deployed across other operators is made available to the respective customer.
## 5.5 Use case of management and orchestration architecture for management of
5G-RAN and 5GC
### 5.5.1 Introduction
The operator wants to manage the 5G-RAN and 5GC; thus the management
architecture needs to provide the corresponding support.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The requirements on the management of 5G-RAN and 5GC are available.
### 5.5.3 Description
Refer to the use cases specified in TR 28.802 [4].
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The management architecture can support the 5G-RAN and 5GC management
requirements.
## 5.6 Use case of management of communication services
### 5.6.1 Introduction
Communication services can be provided by network slice or network without
slicing.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
The operator wants to use mobile network to provide communication service to
its customer.
### 5.6.3 Description
The customer sends communication service related requirements to service
management function.
The service management function translates the communication service related
requirements to network related requirements. The information indicating
whether to use network slice may be included in the network related
requirement.
In case of using network slice, the management function for handling network
slice creates a new network slice instance or reuses an existing network slice
instance to satisfy the network related requirements as described in clause
5.2. Otherwise, the management function for handling network without slicing
utilizes network without slicing to satisfy the network related requirements.
Editor\'s note: The relation of management function for handling network
slice, management function for handling network without slicing, NM and NSMF
is FFS, depends on the discussion of 5G management architecture.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
The network is utilized to provide communication services.
## 5.7 Exposure of management interfaces to another operator
### 5.7.1 Introduction
3GPP TR 28.801 [8] specifies the requirements and use cases for multi-operator
slices. To support those use cases an operator\'s management system exposes
suitable APIs to another operator for slice management in accordance with
clause 6.10 of 3GPP TS 22.261 [9]. All exposure is based on the operator\'s
policy.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
None.
### 5.7.3 Description
To create a service hosted by multiple operators an operator is able to
request another operator, over a suitable API, to support the requirements
expressed in clause 6.10.2 of 3GPP TS 22.261 [9].
5.7.4 Post-conditions
Services hosted by multiple operators can be created.
## 5.8 Exposure of management interfaces to communication services provider
### 5.8.1 Introduction
A communication services provider should be able to request an operator to
host a service management in accordance with clause 6.10 of 3GPP TS 22.261
[9]. All exposure is based on the operator\'s policy.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
None.
### 5.8.3 Description
To create a communication service a communication services customer requests
an operator, over a suitable API, to support the requirements expressed in
clause 6.10.2 of 3GPP TS 22.261 [9].
5.8.4 Post-conditions
A communication services provider is able to request and manage a 5G
communication service.
## 5.9 Use case of management and orchestration architecture for support with
non-3GPP parts
### 5.9.1 Introduction
The operator wants to manage the 5G network. The 5G network may comprise
non-3GPP parts (e.g. transport network, data center network) together with the
3GPP part (i.e. 5G-RAN and 5GC), thus the properly coordination between 3GPP
management system and corresponding non-3GPP part management systems may be
needed.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
The related non-3GPP part which are used to support 5G-RAN and 5GC are
available. The corresponding non-3GPP part management system is available.
### 5.9.3 Description
The following action should be supported when operator wants to manage the 5G
network, including the 3GPP part and the related non-3GPP parts:
  * 3GPP management system may provide the non-3GPP management system with relevant requirements (directly or indirectly).
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
The 3GPP management system can provide the non-3GPP part requirements to the
corresponding non-3GPP part management system.
## 5.10 Use case of communication service across multiple CSPs
### 5.10.1 Pre-conditions
A communication service customer requests a communication service to CSP A.
CSP A decides to host the communication service across multiple CSPs to
satisfy network related requirements. Non-management pre-requisites, such as
trust relationships between CSPs, legal and business related, to create a
communication service are assumed to exist.
### 5.10.2 Description
The CSP A decides to host a communication service across multiple CSPs (CSP A
and CSP B) to satisfy the requirements based on pre-existing agreements
between CSP A and CSP B. The end-to-end management of the communication
service hosted by multiple CSPs may reside with the CSP A. CSP A can request
agreed upon management data to CSP B on the part of the communication service
hosted in CSP B.
### 5.10.3 Post-conditions
A communication service is hosted across multiple CSPs.
# 6 Potential requirements on management and orchestration architecture
**REQ-NWA -CON-0** 1 The 3GPP management system shall support the management
requirements of network slice as defined in TR 28.801 [8] section 6.
**REQ-NWA -CON-02** The management and orchestration architecture of next
generation network and services shall support the management functions as
defined in clause 4.9 of TR 28.801 [8] for network slice management.
**REQ-NWA -CON-03** The 3GPP management system shall have a functionality to
provide various categories of network management FM and PM data to other
network management functions which act as consumers of the data.
**REQ-NWA -CON-04** The 3GPP management system shall support the management of
networks containing non-5G system and 5G system.
**REQ-NWA -CON-05** The 3GPP management system shall, based on operator
policy, expose suitable APIs externally to another operator\'s management
system that supports requirements expressed in clause 6.10.2 of TS 22.261 [9].
**REQ-NWA -CON-06** The 3GPP management system shall, based on operator
policy, expose suitable APIs externally to the communication services provider
that supports requirements expressed in clause 6.10.2 of TS 22.261 [9].
REQ-NWA -CON-07 The 3GPP management system shall support interaction of
management data with ETSI NFV.
REQ-NWA -CON-08 The 3GPP management system shall be able to coordinate with
other 3GPP management systems to host communication services across multiple
CSPs.
# 7 Potential management and orchestration architecture options
## 7.1 Management functions of next generation networks and services
### 7.1.1 General
The following management functions are to be considered for supporting the
management of the next generation networks and services:
\- Network slice related management functions:
Communication service management function:
\- Feasibility check for communication service and preparation of network
slice requirements
\- Exposure of communication service related data, management functions and
capabilities subject to the agreement of the network operator
\- Lifecycle management (LCM) for communication service
\- Fault management (FM) for communication service
\- Performance management (PM) for communication service
> \- Configuration management (CM) for communication service
>
> Network slice management functions:
>
> \- Network resource discovery function
>
> \- Feasibility check for the network slice and determine the network slice
> subnet related requirements
>
> \- Providing network slice capability information
>
> \- Providing control of appropriate management functionalities and
> management data
>
> \- Network Slice self- optimization, self-configuration and self-healing.
>
> \- Network slice related policy management
>
> \- Lifecycle management (LCM) for Network slice
>
> \- Fault management (FM) for Network slice
>
> \- Performance management (PM) for Network slice
>
> \- Configuration management (CM) for Network slice
>
> Network slice subnet management functions:
>
> \- Network resource discovery function
>
> \- Feasibility check for the network slice subnet and determine the network
> slice subnet related requirements
>
> \- Network slice subnet related policy management
>
> \- Providing network slice subnet capability information
>
> \- Lifecycle management (LCM) for Network slice Subnet
>
> \- Fault management (FM) for Network slice Subnet
>
> \- Performance management (PM) for Network slice Subnet
>
> \- Configuration management (CM) for Network slice Subnet
>
> \- Network slice subnet self- optimization, self-configuration and self-
> healing
\- 5G Network function related management functions:
\- Fault Management (FM) for 5G Network function
\- Performance Management (PM) for 5G Network function
\- Configuration Management (CM) for 5G Network function
\- Trace Management for 5G Network function
\- MDT for 5G Network function
\- SON (self-configuration/self-healing/ANR/MRO/ES/SWM) for 5G Network
function
\- EntryPoint management function (EPM) for 5G Network function
> Note 1: Whether or not further management functions need to be added in the
> management and orchestration architecture is not addressed in this document.
>
> Note 2: Whether the services of the management functions are consumed by
> external or internal functions is not addressed in this document.
There are four groups of objects which are necessary to be managed in the
context of 5G network management:
\- 5G services
\- 5G slice instances
\- 5G network functions
\- Resources including virtual resources or non-virtual resources which
support the 5G network
### 7.1.2 Principles to be considered for 5G management architecture
The following principles should be taken into account for the 5G management
architecture:
1) The architecture should investigate the relation and interaction between
slicing management functions (NSMF/NSSMF) and MANO.
2) The architecture should consider the relation between slicing management
functions (NSMF/NSSMF) and OSS/NM/EM.
3) Separate the view from the functional aspects and deployment aspects.
4) The architecture should show the interface with the Transport network
manager.
## 7.2 Management interfaces of next generation networks and services
### 7.2.1 Management interfaces
### 7.2.1.1 Fault Management interfaces
The list of necessary fault management interfaces will be addressed in the
normative phase.
### 7.2.1.2 Performance Management interfaces
The list of necessary performance management interfaces will be addressed in
the normative phase.
### 7.2.1.3 Configuration Management interfaces
The list of necessary configuration management interfaces will be addressed in
the normative phase.
### 7.2.1.4 Trace Management interfaces
The list of necessary Trace management interfaces will be addressed in the
normative phase.
### 7.2.1.5 MDT interfaces
The list of necessary MDT interfaces will be addressed in the normative phase.
### 7.2.1.6 SON interfaces
The list of necessary SON interfaces will be addressed in the normative phase.
### 7.2.1.7 EntryPoint management interfaces
The list of necessary EntryPoint management interfaces will be addressed in
the normative phase.
7.2.1.8 Notification Log management interfaces
The list of necessary notification log management interfaces will be addressed
in the normative phase.
7.2.1.9 Notification management interfaces
The list of necessary notification management interfaces will be addressed in
the normative phase.
7.2.1.10 Network provisioning interfaces
The list of necessary network provisioning interfaces will be addressed in the
normative phase.
## 7.3 Potential Management architecture
## 7.3.1 Service based management architecture
There are the following management layers related to the 5G management:
\- Service management layer
\- Network management layer
\- NF management layer
The following diagram is an example of positioning of management functions to
each layer.
Figure 7.3.1-1 Example of layering architecture and management functions
## 7.3.2 Integrated management and orchestration architecture
This clause provides an example of potential integrated network and network
slicing management and orchestration architecture for 5G.
The Network and Network Slice Management Function (NNSMF) is responsible for
the management of network and network slice. NNSMF also provides the
standardized interface_1 to the Service Manager who is using the network and
network slice.
Sets of network functions and Network Slice Subnet Management Function (SNMF)
are responsible for the management of sets of network functions and network
slice subnet. SNMF also provides the standardized interface_2 to NNSMF.
NF Management Function (NFMF) is responsible for the management of network
function. NFMF also provides standardized interface_3 to SNMF.
Figure 7.3.2-1 An example of potential integrated management architecture
Note1: the NFMF is not addressed in this document. The NFMF mentioned there is
just show that SNMF consume management services for NF.
Note2: the definition of NNSMF and SNMF is not addressed in this document.
## 7.3.3 Management Architecture for Multiple Operators communication
### 7.3.3.1 Solution options for FM and PM for services hosted across multiple
operators
##### 7.3.3.1.1 Introduction
An operator (Operator-A) hosts a 5G communication service for a CSP by
realizing it over multiple other operators\' networks.
##### 7.3.3.1.2 Option 1: FM and PM data collection and reporting by single
operator
The first option of FM and PM data collection and reporting of the service
initiated by Operator-A consists of the following steps:
1) Operator-A agrees with other Operators to collect and report, at the agreed
limit of exposure, the FM and PM data of the service to a data repository (Y).
2) In accordance with the said agreement, other Operators start monitoring the
service and report FM and PM data to the repository (Y).
3) Operator-A sends a notification to the communication service provider on
the availability of FM and PM data at the repository (Y).
4) The communication service provider can fetch available FM and PM data.
##### 7.3.3.1.3 Option 2: FM and PM data collection and reporting by multiple
operators individually
The second option of FM and PM data collection and reporting of the service is
initiated by the operator-A, with individual reports by the other operators,
consists of the following steps:
1) Operator-A agrees with other Operators to collect and report the FM and PM
data of the service to the repository (X~op~) that may be specific to each
operator.
2) All operators agree with the communication service provider the agreed
limit of exposure of the FM and PM data of the service.
3) In accordance with the said agreement, all Operators start monitoring the
service and FM and PM data are reported directly to their respective
repository (X~op~).
4) Each operator sends a notification to the CSP of the availability of FM and
PM data at the repository (X~op~).
5) The CSP provider can fetch available FM and PM data.
### 7.3.3.2 Potential architecture to support 5G communication services across
multiple operators
A 5G communication service that is hosted across multiple operators may
require the exposure of interfaces by a network owning operator to a 3^rd^
party: either the communication services provider (item 5.8) or to another
operator (item 5.7). Over this interface any of the following managed entities
may be managed by the 3^rd^ party with the agreed upon level of exposure:
\- A communication service,
\- An NSI or a part of an NSI.
The operator owning the network agrees previously with the 3^rd^ party to the
appropriate type of interface exposure, which may provide, amongst others, the
ability to
\- request life cycle management of a communication service, an NSI or part of
an NSI including specifying various parameters for the request such as the
appropriate SLA, penalties for SLA violation
\- issue requests for collecting monitoring data for any of existing managed
entities
\- request re-configuration of an existing managed entity
The operator can report the success or failure of a request to the 3^rd^ party
over the exposed interface.
### 7.3.3.3 Potential scenarios for the management of communication services
across multiple CSPs
##### 7.3.3.3.1 Introduction
A communication service customer requests a communication service to a
communication service provider (CSP). Based on the services offered by
multiple other CSPs, the CSP may host and manage the communication service
over multiple CSPs. The following scenarios are possible
##### 7.3.3.3.2 Option 1: A communication service composed of multiple
communication services
\- The CSP decomposes a communication service to multiple communication
services and determines to host these multiple communication services in other
CSP networks.
\- The CSP sends a request to host a part of the communication service to
other multiple CSPs with the required parameters. The parameters include but
are not limited to the service identifier the network requirements of the
composed communication service, suitable APIs (e.g., PM/FM exposure), etc.
\- After receiving the request, each of the other CSPs creates the service.
During the creation of the composed communication service.
\- The CSP may receive the acknowledgement from each of the multiple other
CSPs after a successful deployment of the service, the acknowledgement may
include the appropriate information to identify the partial communication
service.
\- The CSP can provide the end-to-end management of the communication service
to the customer.
Note: A detailed specification of this option may be out of 3GPP scope
##### 7.3.3.3.3 Option 2: A communication service hosted on of multiple
network slice instances
\- The CSP creates a communication service and decomposes the communication
service with multiple network slice instances and determines to host the
multiple network slice instances in multiple other network providers'.
\- The CSP sends a request to host a network slice instance to each of
multiple other network providers with the required parameters. The parameters
include but are not limited to respective identifiers the network requirements
of the composed network slice instance, suitable APIs (e.g., PM/FM exposure),
etc.
\- After receiving the request, each of multiple other network providers
create the network slice instance as specified in TR 28.801 [8].
\- The CSP may receive the acknowledgement from each of the multiple other
network providers after a successful deployment of the network slice instance,
the acknowledgement may include the appropriate information to identify the
instantiated NSI.
\- The CSP can provide the end-to-end management of the communication service
to the customer.
## 7.3.4 Network slice management functions
This clause describes an example of network slice management functions.
The CSMF consumes, via standardized interface (A), the network slice
management service provided by NSMF.
The NSMF consumes, via standardized interface (B), the network slice subnet
management service provided by NSSMF.
The NSSMF consumes, via standard interfaces (Cs), the FCAPS management
services provided by the Network Functions.
**NSSMF and NSMF may include (comprise) a range of sub-functionalities
offering management services.**
The NSSMF and NSMF consume via MANO defined interfaces, the ETSI NFV defined
NS management services provided by ETSI defined NFVO;
Figure 7.3.4-1 Network slice management functions (an example)
Note: The term Network Function (NF) is defined by TS 23.501[7]. The use of
this term here needs qualification as the set of entities identified is not
identical to the set under NSMF/NSSMF management.
## 7.4 Potential management data interaction with NFV-MANO
### 7.4.1 General
When the network slice being built on the virtualisation environment and the
network slice resource management is supported by the NFV-MANO, data
interaction between management functions supporting network slicing and NFV-
MANO is used.
### 7.4.2 Management architecture relation between slicing management
functions and NFV-MANO
#### 7.4.2.1 Option A: NSSMF Interacts Management Data with NFV-MANO
Assuming NSSIs are assumed to fully or partially build on the virtualization
environment managed by NFV-MANO as shown in Figure 7.4.2.1-1. The management
data interaction between NSSMF and NFV-MANO may contain network service
lifecycle management data, virtual resource performance management data, and
virtual resource fault management data.
{width="4.027083333333334in" height="2.338888888888889in"}
Figure 7.4.2.1-1: NSSMF interactions with NFVO of NFV-MANO management system
In case that NSSMF interacts with NFV-MANO, the management data interactions
are given as following:
\- NSSMF may request on-boarding of NSD to NFVO serving a network slice
subnet;
\- NSSMF may request NS lifecycle management from NFVO serving a network slice
subnet;
\- NSSMF may request NFVO to create a network service supporting a network
slice subnet instance.
NSSMF may request connectivity service to TN management system.
# 8 Conclusions
The management and orchestration architecture of next generation networks and
services has considered the following scenarios:
\- Management of the networks containing non-5G NE and 5G NE
\- Management and orchestration for network slicing
\- FM and PM data collection and reporting for single and multiple operators
\- Management and orchestration for management of 5G-RAN and 5GC
\- Management of communication services
\- Exposure of management interfaces to another operator
\- Exposure of management interfaces to communication services provider
\- Management and orchestration of networks with non-3GPP parts
The following potential management solutions are studied:
\- Service based management architecture
\- Architecture relation between slicing management and NFV-MANO
\- Management architecture for multiple operators communication
The potential management interfaces, management architecture related
requirements and principles to be considered for 5G management architecture
are also studied.
# 9 Recommendations
It is recommended to start normative work on the management architecture for
the 5G network in Rel-15.
It is recommended to consider a management architecture to support
\- network management
\- network slicing management
\- 5G Core and RAN management
\- management across multiple operators' scenario
\- interaction with non-3GPP management system e.g. NFV-MANO
It is recommended to continue the details on service based management
architecture, management services, and position of management services in
different management layers in Rel-15.
#