# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the Work Item on E-UTRA
medium range and MSR medium range/local area BS class requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[5] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[6] 3GPP TR 25.951: \"FDD Base Station (BS) classification\".
[7] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[8] 3GPP TR 36.931: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) requirements for LTE Pico Node B\".
[9] CEPT/ERC/Recommendation 74-01 (Siófok 98, Nice 99, Sesimbra 02, Hradec
Kralove 05, Cardiff 11), \"Unwanted Emissions in the Spurious Domain
[10] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 51.021: \"Base Station System (BSS) equipment specification;
Radio aspects\".
[12] 3GPP TR 37.900: \"Radio Frequency (RF) requirements for Multicarrier and
Multiple Radio Access Technology (Multi-RAT) Base Station (BS)\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Local Area Base Station:** Base station are characterised by requirements
derived from Pico Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals
to 45 dB.
**Medium Range Base Station:** Base station characterised by requirements
derived from Micro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals
to 53 dB.
**Wide Area Base Station:** Base station are characterised by requirements
derived from Macro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals
to 70 dB.
NOTE: The Wide Area Base Station class has the same requirements as the base
station for General Purpose application in Release 99, 4 and 5 for UTRA BS,
Release 8 for E-UTRA BS and Release 9 and 10 for MSR BS.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_B_ Receiver nose bandwidth
_NF_ Noise Figure
_N_ ~Thermal~ Thermal noise level at the receiver
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ration
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ration
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
CACLR Cumulative Adjacent Channel Leakage Ration
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
LA Local Area
MR Medium Range
PCx Power Control Set x
ppm Parts per million
SEM Spectrum Emissions Mask
UEM Unwanted Emissions Mask
WA Wide Area
# 4 General
## 4.1 Work item objective
The objective of the work item is to specify the RF requirements for E-UTRA
medium range and MSR medium range and local area BS classes.
The work will focus on the following steps:
1\. Investigation of the possibility to re-use existing work in RAN4 related
to BS classes (see 2.2).
2\. Creation of new core requirements for E-UTRA medium range BS class for FDD
and TDD.
3\. Creation of new core requirements for MSR medium range and local area BS
classes, covering BC1 (UTRA + E-UTRA) and BC2 (GSM+UTRA + E-UTRA)
requirements.
4\. Development of test requirements corresponding to new core requirements
for the added BS classes.
The following specification work is required:
a. Core requirements for RAN4 E-UTRA and MSR specifications based on MSR
principles and the RAT specific requirements.
b. Test requirements for RAN4 E-UTRA and MSR specifications, derived from the
core requirements.
# 5 Re-use of existing RAN4 work on BS classes
Simulation parameters and assumptions used in the present work are partly re-
used from previous studies of Medium range and Local Area BS classes in 3GPP
TR 25.942 [5], 3GPP TR 25.951 [6], 3GPP TR 36.942 [7] and 3GPP TR 36.931 [8],
as outlined in clause 6.
# 6 RF scenarios for the BS classes
## 6.1 Base station class definitions
For both UTRA and E-UTRA, the BS classes are defined based on the RF scenarios
expected for the BS deployment, defined in terms of the Minimum Coupling Loss
(MCL) between BS and UE. The following definitions are used 3GPP TS 25.104 [2]
and 3GPP TS 36.104 [3]:
**\- Wide Area (WA) Base Stations** are characterised by requirements derived
from Macro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 70
dB. The Wide Area Base Station class has the same requirements as the base
station for General Purpose application in Release 99, 4 and 5 for UTRA BS,
Release 8 for E-UTRA BS and Release 9 and 10 for MSR BS.
**\- Medium Range (MR) Base Stations** are characterised by requirements
derived from Micro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals
to 53 dB.
**\- Local Area (LA) Base Stations** are characterised by requirements derived
from Pico Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 45
dB.
In order to align with previous work and to allow for harmonized MSR BS
definitions, the same BS class definitions should be re-used for E-UTRA BS
(medium range) and MSR BS (medium range and local area)
New BS classes are introduced in the GSM/EDGE specifications 3GPP TS 45.005
[10] and 3GPP TS 51.021 [11], where Wide Area multicarrier BTS, Medium Range
multicarrier BTS and Local Area multicarrier BTS are defined. For GSM/EDGE
operation of an MSR BS, the applicable multicarrier BTS class will apply.
## 6.2 Co-existence simulation cases
The cases in Table 6.2-.1 are identified for co-existence simulations. Further
simulation parameters are identified in subclause 6.3 and the simulation
results are summarized in Annex C.
Table 6.2-1: Overview of simulation cases
+-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Case | Ag | Victim | Si | Network | Sta | Target | | | gressor | | mulated | Layout | tistics | RF | | | | | link | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E1a | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | Uplink | Micro + | Thr | Re | | | | | | micro\ | oughput | ference | | | Micro | Micro | | (Figure | loss | sens | | | | | | 6.3 | | itivity | | | | | | .1.2-6) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E1b-1 | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | Uplink | Micro | Thr | Re | | | | | | +\ | oughput | ference | | | Micro | Macro | | Macro | loss | sens | | | | | | (ISD = | | itivity | | | | | | 500 m) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Figure | | | | | | | | 6.3 | | | | | | | | .1.2-3) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E1b-2 | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | Uplink | Micro | Thr | Re | | | | | | +\ | oughput | ference | | | Micro | Macro | | Macro | loss | sens | | | | | | (ISD = | | itivity | | | | | | 1723 m) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Figure | | | | | | | | 6.3 | | | | | | | | .1.2-4) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E2a | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | Uplink | Micro + | Int | In-band | | | | | | micro\ | erferer | b | | | Micro | Micro | | (Figure | levels | locking | | | | | | 6.3 | at | | | | | | | .1.2-6) | victim | | | | | | | | BS | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E2b-1 | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | Uplink | Micro | Int | In-band | | | | | | +\ | erferer | b | | | Macro | Micro | | Macro | levels | locking | | | | | | (ISD = | at | | | | | | | 500 m) | victim | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | (Figure | | | | | | | | 6.3 | | | | | | | | .1.2-3) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E2b-2 | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | Uplink | Micro | Int | In-band | | | | | | +\ | erferer | b | | | Macro | Micro | | Macro | levels | locking | | | | | | (ISD = | at | | | | | | | 1723 m) | victim | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | (Figure | | | | | | | | 6.3 | | | | | | | | .1.2-4) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | U1a | E-UTRA | UTRA | Uplink | Micro + | C | Re | | | | | | micro | apacity | ference | | | Micro | Micro | | (Figure | loss | sens | | | | | | 6.3 | | itivity | | | | | | .1.2-6) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | U1b-1 | E-UTRA | UTRA | Uplink | Micro + | C | Re | | | | | | Macro | apacity | ference | | | Micro | Macro | | (ISD = | loss | sens | | | | | | 500 m) | | itivity | | | | | | (Figure | | | | | | | | 6.3 | | | | | | | | .1.2-3) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | U1b-2 | E-UTRA | UTRA | Uplink | Micro + | C | Re | | | | | | Macro | apacity | ference | | | Micro | Macro | | (ISD = | loss | sens | | | | | | 1723 m) | | itivity | | | | | | (Figure | | | | | | | | 6.3 | | | | | | | | .1.2-4) | | | +-------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 6.3 Co-existence simulation parameters
### 6.3.1 Network layouts
#### 6.3.1.1 Macro network layout
The macro cell network is a tri-sector layout consisting of 57 cells with base
stations located at 19 sites as shown in Figure 6.3.1.1-1. The layout is taken
from TR 25.942 3GPP [5], Figure 4.4. The ISD is 500m or 1732 m.
{width="4.522916666666666in" height="3.438888888888889in"}
Figure 6.3.1.1-1: Macro cell tri-sector layout from Figure 4.4 of 3GPP
TR36.942 [7]
#### 6.3.1.2 Micro network layouts
A modified version of the Manhattan grid pattern from 3GPP TR 25.942 [5]
(Figure 4.8) is used as a micro cell layout. The proposed modification
produces a symmetrical grid pattern that can be replicated into a larger grid.
An additional column with 3 new nodes has been added resulting in a 12 by 12
block grid, as shown in Figure 6.3.1.2-1.
In addition, 3 nodes on the top of the grid have been removed since they are
redundant with the nodes on the bottom of the original grid when wrap-around
is employed. As per the Manhattan grid definition in 3GPP TR 25.942 [5], each
block is 75m x 75m and each street is 15m wide. This results in the modified
grid having a dimension of 1080m x 1080m.
Figure 6.3.1.2-1: Micro cellular Manhattan grid pattern (modified version of
the 3GPP TR 25.942 [5] grid).
To ensure that at least one macro cell is covered when the micro cells are
overlaid on the larger macro cell layout with ISD 1732 m, a larger Manhattan
is grid used, formed by a four-fold replication of the Manhattan grid in
Figure 6.3.1.2-1. This extended grid is shown below in Figure 6.3.1.2-2.
Figure 6.3.1.2-2: Four-fold replication of modified grid pattern of Figure
6.3.1.2-1 above.
For micro-to-macro and macro-to-micro simulations, the following layouts are
used for the overlaid patterns:
\- In case of an ISD of 500 m for the macro network, the layout of Figure
6.3.1.2-3 is used, with the 12 column micro grid pattern centred over the
corner between cell#3/19/20 of the macro network.
\- In case of an ISD of 1732 m for the macro network, the layout of Figure
6.3.1.2-4 is used, with the extended (four-fold) micro grid pattern centred
over the corner between cell#3/19/20 of the macro network.
For these simulations, in the area that is overlapped by the Micro network's
Manhattan grid, UEs should only be dropped in the streets. In order to
maintain the same Macro UE density per cell as in the area not covered by the
Micro network, the following principle should be used:
1\. Macro UEs are first dropped with a uniform distribution over the whole
Macro grid area, both in the part not covered by the micro network and in the
part that is overlapped by the micro network.
2\. In the area overlapping with the micro network, UEs that were dropped
indoor are identified. These UEs are then dropped again, uniformly over the
outdoor "half-street" area surrounding the indoor block, as shown in Figure
6.3.1.2-5.
Figure 6.3.1.2-3: Manhattan grid micro node network overlaid on a Case 1 (ISD
= 500 m) macro network. The Manhattan grid is centred on the corner between
cell#3/19/20 in the macro network.
Figure 6.3.1.2-4: Four-fold replication of the Manhattan grid micro node
network overlaid on a Case 3 (ISD = 1732 m) macro network. The overlaid grid
is centered on corner between cell#3/19/20 of the macro network.
Figure 6.3.1.2-5: Method of re-distributing UEs from the indoor to the street
area.
For micro-to-micro simulations with overlaid patterns, the following layout is
used for the overlaid patterns:
\- The layout of Figure 6.3.1.2-6 is used, with the modified 12 column micro
grid pattern overlaid on a second modified grid pattern.
Figure 6.3.1.2-6: Modified Manhattan micro network grid overlaid on a modified
Manhattan micro network grid.
### 6.3.2 Deployment parameters
Table 6.3.2-1: Macro cell deployment parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation Parameter | Parameter value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Grid Pattern | Hex grid 19 sites/57 cells | | | (Figure 6.3.1.1-1) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell sectorization | Tri-sector | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro cell radius | ISDs of 500 m and 1732 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna pattern | Antenna Pattern for 3-Sector | | | Cells according to 3GPP | | | TR 36.942 [7] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain (including losses)\ | 15 dBi | | a) Base station\ | | | b) Mobile | 0 dBi UE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MCL (Macro BS-to-UE) | 70 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Log-normal shadow fading\ | 10 dB | | Standard deviation\ | | | Macro site to micro site | 0 | | correlation | | | | 0.5 | | Macro site-to-macro site | | | correlation | 0.5 | | | | | Micro site to micro site | 1 | | correlation\ | | | Intra site correlation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UEs | 3 active UE drops per sector per | | | snapshot\ | | | (as defined in 3GPP TR 36.942 | | | [7]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro UE distribution in area | Random and uniform distribution | | covered by Macro network, but | | | not covered by Micro network | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro UE distribution in area | Random and uniform distribution | | overlapped by Micro network | over the streets of the | | | Manhattan grid according to the | | | description in 6.3.1.2 and | | | Figure 6.3.1.2-5. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Collection of output statistics | Use cell#3 in the Macro grid | | | (See figure 6.3.1.2-3 and | | | 6.3.1.2-4) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.3.2-2: Micro cell deployment parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation Parameter | Agreed assumptions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Grid Pattern | Manhattan grid (modified) | | | (Figure 6.31.2-1 (12x12) or | | | 6.3.1.2-2 (24x24)) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell sectorization | Omni | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna pattern | Omni-directional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain (including losses)\ | 11 dBi | | a) Base station\ | | | b) Mobile | 0 dBi UE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MCL (Micro BS-to-UE) | 53 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Log-normal shadow fading\ | 8 dB | | Standard deviation\ | | | Site-to-site correlation\ | 0.5 | | Intra site correlation | | | | 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UEs | 3 active UE drops per micro cell | | | per snapshot | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE distribution | Random and uniform distribution | | | over the streets of the | | | Manhattan grid | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Collection of output statistics | 12x12 grid: Use the "center" 7 | | | cells as identified in Figure | | | 6.3.1.2-1. | | | | | | 24x24 "extended grid": Use the | | | "center" 7 cells in Figure | | | 6.3.1.2-2 (centered on the mid | | | point of the grid). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.3.3 System parameters
Table 6.3.3-1: Simulation Assumptions for E-UTRA macro cell
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Simulation Parameter | Parameter value | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10 MHz | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | | | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | | | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Noise figure | 5 dB | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Maximum TX power for | 46 dBm/10 MHz | | | | | LTE macro BS | 23 dBm | | | | | UE | | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Minimum TX power LTE UE | -40 dBm | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Power control for LTE UE | PC1 and PC2 model from 3GPP TR 36.942 | | | [7]. | | | | | | NOTE: PL-xile for ISD1732m Macro cell | | | may need to be reconsidered. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | ACIR | Fixed -30/-43 dB, using ACIR model in | | | clause 5.1.1.3 of 3GPP TR 36.942 [7] | | | (with X=0) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
Table 6.3.3-2: Simulation Assumptions for UTRA macro cell
* * *
Simulation Parameter Parameter value Bandwidth 3.84 MHz Noise figure 5 dB UL
SINR target for UTRA 6.1 dB (for speech) in section 5.1.6.2.1 of TR 25.942
3GPP [5] Processing gain for UTRA 25dB Maximum TX power for UTRA UE 21 dBm
Minimum TX power for UTRA UE -44 dBm Power control for UTRA UE Fast inner loop
power control in section 5.1.6.2 of 3GPP TR 25.942 [5] ACIR Fixed
-30/-43/-49dB, using ACIR model (EUTRA to UTRA) in clause 12.1.3.1 of 3GPP TR
36.942 [7] (with X=0)
* * *
Table 6.3.3-3: Simulation Assumptions for E-UTRA micro cell
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Simulation Parameter | Parameter value | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10 MHz | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | | | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | | | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Noise figure | 5-13 dB (Minimum range to cover) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Maximum TX power for | 38 dBm/10 MHz | | | | | LTE Micro BS | 23 dBm | | | | | UE | | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Minimum TX power LTE UE | -40 dBm | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Power control for LTE UE | PC model in section 6.3.5. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | ACIR | Fixed -30/-43 dB, using ACIR model in | | | clause 5.1.1.3 of 3GPP TR 36.942 [7] | | | (with X=0) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Number of UEs | 3 active UE drops per micro cell per | | | snapshot | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | UE distribution | Uniformly distributed in the streets of | | | the Manhattan grid | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
Table 6.3.3-4: Simulation Assumptions for UTRA micro cell
* * *
Simulation Parameter Parameter value Bandwidth 3.84 MHz Noise figure 15 dB UE
distribution Uniformly distributed in the streets of the Manhattan grid UL
SINR target for UTRA 3.3 dB (for speech) in section 5.1.6.2.1 of 3GPP TR
25.942 [5] Processing gain for UTRA 25 dB Maximum TX power for UTRA UE 21 dBm
Minimum TX power for UTRA UE -44 dBm Power control for UTRA UE Fast inner loop
power control in section 5.1.6.2 of 3GPP TR 25.942 [5] ACIR Fixed
-30/-43/-49dB, using ACIR model (EUTRA to UTRA) in clause 12.1.3.1 of 3GPP TR
36.942 [7] (with X=0)
* * *
The thermal noise level at the receiver to use in the simulations is
determined from the Noise figure (NF) and the receiver noise Bandwidth (B) as
follows:
It should be noted that the total thermal noise at the receiver is calculated
with the actual 10 MHz channel bandwidth (9 MHz noise BW in 50 RBs) according
to the equation above, while the BS reference sensitivity is based on a 25 RB
wanted signal and corresponding noise bandwidth (4.5 MHz) (refer to section
7.2.1 in TS 36.104 [3]).
Table 6.3.3-5: Common Simulation parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation Parameter | Parameter value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency (for | 2 GHz | | propagation model) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Data traffic model | Full buffer traffic | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cell selection | Based on a simple path loss | | | criteria (including shadowing) | | | in the UEs own network | | | | | | (each micro and/or macro network | | | is independent, i.e. no | | | overlay/underlay network is | | | assumed) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Performance evaluation | Throughput loss criteria apply | | | to E-UTRA to E-UTRA co-existence | | | simulations, as derived from the | | | truncated Shannon bound approach | | | of 3GPP TR36.942 [7]. | | | | | | Capacity loss criteria apply to | | | E-UTRA to UTRA co-existence | | | simulations: the number of users | | | corresponding to a 6 dB noise | | | rise over the thermal noise in | | | the UL as defined in 3GPP | | | TR25.942 [5]. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Output statistics (Impact on BS | The noise floor versus | | noise floor) | throughput loss (5th percentile | | | and average) of the victim | | | networks; Plots for macro & | | | micro victim BS. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Output statistics (Interferer | Cdf of the received interference | | levels) | power in dBm from an aggressor | | | (Enlarged to show 99.99% point) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.3.4 Propagations models
#### 6.3.4.1 Macro cell model
For UEs assigned to macro cells, the model of paragraph 4.5.2 of 3GPP TR
36.942 [7] applies, assuming a carrier frequency of 2 GHz. For the micro-to-
macro scenario, this model also applies for propagation between UEs assigned
to a micro cell and a macro BS.
#### 6.3.4.2 Micro cell model
For UEs assigned to micro cells, the model of 3GPP TR 25.942 [5] as defined in
paragraph 5.1.4.3 applies. For the macro-to-micro scenario, this model also
applies for propagation between UEs assigned to a macro cell and a micro BS.
### 6.3.5 Power control model (PC3)
In TR36.942, the following power control equations are used for coexistence
studying:
$P_{t} = P_{\text{max}} \times \text{min}\left{ 1,\ \text{max}\left\lbrack
R_{\text{min}},\ \left( \frac{\text{CL}}{\text{CL}_{x - \text{ile}}}
\right)^{\gamma} \right\rbrack \right}$ (1)
The principles of selecting uplink power control parameters for E-UTRA Macro
BS in Rel-8 coexistence studying could be adopted for E-UTRA Micro BS as
following:
\- To ensure coexistence as much as possible, the interference caused by the
interfering UEs to the victim UTRA or E-UTRA system should be minimized. This
implies that the interfering UEs transmit power should be tightly controlled.
\- To provide realistic coexistence results, the aggressor E-UTRA systems are
expected to operate under normal conditions, in other words, have both good
cell throughput and cell edge user throughput.
The power control parameters can be selected depending on the scenarios and
above principles.
# 7 RF requirements for Medium Range BS
## 7.1 Void
## 7.2 Base station output power
In TS 36.104, E-UTRA BS reuses the definitions of output power, rated output
power and maximum output power in TS25.104. Therefore it is suggested that
E-UTRA MR BS could also reuse UTRA MR BS rated output power requirement. For
MSR MR BS, it is recommended to align its rated carrier output power with UTRA
MR BS rated output power requirement as well in order to harmonize the
requirement among different specifications.
## 7.3 Frequency error
Frequency error for MR is a single RAT requirement that is referenced from the
MSR specification and it thus only needs to be specified in the E-UTRA
specification. Selecting a value aligned with the UTRA MR frequency error
requirement (±0.1 ppm) will allow for same relaxation for E-UTRA MR BS
(compared to WA) and also provides harmonization between RATs.
## 7.4 Spurious emissions (additional)
The mandatory spurious emission limits for Category A and B remain unchanged,
since they are based on regulation and do not depend on BS class. The
requirements for "co-existence with systems operating in other frequency
bands" are in general not based on regulation and are also defined independent
of BS classes, except for the specific requirement for Home BS, which is based
on a very different scenario.
The requirement for protection of own BS receiver and the limits for co-
location with other BS are however dependent on BS class. The spurious
emission limit for receiver protection and co-location are based on a 30 dB
MCL (BS Tx to BS Rx) and 0.8 dB allowed degradation of the BS receiver 3GPP TR
37.900 [12].
### 7.4.1 Requirement for E-UTRA BS
The MR BS requirements for protection of BS receiver and co-location are both
derived from the MR BS reference sensitivity that is set with 5 dB
desensitization compared to a WA BS. This results in a limit of -91 dBm in 100
kHz.
### 7.4.2 Requirement for MSR
Due to the different Reference Sensitivity of the MR and LA BS class, the
requirements for protection of BS receiver and co-location will also be
different for MR BS, set by the most restrictive (lowest) of the UTRA and
E-UTRA values. For Medium Range MSR BS, the limits (measured in 100 kHz) are
set to ‑91 dBm, being the most restrictive of ‑91 dBm (from E-UTRA) and ‑86
dBm (from UTRA).
## 7.5 Operating band unwanted emissions
### 7.5.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
The same methodology as that for Macro BS is used for deriving E-UTRA MR BS
unwanted emission mask.
Specifically the following points are considered.
1\. UEM should reflect the scaling of E-UTRA MR BS output power from 38dBm
down to 31dBm.
2\. Separate UEM should be defined for 1.4 MHz, 3 MHz, 5 MHz and above channel
bandwidth
3\. Same amount of relaxation as that for E-UTRA Wide Area BS should be
considered in the first adjacent channel for E-UTRA MR BS
4\. E-UTRA ACLR2 requirement should be maintained for the UEM in the 2nd
adjacent channel. For channel bandwidth higher than 5 MHz a 1.5 dB margin is
considered, which is the same as for the corresponding mask for E-UTRA Wide
Area BS.
5\. The emission requirement in the spurious emission domain is a natural
extension in the 2nd adjacent channel but over ruled by the -15dBm/MHz
regulatory requirement.
Based on these considerations, the E-UTRA MR BS UEM is plotted in figure
7.5.1-1.
Figure 7.5.1-1: UEM for E-UTRA MR BS (38dBm)
### 7.5.2 Requirement for MSR
#### 7.5.2.1 Requirement for BC1
The generic operating band unwanted emissions limits for Wide Area BS is based
on stricter limit between E-UTRA and UTRA mask. In this way the co-existence
is guaranteed. The same derivation principle could be taken for Medium Range
BS.
Both UTRA and E-UTRA Medium Range UEM limits are set relative to the output
power from 38dBm down to 31 dBm. For output power below 31 dBm, the UEM would
have only absolute limits. Thus the same condition shall apply for MSR Medium
Range UEM.
The additional 200 kHz offset between small carrier channel (1.4 and 3 MHz)
edge and RF BW edge should be considered for BC1. It results the 1.4 and 3 MHz
E-UTRA masks are shifted 200 kHz leftwards in figure 7.5.2.1-1 and 7.5.2.1-2.
In addition, this methodology shall not apply for BC2 since no additional
frequency offset is allowed.
By comparing UTRA mask and E-UTRA mask for each bandwidth in figure 7.5.2.1-1
and 7.5.2.1-2, it could be observed that 5 MHz E-UTRA mask dominates the near
end and UTRA mask dominates the remaining part. The only exception is when the
maximum output power is larger than 37 dBm, where the limit should be no
higher than -15 dBm/MHz in 2.6 to 5 MHz frequency offset, restricted by the
spurious emissions of 1.4 MHz bandwidth carrier. The resulting UEM for MSR
Medium Range is shown as a pink curve in figure 7.5.2.1-1 and 7.5.2.1-2. The
slope of the near-end of the MR-BS mask is chosen as 5/3 instead of 7/5 (from
E-UTRA mask) in order to ensure that the mask is contiguous at ∆f = 0.6 MHz.
The crossover point between 5 MHz E-UTRA mask and UTRA mask would be fixed at
frequency offset value of about 0.6 MHz through calculation.
{width="3.9298611111111112in" height="2.8875in"}
Figure 7.5.2.1-1 comparison of UEM (Pout = 38 dBm)
{width="4.06875in" height="2.9131944444444446in"}
Figure 7.5.2.1-2 comparison of UEM (Pout \<= 31 dBm)
#### 7.5.2.2 Requirement for BC2
When deriving the UEM for the Wide Area MSR BS as shown in 3GPP TR 37.900
[12], the baseline level for the UEM in BC2 is the BC1 mask. As GSM operation
is supported in BC2, a modification is needed when GSM carrier or small E-UTRA
carrier (1.4 or 3 MHz) is placed at the RF bandwidth edge. The reason is that
the GSM modulation spectrum would exceed the BC1 mask in the near end of
unwanted emissions domain.
A similar modification can be made to the BC1 mask of MSR Medium Range BS in
order to form a BC2 mask. It is proposed that the modified part of the mask
would be based on the MR MCBTS mask (TS45.005 Subclause 4.2.1) for 8PSK at
Pout = 38 dBm. Note that for MR MCBTS, the mask described by table for normal
BTS in 3GPP TS 45.005 [10] is re-used. For output power levels between 31 dBm
and 38 dBm, the mask limits are set relative to the output power in the same
way as the baseline BC1 mask.
According to figure 7.5.2.2-1, the first \~150 kHz outside the RF bandwidth
edge would be restricted based on GSM spectrum mask.
{width="4.791666666666667in" height="3.1979166666666665in"}
Figure 7.5.2.2-1 UEM for BC2 with a modified level based on an 8PSK GSM MR
MCBTS mask (Pout = 38 dBm)
## 7.6 ACLR
### 7.6.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
BS transmitter ACLR, together with the UE receiver ACS, determines the RF
isolation (see equation 6.6-1) between aggressor system and the victim system.
Since the ACS of UE is specified as a constant and unified value of 33dB
irrespective of the operating condition, further tightening ACLR requirement
beyond 45dB has little improvement on ACIR. Also considering that 45dB has
been adopted by Macro eNB, Pico eNB and HeNB, there is also no need to further
relax the MR eNB ACLR requirement below 45dB from implementation point of
view.
45dB is reused for E-UTRA MR BS relative ACLR requirement.
For the E-UTRA ACLR requirement, there are absolute ACLR limits set at -13
dBm/MHz and -15 dBm/MHz respectively for Category A and B emission limits. The
levels align with the unwanted emission mask limits that apply more than 10
MHz from the channel edges. While there is no absolute ACLR limit set for UTRA
MR BS, there is a "floor" in terms of a lowest limit for the UTRA spectrum
mask at -25 dBm/MHz.
A level of -25 dBm/MHz is chosen as an absolute limit for MR BS ACLR for
multiple reasons:
1\. The absolute ACLR limit for E-UTRA MR BS class should be in the range
between -15dBm/MHz and -32dBm/MHz, which are the limits for WA and LA BS.
Taking MSR requirements into consideration, an E-UTRA MR absolute ACLR limit
of -25 dBm/MHz is aligned with the lower bound of the SEM for UTRA at similar
power level.
2\. A -25 dBm/MHz absolute limit can be compared with the ACLR limit for the
frequency ranges concerned. It would then correspond to at least a 45 dB ACLR
down to a BS power level of 26 dBm for carriers up to 5 MHz channel BW.
3\. Another way of expressing the point above is that for a BS with 31 dBm
output power (the lowest power for the UTRA mask definition), an absolute
limit of -25 dBm/MHz is 5 dB below the relative ACLR limit.
4\. The chosen value ensures approximately the same level of interference at
victim UEs as for an LA BS as aggressor, taking the LA BS limit of -32 dBm/MHz
and the difference in MCL into account (53 dB vs. 45 dB).
### 7.6.2 Requirement for MSR
ACLR is a single-RAT requirement and does therefore not need to be updated for
the MR E-UTRA BS class.
The CACLR requirement for MSR BS has a _relative_ limit that is general and an
_absolute_ limit that would depend on BS class. For MR MSR BS, the same
absolute CACLR value of -25 dBm/MHz as is used for the E-UTRA MR BS absolute
ACLR.
## 7.7 Transmitter intermodulation
The transmitter intermodulation requirement is a composite requirement where
all unwanted emission requirements apply when an interferer is injected into
the transmitter. The requirement is thus BS class specific, since it
references unwanted emission limits that depend on BS class.
Unwanted emission limits in subclause 6.6 of TS 36.104 are:
\- Clause 6.6.1: Occupied bandwidth;
\- Clause 6.6.2: Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
\- Clause 6.6.3: Operating band unwanted emissions
\- Clause 6.6.4: Transmitter spurious emissions
Unwanted emission limits in subclause 6.6 of TS 37.104 are:
\- Clause 6.6.1: Transmitter spurious emissions
\- Clause 6.6.2: Operating band unwanted emissions
\- Clause 6.6.3: Occupied bandwidth;
\- Clause 6.6.4: Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
As transmitter intermodulation is tested through unwanted emissions through
direct reference to the clauses listed above, there is no need to change the
core requirement in subclause 6.7 of both TS 36.104 and TS 37.104. The
interfering signal is already specified to be 30 dB below the wanted signal in
Table 6.7.1-1 of both TS 36.104 and TS 37.104 and is applicable to all BS
classes.
## 7.8 Reference sensitivity
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a throughput requirement shall be
met for a specified reference measurement channel.
Reference sensitivity for medium range BS is proposed as in Table 7.8-1 based
on 10 dB noise rise.
Table 7.8-1 Medium Range BS reference sensitivity levels
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Reference | | | measurement channel | sensitivity power | | channel bandwidth | | level, PREFSENS | | [MHz] | | | | | | [dBm] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.4 | FRC A1-1 in Annex | -101.8 | | | A.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | FRC A1-2 in Annex | -98.0 | | | A.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | FRC A1-3 in Annex | -96.5 | | | A.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | FRC A1-3 in Annex | -96.5 | | | A.1* | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | FRC A1-3 in Annex | -96.5 | | | A.1* | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | FRC A1-3 in Annex | -96.5 | | | A.1* | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note*: P~REFSENS~ | | | | is the power level | | | | of a single instance | | | | of the reference | | | | measurement channel. | | | | This requirement | | | | shall be met for | | | | each consecutive | | | | application of a | | | | single instance of | | | | FRC A1-3 mapped to | | | | disjoint frequency | | | | ranges with a width | | | | of 25 resource | | | | blocks each | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.8.2 Requirement for MSR
Reference sensitivity requirement in existing MSR specification is specified
as single-RAT only requirement. This requirement can be kept unchanged for MSR
MR BS in TS 37.104.
## 7.9 Receiver dynamic range
### 7.9.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
The receiver dynamic range requirement is derived using the same approach as
for E-UTRA LA BS. The wanted signal and interfering signal are scaled by 5dB
reference sensitivity degradation compared to Macro BS.
### 7.9.2 Requirement for MSR
For both UTRA and E-UTRA, the dynamic range is specified as a measure of the
capability of the receiver to receive a wanted signal in the presence of an
interfering signal inside the received channel bandwidth. In this condition a
throughput requirement for E-UTRA and BER requirement for UTRA shall be met
for a specified reference measurement channel.
The receiver dynamic range for the GSM Base Station is mainly defined by the
Nominal Error Rate requirement, which defines BER limits at considerably
higher received signal levels than the reference sensitivity level.
Since the rationale for and definition of those dynamic range requirements are
very RAT specific, single RAT specifications are used for MSR WA BS in current
TS37.104. Therefore Rx dynamic range requirement for MSR MR BS can be referred
to each single RAT specification as well. No changes are needed for current
TS37.104 due to introduction of MSR MR BS class.
## 7.10 In-band blocking
### 7.10.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
The in-band blocking requirement for E-UTRA BS is in subclause 7.6.1 of 3GPP
TS 36.104 [3]. Simulation results for different blocking scenarios are
presented in clause 6.
The wanted signal mean power is set relative to the reference sensitivity in
the same way as for LA and WA BS. The difference between the wanted signal
level and in-band blocking signal level defines the dynamic range window for
in-band signals and thereby the selectivity of the BS receiver implementation.
Assuming that a Medium Range BS will not have a larger dynamic range window
and thereby no stricter receiver selectivity requirement than a Wide Area BS,
and with a 5 dB desensitization of the receiver as proposed in 3GPP TR 36.942
[7], the in-band blocking level will be ‑43+5dBm = ‑38dBm.
### 7.10.2 Requirement for MSR
The in-band blocking requirement for MSR BS is in subclause 7.4 of 3GPP TS
37.104 [4].
For UTRA MR BS, the blocking requirement is based on a UTRA signal with a mean
power of -35 dBm. The interfering signal is specified with a minimum offset of
10 MHz from the centre frequency of the wanted signal.
For E-UTRA MR BS, the blocking requirement is based on an E-UTRA interfering
signal with mean power of -38 dBm (as derived in subclause 7.10.1) and a
minimum offset from the RF bandwidth edge that depends on the RF bandwidth of
the carrier.
A receiver requirement is more stringent when the difference between the
blocker level and the associated noise level is higher. UTRA and E-UTRA MR
receiver requirements cannot be easily compared as different noise levels are
considered for UTRA and E-UTRA reference sensitivity requirements. Reference
sensitivity level difference between Wide Area and Medium Range BSs is equal
to 10 and 5 dB for UTRA and E-UTRA, respectively. Therefore, even though the
UTRA interfering signal is 3 dB stronger than the E-UTRA one, the E-UTRA
requirement is more stringent than the UTRA one as the noise level difference
between UTRA and E-UTRA is 5 dB.
In order to maintain the requirement level of both UTRA and E-UTRA for MSR BS,
the stronger interfering signal is selected for MR MSR BS, with the blocking
requirement based on the UTRA interfering signal mean power of ‑35dBm. In
order to maintain the dynamic range window and create the same difference
between the blocker level and the associated noise level in UTRA and E-UTRA,
the wanted signal mean power is consequently increased by 3 dB for the E-UTRA
requirement.
## 7.11 Narrowband blocking
### 7.11.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
The narrowband blocking requirement for E-UTRA BS is in subclause 7.5 of 3GPP
TS 36.104 [3].
The wanted signal mean power is set relative to the reference sensitivity in
the same way as for LA and WA BS. The requirement is set with consideration of
the receiver dynamic range window and receiver selectivity in the same way as
for in-band blocking in clause 7.10.1, resulting in a narrowband blocking
level of -44 dBm.
### 7.11.2 Requirement for MSR
The narrowband blocking requirement for MSR BS is in subclause 7.4.2 of 3GPP
TS 37.104 [4].
For UTRA MR BS, the blocking requirement is based on a GMSK signal with a mean
power of -42 dBm. The interfering signal is specified with an offset of 2.6 or
2.7 MHz from the centre frequency of the wanted signal.
For E-UTRA MR BS, the blocking requirement is based on a single RB E-UTRA
interfering signal with mean power of -44 dBm (as derived in subclause 7.11.1)
and with multiple offsets defined in the first adjacent channel.
Similar as the methodology of defining MSR WA BS narrowband blocking
requirement, a generic MSR narrowband blocking requirement is derived, based
on an E-UTRA 1RB interfering. The interfering signal frequency offset from the
RF bandwidth edge is the same with the requirement for MSR WA BS. The wanted
signal mean power levels for different RAT carriers are aligned with existing
single RAT specifications.
A receiver requirement is more stringent when the difference between the
blocker level and the associated noise level is higher. UTRA and E-UTRA LA
receiver requirements cannot be easily compared as different noise levels are
considered for UTRA and E-UTRA reference sensitivity requirements. Reference
sensitivity level difference between Wide Area and Medium Range BSs is equal
to 10 and 5 dB for UTRA and E-UTRA, respectively. Therefore, even though the
UTRA interfering signal is 2 dB stronger than the E-UTRA one, the E-UTRA
requirement is more stringent than the UTRA one as the noise level difference
between UTRA and E-UTRA is 5 dB. In addition, the E-UTRA interfering signal is
more stringent than a GMSK modulated signal due to higher PAPR. Similar to the
MSR WA BS narrowband blocking requirement, the MSR MR BS requirement is for
these reasons derived from the more stringent of the UTRA and E-UTRA
requirements and is thus based on the proposed E-UTRA MR requirement.
## 7.12 Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS)
### 7.12.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
For ACS requirement of E-UTRA Medium Range BS, the same deriving approach as
LA BS is applied. The wanted signal and interfering signal level are both
increased by 5dB reference sensitivity desensitization compared with WA BS,
which is referred from subclause 7.2. The interfering signal type and
frequency offset are kept the same as WA/LA/Home BS.
### 7.12.2 Requirement for MSR
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal. For MSR BS, the selectivity in the adjacent
channel is fully verified by the narrowband blocking and there is no separate
ACS requirement. This also holds for MSR MR Base Stations. No change is needed
for TS 37.104.
## 7.13 Out-of-band blocking
### 7.13.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
The out-of-band blocking requirement for E-UTRA BS is in subclause 7.6.1 of
3GPP TS 36.104 [3]. For general out-of band blocking requirement, a fixed
power level of -15 dBm interfering signal is to be placed in out-of-band
blocking region, independent on specific BS class and it is defined as a CW
interferer at -15 dBm and excludes the frequency range from 20 MHz below the
lowest frequency of the uplink operating band up to 20 MHz above the highest
frequency of the uplink operating band. For the MR E-UTRA BS class, it is
derived using same approach as for E-UTRA LA BS. The wanted signal mean power
is set relative to the reference sensitivity, while the interfering signal
mean remains at -15 dBm.
The blocking requirement for E-UTRA BS co-location is in subclause 7.6.2 of
3GPP TS 36.104 [3] and applies for co-location with the BS of the same class,
for the protection of BS receivers when E-UTRA, UTRA, CDMA or GSM/EDGE BS
operating in a different frequency band are co-located with a BS. Based on a
38 dBm BS power and 30 dB MCL, a blocking interferer level of +8 dBm is
derived and applied for all co-location cases, including co-location with
GSM/EDGE.
For GSM/EDGE, co-location with the same base station class is assumed, in this
case the Medium Range multicarrier BTS class defined in 3GPP TR 45.005 [8].
Based on the maximum multicarrier BTS power of 38 dBm, this means that the
same limit will apply for co-location with Medium Range GSM multicarrier BTS
as for co-location with MR UTRA and E-UTRA. No GSM multicarrier margin will be
needed since the maximum power is defined over all carriers.
### 7.13.2 Requirement for MSR
The out-of-band blocking requirement for MSR BS is in subclause 7.5.1 of 3GPP
TS 37.104 [4]. For the MR MSR BS class, the interfering signal mean remains at
-15 dBm and is also identical to the level for MR UTRA and MR E UTRA BS. The
existing requirement thus covers also MR MSR BS and no change of the
requirement is needed.
The blocking requirement for MSR BS co-location is in subclause 7.5.2 of 3GPP
TS 37.104 [4] and applies for co-location with the BS of the same class, for
the protection of BS receivers when E-UTRA, UTRA, CDMA or GSM/EDGE BS
operating in a different frequency band are co-located with a BS. Based on a
38 dBm BS power and 30 dB MCL, a blocking interferer level of +8 dBm is
derived and applied for all co-location cases, including co-location with
GSM/EDGE.
For GSM/EDGE, co-location with the same base station class is assumed, in this
case the Medium Range multicarrier BTS class defined in 3GPP TR 45.005 [8].
Based on the maximum multicarrier BTS power of 38 dBm, this means that the
same limit will apply for co-location with Medium Range GSM multicarrier BTS
as for co-location with MR UTRA and E-UTRA. No GSM multicarrier margin will be
needed since the maximum power is defined over all carriers.
## 7.14 Receiver spurious emissions
The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or amplified
in a receiver that appear at the BS receiver antenna connector. For the
general Rx spurious emission limit, it is aligned with Tx spurious emission.
This means that independent of the BS classes, the same generic Rx spurious
emission requirements are applied. And the additional Rx spurious emission
requirements for co-existence and co-location are directly referred to the
additional Tx spurious emission requirements defined for different BS classes.
The receiver spurious emission requirement for E-UTRA BS is in subclause 7.7
of 3GPP TS 36.104 [3] and for MSR BS is subclause 7.6 of TS 37.104 [4]. The
limits remain unchanged for MR BS, since they are based on regulation and do
not depend on BS class, in the same way as the mandatory spurious emission
limits for the transmitter. The referenced limits for protection of the E-UTRA
FDD BS receiver of own or different BS and for Co-existence with other systems
in the same geographical area will depend on the BS class, but this does not
mandate any change to the clause on receiver spurious emissions.
Therefore no change is needed for Rx spurious emissions requirements defined
in TS 36.104 and TS 37.104 for E‑UTRA and MSR MR BS, respectively.
## 7.15 Receiver intermodulation
### 7.15.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
The receiver intermodulation requirement for E-UTRA BS is in subclause 7.8 of
3GPP TS 36.104 [3].
Wanted signal mean power is set relative to the reference sensitivity in the
same way as for Local Area and Wide Area BS. The difference between the wanted
signal level and interfering signal defines the dynamic range for in-band
signals and thereby the selectivity of the BS receiver implementation.
Assuming that a Medium Range BS will not have a larger dynamic range and
thereby no stricter receiver selectivity requirement than a Wide Area BS, and
assuming a 5 dB desensitization of the receiver compared to a Wide Area BS as
proposed in 3GPP TR 36.942 [7] yields an interfering signal level of -47 dBm
for the Medium-Range BS receiver intermodulation requirement.
### 7.15.2 Requirement for MSR
The receiver intermodulation requirement for MSR BS is in subclause 7.7 of TS
3GPP 37.104 [4].
For the MSR receiver intermodulation requirement, it is desirable to align the
unwanted signal type. The UTRA and E-UTRA requirements are similar for the
general intermodulation requirement, so the stronger interfering signal mean
power of −44 dBm from the UTRA specification is used for the Medium Range
requirement. In order to maintain the dynamic range window and create the same
difference between the interferer levels and the associated noise level for
E-UTRA in the single-RAT and MSR specifications, the E-UTRA wanted signal mean
power is consequently increased by 3 dB for the E-UTRA MR MSR general
requirement.
The narrowband MSR intermodulation requirement is derived from the following
considerations.
\- For the UTRA MR BS, the RX narrow band intermodulation requirement is based
on a CW signal and GMSK modulated signal with mean power of −43 dBm.
\- For the E-UTRA MR BS, it is proposed the narrow band intermodulation
requirement is based on a CW signal and an E-UTRA signal with mean power of
−47 dBm on one RB.
UTRA and E-UTRA medium range receiver requirements cannot be compared easily
as different noise levels are considered for UTRA and E-UTRA reference
sensitivity requirements. The reference sensitivity level difference between
Wide Area and Medium Range BSs is equal to 10 and 5 dB for UTRA and E-UTRA,
respectively. Therefore, even though the UTRA interfering signal is 4 dB
stricter than the E-UTRA interferer, the E-UTRA requirement is stricter
compared to the UTRA requirement because the noise level difference between
UTRA and E-UTRA is 5 dB and the E-UTRA interfering signal is more stringent
than a GMSK modulated signal due to higher PAPR. Similar to the MSR WA BS
narrowband intermodulation requirement, the MSR MR BS requirement is derived
from the more stringent of the UTRA and E-UTRA requirements and is thus based
on the proposed E-UTRA MR requirement.
## 7.16 In-channel selectivity
### 7.16.1 Requirement for E-UTRA
The in channel selectivity requirement for E-UTRA BS is in subclause 7.4 of
3GPP TS 36.104 [3].
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. The in-channel
selectivity requirement for MR BS is derived from its reference sensitivity,
where 5dB degradation is observed compared to E-UTRA WA BS. Therefore the
wanted signal and interfering signal levels for MR E-UTRA BS is shown in Table
7.16‑1.
Table 7.16.1: E-UTRA Wide Area BS in-channel selectivity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Wanted | Interfering | Type of | | | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering | | channel | channel | power | power | signal | | bandwidth | | [dBm] | [dBm] | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.4 | A1-4 in | -101.9 | -82 | 1.4 MHz | | | Annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 3 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | A1-5 in | -97.1 | -79 | 3 MHz | | | Annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 6 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | A1-2 in | -95.0 | -76 | 5 MHz | | | Annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 10 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | A1-3 in | -93.5 | -72 | 10 MHz | | | Annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 25 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | A1-3 in | -93.5 | -72 | 15 MHz | | | Annex A.1* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 25 | | | | | | RBs* | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | A1-3 in | -93.5 | -72 | 20 MHz | | | Annex A.1* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 25 | | | | | | RBs* | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | Wanted and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | placed | | | | | | adjacently | | | | | | around F~c~ | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.16.2 Requirement for MSR
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. ICS is only
applied for E-UTRA BS and it is a BS class dependent requirement. In MSR
specification, ICS is referred in corresponding subclause 7.4 of TS 36.104,
which would include the requirements for MR BS.
There is no need to change current MSR specification for ICS requirement.
# 8 RF requirements for Local Area BS
## 8.1 Void
## 8.2 Base station output power
In E-UTRA LA BS co-existence study the maximum output power is defined per
carrier 3GPP TR 36.931 [8]. In UTRA LA BS specification, it limits the maximum
power for each carrier at each antenna connector 3GPP TS 25.104 [2]. For MSR
LA BS, the rated carrier output power is aligned with UTRA LA BS rated output
power requirement. The limit is set to ≤24dBm per carrier per antenna port.
It should be noted that the requirement does not mandate a single specific
output power, since it only defines the Base Station maximum output power
declaration, not the power the Base Station must transmit at. In reality the
output power of the Base Station can be configured by the operator to ensure
system performance and coexistence.
## 8.3 Frequency error
Frequency error is a measure of the difference between the actual BS transmit
frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used for RF
frequency and data clock generation.
Similar with the methodology of defining MSR WA BS frequency error
requirement, the frequency error requirement for MSR LA BS will be referred to
the single RAT requirements for each RAT. No change is needed for TS 37.104.
## 8.4 Spurious emissions (additional)
There are four requirements defined for transmitter spurious emission in
TS37.104: The mandatory requirements, Protection of the BS receiver of own or
different BS, Additional spurious emissions, and Co-location with other base
stations. BS should meet specific spurious emission requirements under
specific deployment scenario.
The mandatory requirements for Category A and B are defined according to the
ITU-R recommendation SM.329 and are independent of the type of transmitter
considered. Thus it shall remain unchanged.
The limits for additional spurious emission requirement are used for
protection of specific equipment when co-existing with systems operating in
other frequency bands and is independent of BS class, except for the specific
requirement for Home BS, which is based on a very different scenario. The
requirements thus remain unchanged.
For Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS and Co-location with
other base station, the requirements are based on 0.8dB noise rise principle,
which has relationship with receiver Noise Figure of UTRA and E-UTRA Pico BS.
MSR LA spurious emission should align with the stringent one since the
requirements are band specific. The LA BS limits (measured in 100 kHz) are set
to ‑88 dBm, being the most restrictive of ‑88 dBm (from E-UTRA) and -82 dBm
(from UTRA).
For co-location with GSM systems, the MSR BS spurious emission limits will be
the same as used in the GERAN specifications for LA multicarrier BTS.
## 8.5 Operating band unwanted emissions
The UEM is implicitly defined in TS25.104, scaling with the BS maximum output
power. The UEM values keep constant when BS maximum output power less than
31dBm, thus for the maximum output power of LA BS class is of 24dBm, the UEM
values with P\<31 dBm will be applied. In TS36.104, the LA UEM values are all
the same to for category A and B, scaling with the bandwidth. For LA MSR BC1,
the UEM values for LA MSR should be taken as the strictest values between UTRA
and E-UTRA requirement by adopting the same principle of WA MSR.
By comparing the LA UEM values between E-UTRA and UTRA , we can see that the
UEM values of LA E-UTRA bandwidth ≥5MHz are stricter than the LA UTRA UEM
values. Thus it is suggested to adopt the LA E-UTRA bandwidth≥5MHz UEM values
(table 6.6.3.2A in TS36.104) for LA MSR BC1 UEM values.
For LA MSR BC2, the LA MSR BC1 UEM values are adopted for the baseline level
of LA MSR BC2 by using the same principle of WA MSR. Additionally the
scenarios where a GSM carrier is placed as close as 200KHz from the RF
bandwidth edge should be considered. Comparing the values between the LA UEM
E-UTRA bandwidth ≥ 5MHz and the LA GSM mask (with the maximum output power for
Local Area Multicarrier BTS class of 24dBm), we can see that for the first
\~170KHz, the GSM modulation spectrum will exceed the LA E-UTRA bandwidth
≥5MHz mask level. Thus for LA MSR operation with a GSM/EDGE or E-UTRA 1.4 or 3
MHz carriers adjacent to the RF bandwidth edge, the GSM mask with the maximum
output power Local Area Multicarrier BTS class is 24dBm will apply for
0MHz\~0.17MHz.
## 8.6 ACLR
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is defined as the ratio of the
filtered mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered
mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency. This requirement applies
to frequency ranges outside the Base Station RF bandwidth.
The ACLR limits for MSR Wide Area BS are referred back to the existing single-
RAT ACLR requirements, thus the same methodology of defining ACLR for MSR WA
BS can be applied to MSR LA BS as well. No change is needed for TS 37.104 for
introduction of MSR LA BS.
The relative part of the CACLR requirement is independent on BS class, thus no
change is needed for TS37.104 for introduction of MSR LA BS. For the absolute
requirement part of CACLR, the E-UTRA LA BS absolute limit for ACLR
(-32dBm/MHz) can be adopted for MSR LA BS.
## 8.7 Transmitter intermodulation
The TX intermodulation requirement is a measure of the capability of the
transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non linear elements
caused by presence of the own transmit signal and an interfering signal
reaching the transmitter via the antenna.
The Tx intermodulation requirement is based on reference to the respective
unwanted emission limits which are BS class specific. The interferers injected
into the transmitter are an E-UTRA carrier of 5MHz bandwidth (BC1 and BC2) or
a CW signal at lower offsets (BC2), both with a power level of 30 dB below
wanted signal. Based on the analysis, the current TS 37.104 will not be
affected for introduction of MSR LA BS.
## 8.8 Reference sensitivity
The reference sensitivity power level PREFSENS is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a reference performance requirement
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel. The primary
purpose of defining this requirement is to verify the receiver noise figure.
In the same way as for the existing MSR Wide Area (general purpose) BS class,
MSR LA BS reference sensitivity will be covered by reference to the
corresponding single RAT specifications for each RAT. No change is needed for
TS 37.104.
## 8.9 Receiver dynamic range
The rationale for and definition of the dynamic range requirements are very
RAT specific and single RAT specifications are referenced for MSR WA BS in
current TS37.104. Therefore Rx dynamic range requirement for MSR LA BS could
be referred back to each single RAT specification as well. No changes are
needed for current TS37.104 due to introduction of MSR LA BS class.
## 8.10 In-band blocking
The in-blocking characteristics are a measure of the receiver ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an unwanted interferer.
For UTRA LA BS, the general in-band blocking requirement is based on a UTRA
interfering signal with mean power of -30dBm and 7.5MHz minimum offset from
the channel edge of the wanted signal.
For E-UTRA LA BS, the blocking requirement is based on an E-UTRA interfering
signal with mean power of -35dBm. The minimum offset from the channel edge of
the wanted signal is dependent on the E-UTRA channel bandwidth and is equal to
1.5 times of E-UTRA channel bandwidth.
A receiver requirement is more stringent when the difference between the
blocker level and associated noise level is higher. UTRA and E-UTRA LA
receiver requirements cannot be easily compared as different noise levels are
considered for UTRA and E-UTRA reference sensitivity requirements. Reference
sensitivity level difference between Wide Area and Local Area BSs is equal to
14 and 8 dB for UTRA and E-UTRA, respectively. Therefore, even though the UTRA
interfering signal is 5dB stronger than the E-UTRA one, the E-UTRA requirement
is more stringent than the UTRA one as the noise level difference between UTRA
and E-UTRA is 6dB.
In order to maintain the requirement level of both UTRA and E-UTRA for MSR BS,
the stronger interfering signal is selected for LA MSR BS, with the blocking
requirement based on the UTRA interfering signal mean power of -30dBm.In order
to maintain a reasonable implementation complexity and create the same
difference between the blocker level and the associated noise level for E-UTRA
in the single-RAT and MSR specifications, the wanted signal mean power is
consequently increased by 5 dB for the E-UTRA MSR requirement.
## 8.11 Narrowband blocking
The narrow band blocking characteristics is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence
of an unwanted narrow band interferer close to the wanted signal.
For UTRA LA BS, the narrow band blocking requirement is based on a GMSK
modulated signal with the mean power of -37dBm. The interfering signal is
specified with 2.7MHz or 2.8MHz offsets from the center frequency of the
wanted signal.
For E-UTRA LA BS, the narrow band blocking requirement is based on an E-UTRA
interfering signal which concentrates total power on one RB with mean power of
-41dBm and different frequency positions offsets from the RF bandwidth edge.
Receiver requirement is more stringent when the difference between the blocker
level and associated noise level is higher. UTRA and E-UTRA LA receiver
requirements cannot be easily compared as different noise levels are
considered for UTRA and E-UTRA reference sensitivity requirements. Reference
sensitivity level difference between Wide Area and Local Area BSs is equal to
14 and 8 dB for UTRA and E-UTRA, respectively. Therefore, even though the UTRA
interfering signal is 4dB stricter than the E-UTRA one, E-UTRA requirement is
more stringent than the UTRA one as the noise level difference between UTRA
and E-UTRA is 6dB. Furthermore, the E-UTRA interfering signal is more
stringent than the UTRA interfering signal due to PAPR being higher than for a
GMSK modulated signal. Taking into account the methodology of defining MSR WA
BS narrowband blocking requirement, the narrowband blocking requirement for
MSR LA BS is derived from the most stringent requirement from UTRA and E-UTRA
specifications. The requirement is thus based on E-UTRA interfering signal
with the mean power of -41dBm and the same frequency offsets from the RF
bandwidth edge as used in WA BS.
## 8.12 Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal. For MSR BS (UTRA and E-UTRA), the selectivity in
the adjacent channel is fully verified by the narrowband blocking and there is
no separate ACS requirement. This also holds for MSR LA Base Stations. No
change is needed for TS 37.104.
## 8.13 Out-of-band blocking
The out-of-band blocking requirement for MSR BS is in subclause 7.5.1 of 3GPP
TS 37.104 [4]. For the LA MSR BS class, the interfering signal mean remains at
-15 dBm and is also identical to the level for LA UTRA and LA E‑UTRA BS. The
existing requirement thus covers also LA MSR BS.
The blocking requirement for MSR BS co-location is in subclause 7.5.2 of 3GPP
TS 37.104 [4] and applies for co-location with the BS of the same class. Based
on a 24 dBm BS power and 30 dB MCL, a blocking interferer level of -6 dBm is
derived and applied for all co-location cases.
The co-location requirements assume co-location with the same base station
class. The same limit will then apply for co-location with Local Area GSM
multicarrier BTS, since the maximum multicarrier BTS power is 24 dBm. No GSM
multicarrier margin will be needed since the maximum power is defined over all
carriers.
## 8.14 Receiver spurious emissions
The receiver spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appear at the BS receiver antenna connector. The
requirements apply to all BS with separate RX and TX antenna ports. In this
case for FDD BS the test shall be performed when both TX and RX are on, with
the TX port terminated.
Spurious emissions include general requirement based on
CEPT/ERC/Recommendation 74-01E [9] and additional requirements for co-
existence and co-location based on the corresponding TX spurious limits. The
general spurious emission is a BS class independent requirement. The
additional requirements for receiver spurious emission in the MSR
specification are referenced to clause 6.
Therefore, no change for Rx spurious emissions is needed for TS 37.104 for
introduction of MSR Pico.
## 8.15 Receiver intermodulation
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal.
For UTRA LA BS, the general intermodulation requirement is based on a CW
signal and a WCDMA signal with mean power of -38dBm, while the RX narrow band
intermodulation requirement is based on a CW signal and GMSK modulated signal
with mean power of -37dBm.
For E-UTRA LA BS, the general intermodulation requirement is based on a CW
signal and an E-UTRA signal with mean power of -44dBm, while the narrow band
intermodulation requirement is based on a CW signal and an E-UTRA signal with
mean power of -44dBm on one RB.
Receiver requirement is more stringent when the difference between the
interfering signal level and associated noise level is higher. UTRA and E-UTRA
LA receiver requirements cannot be easily compared as different noise levels
are considered for UTRA and E-UTRA reference sensitivity requirements.
Reference sensitivity level difference between Wide Area and Local Area BSs is
equal to 14 and 8 dB for UTRA and E-UTRA, respectively. Therefore, even though
the UTRA interfering signal is 6dB stricter for the general intermodulation
requirement and 7dB stricter for the narrow band intermodulation requirement
than the E-UTRA one, E-UTRA requirement is comparable to UTRA one as the noise
level difference between UTRA and E-UTRA is 6dB. Furthermore, for the
narrowband intermodulation requirement, the E-UTRA interfering signal is more
stringent than WCDMA signal and GMSK modulated signal due to higher PAPR.
Taking into account that the UTRA and E-UTRA requirements are similar and in
order to align the type of the interfering signal between Wide Area and Local
Area, the intermodulation requirement is on the basis of the E-UTRA
specification, but with the stronger interfering signal mean power of -38dBm
taken from the UTRA specification, in order to maintain the requirement level
of both UTRA and E-UTRA for MSR BS. In order to maintain a reasonable
implementation complexity and create the same difference between the
interferer levels and the associated intermodulation level for E-UTRA in the
single-RAT and MSR specifications, the wanted signal mean power in is
consequently increased by 6 dB for the E-UTRA MSR requirement.
Similar as for the MSR WA BS narrowband intermodulation requirement, MSR LA BS
narrowband requirement is derived from the most stringent requirement from
UTRA and E-UTRA specifications and is thus based on the current E-UTRA LA
requirement.
## 8.16 In-channel selectivity
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. ICS is only
applied for E-UTRA BS and it is a BS class dependent requirement. In MSR
specification, ICS is referred in corresponding subclause 7.4 of TS 36.104,
which already includes the requirements for MSR LA BS. No change is needed for
TS 37.104 due to introduction of MSR LA BS.
# 9 Demodulation performance for Medium Range BS
Due to the extensive power range of MR E-UTRA BS (i.e. 24 \~ 38dBm), it is
expected that not only MR E-UTRA BS can be used as micro cells which are
isolated from other micro cells and overlapped with larger macro cells, but
also MR E-UTRA BS themselves can be used as macro cells although whose cell
radius would be slightly smaller than that of WA E-UTRA BS. Considering these
possible scenarios of MR E-UTRA BS, it would be better to discuss the
demodulation performance requirement of MR E-UTRA BS based on both
requirements of WA E-UTRA BS and LA E-UTRA BS. Although the only LA E-UTRA BS
specific requirements are low Doppler speed scenarios in Section 8.2.4 and
8.3.3 of 3GPP TS 36.104 [3], for MR E-UTRA BS, it is desirable to meet the
high Doppler speed scenarios rather than to tune to low Doppler speed
scenarios considering BS implementation. And MR E-UTRA BS are expected to be
used also under the high speed train propagation condition, thus the optional
performance requirement for high speed train condition are needed to be
specified also for MR E-UTRA BS. Therefore, it can be concluded that the same
demodulation requirements to WA E-UTRA BS are enough to be specified as the
demodulation requirements of MR E-UTRA BS.
###### ### Annex A: Void
###### ### Annex B: Void
###### ### Annex C: Simulation Results
# C.1 Reference sensitivity
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a throughput requirement shall be
met for a specified reference measurement channel. In this section the
simulation results for Reference sensitivity from different companies have be
captured based on the simulation scenarios/assumptions in section 6.
## C.1.1 Coexistence simulation results in E1a scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid
Simulation results are presented in table C.1.1-1 to C.1.1-4.
Table C.1.1-1: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1a scenario for PC1
* * *
Noise floor (dBm) Huawei (R4-121606) Ericsson NSN CATT ZTE (R4-122297) ALU
(R4-12xxxx) -102 0.9924 -101  
-100 0.9923 -99 0.9978 0.9848   
-98 0.9922 -97 0.998 0.9843   
-96 0.9921 -95 0.9979 0.9843   
-94 0.9921 -93 0.998 0.984   
-92   
-91 0.998 0.9845   
-90   
-89 0.9845   
-88   
-87 0.9845 
* * *
Table C.1.1-2: Average relative throughput in E1a scenario for PC1
* * *
Noise floor (dBm) Huawei (R4-121606) Ericsson (R4-123083) NSN CATT ZTE
(R4-122297) ALU (R4-123711) -102 0.9879 -101  
-100 0.9863 -99 0.986 0.995 0.9964   
-98 0.9847 -97 0.9859 0.9963   
-96 0.9834 -95 0.986 0.9941 0.9963   
-94 0.9832 -93 0.9858 0.9962   
-92   
-91 0.986 0.9945 0.9962   
-90   
-89 0.9962   
-88   
-87 0.9938 0.9962   
-86   
-85   
-84   
-83 0.994 
* * *
Table C.1.1-3: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1a scenario for PC2
* * *
Noise floor (dBm) Huawei Ericsson NSN CATT ZTE ALU (R4-123711) -101 0.997 -97
0.997 -93 0.9957 -89 0.9979 -85 0.9956
* * *
Table C.1.1-4: Average relative throughput in E1a scenario for PC2
* * *
Noise floor (dBm) Huawei Ericsson NSN CATT ZTE ALU (R4-123711) -101 0.9983 -97
0.9966 -93 0.9943 -89 0.9917 -85 0.9892
* * *
## C.1.2 Coexistence simulation results in U1a scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Victim system: 10 MHz UTRA Micro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid
Simulation results are presented in table C.2.1-1.
Table C.2.1-1: Relative capacity in U1a scenario
+-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-121606) | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -103 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -99 | 0.978 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -97 | 0.978 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -95 | 0.93 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -93 | 0.905 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -91 | 0.86 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-----+
## C.1.3 Coexistence simulation results in E1b-1 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Macro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell / Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid / 500m
Simulation results are presented in table C.1.3-1 to C.1.3-7.
Table C.1.3-1: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1b-1 scenario for PC1/PC3
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Noise | Huawei | E | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | floor | | ricsson | | | | | | (dBm) | (R4- | | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | | | 120161) | | 121817) | 121502) | 122297) | 123711) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -102 | | | | | | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.99995 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -99 | 0.999 | | 0.995 | 1 | 0.9942 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.9999 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -97 | 0.9985 | | 0.992 | 0.999 | 0.9924 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.99985 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -95 | 0.998 | | 0.987 | 0.998 | 0.9898 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.9998 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -93 | 0.9965 | | 0.983 | 0.99 | 0.9856 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -91 | 0.9945 | | 0.975 | 0.98 | 0.9794 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -89 | | | | 0.97 | 0.9703 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -88 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -87 | | | | 0.955 | 0.9575 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -86 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -85 | | | | 0.93 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table C.1.3-2: Average relative throughput in E1b-1 scenario for PC1/PC3
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Noise | Huawei | E | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | floor | | ricsson | | | | | | (dBm) | (R4- | | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | | | 120161) | (R4- | 121817) | 121502) | 122297) | 123711) | | | | 123098) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.999 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.9982 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -99 | 0.9999 | 0.996 | 0.997 | 0.995 | 0.9976 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.9972 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -97 | 0.9998 | | 0.995 | 0.985 | 0.997 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.9958 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -95 | 0.9997 | 0.991 | 0.992 | 0.98 | 0.9961 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.9935 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -93 | 0.9995 | | 0.987 | 0.975 | 0.9948 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -91 | 0.9991 | 0.984 | 0.98 | 0.965 | 0.993 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -89 | | | | 0.955 | 0.9904 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -88 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -87 | | 0.97 | | 0.94 | 0.9887 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -86 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -85 | | | | 0.93 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -84 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -83 | | 0.942 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table C.1.3-3: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1b-1 scenario for PC2/PC2
+-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -103 | 0.9995 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.9988 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.998 | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.997 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.995 | | | | | 0.9995 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.9922 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | | | 0.9994 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | | | 0.9993 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.3-4: Average relative throughput in E1b-1 scenario for PC2/PC2
+-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | (R4-123083) | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -103 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | 0.9998 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.9998 | 0.997 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.9995 | | | | | 0.9997 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.9992 | 0.992 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.999 | | | | | 0.999 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.9982 | 0.985 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | | | 0.998 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | 0.971 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | | | 0.995 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -83 | | 0.949 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.3-5: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1b-1 scenario for PC2/PC3
+-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | | (R4-121817) | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | 103 | 0.998 | | 0.998 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.9995 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.9993 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.995 | | 0.995 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.999 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.993 | | 0.993 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.988 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.99 | | 0.99 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.98 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.984 | | 0.985 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.975 | | 0.978 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.3-6: Average relative throughput in E1b-1 scenario for PC2/PC3
+-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | (R4-123098) | (R4-121817) | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | 103 | 1 | | 0.998 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.996 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.993 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.999 | 0.96 | 0.995 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.99 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.998 | | 0.993 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.985 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.997 | 0.925 | 0.99 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.98 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.996 | | 0.985 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.995 | 0.86 | 0.975 | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -88 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | 0.78 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -86 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -84 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+ | -83 | | 0.68 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.3-7: Average relative throughput in E1b-1 scenario for PC1/PC1
+-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-123083) | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -99 | | 0.997 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -95 | | 0.99 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -91 | | 0.983 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -87 | | 0.97 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -83 | | 0.942 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+
## C.1.4 Coexistence simulation results in E1b-2 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Macro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell / Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid / 1732m
Simulation results are presented in table C.1.4-1-C.1.4-7.
Table C.1.4-1: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1b-2 scenario for PC1/PC3
+-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | | (R4-121817) | (R4-121502) | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -102 | | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.9999 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.9985 | | 0.996 | 0.98 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.9998 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.9978 | | 0.994 | 0.975 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.9976 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.9965 | | 0.992 | 0.97 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.994 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.995 | | 0.988 | 0.96 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.9928 | | 0.982 | 0.95 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | 0.94 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -88 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | | | 0.91 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -86 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | 0.89 | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.4-2: Average relative throughput in E1b-2 scenario for PC1/PC3
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | Noise | Huawei | E | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | floor | | ricsson | | | | | | (dBm) | (R4- | | (R4- | (R4- | | (R4- | | | 120161) | (R4- | 121817) | 121502) | | 123711) | | | | 123098) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.9982 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.9978 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -99 | 0.999 | 0.9825 | 0.9985 | 0.995 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.9963 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -97 | 0.998 | | 0.9975 | 0.99 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.995 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -95 | 0.9972 | 0.975 | 0.9965 | 0.985 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.992 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -93 | 0.996 | | 0.9955 | 0.98 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -91 | 0.9958 | 0.9652 | 0.994 | 0.97 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -89 | | | | 0.96 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -88 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -87 | | 0.952 | | 0.95 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -86 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+ | -85 | | | | 0.94 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+---------+
Table C.1.4-3: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1b-2 scenario for PC2/PC2
+-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.9978 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.996 | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.994 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.991 | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.986 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | | | 0.9928 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.4-4: Average relative throughput in E1b-2 scenario for PC2/PC2
+-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | (R4-123083) | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -103 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | 0.9998 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.9995 | 0.982 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.9988 | | | | | 0.9994 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.998 | 0.97 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.9975 | | | | | 0.9989 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.996 | 0.958 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | | | 0.9972 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | 0.93 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | | | 0.9932 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.4-5: 5%-ile relative throughput in E1b-2 scenario for PC2/PC3
+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | Noise | Huawei | E | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | floor | | ricsson | | | | | | (dBm) | (R4- | | (R4- | | (R4- | (R4- | | | 120161) | | 121817) | | 122297) | 123711) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.992 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.978 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -99 | 0.991 | | 0.99 | | 0.9813 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.968 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -97 | 0.987 | | 0.987 | | 0.9738 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.948 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -95 | 0.98 | | 0.98 | | 0.9663 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.938 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -93 | 0.97 | | 0.97 | | 0.9559 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -91 | 0.957 | | 0.95 | | 0.9389 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -89 | | | | | 0.9158 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -88 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -87 | | | | | 0.8868 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+
Table C.1.4-6: Average relative throughput in E1b-2 scenario for PC2/PC3
+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | Noise | Huawei | E | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | floor | | ricsson | | | | | | (dBm) | (R4- | | (R4- | | (R4- | (R4- | | | 120161) | | 121817) | | 122297) | 123711) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.994 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.991 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -99 | 0.997 | | 0.998 | | 0.9933 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.988 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -97 | 0.996 | | 0.997 | | 0.9912 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.98 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -95 | 0.994 | | 0.995 | | 0.9888 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.97 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -93 | 0.978 | | 0.992 | | 0.9854 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -91 | 0.967 | | 0.99 | | 0.9809 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -89 | | | | | 0.9748 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -88 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+ | -87 | | | | | 0.9668 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+
Table C.1.4-7: Average relative throughput in E1b-2 scenario for PC1/PC1
+-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-123083) | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -99 | | 0.982 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -95 | | 0.975 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -91 | | 0.967 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+ | -87 | | 0.951 | | | | | +-------------------+--------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-----+
## C.1.5 Coexistence simulation results in U1b-1 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Victim system: 10 MHz UTRA Macro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell / Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid / 500m
Simulation results are presented in table C.1.5-1 and C.1.5-2.
Table C.1.5-1: Relative capacity in U1b-1 scenario for PC3
+-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | (R4-123130) | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.972 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.964 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.99 | 0.992 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.946 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.97 | 0.994 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.91 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.953 | 0.983 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.84 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.948 | 0.995 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.93 | 0.986 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | 0.982 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.5-2: Relative capacity in U1b-1 scenario for PC2
+-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -103 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | 1 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 1 | | | | | 0.998 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.988 | | | | | 0.995 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.952 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | | | 0.98 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | | | 0.963 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
## C.1.6 Coexistence simulation results in U1b-2 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Victim system: 10 MHz UTRA Macro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell / Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid/1732m
Simulation results are presented in table C.1.6-1 to C.1.6-2.
Table C.1.6-1: Relative capacity in U1b-2 scenario for PC3
+-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | (R4-123130) | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -102 | | | | | | 0.98 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -100 | | | | | | 0.975 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 0.99 | 0.988 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -98 | | | | | | 0.95 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 0.97 | 0.9946 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -96 | | | | | | 0.93 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 0.95 | 0.989 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -94 | | | | | | 0.88 | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.948 | 0.987 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -92 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.922 | 0.99 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -90 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | 0.986 | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
Table C.1.6-2: Relative capacity in U1b-2 scenario for PC2
+-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | Noise floor (dBm) | Huawei | Ericsson | NSN | CATT | ZTE | ALU | | | | | | | | | | | (R4-120161) | | | | | (R4-123711) | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -103 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -101 | | | | | | 0.999 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -99 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -97 | 1 | | | | | 0.998 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -95 | 1 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -93 | 0.982 | | | | | 0.995 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -91 | 0.952 | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -89 | | | | | | 0.99 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -87 | | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+ | -85 | | | | | | 0.98 | +-------------------+-------------+----------+-----+------+-----+-------------+
# C.2 In-band Blocking
The in-band blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver's ability to
detect a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an unwanted
interferer inside the operating band. In this section the simulation results
for in‑band blocking from different companies have been captured based on the
simulation scenarios and assumptions in section 6.
## C.2.1 Coexistence simulation results in E2a scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid
Table C.2.1-1: E2a Blocking level for a 99.98% probability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power | NSN | ZTE | CATT | Huawei | E | Alcatel | | Control | | | | | ricsson | -Lucent | | | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | | | | | 121814) | 121326) | 121272) | 120154) | (R4- | (R4- | | | | | | | 123089) | 123710) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PC1 | -54.2 | -- | -48 dBm | -56.96 | - 54 | - 51.9 | | | dBm | | | dBm | dBm | dBm | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PC2 | -62.5 | -- | -- | -6 | - 63 | - 61.8 | | | dBm | | | 4.84dBm | dBm | dBm | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## C.2.2 Coexistence simulation results in E2b-1 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Macro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell & Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid & 500m
Table C.2.2-1: E2b-1 Blocking level for a 99.98% probability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power | NSN | ZTE | CATT | Huawei | E | Alcatel | | Control | | | | | ricsson | -Lucent | | | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | | | | | 121814) | 121326) | 121272) | 122438) | (R4- | (R4- | | | | | | | 123089) | 123710) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PC1 | -36.5 | -- | -42 | -3 | - 34.5 | - 31.2 | | | dBm | | | 6.52dBm | dBm | dBm | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PC2 | -48.5 | -- | | -4 | - 41 | - 43.7 | | | dBm | | | 8.82dBm | dBm | dBm | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## C.2.3 Coexistence simulation results in E2b-2 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Macro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell / Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid / 1732m
Table C.2.3-1: E2b-2 Blocking level for a 99.98% probability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power | NSN | ZTE | CATT | Huawei | E | Alcatel | | Control | | | | | ricsson | -Lucent | | | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | (R4- | | | | | 121814) | 121326) | 121272) | 122438) | (R4- | (R4- | | | | | | | 123089) | 123710) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PC1 | -31 dBm | -3 | -34 dBm | - | - 34.5 | - 30 | | | | 7.31dBm | | 30.0dBm | dBm | dBm | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PC2 | -31 dBm | -3 | | -3 | -- | - 30.1 | | | | 6.59dBm | | 7.32dBm | | dBm | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## C.2.4 Coexistence simulation results in U1b-1 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: UTRA Macro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell / Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid / 500m
Table C.2.4-1: U1b-1 Blocking level for a 99.98% probability
+---------------+----------------+ | Power Control | Alcatel-Lucent | | | | | | (R4-123710) | +---------------+----------------+ | PC1 | - 50.8 dBm | +---------------+----------------+ | PC2 | - 50.9 dBm | +---------------+----------------+
## C.2.5 Coexistence simulation results in U1b-2 scenario
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: UTRA Macro
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA Micro
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Micro Cell / Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated deployment
ISD: Manhattan grid / 1732m
Table C.2.5-1: U1b-2 Blocking level for a 99.98% probability
+---------------+----------------+ | Power Control | Alcatel-Lucent | | | | | | (R4-123710) | +---------------+----------------+ | PC1 | - 40 dBm | +---------------+----------------+ | PC2 | - 40.1 dBm | +---------------+----------------+
#