# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the findings of the Study Item [28] of a more
harmonised frequency variant approach within the frequency range of
806-849/851-894 MHz.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] R4-122874: \"Band 26/XXVI and global harmonisation of bands\", Ericsson,
ST-Ericsson, RAN4#63.
[3] R4-115687: \"Alignment of UE requirements for Band 26 and Band XXVI\",
Ericsson, ST-Ericsson, RAN4#61.
[4] R4-122123: \"Lower E850 band edge way forward\", NII Holdings.
[4] R4-093902: \"Liaison Statement in support of a UMTS/LTE band for
806-824/851-869Mhz (Source: International iDEN Operator\'s Forum, To: RAN 4,
Cc: )\", International iDEN Operator\'s Forum.
[5] AEI by Dempa Publications, September 2008.
[6] FCC rules Section 90.210(g):
http://www.hallikainen.com/FccRules/2010/90/210/[.]{.underline}
[7] FCC rules Section 90.691:http://www.hallikainen.com/FccRules/2010/90/691/.
[8] RSS-119 Issue 10, April 2010 \"Land Mobile and Fixed Radio Transmitters
and Receivers Operating in the Frequency Range 27.41-960 MHz\", Industry
Canada
[9] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.113: \"Base station (BS) and repeater electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 34.124: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) requirements for
mobile terminals and ancillary equipment\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for support of radio resource management
(FDD)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.141: \"Base Station (BS) conformance testing (FDD)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.307: \"Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a
release-independent frequency band\".
[15] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[16] 3GPP TS 25.461: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Layer 1\".
[17] 3GPP TS 25.466: \"UTRAN Iuant interface: Application part\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[20] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.113: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) and repeater ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 36.124: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) requirements for mobile terminals and
ancillary equipment\".
[23] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[24] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[25] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[26] 3GPP TS 37.113: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[28] RP-090666 \"Proposed SI: Extended 850\", Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson,
Motorola, NII Holdings, Nokia, Nokia Siemens Networks, ST-Ericsson.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ETC Extreme testing conditions
ESMR Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio
FBAR Bulk acoustic resonator
FCC Federal Communications Commission
IMT International Mobile Telecommunications
ITU International Telecommunication Union
RBW Resolution bandwidth
SAW Surface acoustic wave
# 4 Background
850 MHz bands like Band 5 with its local versions are of great importance for
mobile communications: about 70% or the world\'s population has 850 MHz
coverage and they have good propagation properties. Figure 4-1 shows a world
map where the yellow and orange colours indicate 800/850 MHz usage. Hence it
is natural to consider an extension of the 850 MHz band plan that has started
Japan with the allocation and specification of Bands 18 and 19, and consider
as a further step a world-wide harmonisation.
Figure 4-1: Allocation of bands below 1 GHz in the world
Furthermore, additional spectrum below Band 5 in the frequency range
806-824/851-869 MHz is already allocated by ITU for IMT around the world for
possible 3GPP technologies. There are many operators around the world using
this allocation for non-3GPP technologies that would like to have the option
of adopting 3GPP technologies.
There are a number of 3GPP bands specified in the frequency range from 800 MHz
to 900 MHz. Having many different bands that are different in different
locations in the world, although overlapping each other, creating a problem
for UE implementations since the number of bands available in one UE is
limited and this will reduce the economy-of-scale. The same applies to the
base station implementations in principle. Furthermore, large bandwidth
allocations create better opportunities and flexibility in service offerings:
different channel bandwidths can be used, it is easier to expand networks by
adding frequencies when e.g. being capacity limited and LTE/HSPA migration is
facilitated. Hence it is beneficial to study a more harmonised frequency
variant approach within the frequency range of 806-849/851-894 MHz taking into
account relevant coexistence scenarios and implementation aspects of duplex
arrangements.
## 4.1 Task description
Study a more harmonised frequency variant approach within the frequency range
of 806-849/851-894 MHz. The investigations will include RF performance
requirements and backward compatibility issues.
Study means such as A-MPR (LTE) and power back-off (CM for WCDMA) to
facilitate coexistence with services in adjacent bands. One example is the
Public Safety band below the SMR band in the US.
# 5 Frequency band arrangements
## 5.1 Regulatory framework for bands in the range and their use
\
### 5.1.1 The allocation in the Radio Regulations
_The starting point is the Radio Regulations according to which the band_
_806-849/851-894 MHz is part of 790-960 MHz allocated to the MOBILE SERVICE on
a primary basis subject to footnotes 5.316 in 790-862 and 5.317A (reproduced
below) above 862 MHz._
**_5.317A_ * Administrations wishing to implement International Mobile
Telecommunications (IMT-2000) may use parts of the band 806-960 MHz which are
allocated to the mobile service on a primary basis or planned to be used for
mobile systems (see Resolution **224 (WRC-2000)*_). This indentification does
not preclude the use of these bands by any application of the service to which
they are allocated and does not establish priority in the Radio Regulations._
### 5.1.2 Use of the additional spectrum in various regions
#### 5.1.2.1 Region 1
#### 5.1.2.2 Region 2
With the exception of the Southeastern United States and possibly border
regions, the allocation in the United States after re-banding is shown in
Figure 5.1.2.2-1. The lower frequencies in the 800 MHz range are mobile or
control-station transmit frequencies, the upper frequencies for base-station
transmit frequencies. For the 700 MHz band it is the converse (swapped band).
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Band plan for many areas of the United States
In the Southeastern United States, the FCC\'s Re-banding Order expanded the
ESMR band to accommodate both Sprint Nextel\'s and SouthernLINC Wireless\'
iDEN networks. The allocation in the Southeastern United States after re-
banding is shown in Figure 5.1.2.2-2.
Figure 5.1.2.2-2: Band plan for the Southeastern United States
Numerous public safety radio systems (such as those used by police,
firefighters and emergency medical technicians) operate at 806-824 MHz/851-869
MHz in the United States. A number of private mobile radio systems also
operate in the 800 MHz band; many utility companies use the band for internal
communications for example. The band is also home to Specialized Mobile Radio
(SMR) systems that provide commercial mobile service to businesses and public,
and can also be used for UTRA or E-UTRA. ESMR operators occupy the upper band
segment, adjacent to the cellular band (Band 5). Public safety and other high-
site systems occupy the lower band segment, adjacent to the 700 MHz public
safety.
Figure 5.1.2.2-3 shows the general band plan for iDEN in South America. Other
regions may have slightly different band plans. As we can see from the figure,
there are different types of RF networks operating in adjacent spectrum
blocks, which may result in additional RF requirements. In Argentina, the
spectrum from 819.5- 824 MHz uplink and 864.5-869 MHz downlink is allocated in
25 kHz channels to various Public Safety agencies and the Armed Forces.
Therefore, Public Safety will be in-band with both the Upper and Lower bands.
Figure 5.1.2.2-3: Generic iDEN band plan in South America
#### 5.1.2.3 Region 3
The 850 MHz frequency allocation in China is illustrated in Figure 5.1.2.3-1.
825-835/870-880MHz for CDMA
885-915/930-960MHz for GSM
{width="6.313194444444444in" height="0.5729166666666666in"}
Figure 5.1.2.3-1: 850 MHz frequency allocation in China
Since the guard band between CDMA downlink and GSM uplink is only 5MHz in
China, the CDMA base station transmitter will cause interference to GSM900
base station receiver in the same geographical area. The extending of 850MHz
will further increase the coexistence inference. Furthermore, current
extension band plan assumption of 806-849/851-894 MHz is overlapping with
existing GSM900 frequency band in China. Therefore, the extension of 850MHz
band is not applicable for China.
Figure 5.1.2.3-2 gives the 850MHz frequency allocation in Korea current and
after 2011.
\- 824-849/869-894MHz for IMT
{width="5.093055555555556in" height="1.3125in"}
Figure 5.1.2.3-2: 850 MHz frequency allocation in Korea
The band that is currently being used in Korea is identical to band 5, which
is a cellular band.
The usage contract of the band will expire in July, 2011.
In June, 2010, the Korean government has reclaimed and reallocated 10MHz of it
to LG Uplus as an IMT band.
(IMT UL: 839\~849 MHz, IMT DL: 884\~894 MHz)
LG Uplus will launch a commercial LTE/LTE-Advanced service on this 10MHz band
starting 2012. Since 2012, an LTE based IMT service is expected to be
introduced on the band.
The band of 824-839 MHz, 869-884 MHz which is band for SKT will be paid for
the extended use and expected IMT service.
## 5.2 Possible duplexer arrangements
### 5.2.1 Split duplexer arrangement
#### 5.2.1.1 UE aspects
The entire band 806-849/851-894 MHz is not possible to cover using a single
duplexer in the UE using any available technology: the duplex gap is only 2
MHz. The option is then to use a split-duplexer arrangement using two
duplexers each covering a sub-part of the band. Figure 5.2.1.1-1 shows the
general concept of splitting of the band with a possible overlap between the
sub-bands.
Figure 5.2.1.1-1: Split-band arrangement for 806-849/851-894 MHz\ (blue part
the entire band under study)
An example of a UE implementation of the arrangement is shown in Figure
5.2.1.2 (note that this is only one possible implementation), two switches
\"S\" are typically needed for sufficient overall duplexer performance. Each
duplexer filter pair covers a sub-band in Figure 5.2.1.1-2
Figure 5.2.1.1.-2: A possible split-duplexer architecture in the UE
\
#### 5.2.1.2 BS aspects
\
#### 5.2.2 Sub-band arrangement
In the LS [4] The International iDEN Operator\'s Forum requests that one of
the sub-bands be 806-824/851-869 MHz recognizing that the entire band cannot
be covered by a single duplexer. This group of operators is interested in
deploying UMTS or LTE in the aforementioned sub-band. Furthermore, Band 5
could be extended by 10 MHz with a view to cover Band 5, 6, 18 and 19 in a
single duplexer to harmonize existing bands and to increase the amount of
available spectrum in certain regions:
Figure 5.2.2-1: Extension of the general 850 MHz band (E850)
These two proposals would suggest choosing F~U_1~ = 814 MHz, F~U_2~ = 824 MHz,
F~D_1~ = 859 MHz and F~D_2~ = 869 MHz in Figure 5.2.2-1, see Figure 5.2.2-2.
F~U_1~, F~D_1~ are the lowest UL and DL frequencies of the sub band
814-849/859-894 MHz and F~U_2~, F~D_2~ are the highest UL and DL frequencies
of the sub band 806-824/851-869 MHz
Figure 5.2.2-2: Option with extended Band 5
Some of the iDEN operators have spectrum which falls completely within the
consolidated band (814-849/859-894) that has been proposed by Sprint and
others. There are also many iDEN operators whose spectrum extends below
814/859 MHz that would benefit from a band that covers the full SMR spectrum.
In support of the activity for the extended 850 band Study Item, NII polled
the iDEN operators to see which operators were using spectrum above 814/859
MHz, and which operators were using spectrum below that. The purpose was to
determine the level of support for a band or sub-band covering the full SMR
spectrum of 806-824/851-869 MHz. The following is a list of iDEN operators and
where their spectrum lies within the SMR band. This is not a comprehensive
list of all iDEN operators.
**814-849/859-894 MHz**
Sprint Nextel (USA)
IConnect (Guam)
MIRS (Israel) after rebanding
**806-824/851-869 MHz**
Airtel Wireless (Canada)
Avantel (Colombia)
IConnect (Hong Kong)
GRID Communications (Singapore)
KTP (South Korea)
MIRS (Israel) before rebanding
Nextel Argentina
Nextel Brazil
Nextel Chile
Nextel Mexico
Nextel Peru
PTC (Saudi Arabia)
Red (El Salvador)
Red (Guatemala)
SouthernLINC (USA) 813.5+/858.5+
TELUS (Canada)
One thing to note is that although SouthernLINC\'s spectrum extends .5 MHz
below 814/859 MHz, Depending on the required guard band, their spectrum that
is usable for 3GPP technologies may be limited to above 814/859 MHz making
them compatible with the consolidated band. This issue will require further
study.
It is also worth noting that LTE may or may not be allowed in this band in all
of these countries and inclusion in this list does not imply that existing
regulations will allow deployment of LTE in the band.
As shown above, there are at least 16 iDEN operators in 15 different countries
that could potentially benefit from a 3GPP LTE band that covers the full SMR
spectrum of 806-824/851-869 MHz.
### 5.2.3 UE duplexer filter characteristics for proposed sub-bands
The duplexer characteristics of the band are important for assessment of
specific UE requirements like spurious emission and reference sensitivity as
well as co-existence with other technologies. Provisional duplexer performance
is given for different filter technologies: SAW that is a common technology
for high-volume products and has good performance below 2.5 GHz, and FBAR/BAW
that is becoming available but is more expensive.
[Results below used for both UTRA and E-UTRA]
#### 5.2.3.1 The range 806-824/851-869 MHz
This clause contains examples pf filter traces at ambient temperature.
##### 5.2.3.1.1 Filter characteristics for SAW technology
This clause contains examples pf filter traces at ambient temperature using
SAW technology. All of the results include 0.05 dB of loss from the test
board.
##### Insertion loss for TX and RX {#insertion-loss-for-tx-and-rx .H6}
Simulation results for the attenuation from TX to antenna are shown in Figure
5.2.3.1.1-1. The red curve displays the expected performance for the new band.
{width="5.5375in" height="3.69375in"}
Figure 5.2.3.1.1-1: Attenuation from TX to antenna port
The corresponding results for the attenuation from RX to antenna are shown in
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-2.
{width="5.663194444444445in" height="3.8180555555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.3.1.1-2: attenuation from antenna port to Rx
Simulation results for insertion loss for Tx and Rx at 1 dB/div are shown in
Figure 5.2.3.1.1-3. The red line is for Tx to antenna, the blue line is for
antenna to Rx.
{width="5.711805555555555in" height="3.7805555555555554in"}
Figure 5.2.3.1.1-3: Insertion loss results
Tx-Rx isolation
Simulation results for the isolation from Tx to Rx are shown in Figure
5.2.3.1.1-4.
{width="5.527777777777778in" height="3.6743055555555557in"}
Figure 5.2.3.1.1-4: TX to Rx Isolation results
Table 5.2.3.1.1-1: Estimated IL and isolation for 806-824/851-869 and Band V/5
+---------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | UL(Tx) IL | **DL (Rx) IL** | UL (Tx) Iso | DL (Rx) Iso | | | | | | | | | [dB] | [dB] | [dB] | [dB] | +---------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Vendor 1 (SAW) | | | | +---------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------+-------------+ | 806-824/851-869 MHz | 1.8 | 2.3 | 60 | 55 | +---------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band V/5 | 1.9 | 2.2 | 60 | 55 | +---------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.2.3.2 The range 814-849/859-894MHz
This clause contains examples pf filter traces at ambient temperature using
SAW and FBAR technology, respectively.
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Filter characteristics for SAW technology and comparison to
Band 5
Insertion loss for TX and RX
Provisional results for the attenuation from TX to antenna are shown in Figure
5.2.3.2.1-1. The red curve displays the expected performance for the new band.
The blue curve is the response of a frequency-shifted Band 8 filter. The green
lines denote the expected specified performance accounting for temperature
variations -20 C to +85 C, i.e. larger than the temperature range at ETC.
{width="4.25625in" height="2.6972222222222224in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-1: Attenuation from TX to antenna port, results with 1 dB/div
and 10 dB/div
The corresponding provisional results for the attenuation from RX to antenna
are shown in Figure 5.2.3.2.1-2.
{width="4.184722222222222in" height="2.6819444444444445in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-2: Attenuation from RX to antenna port, results with 1 dB/div
and 10 dB/div
##### Comparison to Band 5 {#comparison-to-band-5 .H6}
Results for a commercially available Band 5 duplexer are given in Figure
5.2.3.2.1-3 for comparison [5].
{width="4.441666666666666in" height="3.071527777777778in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-3: Insertion loss and stop band rejection for a Band 5 SAW
duplexer
We observe that:
  * there is no significant difference in typical insertion loss according to 5.2.3.2.1-1 and 5.2.3.2.1-3 for operation in the Band 5 frequency range at ambient temperature;
  * there is no significant difference for Band 19 implemented with a Band 5 duplexer;
  * the influence of temperature variation (across -20 C to +85 C) is smaller for the Band 5 duplexer, the pass-band of which is narrower;
  * the specified performance accounting for temperature and batch variation is better for Band 5 duplexer.
Tx-Rx isolation
Provisional results for the isolation from TX to RX are shown in Figure
5.2.3.2.1-4. The green lines denote the expected specified performance
accounting for temperature variations -20 C to +85 C, i.e. larger than the
temperature range at ETC.
{width="4.2243055555555555in" height="2.725in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-4: TX to RX isolation, results 10 dB/div
The isolation characteristics for a commercially available Band 5 duplexer are
given in Figure 5.2.3.2.1-5 for comparison [5].
{width="4.279166666666667in" height="2.877083333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-5: isolation for a Band 5 SAW duplexer.
We observe:
  * a similar if not slightly better isolation at RX for 5.2.3.2.1-5 (Band 5) compared to the provisional results in 5.2.3.2.1-4 at ambient temperature.
The specified performance for isolation at RX for the range 814-849/859-894
MHz should be comparable to Band 8 performance for the SAW technology.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 Filter characteristics for FBAR technology
Insertion loss for TX and RX
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-1 shows provisional results for the attenuation from TX to
the antenna. It is noted that the results are indicative: they are based
simulations and not representing a final product. All traces are \"typical\"
at 25 C. About 2.5 MHz allowance at either end of the pass band needs to be
made for performance over temperature and process variation. Figure
5.2.3.2.2-2 shows provisional results for the attenuation from the antenna to
the RX.
{width="3.925in" height="2.7958333333333334in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-1: Attenuation from TX to antenna for an E850 upper sub-band
{width="3.8916666666666666in" height="2.816666666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-2: Attenuation from antenna RX for E850 upper sub-band
##### Comparison to Band 5 {#comparison-to-band-5-1 .H6}
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-3 shows results for the attenuation from TX to the antenna
for a Band 5 FBAR duplexer. The corresponding results from antenna to RX are
shown in Figure 5.2.3.2.2-4.
{width="3.9965277777777777in" height="2.795138888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-3: Attenuation from TX to antenna for a Band 5 FBAR filter
{width="3.9583333333333335in" height="2.8in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-4: Attenuation from antenna to RX for a Band 5 FBAR filter
Comparing the extended filter with the Band 5 response we observe that:
  * there is up to 1 dB difference in typical receiver insertion loss according to 5.2.3.2.2-2 and 5.2.3.2.2-4 for operation in the Band 5 frequency range at ambient temperature, lesser difference for mid-band operation
  * there is no significant difference for Band 19 implemented with a Band 5 duplexer:
\- operation in Band 18 would be more affected by the steeper edge (less for
the wider bandwidths > 5 MHz);
\- the influence of temperature variation (across -20 C to +85 C) is smaller
for the Band 5 duplexer, the pass-band of which is narrower;
\- the specified performance accounting for temperature and batch variation
significantly better for Band 5 duplexer.
The SAW filter responses displayed in chapter 5.2.3.1.1 show slightly lesser
difference at the band edges. It is noted again that the E850 FBAR data is
provisional.
Tx-Rx isolation
Simulated results of the TX-RX isolation for an FBAR filter is shown in Figure
5.2.3.2.2-5.
{width="4.029861111111111in" height="2.9166666666666665in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-5: Isolation for an E850 upper sub-band duplexer
Wideband response
The wideband response is also interesting for coexistence with other bands:
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-6 shows the results for the E850 upper sub-band FBAR filter,
where the red and blue curves represent the TX and RX, respectively. The
rejection is better than 30 dB for the ISM band for example (both TX and RX).
{width="3.9916666666666667in" height="2.8208333333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.2-6: Wideband response for an E850 upper sub-band FBAR duplexer
##### 5.2.3.2.3 Possible specification and comparison with other bands in the
range
Provisional specifications for insertion loss and isolation over a temperature
range -20 C to +85 C are given in Table 5.2.3.2.3-1, a larger range than that
for ETC for the purpose of devising a requisite minimum requirement of the
reference sensitivity. It is emphasized that the parameters in the table only
constitutes part of a duplexer specification, and that other parameters like
e.g. wideband response, stop-band rejection requirements and impedance
matching also influence the filter characteristics near the desired transmit
and receive bands.
Table 5.2.3.2.3-1: Estimated insertion loss and isolation (specified)
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frequency | UL(Tx) IL | **DL (Rx) | UL (Tx) Iso | DL (Rx) Iso | | range | | IL** | | | | | [dB] | | [dB] | [dB] | | | | [dB] | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Vendor 1 | | | | | | (SAW) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 814- | 3.0 | 3.5 | 50 | 42 | | 849/859-894 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band V/5 | 1.8 | 1.8 | 54 | 45 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band VIII/8 | 3.0 | 3.0 | 50 | 42 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Vendor 2 | | | | | | (SAW) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 814- | 4.5 | 5.0 | 50 | 45 | | 849/859-894 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band V/5 | 1.9 | 2.2 | 57 | 49 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band | 2.7* | 3.5 | 55 | 48 | | VIIII/8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Vendor 3 | | | | | | (SAW) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 814- | 3.5 | 4.0 | 50 | 42 | | 849/859-894 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band V/5 | 2.5 | 2.2 | 52 | 48 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band | 3.7 | 3.5 | 53 | 46 | | VIIII/8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Vendor 4 | | | | | | (SAW) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 814- | 2.9 (CW) | 3.5 (CW) | 50 | 46 | | 849/859-894 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band V/5 | 2.0 (CW) | 2.2 (CW) | 52 | 48 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band | 3.0 (CW) | 3.5 (CW) | 50 | 42 | | VIIII/8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Vendor 5 | | | | | | (FBAR) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 814- | [4.0] | [4.5] | >55 | >50 | | 849/859-894 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band V/5 | [2.0] | [2.0] | >55 | >50 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Vendor 6 | | | | | | (Improved | | | | | | BAW/FBAR) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 814- | 2.5 | 2.5 | 50 | 50 | | 849/859-894 | | | | | | MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band VIII/8 | 2.7 | 3.0 | 44 | 45 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Note that some of the duplexer specifications provided by the vendors (as
indicated by the asterisk) are valid for a slightly reduced frequency range.
[The specification points for the FBAR filter are based on the traces in the
Figures 2.3.2.1-1, 5.2.3.2.2-2, 5.2.3.2.2-5 and adding 2.5 MHz on either side
of the nominal pass bands.]
### 5.2.4 BS duplexer filter characteristics for proposed sub-bands
The duplexer is an important component of the BS in terms of requirements for
spurious emissions, reference sensitivity and co-existence with other systems.
The results are applicable for both E-UTRA and UTRA.
#### 5.2.4.1 The range 806-824/851-869 MHz
##### 5.2.4.1.1 RX Filter characteristics
Taking into account of the TV TX interference, 8 orders filter can meet the
1dB desense rejection requirement at the TV band. However, guard band between
the lower band E850 and TV band may be considered to meet the RX blocking
requirement. All the filter characteristics shown are examples only and do not
preclude other implementations. Figures 5.2.4.1.1-1 and 5.2.4.1.1-2 show the
simulation results of an 8 orders filter with 2 zeros (blue curve) and 3 zeros
(pink curve).
{width="3.5027777777777778in" height="3.1506944444444445in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1.1-1: Simulation result of 8 orders RX filter
{width="3.5520833333333335in" height="3.15in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1.1-2: In-band insertion loss of 8 orders RX filter
##### 5.2.4.1.2 TX Filter characteristics
Spurious emission limit for co-existence with Band 5 receiver is -49dBm/MHz.
However, the present document does not cover the 10 MHz frequency range
immediately outside the downlink operating band. -49 dBm/MHz spurious emission
requirement is still used here as a reference. The near end emission of the BS
is restricted by the operating unwanted emission (UEM) requirements. -13
dBm/MHz is assumed as the spurious emission level in the adjacent band in the
analysis, which is stricter than the requirements defined in current
specification. The spurious emission level used in the analysis is just a
reference value for simulation. Based on these assumptions, the attenuation
requirement of the TX filter to protect Band 5 BS receiver in co-existence
scenario is 36 dB.
Figures 5.2.4.1.2-1 and Figure 5.2.4.1.2-2 show simulation results of a 7
orders filter with 3 zeros to meet the co-existence requirements. Considering
the guard band in RX band due to TV interference, the TX lower band edge will
not start from 851MHz. This is helpful to meet the co-existence requirement at
Band 5 RX band. Based on the simulation result, the insertion loss at 852 MHz
will be less than 1.5 dB.
{width="3.513888888888889in" height="3.1527777777777777in"}
Figure 5.2.4.1.2-1: Simulation result of 7 orders TX filter
{width="3.598611111111111in" height="3.147222222222222in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2-2: In-band insertion loss of 7 orders TX filter
In conclusion, for the RX filter, the most stringent requirement for the Rx
filter comes from the TV blocking. In order to protect the E850 lower sub-band
receiver, guard band is needed. The size of the guard band depends on the real
network scenario and implementation of the filter. For the Tx filter, co-
existence requirement with Band 5 shall be considered. Since the frequency
distance is just 2 MHz between E850 lower sub-band DL and Band 5 UL, the
rejection requirement of the Tx filter will deteriorate the in-band insertion
loss at the band edge. However, considering the possible guard band in RX band
due to TV interference and the paired frequency allocation, the in-band
insertion loss of the Tx filter could be implemented by an acceptable value.
#### 5.2.4.2 The range 814-849/859-894 MHz
The BS duplexer performance for the Extended Band 5 upper sub-band is
considered in what follows. The filter characteristics shown are examples only
and do not preclude other implementations.
##### 5.2.4.2.1 Filter characteristics for a cavity filter and comparison to
Band 5
Simulations of a cavity filter for Band 5 as well as a cavity filter for
814-849/859-894 MHz have been performed and compared.
TX to antenna
In Figures 5.2.4.2.1-1 and 5.2.4.2.1-2 the green curve represents simulations
for a Band 5 duplexer TX path and the black curve simulations for an Extended
Band 5 upper sub-band duplexer TX path.
{width="3.1527777777777777in" height="2.2909722222222224in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2.1-1: Attenuation of the duplexer for the TX path
{width="1.9826388888888888in" height="2.2888888888888888in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2.1-2: Insertion loss in the the duplexer TX path passband
##### RX to antenna {#rx-to-antenna .H6}
Simulations have also been performed for Band 5 (green curve) and Extended
Band 5 upper sub-band (black curve) duplexer RX path, see Figures 5.2.4.2.1-3
and 5.2.4.2.1-4.
{width="3.7493055555555554in" height="2.2916666666666665in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2.1-3: Attenuation of the duplexer for the RX path
{width="2.109722222222222in" height="2.292361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2.1-4: Insertion loss in the duplexer RX path passband
We observe that:
  * There is no significant difference in average insertion loss in the duplexer according to Figure 5.2.4.2.1.1 and Figure 5.2.3.2.1.3 between Band 5 and Extended Band 5 upper sub-band.
  * The insertion loss at the band edges for the TX path is almost the same for Band 5 and Extended Band 5 upper sub-band, as shown in Figure 5.2.4.2.1.2.
  * Figure 5.2.4.2.1.4 shows that the insertion loss at the lower band edge for the RX path is almost the same for Band 5 and Extended Band 5 upper sub-band, while at the higher band edge; it is higher for Extended Band 5 upper sub-band since due to the reduced duplex gap.
In conclusion, the duplexer performance for the Extended Band 5 upper sub-band
is comparable to that of Band 5. Therefore, the minimum requirements
determined by the duplexer (i.e. reference sensitivity, spurious emissions and
co-existence) can be kept as in Band 5.
## 5.3 Specific deployments aspects
\
### 5.3.1 Region 1
### 5.3.2 Region 2
#### 5.3.2.1 Emission requirements
While there might be different emission rules for different countries, we
recommend the FCC Rules and Industry Canada rules for the iDEN band as an
initial baseline for coexistence studies. The emissions mask requirements are
found in the FCC rules under sections 90.210(g) [6] and 90.691 [7] and for
Industry Canada under RSS-119 [8] which is close to 90.210(g). These rules
apply to both devices and BTSs.
90.210(g) is typically used for single carrier system and 90.691 for multi-
carrier. 90.691 emission limits are as follows:
(a) Out-of-band emission requirement shall apply only to the \"outer\"
channels included in an EA license and to spectrum adjacent to interior
channels used by incumbent licensees.
1) For any frequency removed from the EA licensee\'s frequency block by up to
and including 37.5 kHz, the power of any emission shall be attenuated below
the transmitter power (P) in watts by at least 116 Log[10](f/6.1) decibels or
50 + 10 Log[10](P) decibels or 80 decibels, whichever is the lesser
attenuation, where f is the frequency removed from the center of the outer
channel in the block in kilohertz and where f is greater than 12.5 kHz.
2) For any frequency removed from the EA licensee\'s frequency block greater
than 37.5 kHz, the power of any emission shall be attenuated below the
transmitter power (P) in watts by at least 43 + 10Log[10](P) decibels or 80
decibels, whichever is the lesser attenuation, where f is the frequency
removed from the center of the outer channel in the block in kilohertz and
where f is greater than 37.5 kHz.
The measurement bandwidth is not defined in the FCC rules but RSS-119 does
define the measurement bandwidth as 300 Hz at frequency offset less than 37.5
kHz from channel edge and 100 kHz for frequency offsets greater than 37.5 kHz.
Historically, 300 Hz for frequency offsets less than 37.5kHz and 100 kHz for
frequency offsets greater than 37.5kHz have been used for narrow band product
certification in that band. With the 1MHz guard band assumption, the emission
requirement would be 100 kHz. Therefore, the emission limits that would apply
would be -13dBm/100 kHz at a 1MHz offset from the edge of the channel
bandwidth.
FCC Title 47 Part 22.917 defines the emission limits for cellular equipment
for the frequency range. The emission limits defined are as in 90.691. In
addition, the 22.917 includes a condition on interferences into other systems
as follows:
_\- Interference caused by out of band emissions._ If any emission from a
transmitter operating in this service results in interference to users of
another radio service, the FCC may require a greater attenuation of that
emission than specified in this clause.
_In order to avoid harmful interference, limits additional to the regulatory
are therefore specified for the band (see clauses 6.3.1 and 7.2.2.1)._
#### 5.3.2.2 Deployment scenario
Figure 5.3.2.2-1 shows the current and proposed 3GPP spectrum and TV repeater
spectrum allocation around 850 MHz.
The following can be noted on the current situation related to the spectrum
around 850 MHz:
\- The E850 upper sub-band covering in the 814-849 and 859-894 MHz band
overlaps partly with the lower sub-band. The purpose of the upper sub-band is
to consolidate and augment bands 5, 18 and 19 into a new single global band
that supports UTRA and E-UTRA deployments, while the lower sub-band aims for
the non-U.S. Region 2. Since Bands 18 and 19 are allocated for Region 3, the
co-existence with Band 5 is the main issue to be solved for the E850 lower
sub-band.
\- There is a large number of installed Band 5 BSs for different technologies:
GSM, UTRA, E-UTRA and CDMA2000.
\- Broadcast TV repeaters use the frequency range 698-806 MHz in South
America.
\- There are also other non-3GPP technologies such as iDEN system operating in
806-824/851-869 MHz in the Americas which shall be considered.
Figure 5.3.2.2-1: 3GPP Sspectrum allocation around 850 MHz
The main aspects for the lower sub-band are:
  * BS-BS coexistence in the same geographical area with 2 MHz frequency gap to Band 5 and the upper sub-band. . It needs to be considered that Band 5 is a legacy band and there is a large number of installed Band 5 BSs for different technologies: GSM, UTRA, E-UTRA and CDMA2000.
  * UE-UE coexistence with a 2 MHz gap with Band 5 and the upper sub-band considering that Band 5 is a legacy band.
  * Co-existence with broadcast TV repeaters in the range 698-806 MHz in South America
  * Co-existence with other iDEN systems in 806-824/851-869 MHz in the Americas
The main aspects for the upper E850 sub-band are:
  * BS-BS coexistence in the same geographical area with 2 MHz frequency gap to Public Safety, iDEN and other Land Mobile Radio users. It needs to be considered that Public Safety, iDEN and Land Mobile Radio are legacy networks and there is a large number of installed BSs for these technologies. Signal levels of 52.1 dBm per 5 MHz from iDEN in the SMR band (851-869 MHz) are typical.
The main aspects for the both the upper E850 and lower E850 sub-bands are:
  * BS-BS coexistence in the same geographical area with 2 MHz frequency gap between the upper E850 sub-band and the lower E850 sub-band.
  * UE-UE coexistence with a 2 MHz gap between the upper E850 sub-band and lower E850 sub-band.
### 5.3.3 Region 3
For Band 19 the additional spurious emission requirements shown in Table
5.3.3-1 apply for the protection of the range 860 ≤ f ≤ 895 MHz, irrespective
of the boundary between the OOB and spurious emission limit for the 15 MHz
bandwidth.
Table 5.3.3-1: Additional requirement
+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+-------+ | **Frequency |** Channel | **Measurement | | | | band** | bandwidth / | bandwidth**| | | | | Spectrum | | | | |**(MHz)**| emission | | | | | | limit (dBm)** | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+-------+ | | **5MHz** | **10MHz** | **15MHz** | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+-------+ | 860 ≤ f ≤ 895 | -40 | -40 | -40 | 1 MHz | +---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+-------+
The network signalling value \"NS 08\" is specified to accommodate an A-MPR
profile for meeting this requirement. Band 19 is covered by the upper sub-band
of the E850 band, for which the same requirements consequently would apply in
Japan. However, the A-MPR needed to meet the requirement in Table 5.3.3-1 is
likely to be reduced for the upper E850 sub-band since its TX duplex filter
must provide significant attenuation across 860 ≤ f ≤ 895 MHz to provide
sufficient TX-RX isolation in the receive band 859-894 MHz.
### 5.3.4 Requirements for UE(s) roaming into legacy bands in the
814-849/859-894 MHz range
Band 5 will be extended by 10 MHz with a view to cover Band 5, 18 and 19 in a
single duplexer to harmonize existing bands and to increase the amount of
available spectrum in certain regions. A UE supporting the upper range of E850
band should be able to roam into these legacy bands and meet the Band 5, 18
and 19 minimum requirements. Handling of band support signaled in the UE
capability with regard to regulatory requirements and potential modifications
to some RF requirements for legacy bands supported by the wider E850 band have
to be considered. These are not new problems: many UE(s) supporting the
obsolete Band 6 are implemented by (wider) Band 5 duplexers.
#### 5.3.4.1 Handling of band support in UE radio capability signaling
In this sub-clause we discuss the BS system information and the UE capability
signaling needed to allow a Band 5, Band 18 or Band 19 UE into an
814-849/859-894 MHz (Band 26) network and the converse.
In its system information, a BS can only signal the support of one operating
band per cell. In specifying extended bands that cover legacy operating bands
such as the E850 upper sub-band (Band 26), there are two general problems
associated with this:
1) a Band 26 UE roaming into a Band 5/18/19 network:
a) requiring a Band 26 UE to be certified also for Band 5, 18 and 19 operation
to circulate globally.
2) the support of Band 5/18/19 UEs on a Band 26 network:
a) allowing roaming of UEs supporting subtending bands 5/18/19.
b) keeping track of band capabilities so that a Band 5/18/19 UE is not
assigned channels in the extended part.
The items above are relevant for any extended band, and can be resolved from
Rel-10 onwards by appending extension fields to the SIB1 message and the SIB2
information element in RRC signaling. The extension fields in SIB1 and SIB2
carry the information about the harmonized band e.g. Band 26, while the
existing field carries information about the legacy band e.g. band 5.
The extension field in SIB1 provides allowed band numbers in addition to that
signaled in the existing field FreqBandIndicator. The corresponding optional
information about uplink frequencies for additional bands would be contained
in an extended field in SIB2. The information contained in
additionalSpectrumEmission of the FreqInfo field in SIB2 on additional
spurious emission requirements must be read by all UE(s) allowed on the
network regardless of bands supported.
Considering the items above in turn, we note that:
1a. for a Band 26 UE implemented in _earlier release_ roaming into existing
Band 5/18/19 Rel-9 network, then the Band 26 UE needs to signal support of
Band 5, Band 18 and Band 19 in its band capability. The UL EARFCN derived are
then based on the Band 5/18/19 since the Band 26 can read the BCCH and is
capable of supporting the legacy bands (certification needs to be carried of
for these).
1b. for a Band 26 Rel-10 UE roaming into a Rel-10 Band 5/18/19/26 network, the
extended fields can be understood and Band 26 UE that does not have to support
all the legacy bands assuming that the Band 26 requirements include all
necessary regulatory or otherwise required specifications of Band 5/18/19,
which means a reduction of the certification effort
2a. for a Band 5/18/19 UE implemented in _earlier release_ (can\'t read the
extended fields) camping on a Band 26 Rel-10 network, then the _legacy band
number is signaled_ in the FreqBandIndicator for cells deployed in the legacy
portion of Band 26. For legacy Band 5 UE(s) in a Band 26 network (will be
Rel-10), for example, Band 5 is signaled in the frequency band indicator in
the Band 5 portion, and Band 26 is indicated in the appended extended band
indicator field. The Band 5 Rel-9 terminal would not understand Band 26 if
signaled in the frequency band indicator, whereas the Band 26 UE can read the
equivalent frequency band indicator in SIB1. A Band 26 UE implemented in an
earlier release needs to indicate that it supports Band 5 when camping in the
Band 5 portion of Band 26. For a carrier allocated in the extension part not
overlapping with Band 5, Band 26 can be indicated in the existing frequency
band indicator, which would not allow legacy Band 5 UE(s) into the extension
part.
2b. by the provisions in 2a, a Rel-9 UE supporting Band 5 would be allowed in
the Band 26 network. Band 18 and 19 UE(s) implemented in Rel-9 needs to
support roaming in Band 5.
2c. for a Band 5/18/19 Rel-10 camping on Band 26 Rel-10 network, the appended
fields are understood and no need to support the legacy bands and no need for
certification of these assuming that the Band 26 requirements include all
necessary regulatory or otherwise required specifications of Band 5/18/19.
The above is also applicable to other extended or overlapping bands.
#### 5.3.4.2 UE receiver requirements: out-of-band blocking
Next we consider required changes of the out-of-band blocking (OOB)
performance for UE(s) operating in legacy bands and equipped with the wider
duplexer for 814-849/859-894 MHz (E850).
The OOBB performance requirements apply for an unwanted _CW_ interfering
signal falling more than 15 MHz below or above the UE receive band at a
blocker level of -44 dBm up to 60 MHz away from it(range 1). For the first 15
MHz below or above the UE receive band the in-band blocking applies: the in-
band blocker level is the same -44 dBm for larger frequency offsets to the
assigned channel but the interferer is a _modulated_ interferer of up to 5 MHz
bandwidth. The two interferer types will generate e.g. different cross-
modulation spectra that can fall into the receive band. Normally the duplexer
provides at least some rejection of the OOB CW blocker, except perhaps for the
close-in interferer frequencies.
First we consider the case of a E850 UE roaming into a Band 19 network. The
OOB blocking requirements then apply below 860 MHz, see Figure 5.3.4.2-1 that
shows the blocker interferer frequencies for range 1. Hence the CW blocker
appears just inside the E850 receiver duplex filter (grey in the figure).
However, the spectrum of the cross-modulation with the uplink signal would be
mostly confined below the Band 19 passband, but it can be folded into it. The
5 MHz modulated in-band blocker just above 860 MHz would generate a cross-
modulation spectrum of a different PSD that would fall into the Band 19
passband. It thus appears that:
  * the Band 19 OOB blocking requirements would be met by a UE supporting E850,
but this needs to be confirmed quantitatively.
Figure 5.3.4.2-1: Out-of-band blocking range 1 for bands in the E850 range in
relation to Band 19
In a live network scenario, any OOB interferer below 860 MHz would most likely
be of modulated type down at least to 815 MHz, the lower edge of the Band 18
uplink, except possibly for narrowband interferers in the Band 18/19 duplex
gap. A Band 19 duplexer would not supply significant advantages over an E850
duplexer in terms of rejection: the latter must also provide sufficient
attenuation of an own TX blocker in the Band 18/19 range, the only possible
advantage of a Band 19 duplexer would be rejection of in-band interferers much
stronger than -44 dBm in the lowest part of Band 18
The same assertions can be made for an E850 UE roaming into a Band 5 network.
For Band 5 there is an additional OOB requirement for a -15 dBm unwanted CW
blocker falling into the Band 5 transmit band (range 4, up to 824 MHz).
However, the E850 transmit duplexer filter must provide a stop band rejection
that matches a Band 5 filter for range 4. A similar blocking requirement could
apply for the extended range 814-849 MHz.
For an E850 UE operating in Band 5 in the United States, OOB interferers 15
MHz below the receive band originated from NPSPAC (Public Safety) systems
allocated down to 851 MHz (see Figure 5.1.2.2-1). Suppression of high-power
transmissions from these systems mounted in high control-station towers is
provided by Band 5 duplexer. From Figure 5.2.3.2.1.2 we observe that the RX
duplex filter of E850 would also provide significant rejection below 854 MHz,
even if not the same as the Band 5 filter.
For OOB range 2 that applies for an unwanted -30 dBm _CW_ interfering signal
falling more than 60 MHz below or above the UE receive band, the Band 5 and
E850 receive duplexer filters provide similar performance.
(It appears that the out-of-band blocking requirements of Bands 5, 18 and 19
can be met with an E850 duplexer.)
# 6 Study of UTRA requirements
\
## 6.1 Band and channel arrangement
In chapter 5.2.1, a split-band arrangement for extending 850 MHz
(806-849/851-894 MHz) was presented and agreed. Two different blocks upper
Extending 850 MHz and lower Extending 850 MHz were defined. The lower
Extending e850 is not considered for UTRA.
  * Upper Extending 850 MHz:
    * UL: 814-849 MHz
    * DL: 859-894 MHz
The upper Extending 850 MHz band allocation is for UTRA referred as Band
[XXVI]
UARFCN can be defined as in Table 6.1-1, by reserving a part of the unused
numbers that follow the Band [XXV] Add allocation.
Table 6.1-1: UARFCN allocated for UTRA Band [XXVI]
|  |  | Uplink UARFCN | Downlink UARFCN |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**UTRA FDD Band** | **Band range [MHz]** | **Range res. [MHz]** | **Formula offset F UL_Offset** **[MHz]** | **Assigned/Reserved** | **N U** | **F UL [MHz]** | **Formula offset F DL_Offset** **[MHz]** | **Assigned/Reserved** | **N D** | **F DL [MHz]**  
**[XXVI]** | 2x35 | 2x35 | -291 | Start res. | 5525 | 814.0 | -291 | Start res. | 5750 | 859.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **5537** | **814.4** |  | **Min.** | **5762** | **861.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **5688** | **846.6** |  | **Max.** | **5913** | **891.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 5699 | 848.8 |  | End res. | 5924 | 893.8  
**[XXVI]** **(Add.)** | 2x35 | 2x35 | -325.9 | Start res. | 5700 | 814.1 | -325.9 | Start res. | 5925 | 859.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **5712** | **814.5** |  | **Min.** | **5937** | **861.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **5862** | **846.5** |  | **Max.** | **6087** | **891.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 5874 | 848.9 |  | End res. | 6099 | 893.9  
## 6.2 Coexistence with other technologies
\
## 6.3 Specific UE requirements
### 6.3.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 6.3.1.1 UE MOP
Duplexer assumptions used to derive for Band XXVI UE MOP are presented in
Table 6.3.1.1-1.
Table 6.3.1.1-1: Duplexer assumptions
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Parameter | Band XXVI | Band V | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Duplexer Tx insertion loss^1^ | 3.0 dB | 2.0 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Duplexer Rx insertion loss^1^ | 2.9 dB | 2.2 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Tx isolation | 52 dB | 55 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Rx isolation | 47 dB | 50 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Tx to Ant Attenuation on Rx band | 37 dB | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Switchplexer insertion loss^2^ | 0.6 dB | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Trace losses and VSWR mismatch^2^ | 0.4 dB | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Note 1: Integrated insertion loss over any | | | | 3.84 MHz channel within the band | | | | | | | | Note 2: It is not a part of a duplexer | | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
Table 6.3.1.1-2 shows the UE MOP requirements derived from Table 6.3.1.1-1.
The tolerance for Band XXVI is relaxed by 1dB compared to Band V due to the
fact thet TX IL in Band XXVI duplexer is 1dB higher than in Band V However,
Band V MOP applies for those devices supporting both Band V and Band XXVI.
Table 6.3.1.1-2: UE Power ClassesThe UE MOP agreed\ for UTRA is different to
the UE MOP defined for E-UTRA
Operating Band | Power Class 1 | Power Class 2 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 3bis | Power Class 4 |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Power (dBm) | Tol (dB) | Power (dBm) | Tol (dB) | Power (dBm) | Tol (dB) | Power (dBm) | Tol (dB) | Power (dBm) | Tol (dB)  
V | - | - | - | - | +24 | +1/-3 | +23 | +2/-2 | +21 | +2/-2  
VIII | - | - | - | - | +24 | +1/-3 | +23 | +2/-2 | +21 | +2/-2  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
XXVI |  |  |  |  | +24 | +1/-4 | +23 | +2/-3 | +21 | +2/-3  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE: For the UE which supports both Band V and Band XXVI operating frequencies, the UE maximum output power of Band V shall apply for Band XXVI when the carrier frequency of the assigned UTRA channel is within 824-845 MHz. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
The minimum requirements for UE MOP for UTRA and 5 MHz E-UTRA are thus
different. However, harmonization of Band 26/XXVI is currently under
discussion. Co-banding between E-UTRA and UTRA is essential for harmonization
of the band [2].
#### 6.3.1.2 Spurious emissions
UE spurious emissions for protection of PS , the e850 lower sub-band and the
APT700 band are specified in clauses 7.3.1.2.2.1, 7.3.1.2.2.2 and 7.3.1.2.2.3,
respectively. For UTRA, a guard band is required to fulfil the UE emission
requirements towards PS and e850 lower sub-band as specified in Table
6.3.1.x-1.
Table 6.3.1.2-1. Additional spurious emissions requirements with a guard band
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Operating | Frequency | Measurement | Minimum | Guard Band | | Band | Bandwidth | Bandwidth | requirement | | | | | | | (F~guard~ | | | | | | MHz) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XXVI | 806 MHz ≤ f | 6.25 kHz | -42 dBm | TBD | | | ≤ 813.5 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 806 MHz ≤ f | 6.25 kHz | -42 dBm | TBD | | | ≤ 816 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 851 MHz ≤ f | 1 MHz | -32 dBm | TBD | | | ≤ 859 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 851 MHz ≤ f | 6.25 kHz | -53 dBm | TBD | | | ≤ 859 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.3.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 6.3.2.1 Diversity characteristics
\
#### 6.3.2.2 Reference sensitivity
##### 6.3.2.2.1 Void
##### 6.3.2.2.2 The sub-band 814-849/859-894 MHz
Duplexer assumptions used to derive for Band XXVI UE REFSENS are presented in
Table 6.3.2.2.2-1.
Table 6.3.2.2.2-1: Duplexer assumptions
+-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Parameter | Band XXVI | Band V | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Duplexer Tx insertion loss^1^ | 3.0 dB | 2.0 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Duplexer Rx insertion loss^1^ | 2.9 dB | 2.2 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Tx isolation | 52 dB | 55 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Rx isolation | 47 dB | 50 dB | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Tx to Ant Attenuation on Rx band | 37 dB | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Switchplexer insertion loss^2^ | 0.6 dB | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Trace losses and VSWR mismatch^2^ | 0.4 dB | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+ | Note 1: Integrated insertion loss over any | | | | 3.84 MHz channel within the band. | | | | | | | | Note 2: It is not a part of a duplexer. | | | +-----------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
Table 6.3.2.2.2-2 shows the UE REFSENS requirements derived from Table
6.3.2.2.2-1. Band XXVI UE REFSENS is relaxed by 1.5dB compared to Band V. This
is because of 0.7 higher RX IL in Band XXVI duplexer compared to Band V and
3dB lower isolation which translates into 0.8 dB sensitivity degradation
(0.7+0.8=1.5 dB).
Table 6.3.2.2.2-2: Test parameters for reference sensitivity
* * *
Operating Band Unit DPCH_Ec \ \ V dBm/3.84 MHz -115 -104.7
VIII dBm/3.84 MHz -114 -103.7 814-849/859-894 MHz dBm/3.84 MHz -113.5 -103.2
NOTE: For the UE which supports both Band V and Band XXVI operating
frequencies, the reference sensitivity level of -115 dBm DPCH_Ec \
shall apply for Band XXVI when the carrier frequency of the assigned UTRA
channel is within 869-894 MHz. The corresponding \ is -104.7 dBm.
* * *
The conditions for UE REFSENS for UTRA and 5 MHz E-UTRA are currently
different. However, harmonization of Band 26/XXVI is currently under
discussion. Co-banding between E-UTRA and UTRA is essential for harmonization
of the band A proposal for aligning the requirements for UTRA Band XXVI and
Band 26 can be found in [3]
#### 6.3.2.3 Maximum input level
\
#### 6.3.2.4 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
\
  1. #### Blocking Characteristics
    1. ##### In-band blocking
Currently the in-band blocking requirement is the same for all band classes
except for the special requirement for Band 17, which is due to the
consideration of potential blocking scenarios from the adjacent MediaFLO and
MediaFLO like mobile TV broadcasting signals from the Lower 700 MHz D and E
blocks. Since there are no similar interference issue near the E850 band under
study; and the prior assessment that with the split duplexer approach the
extended Band 5 UE duplexer can achieve similar performance as a Band 5 UE
duplexer, **the E850 in-band blocking requirement can be the same as the
generic requirement for all bands except Band 17**.
##### Out-of-band blocking
Currently the out-of-band blocking requirement is the same for all band
classes except for the additional modulated interference signal requirement
for the UE transmit frequency range for bands 2, 5, 12, and 17 which seems to
be a requirement for Region 2 to address potential self-interference or UE-to-
UE interference. For E850 the same requirement would also apply. This would
also address the potential interference from other UEs in the sub-bands of
E850, namely bands 5, 6, 18, and 19. The split-duplexer implementation will
either help to meet this requirement or have no bearing. **The E850 out-of-
band blocking requirement can be the same as the generic requirement for all
bands. In addition the requirement for range 4 shall also apply.**
##### Narrow band blocking
Currently the narrow band blocking requirement is the same for all band
classes with an offset of \~200 kHz from the edge of channel. Since the
requirement is not related to RF band or filters, **the E850 narrow band
blocking requirement should be the same as the generic requirement for all
bands.**
## 6.4 BS specific requirements
### 6.4.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 6.4.1.1 Lower sub-band
The lower sub-band or Band 27 is not defined for UTRA. However, spurious
emissions from other operating bands needs to consider such band.
##### 6.4.1.1.1 Spurious emissions
Co-existence and co-location with Band 27 also needs to be added into the
specifications by adding a row to the spurious emissions for co-existence or
co-location tables.
Table 6.4.1.1.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for UTRA FDD BS in geographic\
coverage area of systems operating in other frequency bands
* * *
E-UTRA Band 27 852 -- 869 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to
UTRA BS operating in Band V or XXVI. 807 -- 824 MHz -49 dBm 1 MHz For UTRA BS
operating in Band XXVI, it applies for 807 MHz to 814 MHz, while the rest is
covered in sub-clause 6.6.3.2.
* * *
Table 6.4.1.1.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits\ for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
WA E-UTRA Band 27 807 - 824 MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.1.1-3: BS Spurious emissions limits\ for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
LA E-UTRA Band 27 807 - 824 MHz -82 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.1.1-4: Home BS Spurious emissions limits\ for co-existence with
Home BS operating in other bands
* * *
E-UTRA FDD Band 27 807 -- 824 MHz -71 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
### 6.4.1.2 Upper sub-band
Operating band unwanted emissions and spurious emissions defined in TS 25.104
and TS 25.141 need to be updated to include Band [XXVI]
### 6.4.1.2.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
Applicable requirements to Band V also need to be required to be fulfilled by
Band [XXVI]
### 6.4.1.2.2 Spurious emissions
Band [XXVI] protection has to be included by adding a row for the band to the
spurious emission tables for protection of own receiver band. Co-existence and
co-location with Band 26 or Band [XXVI] also needs to be added into the
specifications by adding a row to the spurious emissions for co-existence or
co-location tables. In addition, modifications in the current co-existence
emission tables to the rows for co-existence with Band 5 or Band V and GSM850
or CDMA850 are required due to overlap with Band [XXVI]
Table 6.4.1.2.2-1: Wide Area BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of
the BS receiver
* * *
[XXVI] 814-849 MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.2.2-2: Medium Range BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of
the BS receiver
* * *
[XXVI] 814-849 MHz -86 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.2.2-3: Local Area BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of
the BS receiver
* * *
[XXVI] 814-849 MHz -82 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.2.2-4: Home BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of the BS
receiver
* * *
[XXVI] 814-849 MHz -82 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.2.2-5: BS Spurious emissions limits for UTRA FDD BS in geographic
coverage area of systems operating in other frequency bands
+---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | GSM850 or | 869 - 894 MHz | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to UTRA | | | | | | FDD BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | band V or | | | | | | [XXVI] | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 824 ‑ 849 MHz | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to UTRA | | | | | | FDD BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | band V or | | | | | | [XXVI], | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.3.2. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 869 - 894 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | V or | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band 5 | | | | apply to UTRA | | | | | | FDD BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band V or | | | | | | [XXVI] | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 824 - 849 MHz | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to UTRA | | | | | | FDD BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band V or | | | | | | [XXVI], | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.3.2. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 859-894 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | [XXVI] or | | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | [26] | | | | apply to UTRA | | | | | | FDD BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band V or | | | | | | band [XXVI] | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 814-849 MHz | -49 MHz | 1 MHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to UTRA | | | | | | FDD BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band | | | | | | [XXVI], | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirements | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.3.2 For | | | | | | UTRA FDD BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band V, it | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | 814MHz to | | | | | | 824MHz, while | | | | | | the rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.3.2 | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+
Table 6.4.1.2.2-6: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
WA UTRA FDD Band [XXVI] or E-UTRA Band [26] 814-849 MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.2.2-7: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium Range BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
MR UTRA FDD Band [XXVI] 814.849 MHz -86 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.2.2-8: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
LA UTRA FDD Band [XXVI] or E-UTRA Band [26] 814-849 MHz -82 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.4.1.2.2-9: Home BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with
Home BS operating in other bands
* * *
UTRA FDD Band [XXVI] or E-UTRA Band [26] 814-849 MHz -71 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Protection of Public Safety operations in 800 MHz is also required from Band
[XXVI]. This requirement is applicable in the spurious emissions domain but
also at specified frequencies falling between 12.5 MHz below the first carrier
frequency used and 12.5 MHz above the last carrier frequency used.
Table 6.4.1.2.2-10: BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of 800 MHz
public safety operations
* * *
Operating Band Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note [XXVI]
851 - 869 MHz -13 dBm 100 kHz Applicable for offsets > 37.5 kHz from the
channel edge
* * *
### 6.4.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 6.4.2.1 Lower sub-band
Noting that Band 27 is a E-UTRA band, other UTRA bands need to consider this
blocking for protection.
##### 6.4.2.1.1 Blocking
A new row is needed to include Band 27 to blocking when co-located BS.
Table 6.4.2.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement\ for Wide Area BS when co-
located with BS in other bands
* * *
WA E-UTRA Band 27 852 - 869 MHz +16 dBm -115 dBm CW carrier
* * *
Table 6.4.2.1.1-2: Blocking performance requirement\ for Local Area BS when
co-located with BS in other bands
* * *
LA E-UTRA Band 27 852 - 869 MHz -6 dBm -101 dBm CW carrier
* * *
### 6.4.2.2 Upper sub-band
Blocking as well as intermodulation requirements need to be adapted to support
Band [XXVI] in TS 25.104 and 25.141.
### 6.4.2.2.1 Blocking
A new row for Band [XXVI] needs to be included in the blocking tables. A new
row is also needed to include Band [26] or Band [XXVI] to blocking when co-
located BS.
Table 6.4.2.2.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS
+----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | [XXVI] | 814-849 MHz | -40 dBm | -115 dBm | ±10 MHz | WCDMA signal * | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | | 794-814 MHz | -40 dBm | -115 dBm | ±10 MHz | WCDMA signal * | | | | | | | | | | 849-859 MHz | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | | 1 MHz ‑ 794 MHz | -15 dBm | -115 dBm |  | CW carrier | | | | | | | | | | 859 MHz ‑ 12750 MHz | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+
Table 6.4.2.2.1-2: Blocking performance requirement for Medium range BS
+----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | [XXVI] | 814-849 MHz | -35 dBm | -105 dBm | ±10 MHz | WCDMA signal * | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | | 794-814 MHz | -35 dBm | -105 dBm | ±10 MHz | WCDMA signal * | | | | | | | | | | 849-859 MHz | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | | 1 MHz ‑ 794 MHz | -15 dBm | -105 dBm |  | CW carrier | | | | | | | | | | 859 MHz ‑ 12750 MHz | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+
Table 6.4.2.2.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area / Home BS
+----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | [XXVI] | 814-849 MHz | -30 dBm | -101 dBm | ±10 MHz | WCDMA signal * | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | | 794-814 MHz | -30 dBm | -101 dBm | ±10 MHz | WCDMA signal * | | | | | | | | | | 849-859 MHz | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+ | | 1 MHz ‑ 794 MHz | -15 dBm | -101 dBm |  | CW carrier | | | | | | | | | | 859 MHz ‑ 12750 MHz | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---------+----------+---------+-----------------+
Table 6.4.2.2.1-4: Blocking performance requirement\ for Wide Area BS when co-
located with BS in other bands
* * *
WA UTRA-FDD Band [XXVI] or E-UTRA Band [26] 859 - 894 MHz +16 dBm -115 dBm CW
carrier
* * *
Table 6.4.2.2.1-5: Blocking performance requirement\ for Med ium Range BS when
co-located with BS in other bands
* * *
MR UTRA-FDD Band [XXVI] 859 - 894 MHz +8 dBm -105 dBm CW carrier
* * *
Table 6.4.2.2.1-6: Blocking performance requirement\ for Local Area BS when
co-located with BS in other bands
* * *
LA UTRA-FDD Band [XXVI]or E-UTRA Band [26] 859 - 894 MHz -6 dBm -101 dBm CW
carrier
* * *
Band [XXVI] also require narrowband blocking since it overlaps with GSM850 as
follows.
Table 6.4.2.2.1-7: Blocking performance requirement (narrowband) for Wide Area
BS
* * *
[XXVI] 814-849 MHz -47 dBm -115 dBm ±2.7 MHz GMSK modulated*
* * *
Table 6.4.2.2.1-8: Blocking performance requirement (narrowband) for Local
Area / Home BS
* * *
[XXVI] 814-849 MHz - 37 dBm -101 dBm ±2.7 MHz GMSK modulated*
* * *
### 6.4.2.2.2 Intermodulation
The same requirements which are applicable to Band V are also valid for Band
[XXVI]
# 7 Study of E-UTRA requirements
This clause documents the E-UTRA requirements for the e850 bands.
## 7.1 Band and channel arrangement
This clause documents the band and channel arrangements for the e850 bands.
### 7.1.1 E-UTRA operating band and channel arrangement
In clause 5.2.1, a split-band arrangement for extending 850 MHz
(806-849/851-894 MHz) was presented and agreed. Subsequently, it was agreed to
move the lower edge of the lower band to 807/852 MHz. Two different blocks
upper Extending 850 MHz and lower Extending 850 MHz were defined as follows:
  * Upper Extending 850 MHz:
    * UL: 814-849 MHz
    * DL: 859-894 MHz
  * Lower Extending 850 MHz:
    * UL: 807-824 MHz
    * DL: 852-869 MHz
The upper Extending 850 MHz band allocation is for E-UTRA referred to as Band
[26] and the lower Extending 850 MHz band allocation is for E-UTRA referred to
as Band [27]
E-UARFCN can be defined as in Table 7.1.1-1, by reserving a part of the unused
numbers that follow the band 25 allocation.
Table 7.1.1-1 EARFCN allocated for E-UTRA Band [26] and Band [27]
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ [26] 859 8690 8690-9039 814 26690 26690-27039 [27] 852 9040 9040-[9209]
806 27040 27040-27209
* * *
### 7.1.2 MSR BS operating band and categories
MSR has to define which band category is supported for the lower and upper
E850 as follows.
Table 7.1.2-1 MSR operating band and categories for upper and lower E850
MSR and E‑UTRA Band number | UTRA  
Band number | GSM/EDGE Band designation | Uplink (UL) BS receive  
UE transmit | Downlink (DL) BS transmit  
UE receive | Band category |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
[26] | [XXVI] | - | 814 MHz | – | 849 MHz | 859 MHz | – | 894 MHz | 1  
[27] | [XXVII] | - | 807 MHz | – | 824 MHz | 852 MHz | – | 869 MHz | 1  
## 7.2 Coexistence with other technologies
### 7.2.1 Coexistence scenarios for the range 806-824/851-869 MHz and
814-849/859-894 MHz
This clause addressed some of the potential coexistence issues that could
occur depending on the markets.. This analysis was performed for the lower
edge of the band at 806/851 MHz.
#### 7.2.1.1 LTE vs. Public Safety
Public Safety typically uses lower number and higher towers than an LTE
system. In addition, Public Safety operators typically design their networks
to operate down to the noise floor. With LTE and Public Safety deployments
being quite different, interference issues could arise.
LTE BS Tx OOBE  NB P:
  * The Tx noise from an LTE BS is at most 6dB below NB PS Portable Rx noise floor (1dB desense criteria).
  * NB PS Portable NF = 9dB
  * NB PS Portable antenna gain = -6dB
The Tx noise must be less than -127.0dBm/6.25kHz
Assuming FCC rule 90.691 [6] and Industry Canada RSS-119 [7] are used for the
BS Unwanted Emission limits, the LTE BS Tx emission levels are -3dBm/MHz or
-25 dBm/6.25 kHz.
Assuming an LTE BS antenna gain of 16dB, antenna feeder loss of 3 dB and 70 dB
path loss between the LTE BS and NB PS portable, an additional 45 dB of
attenuation is required.
If using 70 dB port to port isolation, which is less stringent than 70 dB MCL
assumption, TX filter requirement = 38 dB.
At least 1 MHz guard band with RF filter is potentially needed to obtain the
additional isolation.
LTE BS Tx Power  NB PS portable (Blocking)
LTE UE Tx OOBE  NB PS BTS receiver
LTE UE Tx Power  NB PS BTS receiver (blocking)
#### 7.2.1.2 LTE vs. iDEN and other users of the band
While co-location of LTE with iDEN should help the interference, co-location
might not always be possible. If LTE and iDEN deployments are not co-located,
interference could be an issue, especially if the deployments are very
different (e.g., cell size, antenna height, etc.).
The interference between LTE and iDEN is studied here.
LTE BS TX OOBE  iDEN portable
Assuming FCC rule 90.691 [6] and Industry Canada RSS-119 [7] are for the BS
Unwanted Emission limits, the LTE BS Tx emission levels are -3dBm/MHz as noted
in the previous clause or -19 dBm/25 kHz. The maximum tolerable interference
level is
-127 dBm/25 kHz assuming a 1 dB desense criteria, and the interference from LTE BS Tx noise is -89 dBm/25 Hz assuming 70 dB port to port isolation. Therefore 38 dB of additional attenuation is required.
Guard band potentially needed is at least 1 MHz.
LTE BS TX Power  iDEN portable (Blocking)
Assuming iDEN portable adjacent channel selectivity of 80 dB and a receiver
noise floor of -121 dBm/25 kHz, the maximum tolerable interference level at
the iDEN receiver is -41 dBm/25 kHz. With the LTE BS Tx power of 43 dBm/5 MHz
and 70 dB port to port isolation, no additional attenuation is required.
LTE UE Tx OOBE  iDEN BTS receiver
LTE UE Tx Power  iDEN BTS receiver (blocking)
#### 7.2.1.3 LTE UE to LTE UE and LTE BS to LTEBS coexistence issues at
849-851 MHz
LTE BS Tx Power  LTE BS Receiver (Blocking)
LTE TX Pout = 43 dBm/5 MHz
Assuming minimal coupling loss between LTE BS and LTE BS is 67 dB, then the
interferer level at LTE BTS is -24 dBm/5 MHz
From 3GPP TS 36.104 Table 7.5.1-3 Adjacent channel selectivity for Wide Area
BS and Table 7.6.1.1-1 Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS, the
minimum LTE receiver protection assuming 6dB desense is -52 dBm for adjacent
channels and -43 dBm for other in-band channels, i.e. in band blocking.
Adjusting for a more realistic 1dB desense allowance, the corresponding
adjacent and alternate channel protection becomes -63 dBm and -54 dBm
respectively.
Therefore an additional 39 dB of protection is required for an interferer in
the adjacent channel spectrum, while interferers elsewhere in band will only
require an additional 30 dB of protection.
By contrast, when 5 MHz of iDEN is above 851 MHz, a Band 5 or Band 26 BS
requires an additional 64.2 dB of protection for an interferer in the adjacent
channel spectrum, while interferers elsewhere in the SMR band will require an
additional 55.2 dB of blocking protection. The calculation for iDEN power in 5
MHz is as follows:
An iDEN basestation power amplifier typically outputs 6 watts per 25 KHz
channel. In 5 MHz of spectrum, there are 200 25 KHz channels. iDEN frequency
reuse can be as high as n=5. With a more typical n=9 frequency reuse, there
are 22 iDEN carriers per sector in 5 MHz, or 51.2 dBm per sector. This is 8.2
dB greater than the 43 dBm transmit power of an LTE basestation.
So, deploying LTE in the Lower e850 band will result in significantly lower
levels of blocking than iDEN does today. However, TS36.104 does not include
any blocking requirement against iDEN protection. Instead, blocking from iDEN
systems have been solved in a case-by-case deployment basis.
Band 5/V is a legacy band. There is currently a large number of installed Band
V base stations as well as Band 5/V development. The current applicable
requirements at 851 MHz is ACS and in-band blocking, thus a DL signal at such
frequency may cause blocking in a Band 5 BS RX, degrading its performance. For
new Band 5/V as well and 26/XXVI BSs the large required attenuation at 2MHz
from the UL operating band will introduce more insertion loss compared to
other bands with larger frequency separation to blocking signals and thus
cause performance degradation. Alternatively, site specific solutions, can be
considered which will increase cost and complexity.
LTE BS Tx OOBE  LTE BTS Receiver
Assuming a 1 dB desense criteria, the Tx noise from LTE BS (5 MHz channel)
must be more than 6 dB below the LTE BS Rx noise floor. With an LTE BS NF of 5
dB, the Tx noise must be less than -1[1]{.underline}5dBm/MHz. Assuming FCC
rule 90.691 [6] and Industry Canada RSS-119 [7]emission limits, the LTE Tx
power in the LTE Rx bandwidth is -13 dBm/100 kHz or -3 dBm/MHz. Assuming a
coupling loss between LTE Base Stations of , 67 dB, an additional 45 dB of
suppression is required.
The 2MHz guard band (849-851 MHz) with RF filter on the BSs could be enough
for certain typical deployments while it may impose certain penalty on the
BSs, for example high IL.
LTE UE Tx at 849MHz Edge--->LTE UE Rx at 851 MHz (ACS)
For LTE UE ACS Case 1, the allowed maximum interference power on the adjacent
channel of the victim UE Rx channel is Refsens + 45.5 dB, and the wanted
signal is a REFSEN+14 dB. For ACS case 1, the required additional isolation is
25.5 dB for 1 m separation between UE and UE.
For LTE UE ACS Case 2, the allowed maximum interference power on the adjacent
channel of the victim UE Rx channel is -25 Bm, and the wanted signal is -56.5
dBm. For ACS case 2, no additional isolation is required for 1m separation
between UE and UE.
LTE UE Tx at 849MHz Edge--->LTE UE Rx at 851 MHz (In Band Blocking)
For In-band blocking case 1, the allowed maximum interference power is -56 dBm
assuming 6 dB desense. In this case, the required addition is 29 dB for 1 m
separation between victim and aggressor UEs.
For In-band blocking case 2, the allowed maximum interference power is -44 dBm
assuming 6 dB desense. In this case, the required addition is 17 dB for 1 m
separation between victim and aggressor UEs.
LTE UE Tx at 849 MHz Edge--->LTE UE Rx at 851MHz (Desense due to OOB)
Based on FCC band plan, here we consider two aggressors at 849 MHz band edge:
\- LTE/1.4MHz/23 dBm, with higher channel edge at 849 MHz.
\- LTE/5MHz/23 dBm, with higher channel edger at 845 MHz.
Assuming a 3dB desense criteria, the out of band emission from Band5 UE should
not be higher than E850 lower band UE Rx noise floor. With an the victime UE
NF is assumed to be 9dB , the maximum allowed OOBE is -174 dBm + 10log(1E6) +
9 = -105 dBm/MHz. From TS 36.101 Table 6.6.2.1.1-1, the UE spectrum emission
levels are defined for different frequency offset (∆f~OOB~). The required
isolation can be calculated as:
Required isolation ≥ Spectrum emission limit -- maximum allowed OOBE
Based on the UE spectrum emission limit for 5MHz channel bandwidth from
frequency (∆f~OOB~) starting from the channel edge of ±0 to ±10 MHz, the
required isolation is calculated to meet 3 dB desense criteria. If assuming
MCL between UEs of 50 dB (distance separation: 1 meter, body loss at each
side: 10 dB), an additional isolation required are calculated in the tables
below:
7.2.1.3-1: Isolation requirement for 5MHz LTE channel bandwidth
+-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | Spectrum emission limit\ | Required Isolation | Additional Isolation | | | (5 MHz) | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0-1 | -15 dBm/30 KHz | | | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 1-2.5 | -10 dBm/1 MHz | 95 dB | 45 dB | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 2.5-2.8 | -10 dBm/1 MHz | 95 dB | 45 dB | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 2.8-5 | -10 dBm/1 MHz | 95 dB | 45 dB | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 5-6 | -13 dBm/1 MHz | 92 dB | 42 dB | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 6-10 | -25 dBm/1 MHz | 80 dB | 30 dB | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+
7.2.1.3-2: Table Isolation requirement for 1.4MHz LTE channel bandwidth
+-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | Spectrum emission limit\ | Required Isolation | Additional Isolation | | | (5MHz) | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0-1 | -10 dBm/30 KHz | | | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 1-2.5 | -13 dBm/1 MHz | 92 dB | 42 dB | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+ | ± 2.5-2.8 | -25 dBm/1 MHz | 80 dB | 30 dB | +-----------+--------------------------+--------------------+----------------------+
#### 7.2.1.4 Void
#### 7.2.1.5 Conclusions
For e850 coexistence, specially considering the legacy Band 5 equipment,
certain guard band may be required based on OOBE and Blocking studies. For
coexistence with DTV, a guard band will be required if the TV repeater
occupies the spectrum adjacent to the low end of the proposed band. Co-
existence between lower E850 and Band 5 needs to be considered considering
that the impact on the legacy Band 5 is minimized/negligible. Co-existence
with upper e850 also needs to be studied. The UE to UE coexistence at 849-851
MHz is for further study.
### 7.2.2 The range 814-849/859-894 MHz
#### 7.2.2.1 Region 2 specific
In this clause we start by discussing co-existence problems with regard to the
FCC limits in the United States. We consider the range 817-824/862-869 MHz and
unwanted emissions below the block edge at 817 MHz in particular, but the
results are also applicable near any block edge (or to spectrum adjacent to
interior channels used by incumbent licensees) within the entire range
806-849/851-894 MHz. Figure 7.2.2.1-1 shows the spectrum situation around 850
MHz in Region 2.
{width="6.395833333333333in" height="0.7756944444444445in"}
Figure 7.2.1-1: Spectrum arrangement around 850 MHz in Region 2
  1. ##### UE interference into Public Safety in the United States
    1. ##### UE interference into Public Safety below Band 26
First we look at interference from an aggressor UE in the ESMR band
817-824/862-869 MHz (the available extension of Band 5 in the United States) a
victim Public Safety device or control station below 816 MHz (use of the
Expansion Band) with regard to the applicable FCC emission limits on 90.691,
described in Clause 5.3.2.1. The resolution bandwidth is not defined in the
FCC rules but we follow the RSS-119 (and the historical) which defines the
measurement bandwidth as 300 Hz at frequency offset less than 37.5 kHz from
channel edge and 100 kHz for frequency offsets greater than 37.5 kHz. Results
for 1 MHz resolution bandwidth is also given for the latter case. The emission
limits that would apply are -20 dBm/0.3kHz at an offset between 12.5 kHz and
37.5 kHz from the ESMR block, and -13 dBm/100kHz beyond 37.5 kHz.
For the UE unwanted emission results we assume a transmitter that just meets
the LO leakage and IQ image minimum requirements for Rel-8, and with a
counter-IM3 at -60 dBc (full power). The graphs show the emission at the
antenna port assuming no additional attenuation provided by the duplexer the
lower band edge of which is 814 MHz.
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-1 shows the results for a 1.4 MHz channel with its lower edge
at 817 MHz, hence a 0.16 MHz guard between the ESMR lower edge and the lowest
PRB of the transmission configuration. We observe that a limit of -20 dBm/0.3
kHz would be met at an offset between 12.5 kHz and 37.5 kHz from the channel
edge for both a 1 and 6 PRB allocations: there is a margin of up to 10 dB
under the above assumptions.
{width="4.082638888888889in" height="3.057638888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-1: Emission for the 1.4 MHz bandwidth for 300 Hz RBW for
small offsets from 817 MHz
The results for a resolution bandwidth of 100 kHz are shown in Figure
7.2.2.1.1-2. For offsets greater than 37.5 kHz we assume that the first
measurement position is at an 87.5 kHz offset from the allocated block with
the 100 kHz bandwidth. We observe that the limit -13 dBm/100 kHz is not met
for the 1 PRB allocation at offset smaller than 100 kHz from the block edge:
power back-off or a guard created above 817 MHz is needed based on the assumed
transmitter performance and PA model. For most devices the performance should
exceed the minimum, but there are also other tolerances not considered herein.
Results for a wider frequency range are shown in Figure 7.2.2.1.1-3, the -13
dBm/100 kHz limit is met at an offset of 100 kHz away from the block edge at
817 MHz for the PRB allocations considered.
{width="4.082638888888889in" height="3.057638888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-2: Emission for the 1.4 MHz bandwidth\ with 100 kHz RBW for
small offsets from 817 MHz
{width="4.082638888888889in" height="3.057638888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-3: Emission for the 1.4 MHz bandwidth with 100 kHz RBW
The corresponding results for the 5 MHz channel centred at 819.5 MHz are shown
in Figure 7.2.2.1.1-4 for the range around the lower ESMR block edge. We
observe that a limit of -20 dBm/0.3 kHz would be met at an offset between 12.5
kHz and 37.5 kHz from the channel edge for all PRB allocations studied. The
results for 100 kHz resolution bandwidth are shown in Figure 7.2.2.1.1-5, the
limit -13 dBm/100 kHz is not met for offsets smaller than 300 kHz from the
block edge for the 5 PRB allocation: the same results over a wider frequency
range are shown in Figure 7.2.2.1.1-6. The intermodulation products (wider
than 100 kHz) stay below the limit.
{width="4.082638888888889in" height="3.057638888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-4: Emission for the 5 MHz bandwidth with 300 Hz RBW for small
offsets from 817 MHz
{width="4.0881944444444445in" height="3.0618055555555554in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-5: Emission for the 5 MHz bandwidth with 100 kHz RBW for
small offsets from 817 MHz
{width="4.0881944444444445in" height="3.0618055555555554in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-6: Emission for the 5 MHz bandwidth with 100 kHz RBW
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-7 shows the corresponding results for the 1 MHz resolution
bandwidth. Assuming that the first measurement frequency is 537.5 kHz, the
limit -13 dBm/MHz is not met close in to the carrier, and a third order
intermodulation product also exceeds this limit
{width="4.082638888888889in" height="3.0618055555555554in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1.1-7: Emission for the 5 MHz bandwidth with 1 MHz RBW
To sum up, to meet the FCC requirements (Clause 5.3.2.1) for the ESMR block:
  * a limit of -20 dBm/0.3 kHz would be met at an offset between 12.5 kHz and 37.5 kHz for all PRB allocations studied for the 1.4 and 5 MHz bandwidths,
  * for the 100 kHz resolution bandwidth, the limit -13 dBm/100 kHz would require a guard of up about 100 kHz and 300 kHz (taken inside the ESMR band) for the 1.4 and 5 MHz bandwidths, respectively
  * for the 1 MHz resolution, a moderate power back-off is needed to meet the -13 dBm/MHz bandwidth.
Assuming that the resolution bandwidth is 100 kHz, an A-MPR could be
configured to avoid the necessary guards just above 817 MHz. The duplex filter
with the lower edge at 814 MHz would not provide sufficient attenuation of the
intermodulation product for the 1 MHz resolution bandwidth. However, for the
100 kHz resolution bandwidth:
  * the limit -13 dBm/100kHz is met in the public safety band 806-815 MHz (uplink), including the expansion band up to 816 MHz (Figure 5.1.2.2-1).
\
While -13 dBm/100 kHz follows the FCC rules on emission limits, it is also
necessary to ensure that other radio services will not be interfered from a
regulatory point of view, as indicated in clause 5.3.2.1 (FCC Title 47 Part
22.917). Table 7.2.2.1.1.1-1 includes simulations for the PSNB average system
outage with or without LTE UL interference. The simulation parameters can be
found in Annex B.
Table 7.2.2.1.1.1-1: NB PS (8km cell radius) average system outage with or
without LTE UL interference
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | LTE | LTE | LTE | | | | | | cell | cell | cell | | | | | | radius | radius | radius | | | | | | 1.0 km | 2.0 km | 4.0 km | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | | Average | Edge | Average | Edge | Average | Edge | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | No LTE | 2.0% | 4.6% | 2.0% | 4.6% | 2.0% | 4.6% | | inter | | | | | | | | ference | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | OOBE | 3.5% | 7.7% | 2.4% | 5.1% | 2.1% | 4.8% | | - | | | | | | | | 43dBm/6 | | | | | | | | .25 kHz | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | OOBE | 9.8% | 19.4% | 3.9% | 7.9% | 2.4% | 5.1% | | - | | | | | | | | 35dBm/6 | | | | | | | | .25 kHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (USA | | | | | | | | 700 MHz | | | | | | | | OOBE | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | on FCC | | | | | | | | CFR\ | | | | | | | | Title | | | | | | | | 47 Part | | | | | | | | 27.53) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | OOBE | 32% | 50% | 13.2% | 26.8% | 5.0% | 10.2% | | -13dBm | | | | | | | | /100KHz | | | | | | | | (-2 | | | | | | | | 5dBm/6. | | | | | | | | 25 kHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (USA | | | | | | | | 800 MHz | | | | | | | | OOBE | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | on FCC | | | | | | | | §90.691 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | ndustry | | | | | | | | Canada | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | SS-119) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | Typical | | | | | | | | NB PS | | | | | | | | design | | | | | | | | is tile | | | | | | | | by tile | | | | | | | | based, | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | tile, | | | | | | | | 95% or | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eliable | | | | | | | | (less | | | | | | | | than 5% | | | | | | | | outage) | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | quired. | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | lthough | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | showed | | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | outage, | | | | | | | | it does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | capture | | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | | NB PS | | | | | | | | outage | | | | | | | | aspects | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | | interf | | | | | | | | erence. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+-------+
The systems outage criteria is defined as:
The system outage is calculated for each trial then averaged over a number of
trials to obtain the final figure. A maximum amount of outage for the NB PS
system of 2.5% is typical.
The system outage is very high when a Band 26 UE emits -13 dBm/100 kHz while
it becomes reasonable when the UE emissions from Band 26 is -35 dBm/6.25 kz
and almost unappreciable for -43 dBm/6.25 kHz.
##### UE interference into Public Safety above Band 26
As indicated in clause 5.3.2.1 (FCC Title 47 Part 22.917), the regulatory
limits are conditioned on that harmful interference to other radio services
does not occur. Given an allowed 1dB desense in PS NB portable devices as
interference condition, Table 7.2.2.1.1.2-1 includes the overall and cell edge
probability of interference with an LTE UL interference at 1, 2 or 3m
separation distance and different LTE OOBE levels. The simulation parameters
can be found in Annex B.
Table 7.2.2.1.1.2-1: Probability of interference from LTE UE to PSNB portable
at close proximity
{width="5.899305555555555in" height="1.1131944444444444in"}
##### 7.2.2.1.2 BS interference into Public Safety
Here we consider the interference from an aggressor BS in the ESMR band
817-824/862-869 MHz to a victim Public Safety service below 861 MHz (use of
the Expansion Band) with regard to the applicable FCC emission limits describe
in clause 5.3.2.1.
In TS 36.104 clause 6.6.3.3, additional operating band unwanted emission
limits for E-UTRA band \37.5 kHz, the emission requirement of -13
dBm/100 kHz from FCC rules could be met for BS with 3 MHz and 5MHz channel
bandwidth. The limit -13 dBm/100 kHz is not met for offsets smaller than 100
kHz from the channel edge for the 1.4 MHz channel bandwidth. Therefore,
additional 100 kHz guard band is needed for 1.4 MHz carrier configured at the
band edge close to the public safety service. Please note that this is
achieved with 55 dBc ACLR at 43 dBm as average performance, which is 10 dB
higher than minimum requirements.
##### 7.2.2.1.3 UE interference into another iDEN operator within the upper
band
void
##### 7.2.2.1.4 BS interference into another iDEN operator within the upper
band
void
### 7.2.3 The range 806-824/851-869 MHz
This clause addressed some of the potential coexistence issues that could
occur, depending on the market and deployment.
#### 7.2.3.1 LTE vs. Broadcast TV below the band
Interference from TV stations below the proposed UL band to LTE BS can be
mitigated with filters on LTE BS, guard bands, site planning and physical
separation. While these techniques will help with the receiver blocking issue,
the out‑-of‑-band emissions from the TV transmitters can only be mitigated
with additional filtering at the TV site or with frequency separation.
Interference from LTE UEs to TV receivers is a similar issue to that found in
Band 12 and will also need further investigation.
**_Two interference mechanisms are considered: OOBE and blocking._**
##### DTV Tx OOBE  LTE BS Receiver {#dtv-tx-oobe-lte-bs-receiver .H6}
**_With the following assumptions:_**
  * **_Assume requirement = TX noise \ 0  
A-MPR [dB] ≤2 ≤4 ≤8  
5 RB~end~ 0-4 12-15 16-19 20-24  
L~CRB~ [RBs] ≤1 ≥12 ≥8 >0  
A-MPR [dB] ≤2 ≤3 ≤5 ≤8  
10 RB~end~ 0-12 23-30 31-36 37-49  
L~CRB~ [RBs] =1 ≥20 ≥15 ≥4 ≤3 A-MPR [dB] ≤2 ≤4 ≤6 ≤5 ≤9 15 RB~end~ 0-20 26-44
45-53 54-74  
L~CRB~ [RBs] ≤1 ≥27 ≥20 >0  
A-MPR [dB] ≤2 ≤3 ≤5 ≤9
* * *
Table 7.3.1.2.2.1.2.1-1: NS_15 table for Foffset ≥ 6 MHz
* * *
Channel BW **Parameters** **Region A** **Region B** **Region C** **Region D**
5 RB~start~1 19-24  
L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥18  
A-MPR [dB] ≤2  
10 RB~start~1 0-4 29-37 38-44 45-49 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≤1 ≥27 ≥24 >0 A-MPR [dB] ≤2
≤1 ≤4 ≤8 15 RB~start~1 0-12 44-56 57-61 62-74 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≤1 ≥32 ≥20 >0 A-MPR
[dB] ≤2 ≤3 ≤5 ≤8
* * *
##### 7.3.1.2.2.2 UE spurious emissions towards Band 28 (APT700 FDD) {#ue-
spurious-emissions-towards-band-28-apt700-fdd-1 .H6}
Filter vendors have indicated that 25-30 dB rejection from the duplexer can be
achieved at 803MHz. Table 7.3.1.2.2.2-1 shows the achievable spurious
emissions \@803MHz from a Band 26 terminal without A-MPR.
Table 7.3.1.2.2.2-1: Attainable spurious emission level of a Band 26 terminal
{width="6.6819444444444445in" height="2.9319444444444445in"}
The UE spurious emissions for APT protection are defined as:
\- -50 dBm/MHz for 703-799 MHz
\- -40 dBm/MHz for 799-803 MHz
##### 7.3.1.2.2.3 UE spurious emissions towards Band [27] (E850 lower sub-
band) {#ue-spurious-emissions-towards-band-27-e850-lower-sub-band .H6}
There is no special UE spurious emissions limit for Band 27 protection. The
protection towards this band is defined by the A-MPR necessary to fulfil -53
dBm/6.25 kHz protection at 851 MHz and is equivalent to -32 dBm/MHz. Figure
7.3.1.2.2.3-1 shows the peak emission levels for a 15 MHz E-UTRA carrier when
applying the required A-MPR at 2MHz offset to fulfil -53 dBm/6.25 kHz.
> {width="4.263194444444444in" height="3.2006944444444443in"}
Figure 7.3.1.2.2.3-1: Peak emissions for a 15 MHz E-UTRA carrier using -53
dBm/6.25 kHz A-MPR table
### 7.3.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.3.2.1 Diversity characteristics
\
#### 7.3.2.2 Reference sensitivity
The reference sensitivity can be estimated as shown in Annex A for two
different transceiver architectures that should cover the possible
implementations, the minimum requirements apply for any architecture.
We begin by listing the ACLR~RX~ values for various allocations (Table
7.3.2.2-1), a measure of the transmitter noise falling into the receive band,
assuming a transmitter that just meets the minimum requirements for image and
LO leakage (-25 dBc).
Table 7.3.2.2-1: ACLR~RX~ (dBc) for various UL allocations
+-------------+--------------+------------+----------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | +-------------+--------------+------------+----------------+ | 5,18,19 | 88.4 (25 RB) | 80 (25 RB) | [75] (20 RB) | | | | | | | | | | [74] (25 RB) | +-------------+--------------+------------+----------------+
The difference between the 20 and 25 RB allocations are small for the 15 MHz
bandwidth due to intermodulation products falling into the receive bands
[further verification needed]. The results in Table 7.3.2.1-1 are applicable
for both sub-bands.
##### 7.3.2.2.1 The sub-band 807-824/852-869 MHz
Table 7.3.2.2.1-1 shows the reference sensitivity as obtained by assuming Band
5 baseline performance. The reference sensitivity requirement for
807-824/852-869 MHz could have been more aggressive given the wider band gap
and narrower passband than Band 5, but Band 5 performance was chosen to
encourage vendors to implement the band.
Table 7.3.2.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~ with baseline
performance
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Band | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | Mode | | | (dBm) | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | - | - | -98 | -95 | | | FDD | | | 103.2 | 100.2 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Band | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | (Note | | | | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 807-8 | - | - | -98 | -95 | | | FDD | | 24/85 | 103.2 | 100.2 | | | | | | | 2-869 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | | Fmax | | | | | | | | | = 11 | | | | | | | | | dB. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.3.2.2.1-2 specifies the minimum number of allocated uplink resource
blocks for which the reference receive sensitivity requirement must be met.
Table [7.3.2.2.1-2]: Minimum uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 5 6 15 25
25^1^ FDD 807-824/852-869 MHz 6 15 25 25^1^ FDD Note: The number of UL
_resource blocks_ allocated is less than the total _resources_ blocks
supported by the channel bandwidth. The UL resource blocks shall be located as
close as possible to the downlink operating band but confined within the
transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1).
* * *
##### 7.3.2.2.2 The sub-band 814-849/859-894 MHz
Table 7.3.2.2.2-1 shows the reference sensitivity as obtained by assuming a
baseline performance, between Band 5 and Band 8, but modified by -0.5 dB
(hence Band 5 performance) for channel bandwidths ≥ 5 MHz when assigned
between 865-894 MHzwhich is used as a working assumption for the reference
sensitivity of the upper sub-band.. A method of calculation is described in
Annex A.
Table 7.3.2.2.2-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~ with different
baseline performance
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Band | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | Mode | | | (dBm) | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | - | - | -98 | -95 | | | FDD | | | 103.2 | 100.2 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | - | -99.2 | -97 | -94 | | | FDD | | | 102.2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Band | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | note) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 814-8 | - | -99.7 | -97 | -94 | -92 | | FDD | | 49/85 | 102.7 | | .5^1^ | .5^1^ | .7^1^ | | | | 9-894 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | | ^1^ | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | -0.5 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 86 | | | | | | | | | 5-894 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The key difference between Band 5 and Band 8 performance is the insertion
loss. The difference in insertion loss is largest at the band edges, mid-band
there are only differences of a few tenths of dBs, see the example filter
traces in Section 5.2.3. The specified insertion loss accounts for process
variations and temperature variations causing frequency drift, and is
determined by the attenuation across a range slightly wider than the passband.
Data from various filter vendors are given in Table 5.2.3.2.3-1: it is assumed
that the RX insertion loss for the upper sub-band allows an F~max~ = 11.5 dB
for the estimation of the reference sensitivity in Annex A.
For 814-849/859-894 MHz, it is assumed that Band 5 performance can be attained
for bandwidths ≥ 5 MHz mid-band and at the upper edge. However, a relaxation
is needed at he lower edge due to the required stop-band attenuation in the
transmit band. A performance between Band 5 and Band 8 is therefore required
at the lower edge for these bandwidths. This is also assumed for the 1.4 and 3
MHz bandwidths across the entire passband.
Table 7.3.2.2.2-2 specifies the minimum number of allocated uplink resource
blocks for which the reference receive sensitivity requirement must be met.
Table 7.3.2.2.2-2: Minimum uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 5 6 15 25
25^1^ FDD 8 6 15 25 25^1^ FDD 18/19 25 25^1^ 25^1^ FDD 814-849/859-894 MHz 6
15 25 25^1^ 25 FDD Note: The number of UL _resource blocks_ allocated is less
than the total _resources_ blocks supported by the channel bandwidth. The UL
resource blocks shall be located as close as possible to the downlink
operating band but confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration
for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1).
* * *
Note that the UE REFSENS for 5 MHz E-UTRA and UTRA are different.
## 7.4 BS specific requirements
### 7.4.1 Transmitter characteristics
### 7.4.1.1 Lower sub-band
To be able to support the lower sub-band from the transmitter side, it is
necessary to modify TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 operating band unwanted emissions
and additional spurious emission requirements.
### 7.4.1.1.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
Operating band unwanted emissions need to include Band 27 on Category A and
Category B (Option 1). Additional requirements which are applicable to Band 5
are also required for Band 27.
### 7.4.1.1.2 Spurious emissions
Protection for Band 27 need to be included in the specifications by adding a
row for the band to the additional spurious emissions in TS 36.104 chapter
6.6.4.3 and TS 36.141 chapter 6.6.4.5.4. and also some protection for Band 5
or Band V, GSM850 or CDMA850 and Band 26 or XXVI from Band 27 need to be
included in the current rows for these bands.
Table 7.4.1.1.2-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-
existence\ with systems operating in other frequency bands
+---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 852 -- 869 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 27 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5, 26 or | | | | | | 27. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 807 -- 824 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band [27], | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band [26], | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for 806 MHz | | | | | | to 814 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | also applies | | | | | | to E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 28, | | | | | | starting | | | | | | 4 MHz above | | | | | | the Band 28 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (NOTE). | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | GSM850 or | 869 - 894 MHz | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or 26. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27 for | | | | | | the frequency | | | | | | range 879-894 | | | | | | MHz. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 824 ‑ 849 MHz | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E‑UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27, it | | | | | | applies 3 MHz | | | | | | below the | | | | | | Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 869 - 894 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | V or | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band 5 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or 26. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27 for | | | | | | the frequency | | | | | | range 879-894 | | | | | | MHz. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 824 - 849 MHz | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E‑UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27, it | | | | | | applies 3 MHz | | | | | | below the | | | | | | Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 859 -- 894 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | XXVI or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 26 | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or 26. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27 for | | | | | | the frequency | | | | | | range 879-894 | | | | | | MHz. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 814 -- 849 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 5, it | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | 814 MHz to | | | | | | 824 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E‑UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27, it | | | | | | applies 3 MHz | | | | | | below the | | | | | | Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+
NOTE 1: For E-UTRA Band 28 BS, specific solutions may be required to fulfil
the spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence with E-UTRA Band
27 UL operating band.
Table 7.4.1.1.2-2: Home BS Spurious emissions limits\ for co-existence with
Home BS operating in other frequency bands
+---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 807 - 824 MHz | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | 27 | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to Home | | | | | | BS operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | [27], since | | | | | | it is already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | Home BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band [26], | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for 807 MHz | | | | | | to 814 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | also applies | | | | | | to E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 28, | | | | | | starting 4 | | | | | | MHz above the | | | | | | Band 28 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (NOTE). | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 824 - 849 MHz | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | V or E-UTRA | | | | requirement | | Band 5 | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to Home | | | | | | BS operating | | | | | | in band 5 or | | | | | | 26, since it | | | | | | is already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E‑UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27, it | | | | | | applies 3 MHz | | | | | | below the | | | | | | Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 814 - 849 MHz | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | XXVI or | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to Home | | 26 | | | | BS operating | | | | | | in band 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | Home BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 5, it | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | 814 MHz to | | | | | | 824 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E‑UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 27, it | | | | | | applies 3 MHz | | | | | | below the | | | | | | Band 27 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+
NOTE 2: For E-UTRA Band 28 BS, specific solutions may be required to fulfil
the spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence with E-UTRA Band
27 UL operating band.
Co-location with other BS requirements, chapter 6.6.4.4 in 36.104 and
6.6.4.5.5 in 36.141 also need to include Band 27 in the tables
Table 7.4.1.1.2-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
E-UTRA Band 27 807 -- 824 MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 7.4.1.1.2-4: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
E-UTRA Band 27 807 -- 824 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
#### 7.4.1.2 Upper sub-band
To be able to support the upper sub-band from the transmitter side, it is just
necessary to modify TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 operating band unwanted emissions
and additional spurious emission requirements.
##### 7.4.1.2.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
Operating band unwanted emissions need to include Band [26] on Category A and
Category B (Option 1). Additional requirements which are applicable to Band 5
are also required for Band [26]
##### 7.4.1.2.2 Spurious emissions
Protection for Band [26] or Band [XXVI] need to be included in the
specifications by adding a row for the band to the additional spurious
emissions in TS 36.104 chapter 6.6.4.3 and TS 36.141 chapter 6.6.4.5.4 and
also some alterations are needed in the current rows for Band 5 or Band V and
GSM850 or CDMA850 due to overlap with band [26].
Table 7.4.1.2.2-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
+---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | GSM850 or | 869 - 894 MHz | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or 26 | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 824 ‑ 849 MHz | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or 26, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 869 - 894 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | V or | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band 5 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or | | | | | | [26] | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 824 - 849 MHz | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or | | | | | | [26], since | | | | | | it is already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 859 -- 894 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | [XXVI] or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | [26] | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band 5 or | | | | | | [26]. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | | 814 -- 849 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | band [26], | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. For | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 5, it | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | 814 MHz to | | | | | | 824 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+
Table 7.4.1.2.2-2: Home BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with
Home BS operating in other frequency bands
+---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 824 - 849 MHz | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | V or E-UTRA | | | | requirement | | Band 5 | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to Home | | | | | | BS operating | | | | | | in band 5 or | | | | | | 26, since it | | | | | | is already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+ | UTRA FDD Band | 814 - 849 MHz | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | [XXVI] or | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to Home | | [26] | | | | BS operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | [26], since | | | | | | it is already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.5.3. | | | | | | For Home BS | | | | | | operating in | | | | | | Band 5, it | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | 814 MHz to | | | | | | 824 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | +---------------+---------------+---------+---------+---------------+
Co-location with other BS requirements, chapter 6.6.4.4 in 36.104 and
6.6.4.5.5 in 36.141 also need to include Band [26] or Band [XXVI] in the
tables
Table 7.4.1.2.2-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
+------------------------------+----------------+---------+---------+---+ | WA UTRA FDD Band [XXVI] or | 814 -- 849 MHz | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band [26] | | | | | +------------------------------+----------------+---------+---------+---+
Table 7.4.1.2.2-4: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
LA UTRA FDD Band [XXVI] or E-UTRA Band [26] 814 -- 849 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Protection of Public Safety operations in 800 MHz is also required from Band
[26]. This requirement is applicable in the spurious emissions domain but also
at the frequency range from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the BS
downlink operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the BS
downlink operating band.
Table 7.4.1.2.2-5: BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of 800 MHz
public safety operations
* * *
Operating Band Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note [26]
851 - 869 MHz -13 dBm 100 kHz Applicable for offsets > 37.5kHz from the
channel edge
* * *
### 7.4.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.4.2.1 Reference sensitivity
The same reference sensitivity as for the rest of the bands is applicable for
Band [26] since the in band performance of the duplexer is very similar to the
in band performance of a duplexer for Band 5 as shown in chapter 5.2.4.2 and
the current requirements in TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 already cover Band 5.
The same reference sensitivity as for the rest of the bands is applicable for
Band 27.
#### 7.4.2.2 Dynamic range
No change is needed in this requirement to support Band [26]
#### 7.4.2.3 In-channel selectivity
No change is needed in this requirement to support Band [26]
#### 7.4.2.4 Blocking
##### 7.4.2.4.1 Lower sub-band BS Rx blocking
From the simulations shown in this chapter and in chapter 5.2.4.1, we can
conclude that out of band blocking can be defined as the frequency range 1 to
(F~UL_low~ -20) MHz and (F~UL_high~ +20) to 12750. TS 36.104 chapter 7.6.1 and
TS 36.141 chapter 7.6.5.1 need to be modified in order to include Band 27 as
follows.
Table 7.4.2.4.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (u | | | | | | | | | pper) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.4.2.4-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.4.2.4-3: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | ( | to | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +20) | | 4dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 4dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 7.4.2.4.2 Upper sub-band BS Rx blocking
As shown in section 5.1.2.2, there is no DTV band located at the lower end of
the sub-band 806\~824MHz in United States. Thus, for the upper sub-band, here
we consider the Rx blocking problem caused by cross modulation noise due to
the narrow Tx and Rx band gap. Generally, in order to suppress the cross
modulation noise to lower than the noise floor, 70 dB Rx to Tx rejection is
needed to meet the sensitivity requirement considering the near end
interference. At the lower end of the Rx band, larger than 50 dB rejection is
considered in the simulation, which could provide enough rejection to the
interferer from other adjacent system.
Considering a 9 orders cavity filter with 4000 un-loaded Q value, Figure
7.4.2.4.2-1 gives the evaluation of the BS duplexer with larger than 70 dB
attenuation at Tx band. All the filter characteristics shown are examples only
and do not preclude other implementations.
{width="3.5034722222222223in" height="3.151388888888889in"}
Figure 7.4.2.4.2-1: Upper sub-band BS Rx filter evaluation
From the simulation results, a 9 orders filter with three transmission zeros
can meet the rejection requirement at Tx band and the lower end of the Rx
band. Taking into account the temperature and manufacturing margin, the in-
band insertion loss can be lower than 1dB, which can be seen from the enlarged
insertion loss curve in Figure 7.4.2.4.2-2.
{width="3.4881944444444444in" height="3.152083333333333in"}
Figure 7.4.2.4.2-2: In-band insertion loss
Based on the simulation results, current cavity filter technology can
guarantee enough isolation between the Rx and Tx band. There will be no
blocking problem caused by cross modulation noise for the E850 upper sub-band.
From the simulations shown in this chapter and in chapter 5.2.4.2, we can
conclude that out of band blocking can be defined as the frequency range 1 to
(F~UL_low~ -20) MHz and (F~UL_high~ +10) to 12750. TS 36.104 chapter 7.6.1 and
TS 36.141 chapter 7.6.5.1 need to be modified in order to include Band [26] as
follows.
Table 7.4.2.4.2-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (hi | | | | | | | | | gher) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > 8, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | > See | | > \ | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | > | | [26] | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | table | | | -20) | | +10) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | > | | | | | | | | | 7.6. | | | | | | | | | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | > CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | > ca | | | ( | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | F~UL\ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | _high | | | | | | | | | ~+10) | | > | | | | | | | | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | .1-1. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.4.2.4.2-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (hi | | | | | | | | | gher) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > 8, | ( | To | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | > See | | > \ | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | > | | [26] | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | table | | | -20) | | +10) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | > | | | | | | | | | 7.6. | | | | | | | | | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | > CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | > ca | | | ( | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | F~UL\ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | _high | | | | | | | | | ~+10) | | > | | | | | | | | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | .1-1. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.4.2.4.2-3: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (hi | | | | | | | | | gher) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > 8, | ( | To | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | > See | | > \ | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | > | | [26] | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | table | | | -20) | | +10) | | 4dB* | 1.1-2 | > | | | | | | | | | 7.6. | | | | | | | | | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | To | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | > CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | > ca | | | ( | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | F~UL\ | | -20) | | 4dB* | | | | | _high | | | | | | | | | ~+10) | | > | | | | | | | | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | .1-1. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The co-location requirements in TS 36.104 chapter 7.6.2 and TS 36.141 chapter
7.6.5.2 also need to be altered to support Band [26] or Band [XXVI], as
indicated below.
_Table 7.4.2.4.2-4: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Wide Area BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands_
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Co-located | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Type of | | BS type | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Interfering | | | of | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | Signal | | | Interfering | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > WA UTRA | > 859 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | > FDD Band | > 894 | | + 6dB* | | | > [XXVI] | | | | | | > or E-UTRA | | | | | | > Band | | | | | | > [26] | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
_Table 7.4.2.4.2-5: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when
co-located with BS in other frequency bands_
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA UTRA FDD Band [XXVI] or E-UTRA Band [26] 859 -- 894 -6 PREFSENS +
6dB* CW carrier
* * *
# 8 Summary of changes to UTRA specifications
## 8.1 Required changes to TS 25.101
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.101, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1-1: Required changes for TS 25.101
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.101 5.2 Frequency bands
Add a row for the band to Table 5.0 5.3 TX--RX frequency separation Add a row
for the band\'s frequency separation to Table 5.0A 5.4.3 Channel number Add a
channel numbering for the band to Tables 5.1 (general) and 5.1A (additional
channels) 5.4.4 UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (UARFCN) Add
channel numberings for the band to Table 5.2 (see Channel number above) 6.2.1
UE Maximum output power Add a row for the band\'s UE power class to Table 6.1
(Power Classes 3, 3bis, 4). 6.6.2.1.1 & 6.6.2.1A.2 Out of band emission Add
the band covered by Tables 6.10B (\"Additional spectrum emission limits...\")
and 6.10E (\"Additional spectrum emission mask for DC-HSUPA...\") 6.6.3.1 &
6.6.3.1A Spurious emissions Add the band to Tables 6.13 and 6.13A for mutual
protection with applicable UTRA bands (consider V, VI, VIII, XVIII, XIX, and
XX, and others) 7.3.1 & 7.3.2 Reference sensitivity level Add a row the band
to Tables 7.2 and 7.2A (check if Table 7.2B of Section 7.3.3 also needs
update) 7.6 Blocking characteristics Add the band to Tables 7.6, 7.6A, 7.6B
and 7.6C for in-band blocking; to Tables 7.7, 7.7AA, and 7.7AB for out-of-band
blocking; to Tables 7.7A, 7.7B, 7.7C, and 7.7D for narrow-band blocking 7.8
Intermodulation characteristics Add the band to Tables 7.9AC, 7.9A, 7.9B,
7.9C, and 7.9D 7.9 Spurious emissions Add the band to Table 7.11 for mutual
protection with applicable UTRA bands (consider V, VI, VII, XVIII, XIX, and
XX, and others) (see Spurious emissions above) B.2.2 Multi-path fading
propagation conditions Add the band to Tables B.1, B.1B, B.1C, B.1D and B.1E
B.2.6.1 & B.2.6.2 MIMO propagation conditions Add the band to Tables B.4
(single stream) and B.5 (dual stream) E.2 UARFCN used for UTRA FDD bands Add
the uplink/downlink UARFCN for the band to Table E.1
* * *
## 8.2 Required changes to TS 25.104
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.104, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.2-1.
Table 8.2-1: Required changes for TS 25.104
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.104 5.2 Frequency bands
Add a row for the band to Table 5.0 5.3 TX--RX frequency separation Add a row
for the band\'s frequency separation to Table 5.0A 5.4.3 Channel number Add a
channel numbering for the band to Tables 5.1 (general) and 5.1A (additional
channels) 6.6.2.1 Out of band emission Add the band covered by Table 6.6B
(\"Additional spectrum emission limits...\"), perhaps with Additional
requirements and exception notes 6.6.3.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B) Add
the band to either Table 6.9 or 6.9A as appropriate 6.6.3.2.1 Protection of
the BS receiver of own or different BS Add a row for the band to Tables 6.10,
6.10A, 6.10B and 6.10C 6.6.3.3.1 Co-existence with other systems in the same
geographical area Add a row for the band to Table 6.11, verify current
requirements, check if exceptions needed 6.6.3.4.1 Co-existence with co-
located and co-sited base stations Add a row for the band to Tables 6.12, 6.13
and 6.14, verify current requirements, check if exceptions needed 6.6.3.9.1
Co-existence with Home BS operating in other bands Add a row for the band to
Table 6.20 7.5 Blocking characteristics Add the band to Tables 7.4, 7.4A and
7.4B for general blocking; to Tables 7.5, 7.5A and 7.5B for narrowband
blocking; to Tables 7.5C, 7.5D and 7.5E for co-located blocking 7.6
Intermodulation characteristics Add the band to Tables 7.6A, 7.6C and 7.6E
7.7.1 Spurious emissions Add the band to Table 7.7A, verify current
requirements, check if exceptions needed B.2 Multi-path fading propagation
conditions Add the band to Table B.1 B.5 Multipath fading propagation
conditions for E‑DPDCH and E‑DPCCH Add the band to Table B.3
* * *
## 8.3 Required changes to TS 25.113
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.113, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.3-1.
Table 8.3-1: Required changes for TS 25.113
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.113 4.5.2 Receiver
exclusion band Add a row for **the FDD band**
* * *
## 8.4 Required changes to TS 34.124
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 34.124, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.4-1.
Table 8.4-1: Required changes for TS 34.124
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 34.124 4.4 Receiver exclusion
band Add a row for **the FDD band**
* * *
## 8.5 Required changes to TS 25.133
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.133, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.5-1.
Table 8.5-1: Required changes for TS 25.133
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.133 4.2.2.5a Measurements
of inter-RAT E-UTRA cells Add the band to the RSRP/SCH_RP list as appropriate
8.1.2.6.1 Identification of a new cell Add the band to the RSRP/SCH_RP list as
appropriate 9.1.1 CPICH RSCP Add the band to Tables 9.1 (Intra-frequency
absolute accuracy), 9.2 (Intra-frequency relative accuracy) and 9.3 (Inter-
frequency) and condition lists as appropriate for CPICH_RSCP and I~o~ 9.1.2
CPICH Ec/Io Add the band to Tables 9.5 (Intra-frequency absolute accuracy),
9.6 (Intra-frequency relative accuracy), 9.7 (Inter-frequency absolute
accuracy) and 9.8 (Inter-frequency relative accuracy) and condition lists as
appropriate for CPICH_Ec/Io and I~o~ 9.1.3 UTRA Carrier RSSI Add the band to
Tables 9.10 (absolute accuracy) and 9.11 (relative accuracy) and condition
lists as appropriate for UTRA Carrier RSSI and I~o~ 9.1.7 SFN-CFN observed
time difference Add the band to Tables 9.16 (Inter-frequency) and 9.17 (Intra-
frequency) and condition lists as appropriate for SFN-CFN observed time
difference and I~o~ 9.1.8 SFN-SFN observed time difference Add the band to
Tables 9.19 (Type 1), 9.21 (Type 2 without IPDL) and 9.22 (Type 2 with IPDL)
and condition lists as appropriate for SFN-SFN observed time difference and
I~o~ 9.1.9 UE Rx-Tx time difference Add the band to Tables 9.25 (Type 1) and
9.27 (Type 2) and condition lists as appropriate for UE Rx-Tx time difference
and I~o~ A.9.1.1 CPICH RSCP Add the band to Tables A.9.1 (Intra-frequency) and
A.9.2 (Inter-frequency) as appropriate for CPICH_RSCP and I~o~ A.9.1.2 CPICH
Ec/Io Add the band to Tables A.9.3 (Intra-frequency parameters), A.9.4 (Inter-
frequency parameters), A.9.4A (Intra-frequency absolute accuracy) and A.9.4B
(Inter-frequency relative accuracy) as appropriate for CPICH_Ec/Io and I~o~
A.9.1.3 UTRA Carrier RSSI Add the band to Tables A.9.5 (absolute accuracy
parameters), A.9.5.1 (relative accuracy parameters), A.9.5A (absolute
accuracy) and A.9.5A1 (relative accuracy) as appropriate for UTRA Carrier RSSI
and I~o~ A.9.1.4 SFN-CFN observed time difference Add the band to Tables A.9.6
(Inter-frequency) and A.9.7 (Intra-frequency) as appropriate for SFN-CFN
observed time difference and I~o~ A.9.1.5 SFN-SFN observed time difference Add
the band to Tables A.9.8 (Type 1), A.9.9 (Type 2 without IPDL) and A.9.10
(Type 2 with IPDL) as appropriate for SFN-SFN observed time difference and
I~o~ A.9.1.6 UE Rx-Tx time difference Add the band to Tables A.9.11 (Type 1)
and A.9.12 (Type 2) as appropriate for UE Rx-Tx time difference and I~o~
A.9.1.10 E-UTRAN FDD RSRP absolute accuracy Add the band to _N~oc~_ , RSRP,
and I~o~ lines of Table A.9.1.10.1-3 A.9.1.12 E-UTRAN FDD RSRQ absolute
accuracy Add the band to _N~oc~_ , RSRP, RSRQ, and I~o~ lines of Table
A.9.1.12.1-3
* * *
## 8.6 Required changes to TS 25.141
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.141, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.6-1.
Table 8.5-1: Required changes for TS 25.141
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.141 3.4.1 Frequency bands
Add a row for the band to Table 3.0 3.4.2 TX--RX frequency separation Add a
row for the band\'s frequency separation to Table 3.0A 3.5.3 Channel number
Add a channel numbering for the band to Tables 3.1 (general) and 3.2
(additional channels) 6.5.2.1.5 Out of band emission Add the band covered by
Table 6.21B (\"Additional spectrum emission limits...\"), perhaps with
Additional requirements and exception notes 6.5.3.7.2 Spurious emissions
(Category B) Add the band to either Table 6.36 or 6.36A as appropriate
6.5.3.7.3 Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS Add a row for
the band to Tables 6.37, 6.37A, 6.37B and 6.37C 6.5.3.7.4 Co-existence with
other systems in the same geographical area Add a row for the band to Table
6.38, verify current requirements, check if exceptions needed 6.5.3.7.5 Co-
existence with co-located and co-sited base stations Add a row for the band to
Tables 6.39, 6.40 and 6.41, verify current requirements, check if exceptions
needed 6.5.3.7.10 Co-existence with Home BS operating in other bands Add a row
for the band to Table 6.47 7.5.5 Blocking characteristics Add the band to
Tables 7.4K, 7.4L and 7.4M for general blocking; to Tables 7.4N, 7.4P and 7.4Q
for narrowband blocking; to Tables 7.4R, 7.4S and 7.4T for co-located blocking
7.6.5 Intermodulation characteristics Add the band to Table 7.5A(b) 7.7.5
Spurious emissions Add the band to Table 7.7A(b), verify current requirements,
check if exceptions needed D.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions Add
the band to Table D.1 D.5 Multipath fading propagation conditions for E‑DPDCH
and E‑DPCCH Add the band to Table D.3
* * *
## 8.7 Required changes to TS 25.307
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.307, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.7-1.
Table 8.7-1: Required changes for TS 25.307
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.307 TBD UTRA release-
independent frequency band Add a section for the band
* * *
## 8.8 Required changes to TS 25.331
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.331, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.8-1.
Table 8.8-1: Required changes for TS 25.331
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.331 10.3.3.21a Measurement
capability extension Add the band to the IE \"FDD Frequency band 2\"
10.3.3.42a UE radio access capability extension Add the band to the IE
\"Frequency band 2\" 10.3.6.35c Frequency band indicator 2 Add the band to the
IE \"Frequency band indicator 2\"
* * *
## 8.9 Required changes to TS 25.461
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.461, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.9-1.
Table 8.9-1: Required changes for TS 25.461
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.461 4.3.7 Operating bands
Add a row for **the band to Table 4.3.7.1**
* * *
## 8.10 Required changes to TS 25.466
In order to implement the E850 new band into the UTRA TS 25.466, the required
changes are shown in Table 8.10-1.
Table 8.10-1: Required changes for TS 25.466
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 25.466 Annex B Coding for
operating bands Add an entry for the band **to Table B.2-1**
* * *
# 9 Summary of changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 9.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA TS 36.101, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.1-1.
Table 9.1-1: Required changes for TS 36.101
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 36.101 5.5 Operating bands
Add a row for the band to Table 5.5-1 5.6.1 Channel bandwidths per operating
band Add all channel bandwidths (1.4, 3, 5, 10, 15, 20 MHz) for the band to
Table 5.6.1-1 5.7.3 Carrier frequency and EARFCN Add a channel numbering for
the band to Table 5.7.3-1 5.7.4 TX--RX frequency separation Add a row for the
band\'s frequency separation to Table 5.7.4-1 6.2.2 UE Maximum output power
Add a row for the band\'s UE power class to Table 6.2.2-1 (Power Class 3).
6.2.4 UE Maximum output power with additional requirements Add the band to
Table 6.2.4-1 (or appropriate table in same section) 6.6.3.2 Spurious emission
band UE co-existence Add the band to Table 6.6.3.2-1 for mutual protection
with applicable E-UTRA bands 6.6.3.3 Additional spurious emissions Add band to
existing NS_0x table or add new table as applicable 7.3 Reference sensitivity
power level Add a row for the band to Tables 7.3.1-1, 7.3.1-2, and 7.3.2-1.
Add row for the band to Table 7.3.1-3 if applicable. 7.6.1.1 In-band blocking
Add the band to Table 7.6.1.1-2. 7.6.2.1 Out-of-band blocking Add the band to
Table 7.6.2.1-2.
* * *
## 9.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA TS 36.104, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.2-1.
**Table 9.2-1: Required changes for TS 36.104**
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 36.104 5.5 Operating bands
Add a row for the band to Table 5.5-1 5.7.3 Carrier frequency and EARFCN Add a
channel number set for the band to Table 5.7.3-1 6.6.3.1 Operating band
unwanted emissions (Category A) Add the band to Category A 6.6.3.2 Operating
band unwanted emissions (Category B) Apply requirement for Option 1, perhaps
with Additional requirements and exception notes 6.6.4.3 Additional spurious
emissions requirements Add a row for the band to Tables 6.6.4.3.1-1 and
6.6.4.3.1-1x; verify current requirements, check if exceptions needed 6.6.4.4
Co-existence requirements Add a row for the band to Tables 6.6.4.4.1-1 and
6.6.4.4.1-2; verify current requirements, check if exceptions needed 7.5.1
Adjacent Channel Selectivity Verify current ACS values, ensure no exceptions
needed 7.6.1 General blocking requirement Add the band to Tables 7.6.1.1-1,
7.6.1.1-1a, and 7.6.1.1-1b, verify current requirements, check if exceptions
needed 7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations Add a new row for the band
to Tables 7.6.2.1-1 and 7.6.2.1-2; verify current requirements, check if
exceptions needed
* * *
## 9.3 Required changes to TS 36.113
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA TS 36.113, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.3-1.
**Table 9.3-1: Required changes for TS 36.1** 13
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 36.113 4.5.2 Receiver
exclusion band Add a row for **the band**
* * *
## 9.4 Required changes to TS 36.124
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA TS 36.124, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.4-1.
**Table 9.4-1: Required changes for TS 36.1** 24
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 36.124 4.4 Receiver exclusion
band Add a row for **the band**
* * *
## 9.5 Required changes to TS 36.133
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA TS 36.133, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.5-1.
**Table 9.5-1: Required changes for TS 36.1** 33
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 36.133 4.2.2.3 Measurements
of intra-frequency E-UTRAN cells Add the band to the RSRP/SCH_RP list as
appropriate 4.2.2.4 Measurements of inter-frequency E-UTRAN cells Add the band
to the RSRP/SCH_RP list as appropriate 8.1.2.2.1 E-UTRAN intra-frequency
measurements Add the band to the SCH_RP lists as appropriate (review
8.1.2.2.1.1, 8.1.2.2.1.2) 8.1.2.3.1 E-UTRAN inter-frequency measurements Add
the band to the RSRP/SCH_RP lists as appropriate (review 8.1.2.3.1.1,
8.1.2.3.1.2) 8.1.2.5.1 E-UTRAN FDD Intra-Frequency OTDOA Measurements Add the
band to the PRP condition list 8.1.2.6.1 E-UTRAN FDD-FDD Inter-Frequency OTDOA
Measurements Add the band to the PRP condition list 9.1.2.1 & 9.1.2.2 RSRP
Intra-frequency absolute/relative accuracy Add the band to the RSRP condition
tables and lists 9.1.3.1 & 9.1.3.2 RSRP Inter-frequency absolute/relative
accuracy Add the band to the RSRP condition tables and lists 9.1.5.1 RSRQ
Intra-frequency absolute accuracy Add the band to the RSRP/Q condition table
and list 9.1.6.1 & 9.1.6.2 RSRQ Inter-frequency absolute/relative accuracy Add
the band to the RSRP/Q condition tables and lists 9.1.9.1 UE Rx -- Tx time
difference Add the band to the RSRP condition table and list as appropriate
9.1.10.1 & 9.1.10.2 Reference Signal Time Difference (RSTD) accuracy Add the
band to the RSRP condition tables and lists as appropriate 9.2.1 UTRAN FDD
CPICH_RSCP absolute accuracy Add the band to the RSCP condition table as
appropriate A.9.1.1.2 RSRP FDD Intra-frequency test Add the band to _N~oc~_ ,
RSRP, and I~o~ lines of Table A.9.1.1.2-1 A.9.1.3.2 RSRP FDD-FDD Inter-
frequency test Add the band to _N~oc~_ , RSRP, and I~o~ lines of Table
A.9.1.3.2-1 A.9.2.1.2 RSRQ FDD Intra-frequency test Add the band to _N~oc~_ ,
RSRP, RSRQ, and I~o~ lines of Table A.9.2.1.2-1 A.9.2.3.2 RSRQ FDD-FDD Inter-
frequency test Add the band to _N~oc~_ , RSRP, RSRQ, and I~o~ lines of Table
A.9.2.3.2-1 A.9.3 UTRAN FDD CPICH RSCP Add the band to the band list for Ioc,
CPICH RSCP and Io in Tables A.9.3.1.2-3 and A.9.3.2.2-3 A.9.4 UTRAN FDD CPICH
Ec/No Add the band to the band list for Ioc, CPICH Ec/No and Io in Tables
A.9.4.1.2-3 and A.9.4.2.2-3
* * *
## 9.6 Required changes to TS 36.141
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA TS 36.141, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.6-1.
**Table 9.6-1: Required changes for TS 36.1** 41
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 36.141 5.5 Operating bands
Add a row for the band to Table 5.5-1 5.7.3 Carrier frequency and EARFCN Add a
channel number set for the band to Table 5.7.3-1 6.6.3.5.1 Operating band
unwanted emissions (Category A) Add the band to Category A 6.6.3.5.2 Operating
band unwanted emissions (Category B) Apply requirement for Option 1, perhaps
with Additional requirements and exception notes 6.6.4.5.4 Additional spurious
emissions requirements Add a row for the band to Tables 6.6.4.5.4-1 and
6.6.4.5.4-1x; review current mandatory requirements for any changes 6.6.4.5.5
Co-existence requirements Add a row for the band to Tables 6.6.4.5.5-1 and
6.6.4.5.5-2; verify current requirements, check if exceptions needed 7.5.5
Adjacent Channel Selectivity Verify current ACS values, ensure no exceptions
needed 7.6.5.1 General blocking requirement Add the band to Tables 7.6-1,
7.6-1a, and 7.6-1x, verify current requirements, check if exceptions needed
7.6.5.2 Co-location with other base stations Add a new row for the band to
Tables 7.6-3 and 7.6-4; verify current requirements, check if exceptions
needed
* * *
## 9.7 Required changes to TS 36.307
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA TS 36.307, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.7-1. For each affected 3GPP Release, the
same change would applied for the corresponding version of TS 36.307. The
affected Releases are indicated as Rel‑8, Rel‑9 and Rel‑10.
**Table 9.7-1: Required changes for TS 36.307 (Release 8, 9, 10)**
* * *
Section Requirement Description of changes in TS 36.307 (per Release) TBD
E‑UTRA release-independent frequency band Add a section for the band
* * *
## 9.8 Required changes to TS 37.104
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA MSR TS 37.104, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.8-1.
**Table** 9.8-1: Required changes in TS 37.104
* * *
Section Description Required Changes in TS 37.104 4.5 Operating bands and band
categories A new row is expected to be added in Table 4.5-2. 6.6.1.3.1 BS
spurious emissions limits for co-existence with systems operating in other
frequency bands A new row is expected to be added in Table 6.6.1.3.1-1. It is
proposed to evaluate the appropriate requirement of the new band for BS
spurious emissions limits for co-existence with systems operating in other
frequency bands. 6.6.1.4.1 BS spurious emissions limits for BS co-located with
another BS A new row is expected to be added in Table 6.6.1.4.1-1. It is
proposed to evaluate the appropriate requirement of the new band for BS
spurious emissions limits for co-located with another BS. 7.4.1 General
blocking minimum requirement It is proposed to evaluate the appropriate
general blocking minimum requirement for the new band and make corresponding
changes in Table 7.4.1-1. 7.4.5 Additional BC3 blocking minimum requirement It
is proposed to evaluate the appropriate additional BC3 blocking minimum
requirement for the new band and make corresponding changes in Table 7.4.5-1.
7.5.1 General minimum requirement for out-of-band blocking It is proposed to
evaluate the appropriate out-of-band blocking requirement for when co-located
with BS in other frequency bands for the new band and make corresponding
changes in Table 7.5.1-1. 7.5.2 Co-location minimum requirement for out-of-
band blocking A new row is expected to be added in Table 7.5.2-1. It is
proposed to evaluate the appropriate out-of-band blocking performance
requirement for the new band.
* * *
## 9.9 Required changes to TS 37.113
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA MSR TS 37.113, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.9-1.
**Table** 9.9-1: Required changes in TS 37.113
* * *
Section Description Required Changes in TS 37.113 4.4.2 Receiver exclusion
band A new row is expected to be added in Table 4.4-3
* * *
## 9.10 Required changes to TS 37.141
In order to implement the E850 new band into the E-UTRA MSR TS 37.141, the
required changes are shown in Table 9.10-1.
Table 6.13-1: Required changes in TS 37.141
* * *
Section Description Required Changes in TS 37.141 4.4 Operating bands and band
categories A new row is expected to be added in Table 4.4-2. 6.6.1.5.5
Additional spurious emissions requirement for co-existence with systems
operating in other frequency bands A new row is expected to be added in Table
6.6.1.5.5-1. It is proposed to evaluate the appropriate requirement of the new
band for additional spurious emissions limits for co-existence with systems
operating in other frequency bands. 6.6.1.5.6 Spurious emissions limits for BS
co-located with another BS A new row is expected to be added in Table
6.6.1.5.6-1. It is proposed to evaluate the appropriate requirement of the new
band for BS spurious emissions limits for co-located with another BS. 7.4.5.1
General blocking test requirement It is proposed to evaluate the appropriate
general blocking test requirement for the new band and make corresponding
changes in Table 7.4.5.1-1. 7.4.5.5 Additional BC3 blocking test requirement
It is proposed to evaluate the appropriate additional BC3 blocking test
requirement for the new band and make corresponding changes in Table
7.4.5.5-1. 7.5.5.1 General minimum requirement for out-of-band blocking It is
proposed to evaluate the appropriate out-of-band blocking requirement for when
co-located with BS in other frequency bands for the new band and make
corresponding changes in Table 7.5.5.1-1. 7.5.5.2 Co-location test requirement
A new row is expected to be added in Table 7.5.5.2-1. It is proposed to
evaluate the appropriate co-location test requirement for when co-located with
BS in other frequency bands for the new band.
* * *
###### ### Annex A: Calculation of the reference sensitivity
Editor\'s note: references will be updated and more data added
For calculating the reference sensitivity, the starting point assumed is
always a MRC receiver. For comparison we first consider the case in which the
transmitter noise is not dominating, that is$\text{Vn}\text{>>}\text{Vt}$,
noise contributions on the diversity branches are uncorrelated for which the
combined SNR is
(A.1) $\text{SNR} = \frac{2\left| s \right|^{2}}{\text{αVn}}$.
The sensitivity is the signal level _s_ for which the _SNR_ after combining is
1.0 dB (including a 2.0 dB implementation margin, see [add reference]).
Included is also an additional margin for 'excessive\' transmitter noise _α_ =
0.5 dB applicable for most operating band and bandwidth combinations. (A.1)
yields
$P_{\text{REFSENS}} = \text{SNR} - 3 +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\text{αVn} = \text{SNR}_{j} +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}\text{αVn}$ [dBm]
with _SNR~j~_ = _SNR_ \-- 3 = -2.0 dB the required SNR per antenna port. The
parameter _α_ , first introduced in [add reference], is admittedly somewhat
awkward for the noise factor should include all transmitter noise. For the
cases considered next the transmitter noise is significant and correlation is
assumed whence other methods must be used.
We continue by discussing the assumed transmitter configuration that has an
impact on the transmitter noise. If the architecture is properly accounted
for, the current sensitivity requirements can be reused for configurations
with two antenna ports in Rel-10.
# A.1 The transmitter configuration and transmitter noise
The notation and the data are according to [add reference] and [add reference]
if not otherwise stated. All noise contributions are referred to the antenna
input.
The reference sensitivity requirements should be applicable to any transceiver
architecture with two antenna ports. We consider two architectures: two TX/RX
branches and a configuration with an RX-only diversity port. For many bands
and bandwidth configurations, the difference in performance between these is
not large for the PA output power must be twice as high for the latter to
produce the requisite output power at the antenna.
## A.1.1 Two TX/RX branches
First we consider a transceiver architecture where the same uplink signal
applied at both TX/RX ports, which would correspond to a precoder
> $W = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\begin{pmatrix} 1 \ 1 \ \end{pmatrix}$.
We thus assume full correlation between the transmitter signals, the SNR is
(A.2) $\text{SNR} \approx \frac{2\left| s \right|^{2}}{\text{Vn} +
2\text{Vt}}$,
which yields$P_{\text{REFSENS}} \simeq \text{SNR} - 3 +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}(\text{Vn} + 2\text{Vt})$. If generally
applied, this case could also represent a scenario with two uplink signals
used for uplink MIMO; when the transmitter noise is not dominating, (A.1)
follows.
The assumption of full correlation is a worst case and it is perhaps more
relevant to assume uplink signals of 'transmit diversity type\'. These signals
would be (almost) uncorrelated, whence the SNR is
(A.3) $\text{SNR} \approx \frac{2\left| s \right|^{2}}{\text{Vn} + \text{Vt}}$
to the first order, neglecting mutual coupling between branches. We get
$P_{\text{REFSENS}} \simeq \text{SNR} - 3 +
\text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}(\text{Vn} + \text{Vt})$.
## A.1.2 One main TX/RX branch and one RX-only diversity port
The standard expression for MRC
(A.4) $\text{SNR} = \frac{\left| s \right|^{2}}{\text{Vn} + \text{Vt}} +
\frac{\left| s \right|^{2}}{\text{Vn} + \left| c \right|^{2}\text{Vt}}$
can be used if the following is fulfilled
(A.5) $\left( 1 + \frac{\text{Vt}}{\text{Vn}} \right)\text{>}\text{Vn}$ with _c_ the complex
amplitude of the coupling between the branches, then the transmitter noise is
dominating at both branches and from [add reference]
(A.6) $\text{SNR} \approx \frac{\left| s \right|^{2}}{\text{Vn} + \left| c
\right|^{2}\text{Vt}}$.
These results can also be applied to UE antenna selection.
# A.2 What to use?
The sensitivity requirement should apply to any architecture. Comparing (A.3)
for transmit diversity with (A.4), the latter will at least yield a better
sensitivity if the condition for its applicability (A.5) is met. The criterion
is strict, and (A.4) will be sufficiently accurate as long as the transmitter
noise does not exceed the remaining noise contributions. This also accounts
for the fact that the PA output power can be set 3 dB lower for the transmit
diversity case.
When the transmitter noise is dominating both and the main and the diversity
port, (A.6) is applicable but this expression is quite conservative in
practice.
For the bands considered here we use (A.3) assuming that reference sensitivity
will no be tested with identical uplink signals in the case of transmit
diversity.
###### ### Annex B: LTE and PSNB simulation parameters
# B.1. LTE and NB PS system parameters
Table B-1 and Table B-2 contain the LTE and NB PS parameters used for Band 26
and PSNB co-existence in section 7.2.2.1.1. ISD for LTE is used for the
simulations in section 7.2.1.1.1 while cell radius is used in the simulations
included in section 7.2.2.1.1.2
Table B.1-1. LTE parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Base Station | UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier | 850 MHz | | | | | | | frequency Carrier | | | | frequency | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | 5 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ISD (section | 1.7km | | | 7.2.2.1.1.1) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell radius (section | 1.0 km / 2.0 km / | | | 7.2.2.1.1.2) | 4.0 km | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency reuse | 1x3x1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lognormal fading | 10 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain and | $ | Antenna gain + body | | antenna pattern | A(\theta) = - \text{ | loss=\ | | | min}\left\lbrack \te | -10 dBi | | | xt{12}\left( \frac{\ | | | | theta}{\theta_{3\tex | | | | t{dB}}} \right)^{2}, | | | | A_{m} \right\rbrack$ | | | | | | | | 15 dBi, | | | | $ | | | | \theta_{3\text{dB}}$ | | | | = 65 degrees, _Am_ = | | | | 20 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise figure | 5 dB | 9 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit power | 43 dBm | 23 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna height | 30 m | 1.5 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table B.1-2. NB PS system parameters
* * *
Base Station Portable
**Carrier frequency** 850 MHz
**Channel bandwidth** 6.25 kHz
**Cell radius** 12 km
**Antenna height** 100 m from ground 1.5m
**Lognormal fading** 10 dB
**Antenna gain and antenna pattern** 11 dBi omni-directional Antenna gain +
body loss =-6 dBi
**Noise figure** 5.7 dB 9.75 dB
**Transmit power** 45 dBm\ 36 dBm (after combiner loss)
**SNR Threshold** 16.5 dB 16.5 dB
**Effective Noise Bandwidth (ENBW)** 6.25 kHz 6.25 kHz
**Noise Floor** -130.3dBm / 6.25 kHz -126.3dBm / 6.25 kHz
**Sensitivity** -113.8dBm / 6.25 kHz -109.8dBm / 6.25 kHz
* * *
# B.2. NBPS/LTE System Layout
{width="5.03125in" height="3.7708333333333335in"}
Figure B.2-1. NBPS/LTE System Layout
#