# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the Work Item on Multi-band
and Multi-standard radio BS requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[5] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] 3GPP TR 37.900: \"Radio Frequency (RF) requirements for Multicarrier and
Multiple Radio Access Technology (Multi-RAT) Base Station (BS)\".
[8] 3GPP TR 37.802: \"Multi-standard radio Base Station (BS) Radio Frequency
(RF) requirements for non-contiguous spectrum deployments\".
[9] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[10] 3GPP TR 25.951: \"FDD Base Station (BS) classification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
**Band category:** A group of operating bands for which the same MSR scenarios
apply
**Base Station RF bandwidth:** The bandwidth in which a Base Station transmits
and receives multiple carriers and/or RATs simultaneously within each
supported operating band
**Base Station RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of one of the edges of the
Base Station RF bandwidth
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
physical channels**
**Carrier aggregation: aggregation of two or more E-UTRA component carriers in
order to support wider transmission bandwidths**
**Carrier aggregation band:** a set of one or more operating bands across
which multiple E-UTRA carriers are aggregated with a specific set of technical
requirements.
NOTE: Carrier aggregation band(s) for an E-UTRA BS is declared by the
manufacturer according to the designations in Tables 5.5-2 to 5.5-3 of TS
36.104 [4]
**Channel bandwidth:** The bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA, UTRA or
GSM/EDGE RF carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink
or downlink of a cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as
a reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Contiguous carriers:** a set of two or more carriers configured in a
spectrum block where there are no RF requirements based on co-existence for
un-coordinated operation within the spectrum block.
**Carrier power:** The power at the antenna connector in the channel bandwidth
of the carrier averaged over at least one subframe for E-UTRA, at least one
slot for UTRA and the useful part of the burst for GSM/EDGE.
**Configured carrier power:** Target maximum power for a specific carrier for
the operating mode set in the BS
**Contiguous spectrum:** Spectrum consisting of a contiguous block of spectrum
with no sub-block gaps.
**Downlink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Inter RF bandwidth gap:** The frequency gap between two consecutive RF
bandwidths that are placed within two supported operating **bands**.
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: carrier aggregation of E-UTRA component
carriers in different operating bands.**
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
**Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation:** contiguous E-UTRA carriers
aggregated in the same operating band.
**Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation:** non-contiguous E-UTRA
carriers aggregated in the same operating band.
**Lower RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the lower edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements**.**
**Lower sub-block edge:** The frequency at the lower edge of one sub-block. It
is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and receiver
requirements.
**Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth:** The maximum RF bandwidth supported by a
BS within each supported operating band.
NOTE: The Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth for BS configured for contiguous
and non-contiguous operation within each supported operating band is declared
separately.
**Maximum carrier output power:** Carrier power **available at the antenna
connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Maximum radio bandwidth:** **Maximum frequency difference between the upper
edge of the highest used carrier and the lower edge of the lowest used
carrier.**
**Maximum RAT output power:** The sum of the power of all carriers of the same
RAT **available at the antenna connector for a specified reference
condition.**
**Maximum throughput: The maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.**
**Maximum total output power:** The sum of the power of all carriers
**available at the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.**
**MB-MSR Base Station:** MSR Base Station characterized by the ability of its
transmitter and/or receiver to process two or more carriers in common active
RF components simultaneously, where at least one carrier is configured at a
different operating band than the other carrier(s).
**Measurement bandwidth** : The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**MSR Base station:** Base Station characterized by the ability of its
receiver and transmitter to process two or more carriers in common active RF
components simultaneously in a declared RF bandwidth, where at least one
carrier is of a different RAT than the other carrier(s).
**Multi-band transmitter:** Transmitter characterized by the ability to
process two or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously,
where at least one carrier is configured at a different operating band than
the other carrier(s).
**Multi-band receiver:** Receiver characterized by the ability to process two
or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously, where at least
one carrier is configured at a different operating band than the other
carrier(s).
**Non-contiguous spectrum:** Spectrum consisting of two or more sub-blocks
separated by sub-block gap(s).
**Occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**Operating band:** A frequency range in which E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
operates (paired or unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of
technical requirements**.**
NOTE: The operating band(s) for a BS is declared by the manufacturer.
**Sub-block:** This is one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for use by
the same Base Station. There may be multiple instances of sub-blocks within an
RF bandwidth.
**Sub-block bandwidth:** The bandwidth of one sub-block.
**Sub-block gap:** A frequency gap between two consecutive sub-blocks within
an RF bandwidth, where the RF requirements in the gap are based on co-
existence for un-coordinated operation.
**Synchronized operation: Operation of TDD in two different systems, where no
simultaneous uplink and downlink occur.**
**Throughput: The number of payload bits successfully received per second for
a reference measurement channel in a specified reference condition.**
**Total RF bandwidth** : Maximum sum of RF bandwidths in all supported
operating bands.
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous E-UTRA transmission
from a UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmitter ON period: The time period during which the BS transmitter is
transmitting data and/or reference symbols**
**Transmitter OFF period: The time period during which the BS transmitter is
not allowed to transmit**
**Transmitter transient period: The time period during which the transmitter
is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa**
**Unsynchronized operation:** Operation of TDD in two different systems, where
the conditions for synchronized operation are not met.
**Uplink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
uplink.
**Upper RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the upper edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements
**Upper sub-block edge:** The frequency at the upper edge of one sub-block. It
is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and receiver
requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
β Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied
bandwidth on the assigned channel
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth (for E-UTRA)
BW~RF~ Base Station RF bandwidth, where BW~RF~ = F~BW\ RF,high~ -- F~BW\
RF,low~
BW~RF,max~ Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
f Frequency
∆f Separation between the Base Station RF bandwidth edge frequency and the
nominal -3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
F~C~ Carrier centre frequency
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency
f_offset Separation between the Base Station RF bandwidth edge frequency and
the centre of the measuring filter
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
F~block,high~ Upper sub-block edge, where F~block,high~ = F~C,block,high~ +
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~block,low~ Lower sub-block edge, where F~block,low~ = F~C,block,low~ -
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,high~ Upper RF bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,high~ = F~C,high~ \+
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,low~ Lower RF bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,low~ = F~C,low~ -
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~C,block,\ high~ Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,block,\ low~ Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,high~ Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier.
F~C,low~ Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier.
F~offset,\ RAT~ Frequency offset from the centre frequency of the _highest_
transmitted/received carrier to the _upper_ RF bandwidth edge or sub-block
edge, or from the centre frequency of the _lowest_ transmitted/received to the
_lower_ RF bandwidth edge or sub-block edge for a specific RAT.
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
P~EM,N~ Declared emission level for channel N
P~max~ Maximum total output power
P~max,RAT~ Maximum RAT output power
P~max,c~ Maximum carrier output power
P~REFSENS~ Reference Sensitivity power level
W ~gap~ Sub-block gap or inter RF bandwidth gap size
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BC Band Category
BER Bit Error Ratio
BS Base Station
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CACLR Cumulative Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
CP Cyclic prefix
CW Continuous Wave
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSUPA Dual Cell HSUPA
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MB-MSR Multi-Band Multi-Standard Radio
MS Mobile Station
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
PA Power Amplifier
PHS Personal Handyphone System
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block (for E-UTRA)
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UE User Equipment
UEM operating band Unwanted Emissions Mask
# 4 General
Currently, MSR requirements (including contiguous and non-contiguous MSR) only
apply for single band BS. For some adjacent bands, say band 8 and band 20, RF
technologies is mature enough to allow a MSR base station (BS) to support
simultaneous multiple band and multiple RATs transmission and/or reception
through a common radio. Such a BS supporting both multi-band (MB) and MSR
(including contiguous and non-contiguous) can be called MB-MSR base station.
The most important feature of an MB-MSR BS is to support dynamic power sharing
between different bands and hence allow operators more flexibility in the
network deployment. From the site engineering point of view, an MB-MSR BS can
reduce installation complexity for different bands at the same site.
Furthermore, MB-MSR BS can reduce insertion loss for the antenna sharing dual-
band scenario since no combiner is needed.
RF requirements for MB-MSR are not defined yet. And some of the existing MSR
RF requirements based on the single band scenario cannot be directly reused
for an MB-MSR base station. Therefore, both core and test requirements need to
be updated for MB-MSR base station based on identified multi-band application
scenarios.
One typical application scenario for MB-MSR BS is band 20 + band 8 but other
band combinations in different regions (e.g. band 12/13/14/17 + band 5, band 3
+ band 1, band 2 + band 4) may also be feasible.
## 4.1 Work item objective
The objective of MB-MSR Work Item is to specify the RF requirements for multi-
band MSR (MB-MSR) BS. The requirements for MB-MSR BS are based on macro-cell
deployment scenarios. The requirements based on Micro and Pico deployment
scenarios will be developed in a second step.
All single- and multi-RAT configurations (excluding only GSM+GSM) in the
different bands shall be considered.
UTRA MC-HSPA as well as EUTRA Carrier Aggregation, and transmit power
imbalance between bands / carriers shall be considered. The RF requirements of
the existing Base Station types will remain and be applicable within their
current scope. For a MB-MSR Base Station, the new RF requirements will be
applicable for that equipment.
The work will focus on the following steps:
1\. Develop the framework of the RF requirements for MB-MSR BS, using band 20
+ band 8 as an initial scenario for FDD and band 34 + band 39 as an initial
scenario for TDD.
2\. Identify additional deployment scenarios and band combinations for MB-MSR
BS.
3\. Define the MB-MSR BS based on common transmitter and/or receiver RF chain
for the multiple bands.
4\. Creation of core requirements for MB-MSR BS for all the identified
deployment scenarios and band combinations with an initial focus on the
completion of requirements for band 20 + band 8 and band 34 + band 39.
5\. The existing per band requirement should be maintained wherever possible.
6\. Development of test configurations and specification of the test
requirements corresponding to the modified core requirements.
The following specification work is required:
a. Core RF requirements for RAN4 MSR specifications.
b. Test requirements for RAN4 MSR specifications, derived from the core RF
requirements.
## 4.2 Relation to other RAN and GERAN specifications
Requirements for an MSR BS can be divided into three types, depending on their
relation to the single-RAT specifications, i.e., Generic MSR requirement,
Generic MSR requirement, with additional single-RAT requirements and Single-
RAT only requirements.
Table 4.2-1 lists the corresponding types for all TX and RX requirements.
Table 4.2-1 MSR requirements and corresponding types
* * *
RF requirement Requirements type Base station output power Generic MSR
requirement Output power dynamics Single-RAT only requirements Transmitted
signal quality Single-RAT only requirements Modulation quality Single-RAT only
requirements Frequency error Single-RAT only requirements Time alignment error
Single-RAT only requirements Unwanted emissions  
Transmitter spurious emissions Generic MSR requirement Operating band unwanted
emissions Generic MSR requirement, with additional single-RAT requirements
Occupied bandwidth Generic MSR requirement ACLR Single-RAT only requirements
Transmitter intermodulation Generic MSR requirement Reference sensitivity
level Single-RAT only requirements Dynamic range Single-RAT only requirements
In-band selectivity and blocking  
Blocking Generic MSR requirement Narrowband blocking Generic MSR requirement,
with additional single-RAT requirements Out-of-band blocking Generic MSR
requirement Receiver spurious emissions Generic MSR requirement Receiver
intermodulation  
Intermodulation Generic MSR requirement Narrowband intermodulation Generic MSR
requirement, with additional single-RAT requirements In-channel selectivity
Single-RAT only requirements
* * *
Single-RAT only requirements are those requirements specified through
references to the respective single-RAT specifications. As listed in above
table, all these requirements are in-band requirements which shall not be
affected due to introduction of MB-MSR.
Another type of requirements which have relationship with other single-RAT
specifications is generic MSR requirement, with additional single-RAT
requirements. Additional single-RAT requirements are specified for GSM/EDGE
only for operating band unwanted emissions, narrowband blocking and narrowband
intermodulation.
Requirements for MB-MSR BS are mainly developed based on generic MSR
requirements.
The relation to the single-RAT specification can be kept unchanged for MB-MSR
BS. No changes will be needed for TS 37.104 in the general subclause 4.1 for
\"Relation to other RAN and GERAN specifications\".
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Some requirements specified for MB-MSR BS may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements, or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements.
Since all the regional requirements listed in Table 4.4-1 of specification
TS37.104 are independent of BS capability, no changes are needed for MB-MSR.
## 4.4 Manufacturer's declaration
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the existing set of parameters in sub-
clause 4.7.2 in TS 37.141 can be applied for each operating band, in which
declarations of the maximum RF bandwidth, total number of supported carriers,
the rated output power per carrier and rated total output power are applied
for single-band operation only. In addition, manufacturer's declaration shall
reflect the capability of total resources for all supported operating bands
such as the rated total output power, total number of supported carriers and
total bandwidth of transmitter and receiver.
The following additional declarations need to be considered for BS capable of
multi-band operation:
\- Supported operating band combinations of the BS
\- Supported operating band(s) of each antenna connector
\- Support of multi-band transmitter and/or multi-band receiver, including
mapping to antenna connector(s)
\- Total number of supported carriers for the declared band combinations of
the BS
\- Maximum number of supported carriers per band in multi-band operation
\- Total RF bandwidth of transmitter and receiver for the declared band
combinations of the BS
\- Maximum RF bandwidth of each supported operating band in multi-band
operation
\- Maximum radio bandwidth in transmit and receive direction for the declared
band combinations of the BS
\- Any other limitations under simultaneous operation in the declared band
combinations of the BS which have any impact on the test configuration
generation
\- Total output power as a sum over all supported operating bands in the
declared band combinations of the BS
\- Maximum supported power difference between any two carriers in any two
different supported operating bands
\- The rated output power per carrier in multi-band operation
\- Rated total output power of each supported operating band in multi-band
operation.
Figure 4.4-1: Illustration of different bandwidths for multi-band operation
## 4.5 Applicability of MB-MSR requirements
Most core requirements in TS 37.104 remain unchanged for BS capable of multi-
band operation and apply as they are stated for each of the operating bands.
There will be a few exceptions where there are specific additions or
exclusions. In order to make this fact clear to a reader of the specification,
it should be made visible by having a separate subclause for BS capable of
multi-band operation in the general clause 4 of the specification.
The clause can be quite short and should explain that for BS capable of multi-
band operation, the RF requirements in clause 6 and 7 apply for each operating
band unless otherwise stated and that for some requirements it is explicitly
stated that specific additions or exclusions to the requirement apply for
multi-band BS operation.
There is also a need to update the tables in clause 5.1 (Applicability of
requirements) to reflect that requirements apply for each band.
For MB-MSR base station, various possible structures based on combination of
different transmitter and receiver implementations (multi-band or single band)
as well as mapping of transceivers to antenna ports in different ways are
captured in subclause 5.3. Independent of the BS structure, the core
requirements shall be developed in a BS implementation agnostic way.
### 4.5.1 RF requirements in case of separate ports per band
Several RF requirements for multiband operation allow for "joint exclusion
areas" for transmitter (and receiver) unwanted emissions and for receiver
blocking, in case of structures where bands are mapped on the same antenna
connector. The case where multiple bands are mapped on separate antenna
connectors does however require additional consideration.
For the case where bands are mapped on separate connectors, there is an
implementation dependency, where for a single band receiver implementation,
turning off the receiver for a specific band is fully possible, while it is
not possible for a multiband receiver implementation. For these reasons, it is
reasonable to always apply the "joint exclusion area" for the receiver
blocking and thereby have the same RF requirements for the case where bands
are mapped on separate ports and the case where bands are mapped on the same
port.
The situation is different for unwanted emissions requirements, where allowing
a "joint exclusion area" for the case where bands are mapped on separate ports
may result in increased emission levels, since the co-existence emission
requirements would be replaced with in-band emission requirements, which could
potentially increase the interference towards UEs. Figure 4.5.1-1 illustrates
antenna connector cases to help understand the concern related to co-existence
scenario.
{width="5.111805555555556in" height="1.4006944444444445in"}
Figure 4.5.1-1: MB-MSR antenna connector cases
Case 1 is a MB-MSR BS with separate antenna connectors and case 2 is a MB-MSR
BS with common antenna connector. For case 1, in-band spurious emissions at
Band X and Band Y are both -15dBm/MHz. If we test the spurious emissions at
B_X connector in the above figure, the spurious emissions at Band Y is -15dBm
according to the exclusion rule for MB-MSR. Cumulated with the spurious
emissions at Band Y itself at B_Y connector, the total spurious emissions at
frequency range of Band Y of this base station is -12dBm/MHz. However, if
spurious emission of Band Y at B_X connector follow single band requirement
with -52dBm/MHz, it will not affect the total base station spurious emission
level at Band Y. In this case, the spurious emission will be determined by
Band Y in-band spurious emission level, that is -15dBm/MHz. For Case 2, since
a common antenna connector is shared by two bands, the space spurious emission
level in the frequency ranges of each bands will be -15dBm/MHz.
Note however that this is the worst case scenario when no filter attenuation
on the TX side is assumed between the two bands. In reality, filters would be
necessary to fulfil other requirements such as co-location limits, where joint
exclusion areas would not apply and there would therefore not be any increase
of emissions.
For these reasons, it is reasonable to have a stricter interpretation for the
unwanted emission limits and to not apply the \"joint exclusion areas\" for
unwanted emissions in the case where bands are mapped on separate ports. The
implication is the following:
\- The transmitter spurious emissions, operating band unwanted emissions,
ACLR, transmitter intermodulation and receiver spurious emissions requirements
apply to each antenna connector and will be the same as the respective single-
band requirements.
There is a different scenario, where a BS is capable of multi-band operation
and where the bands are mapped on separate ports, but where the BS is only
operating in a single band on one of the antenna connectors. In this case, the
BS in this mode of operation is not different from a single-band BS operating
with Rx or Tx mapped on one antenna connector. The implication is the
following:
\- If the BS is configured for single-band operation, single-band requirements
shall apply to the antenna connector configured for single-band operation and
no exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are applicable. Single-
band requirements are tested separately at the antenna connector configured
for single-band operation, with all other antenna connectors terminated.
# 5 MB-MSR deployment scenarios
## 5.1 Definitions and terminology
The definitions of operating bands, band numbering, channel arrangements,
channel spacing, channel raster and channel numbering remain from what is
defined for MSR in TR 37.900.
The definitions of the RF bandwidth and related parameters remain from what is
defined for MSR in TR 37. 900 for each operating band. Therefore, RF bandwidth
definition needs a minor modification to specify that it is defined within
each operating band that is supported by an MSR or MB-MSR BS. This
modification should have consistent meaning for MSR-NC as well and no impact
on the current MSR-NC requirements is expected.
**Base Station RF bandwidth:** The bandwidth in which a Base Station transmits
and receives multiple carriers and/or RATs simultaneously within each
supported operating band.
**Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth:** The maximum RF bandwidth supported by a
BS within each supported operating band.
For MB-MSR, an additional definition \"inter RF bandwidth gap\" needs to be
defined for the following reason. For a multi-band scenario, the spectrum
occupied can cross multiple bands that are supported by an MB-MSR BS and it
can also be contiguous or non-contiguous in each supported band. The
requirements outside the edges of the RF bandwidth in each operating band are
defined as for any MSR BS. For small RF bandwidth gaps however, considering
that a common radio is shared between these different bands, the requirements
inside the inter RF bandwidth gap will need similar consideration as
requirements inside a sub-block gap for the single band MSR-NC case.
**Inter RF bandwidth gap:** The frequency gap between two consecutive RF
bandwidths that respectively correspond to two supported operating bands.
Figure 5.1-1 and Figure 5.1-2 illustrate that the terminology and symbols that
apply for MB-MSR inter RF bandwidth gap between multiple bands.
Figure 5.1-1: Graphical description of suggested terminology
Figure 5.1-2: Illustration of RF bandwidth and related parameters in one
supported operating band
## 5.2 Relation to legacy deployment
MB-MSR base station is a new type of MSR base station which can support
multiple bands and multiple RATs transmission and/or reception through a
common radio. Compared to the legacy multiple bands deployment, it can reduce
site space, installation complexity as well as the insertion loss of cables at
the same time for the multiple bands antenna sharing scenario.
The existing site infrastructures such as any external filters, feeder cables
and antennas are expected to be foreword compatible and reused in an upgrade
of MB-MSR base station. The performance of the whole system with legacy site
equipments and upgraded base station should not degrade. However, benefit from
support of multiple bands in a single base station, some legacy external
devices like combiner between multiple bands and feeders/jumpers connected to
the combiner could be saved. From this aspect, deployment based on MB-MSR base
station can potential improves the site performance and efficiency compared to
the legacy deployment. Same as the deployment with legacy base station,
passive intermodulation (PIM) product also can be generated in the site
devices for MB-MSR BS deployment. This part will be studied further in PIM SI
and not involved in this section.
Exclusion bands shall be considered in all supported operating bands in EMC
testing for MB-MSR base station.
## 5.3 Application scenarios
MB-MSR is applied for operators who have two or more close spectrum blocks
belong to different bands. The spectrum blocks in each band could be
contiguous or non-contiguous spectrum. With the state-of-the-art RF
technology, the BS could support RF bandwidth of several hundred MHz at the
same time. For some adjacent bands, for example band 8 and band 20, RF
technology is mature enough to allow a MSR base station (BS) to support
simultaneous multiple bands and multiple RATs through a common radio.
Considering the hardware capability and global spectrum allocation, the
following example scenarios are possible band combinations covering different
regions, which do not exclude other combinations with further study.
\- 800MHz (Band 20)+900MHz (Band 8)
\- 1.8GHz (Band 3)+2.1GHz (Band 1)
\- Group of Region 2 Bands in 700MHz (Bands 12, 13, 14, 17) + 850MHz (Band 5)
\- PCS band (Band 2) + AWS band (Band 4)
\- Band 34 + Band 39
With the development of the technology, more scenarios would be supported for
MB-MSR. If no requirement is identified that must be specific to a certain
band combination or that excludes certain combinations, generic requirements
applying to any band combination should be developed. For this reason, the MB-
MSR specification should not have to be limited to any specific set of band
combinations. If band combinations are identified that will need specific
requirements, they will be covered if time permits.
MB-MSR base station should support evolution from single band to two or more
bands application. Operators who have two close bands could deploy a MB-MSR
base station at one band initially, and upgrade it to two bands sharing a
common radio without further hardware investment.
MB-MSR application scenarios are quite generic and cover the band combinations
where there is possibility to have multi-band implementation of receiver and
transmitter. Given the generic approach of defining MB-MSR requirements, there
is no restriction posed on specific scenarios, but the band combinations
supported by MB-MSR should be declared.
The MB-MSR application scenarios also cover both FDD and TDD, but are limited
to MB-MSR for FDD only scenarios and TDD only scenarios respectively.
Possible MB-MSR structures and configurations based on combining different
receiver/transmitter implementations (multi-band or single band), as well as
mapping receive and transmit signals on antenna ports in different ways are
also relevant scenarios which are accommodated by the MB-MSR WI. The MB-MSR
structure and configurations is further discussed in sub-clause 5.3.1
### 5.3.1 Structure, scope and configurations
#### 5.3.1.1 FDD aspects
There are various possible implementations for receiver and transmitter as
shown in figure 5.3.1.1-1. One possible approach is to use multi-band
receive/transmitter implementation for MB-MSR which can cover multiple band.
Other implementation approaches could be to have receiver/transmitter
implementation covering a single band.
Based on the definition for MB-MSR BS, the following definitions can be set
for the multi-band transmitter and receiver:
**Multi-band transmitter:** Transmitter characterized by the ability to
process two or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously,
where at least one carrier is configured at a different operating band than
the other carrier(s).
**Multi-band receiver:** Receiver characterized by the ability to process two
or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously, where at least
one carrier is configured at a different operating band than the other
carrier(s).
Figure 5.3.1.1-1: Possible logical implementation of receivers and
transmitters
Considering the intention with MB-MSR, several possible MB-MSR structures
assuming any of the above implementation approaches shall be possible. As an
example for MB-MSR structure, Figure 5.3.1.1-2 shows a combination of a multi-
band receiver and transmitter which can map the concerned bands on one antenna
port, or alternatively map each band on separate ports. It is also possible to
map the concerned transmitters on one port while the receivers are connected
to the other port. The separation of transmit and receive can be deployed to
combat and mitigate possible PIM issues which is the topic of a parallel study
item.
Note that the box for filters in Figure 5.3.1.1-2 would represent different
possible combination of band pass and diplexer filters, depending on the
chosen implementation structure.
Figure 5.3.1.1-2: MB-MSR example structure using multi-band receiver and
transmitter combining the bands in one port or two ports
Another example structure (see figure 5.3.1.1-3) would be to combine a multi-
band transmitter with single band receivers where every individual receiver
would have a maximum RFBW equal to or lower than the concerned UL band, where
the mapping of transmitter and receivers towards one or two ports can be
similar to what is described above.
Figure 5.3.1.1-3: MB-MSR example structure using multi-band transmitter and
single band receiver combining the bands in one port or two ports
Looking into the discussed band combinations, the combination of band 8 and
band 20 would be a typical example to combine a multi-band receiver with
single band transmitters with maximum RFBW equal to or less than the concerned
bands as shown in figure 5.3.1.1-4.
Figure 5.3.1.1-4: MB-MSR example structure using multi-band receiver and
single band transmitter combining the bands in one port or two ports
The MB-MSR specification should not pose any restriction on the chosen
combination of transmitter/receiver or the structure, as long as generic
requirements handle the specific characteristics of the MB-MSR BS. It should
be noted that the chosen structure should be parameterized, which would
require an extension of the MSR declaration.
This also means that the MB-MSR scope of work should not restrict any
structure or configuration. There should be proper requirement coverage
(generic requirements) to allow for all possible combinations of multi-band
transmitters/receivers with single band transmitters/receivers as well as
mapping of transmitters and receivers to antenna ports in different ways, as
visualized in the generic illustrations of Figure 5.3.1.1-5.
Figure 5.3.1.1-5: MB-MSR proposed structures included in the scope. Note that
for each structure, at least the transmitter or the receiver has to be multi-
band.
If possible, the generic requirements developed should handle WA applications
as well as low power MR and LA BS applications, assuming that no additional
conditions are identified for MR and LA BS. It is noted that once the
principles of defining generic MB-MSR requirements is settled, there should be
little or no additional work to accommodate all BS classes.
The declaration part of MB-MSR will require additional parameters, such as the
supported MB-MSR bands, total maximum RFBW for transmitter and receiver, and
maximum transmitter and receiver RFBW if a single band implementation is
included in the structure.
#### 5.3.1.2 TDD aspects
MB-MSR should be handled with generic requirements and thus should accommodate
any combination of multi-band or single-band receivers and transmitters.
Depending on the scenario and need, the MB-MSR WI should cover different
possible mappings of transmit and receive signals through one or two antennas.
Given the MB-MSR generic approach, the principles above should be valid also
for TDD MB-MSR. Possible structures for TDD MB-MSR are summarized below in
Figures 5.3.1.2-1 to 5.3.1.2-4. These structures are examples among possible
different implementations.
Figure 5.3.1.2-1: Example of Multi-band receiver and transmitter mapped into
one and two antennas respectively
Figure 5.3.1.2-2: Example of Multi-band transmitter combined with single-band
receivers mapped into one and two antennas respectively
Figure 5.3.1.2-3: Example of Multi-band receivers combined with single-band
transmitter mapped into one and two antennas respectively
As indicated above, TDD MB-MSR has slightly different structures compared to
FDD, but the same principles can be made applicable.
For TDD MB-MSR, there is a need to address the inter-band synchronization
aspect, since in the case where the operation is unsynchronized between the
bands, the receiver and transmitter would operate simultaneously, which would
require isolation between RX and TX on the order of 100 dB. Note that inter-
band synchronization would require synchronization in time and the same UL/DL
sub-frame allocation.
Figure 5.3.1.2-4: TX/RX isolation for inter-band unsynchronized operation in
an example structure
For current single-band operation, the isolation is achieved by turning the
transmitter off in conjunction with high quality switches as well other
schemes. For MB-MSR unsynchronized operation, the transmitter can not be
turned off.
For the reasons above, the general clause explaining \"Applicability of MB-MSR
requirements\" also clarifies that for multi-band capable BS, operation in the
multiple bands must be synchronized.
## 5.4 Operating bands and Band categories
In 37.104, Band Category is defined as a group of operating bands for which
the same MSR scenarios apply. For the purpose of defining MSR requirements,
the operating bands are divided into three band categories, where BC1 and BC2
are FDD bands and BC3 are TDD bands. It's clear that Band category is a
property of the band(s) supported by the BS. Thus no changes are needed for
the definition and the classification of the Band category. However the
applicability of the RF requirements defined for each Band category need to be
clarified where it is necessary.
Currently different RF requirements are defined for each Band category. The
requirements for each BC can generally apply for MB-MSR BS on a per-band basis
depending on which Band category the supported operating bands belong to.
However for FDD MB-MSR BS, the multiple operating bands may belong to
different Band categories. E.g. a MSR may support Band X and Band Y which
belong to BC1 and BC2 respectively.
As stated in subclause 4.5, the RF requirements remain unchanged in general
for multi-band BS operation and apply as they are stated for each of the
operating bands forming the multi-band set.
There are however a few exceptions where the fact that one of the bands is a
BC2 band, where there may be GSM/EDGE operation, has an impact on the other
band for multi-band operation, even if the other band is a BC1 band. The
situation for all BC2 specific RF requirements in TS 37.104 is summarized in
Table 5.4-1 below.
Table 5.4-1: Overview of BC2 impact for MB-MSR
* * *
Clause in TS 37.104 RF requirement BC2 impact 6.6.1.1.3 Transmitter spurious
emissions; Additional minimum requirement for BC2 (Category B) This is a
transmitter emissions limit outside of the two operating bands, which is
stricter in the case of BC2 operation. Since the emissions from multiple bands
in this case will come from the same transmitter, it will be limited by the
highest emission limit which is the general limit. Thus for the case where all
supported operating bands belong to BC2 and GSM/EDGE is configured in all
bands, then the additional BS Spurious emissions limits for BC2 would apply.
For all other cases, only the general requirement would apply. 6.6.1.2
Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS The emission limit for
protecting the own receive band in Table 6.6.1.2.1-1 is stricter for BC2
operation. This limit can be applied per band and it would still be sufficient
to protect the other receiver operating band with the less strict limit if it
is a BC1 band. 6.6.2.2 Operating band unwanted emissions; General minimum
requirement for Band Category 2 This is a transmitter emissions limit inside
of the two operating bands, which is different in the case of BC2 operation
for the first 150 kHz from the RF bandwidth edge. This limit applies per band
and the 150 kHz range with different limits close to the RF bandwidth edge in
BC2 would only apply for the BC2 band. 6.6.2.3 Operating band unwanted
emissions; GSM/EDGE single-RAT requirements These requirements are single-RAT
limits that are GSM-EDGE specific and only apply to GSM/EDGE carriers in BC2.
They would not apply for a BC1 band in multi-band operation with a BC2 band.
7.4.3 In-band selectivity and blocking; Additional Narrowband blocking minimum
requirement for GSM/EDGE These single-RAT in-band requirements are GSM-EDGE
specific and only apply in-band to GSM/EDGE carriers in BC2. They would not
apply for a BC1 band in multi-band operation with a BC2 band. 7.4.4 In-band
selectivity and blocking; GSM/EDGE requirements for AM suppression These
single-RAT in-band requirements are GSM-EDGE specific and only apply in-band
to GSM/EDGE carriers in BC2. They would not apply for a BC1 band in multi-band
operation with a BC2 band. 7.6.2 Receiver spurious emissions: Additional
minimum requirement for BC2 (Category B) This is a receiver emissions limit
outside of the two operating bands, which is stricter in the case of BC2
operation. Since the emissions from multiple bands in this case will come from
the same receiver, it will be limited by the highest emission limit which is
the general limit. Thus for the case where all supported operating bands
belong to BC2 and GSM/EDGE is configured in all bands, then the additional BS
Spurious emissions limits for BC2 would apply. For all other cases, only the
general requirement would apply.
* * *
From the overview above, it is seen that if one of the bands in multi-band
operation is a BC2 band, only the spurious emission requirements in 6.6.1.1.3
and 7.6 will need a clarification in TS 37.104 of how the requirement applies
in case an operating band is in BC2.
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
The current MSR transmitter requirements are classified to in-band
requirements and out-of-band requirements, where UEM, ACLR/CACLR, EVM and
transmit IM are examples for in-band requirements and spurious emission
requirement represents out-of-band requirement. As pointed out in subclause
5.4, these transmitter requirements can generally be kept unchanged and
applied for MB-MSR on a per-band basis depending on which Band Category the
supported operating bands belong to. Exceptions are transmitter requirements
for band combinations with minimum inter RF bandwidth gap \= 20MHz, the operating band unwanted emissions requirement
is not affected by MB-MSR and existing requirements per band should apply.
For multi-band capable BS with band combinations whose minimum downlink inter
RF bandwidth gap \= 20MHz, the ACLR requirement is not affected by MB-MSR and
existing requirements per band should apply. This case is already covered by
the existing ACLR specification text, where it is stated that \"The
requirement applies to frequency ranges outside the Base Station RF
bandwidth\" and the inter RF bandwidth gap is fully outside the RF bandwidth
of both bands.
For multiband capable BS with band combinations whose minimum downlink inter
RF bandwidth gap \ NOTE: B~RFBW~_T'~RFBW~=B'~RFBW~_T~RFBW~= B~RFBW~_ T~RFBW~ when the declared
> maximum radio bandwidth spans both operating bands. B~RFBW~_ T~RFBW~ means
> the RF bandwidths are located at the bottom of the supported frequency range
> in the lower operating band and at the top of the supported frequency range
> in the upper operating band.
## 9.3 Applicability of requirements and test configurations
In principal, for a BS supporting multi-band operation, it should be verified
in both the configurations of single-band and multi-band operation separately.
It is obvious that both multi-band operation test and single-band operation
test for all the requirements will dramatically increase the test amount. In
order to limit the test number but still ensure the performance of both multi-
band and single operation, applicability of the test category for each
requirement is studied by companies.
Before the applicability table is formed, several general principles to create
the table are listed as below:
1\. Requirements that need multi-band operation test should be identified
according to the principle that whether the carriers in different bands would
impact each other to meet the requirements.
2\. In addition to multi-band operation test for these requirements, whether
single-band operation tests for each band are still needed.
3\. Three kinds of test are expected: single-band operation test, multi-band
operation test and both multi-band operation test and sing-band operation
test.
4\. In single-band operation test, single-band test configuration and
applicability for each requirement in current specifications is reused for
each band.
5\. In multi-band operation test, multi-band test configuration is configured
for all supported operating bands, the applicability for multi-band TC need to
be specified for each requirement.
6\. Unless otherwise stated, the requirements defined for BS capable of multi-
band operation are applied for both single-band and multi-band operation test
for a MB BS.
7\. In addition to the above principles, exceptions in core requirements for
separate antenna case should still be taken into consideration:
\- The transmitter spurious emissions, operating band unwanted emissions,
ACLR, transmitter intermodulation and receiver spurious emissions requirements
apply to each antenna connector and will be the same as the respective single-
band requirements.
\- If the BS is configured for single-band operation, single-band requirements
shall apply to the antenna connector configured for single-band operation and
no exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are applicable. Single-
band requirements are tested separately at the antenna connector configured
for single-band operation, with all other antenna connectors terminated. "SBT"
in the table below denotes the requirement needs to perform single-band
operation test for each supported band. "MBT" in the table below denotes the
requirement needs to perform multi-band operation test.
Table 9.3-1: Test configurations for Multi-Band capable BS (all Capability
Sets)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | BS test case | Test for MB | Test | | | | | capable BS | configuration | | | | | | for MBT | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | | Multi-band | Single-band | BC1/BC2 | BC3 | | | antenna | antenna | | | | | connector | connector | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.2 Base | - | - | - | - | | > Station | | | | | | > output | | | | | | > power** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Base Station | SBT, MBT | SBT, MBT | TC7a | TC7a | | > maximum | | | | | | > output power | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Additional | N/A | N/A | N/A | - | | regional | | | | | | requirement\ | | | | | | (only for band | | | | | | 34) | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA for | SBT | SBT | | | | > DL RS power | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA FDD | SBT | SBT | | | | > primary | | | | | | > CPICH power | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA TDD | SBT | SBT | | | | > primary | | | | | | > CCPCH power | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.3 Output | - | - | | | | > power | | | | | | > dynamics** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA FDD | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA TDD | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | GSM/EDGE | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.4 | | | - | - | | > Transmit | | | | | | > ON/OFF | | | | | | > power** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Transmitter | MBT | MBT | N/A | TC7a | | > OFF power | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Transmitter | MBT | MBT | N/A | TC7a | | > transient | | | | | | > period | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.5 | | | | | | > Transmitted | | | | | | > signal | | | | | | > quality** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.5.1 | | | | | | > Modulation | | | | | | > quality** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA | SBT, MBT | SBT, MBT | TC7a | TC7a | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA FDD | SBT, MBT | SBT, MBT | TC7a | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA TDD | SBT, MBT | SBT, MBT | N/A | TC7a | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > GSM/EDGE | SBT, MBT | SBT, MBT | TC7a | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.5.2 | | | | | | > Frequency | | | | | | > error** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA | Same Test as | Same Test as | TC7a | TC7a | | | used in 6.5.1 | used in 6.5.1 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA FDD | Same Test as | Same Test as | TC7a | N/A | | | used in 6.5.1 | used in 6.5.1 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA TDD | Same Test as | Same Test as | N/A | TC7a | | | used in 6.5.1 | used in 6.5.1 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > GSM/EDGE | Same Test as | Same Test as | TC7a | N/A | | | used in 6.5.1 | used in 6.5.1 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.5.3 Time | | | | | | > alignment | | | | | | > between | | | | | | > transmitter | | | | | | > branches** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA | SBT, MBT­­^1^ | SBT, MBT­­^1^ | TC7b | TC7b | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA FDD | SBT, MBT­­^1^ | SBT, MBT­­^1^ | TC7b | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA TDD | SBT | SBT | N/A | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.6 | | | | | | > Unwanted | | | | | | > emissions** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.6.1 | | | | | | > Transmitter | | | | | | > spurious | | | | | | > emissions** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | (Category A) | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | (Category B) | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Additional | SBT, MBT^3^ | SBT^2^, | TC7b | N/A | | requirement | | MBT^2,3^ | | | | for BC2 | | | | | | (Category B) | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Protection of | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | | the BS | | | | | | receiver of | | | | | | own or | | | | | | different BS | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Additional | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | | spurious | | | | | | emissions | | | | | | requirements | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Co-location | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | | with other | | | | | | Base Stations | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.6.2 | | | | | | > Operating | | | | | | > band | | | | | | > unwanted | | | | | | > emissions** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | General | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | | requirement | | | | | | for Band | | | | | | Categories 1 | | | | | | and 3 | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | General | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | TC7b | N/A | | requirement | | | | | | for Band | | | | | | Category 2 | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | GSM/EDGE | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^,MBT^2^ | TC7c | N/A | | single-RAT | | | | | | requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Additional | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^, MBT^2^ | - | - | | requirements | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.6.3 | | | | | | > Occupied | | | | | | > bandwidth** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Minimum | SBT | SBT | - | - | | > requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.6.4 | | | - | - | | > Adjacent | | | | | | > Channel | | | | | | > Leakage | | | | | | > power Ratio | | | | | | > (ACLR)** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | E- UTRA | SBT, MBT^4^ | SBT^2^, | TC7b | TC7b | | | | MBT^2,\ 4^ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | UTRA FDD | SBT, MBT^4^ | SBT^2^, | TC7b | N/A | | | | MBT^2,\ 4^ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | UTRA TDD | SBT, MBT^4^ | SBT^2^, | N/A | TC7b | | | | MBT^2,\ 4^ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Cumulative | SBT, MBT^4^ | SBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | | ACLR | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **6.7 | | | | | | > Transmitter | | | | | | > int | | | | | | ermodulation** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | General | SBT | SBT^2^ | | | | requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Additional | SBT | SBT^2^ | | N/A | | requirement | | | | | | (BC1 and BC2) | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Additional | SBT | SBT^2^ | N/A | | | > requirement | | | | | | > (BC3) | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **7.2 | | | | | | > Reference | | | | | | > sensitivity | | | | | | > level** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA FDD | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA TDD | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > GSM/EDGE | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **7.3 | | | | | | > Dynamic | | | | | | > range** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA FDD | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > UTRA TDD | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > GSM/EDGE | SBT | SBT | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | **7.4 In- band | | | | | | selectivity | | | | | | and blocking** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > General | MBT | SBT, MBT^5^ | TC7b | TC7b | | > blocking | | | | | | > requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > General | MBT | SBT, MBT^5^ | TC7b | TC7b | | > narrowband | | | | | | > blocking | | | | | | > requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Additional | SBT | SBT | - | | | > narrowband | | | | | | > blocking | | | | | | > requirement | | | | | | > for GSM/EDGE | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > GSM/EDGE | SBT | SBT | - | | | > requirements | | | | | | > for AM | | | | | | > suppression | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Additional | MBT | SBT, MBT^5^ | N/A | TC7b | | > BC3 blocking | | | | | | > requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **7.5 | | | | | | > Out-of-band | | | | | | > blocking** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | General | MBT | SBT, MBT^5^ | TC7b | TC7b | | requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | Co-location | MBT | SBT, MBT^5^ | TC7b | TC7b | | requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **7.6 | | | | | | > Receiver | | | | | | > spurious | | | | | | > emissions** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | General | SBT, MBT | SBT^2^ MBT^2^ | TC7b | TC7b | | requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Additional | SBT, MBT^3^ | SBT^2^, | TC7b | N/A | | > requirement | | MBT^2,\ 3^ | | | | > for BC2 | | | | | | > (Category B) | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **7.7 | | | | | | > Receiver | | | | | | > int | | | | | | ermodulation** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > General | MBT | SBT, MBT^5^ | TC7b | TC7b | | > i | | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | | | > requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > General | MBT | SBT, MBT^5^ | TC7b | TC7b | | > narrowband | | | | | | > i | | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | | | > requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > Additional | SBT | SBT | - | - | | > narrowband | | | | | | > i | | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | | | > requirement | | | | | | > for GSM/EDGE | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > **7.8 | | | | | | > In-channel | | | | | | > | | | | | | selectivity** | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | > E-UTRA | SBT | SBT | - | - | | > requirement | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+ | NOTE 1: MBT is | | | | | | only | | | | | | applicable in | | | | | | the case if | | | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA / | | | | | | inter-band CA | | | | | | is supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | these | | | | | | requirements, | | | | | | single-band | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | apply to each | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | connector for | | | | | | both | | | | | | multi-band | | | | | | operation test | | | | | | and | | | | | | single-band | | | | | | operation | | | | | | test. For | | | | | | single-band | | | | | | operation | | | | | | test, other | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | connectors are | | | | | | terminated. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | multi-band | | | | | | operation, | | | | | | this | | | | | | additional | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | for BC2 is | | | | | | only applied | | | | | | for the case | | | | | | all supported | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands belong | | | | | | to BC2 and | | | | | | GSM/EDGE is | | | | | | configured in | | | | | | all bands. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For | | | | | | ACLR, MBT | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | applied for | | | | | | the Inter RF | | | | | | bandwidth gap | | | | | | only. In case | | | | | | of a BS | | | | | | capable of | | | | | | CS4, CS5 or | | | | | | CS6, the | | | | | | referenced | | | | | | test | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | should be the | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | one for CS1, | | | | | | CS2 or CS3 | | | | | | respectively, | | | | | | i.e. without | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | carriers. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: MBT is | | | | | | only applied | | | | | | for multi-band | | | | | | receiver. | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------+------+
#