# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is intended to capture the output of the Study Item on
RAN Improvements for Machine-type Communications.
The study aims to study the traffic characteristics of different M2M
applications with machine-type communications and define new traffic models
based on these findings. RAN enhancements for UTRA and EUTRA to improve the
support of machine-type communications based on the SA1 requirements should be
studied.
The RAN improvements should enable or improve the usage of RAN resources
efficiently, and/or reduce the complexity when a large number of machine-type
communications devices possibly need to be served based on the existing
features as much as possible. Meanwhile, minimize the changes of existing
specifications and the impaction of Human-to-Human terminals in order to keep
the complexity related to M2M optimizations at a minimum level.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.368: \"Service requirements for machine-type communications;
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.888: \"System Improvements for Machine-Type Communications\".
[4] http://www.statistics.gov.uk/census2001/profiles/commentaries/housing.asp.
[5]
http://www.statistics.gov.uk/downloads/theme_population/regional_snapshot/RS_Lon.pdf.
[6] R2-102340: \"Smart Grid Traffic Behaviour Discussion\".
[7] R1-061369: \"LTE random-access capacity and collision probability\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[9] https://www.ln.chinamobile.com/product/info/business/gjctdxyh/,
https://www.hn.chinamobile.com/10086/help/zsk/jtyw/cwt.html.
[10] R2-102296: \"RACH intensity of Time Controlled Devices\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
**MTC Device:** A MTC Device is a UE equipped for Machine Type Communication,
which communicates through a PLMN with MTC Server(s) and/or other MTC
Device(s).
NOTE: A MTC Device might also communicate locally (wirelessly, possibly
through a PAN, or hardwired) with other entities which provide the MTC Device
"raw data" for processing and communication to the MTC Server(s) and/or other
MTC Device(s). Local communication between MTC Device(s) and other entities is
out of scope of this technical specification.
**MTC Feature:** MTC Features are network functions to optimise the network
for use by M2M applications.
**MTC Server:** A MTC Server is an entity, which communicates to the PLMN
itself, and to MTC Devices through the PLMN. The MTC Server also has an
interface which can be accessed by the MTC User. The MTC Server performs
services for the MTC User.
**MTC Subscriber:** A MTC Subscriber is a legal entity having a contractual
relationship with the network operator to provide service to one or more MTC
Devices.
**MTC User:** A MTC User uses the service provided by the MTC Server.
NOTE: Typically a M2M service provider is the party holding subscriptions in
order to provide connectivity between MTC Devices and the MTC Server. In
practise certain roles can collapse, e.g. the network operator acts as the
same time as Service Provider.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
MTC Machine Type Communications
RANIMTC Radio Access Network Improvements for Machine Type Communications
# 4 Example use cases
[Editor's note: This section describes the use cases considered important in
the scope of the study item.]
## 4.1 Metering
[Editor's note: This section is intended to assess and analyze the involved
MTC applications and MTC features in SA1, and present the corresponding RAN
specific aspects of this use case ]
Metering refers to power, gas, water, heating, grid control, industrial [2] or
electrical metering, etc. Metering devices could be used to monitor energy
networks, to provide information on energy consumption and billing, and to
improve end-user energy efficiency, for instance.
## 4.2 Road Security
[Editor's note: This section is intended to assess and analyze the involved
MTC applications and MTC features in SA1, and present the corresponding RAN
specific aspects of this use case ]
Road security often refers to an in-vehicle emergency call service which could
provide location information and other specific information. This information
could help to bring rapid assistance to motorists involved in a collision.
Road security also includes some smart applications for ticketing, intelligent
traffic management, congestion avoidance and fleet management.
## 4.3 Consumer electronic and devices
[Editor's note: This section is intended to assess and analyze the involved
MTC applications and MTC features in SA1, and present the corresponding RAN
specific aspects of this use case ]
Consumer electronic and devices include electronic equipment intended for
everyday use and are most often used in communications, entertainment and
office productivity. The devices, including digital photo frames, digital
cameras, eBook readers [2], personal computers, telephones, televisions, and
GPS automotive navigation systems among others, are embedded with
communication modules, and can be used to upload and download online content
such as pictures, electronical books, and firmware upgrades, for instance.
# 5 Description of envisioned RAN Improvements for Machine Type Communication
[Editor's note: This section is intended to describe candidate solutions that
have at least one of use cases described in section 4.]
## 5.1 RAN overload control
[Editor's note: This section is intended to describe the area where an
improvement may be beneficial. The existence of a problem should be clearly
illustrated. The area may be relevant to UMTS OR LTE]
RAN overload control as defined below is identified as the first priority
improvement area.
A large number of MTC devices are expected to be deployed in a specific area,
thus the network has to face increased load as well as possible surges of MTC
traffic. Network congestion including Radio Network Congestion and Signalling
Network Congestion as defined in [2] may happen due to mass concurrent data
and signaling transmission. This may cause intolerable delays, packet loss or
even service unavailability. Mechanisms to guarantee network availability and
help network to meet performance requirements under such MTC load need to be
investigated.
For UL (RACH) load control enhancements, application level time distribution
mechanisms are very important. Although not controlled by AS, some
distribution is assumed to be present. In addition to application level
distribution mechanisms, RAN level mechanisms should be worked on to protect
the RAN for RACH overload, i.e. mechanisms to handle any realistic MTC access
load without significant impact on H2H traffic.
Unless otherwise stated, the solutions apply to UMTS and LTE.
### 5.1.1 Access Class Barring schemes
The introduction of separate Access Class(es) for MTC devices allows the
network to separately control the access from these MTC, in addition to access
control for other devices. Depending on the granularity of the control needed
among MTC devices, either one or several Access Classes can be introduced.
For UMTS and LTE, an ACB mechanism could be used for barring or not barring
each specific MTC access class. In addition, an access class barring factor
per MTC access class could be introduced to control the probability to
consider a cell barred or not barred for those MTC access classes.
#### 5.1.1.1 UE individual Access Class Barring Scaling
In this method, the access control parameters broadcast by the network can be
adjusted by the network on a per UE basis. The network uses control signalling
to indicate to individual UEs or group of UEs how to scale the access control
parameters when broadcast by the network. The purpose of the scaling is to
allow different levels of access control to apply for a UE or group of UEs,
relative to other UEs in a cell, based on one set of broadcast access control
parameters.
#### 5.1.1.2 Extended Access Barring
Extended Access Barring (EAB) is a method for the network to selectively
control access attempts from 'UEs configured for EAB' (which are considered
more tolerant to access restrictions than other UEs) in order to prevent
overload of the access network and/or the core network, without the need to
introduce **any new Access Classes.** In case of congestion, the network could
restrict access from 'UEs configured for EAB' while permitting access from
other UEs. When the network determines that it is appropriate to apply EAB, it
broadcasts necessary information on the BCCH to provide EAB control for UEs.
In the case of multiple core networks sharing the same access network, EAB
information can be PLMN specific. It is FFS whether we can avoid duplicating
all EAB information to limit the overhead on broadcast.
EAB enforcement will be implemented in the UE AS layer and interwork with
legacy Access Class Barring, it should ensure that the corresponding
requirement specified in [11] section 4.3.4 could be satisfied. To ensure that
the network can react fast enough to prevent overload in critical scenarios,
different alternatives for EAB information update and acquisition could be
considered.
### 5.1.2 Separate RACH resources for MTC
When MTC and H2H devices share the RACH resource, they experience the same
access collision probability. Separate RACH resources can be provided for the
H2H and MTC devices.
#### 5.1.2.1 Solution for LTE
The separation of resources can be done by either splitting the preambles into
H2H group(s) and MTC group(s) or by allocating PRACH occasions in time or
frequency to either H2H or MTC devices.
#### 5.1.2.2 Solution for UMTS
The separation of resources can be done by either splitting the signatures
into H2H group(s) and MTC group(s) through ASC configuration or by allocating
new signatures in time to either H2H or MTC devices.
### 5.1.3 Dynamic allocation of RACH resources
In some scenarios the network can predict when access load will surge due to
MTC devices. In order to cope with this load, the network may dynamically
allocate additional RACH resources for the MTC devices to use.
### 5.1.4 MTC Specific Backoff scheme
A MTC specific backoff scheme can be used to delay their random access
(re-)attempts.
### 5.1.5 Slotted access
In this method, the access cycle/slots (similar to paging cycle/slots) are
defined for MTC devices and each MTC device only accesses at its dedicated
access slot. The access slots are synchronized with the corresponding System
Frames. An MTC device is associated with an access slot through its ID (IMSI).
At it simplest, the access slot could be the paging frame for the MTC device.
### 5.1.6 Pull based scheme
If the MTC server is aware of when MTC devices have data to send or the MTC
server needs information from the MTC devices, it needs to inform the MTC
device. Correspondingly the CN could page the MTC device and upon receiving a
paging message the MTC device will perform an RRC connection establishment.
The eNB or RNC could control the paging taking into account the network load
condition. This is already supported by the current specification.
The paging message may also include a backoff time for the MTC device which
indicates the time of access from the reception of the paging message. Another
approach would be to use group paging.
## 5.2 [ Other improvement areas ]
[Editor's note: This section is intended to describe the area where an
improvement may be beneficial. The existence of a problem should be clearly
illustrated. The area may be relevant to UMTS OR LTE]
NOTE: Other improvement areas are lower priority than RAN overload control,
but still could be considered from RAN perspective.
### 5.2.1 Solution for LTE
[Editor's note: This section is intended to describe LTE candidate solutions]
### 5.2.2 Solution for UMTS
[Editor's note: This section is intended to describe UMTS candidate solutions]
# 6 Simulation assumptions and results
## 6.1 Traffic model
In order to evaluate the network performance under different access
intensities, two different traffic models are assumed as listed in Table
6.1.1.
Table 6.1.1: Traffic models for MTC
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Characteristics | Traffic model 1 | Traffic model 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of MTC | 1000, 3000, 5000, | 1000, 3000, 5000, | | devices | 10000, 30000 | 10000, 30000 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Arrival distribution | Uniform distribution | Beta distribution | | | over T | over T, | | | | | | | | See section 6.1.1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distribution period | 60 seconds | 10 seconds | | (T) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Traffic model 1 can be considered as a realistic scenario in which MTC devices
access the network uniformly over a period of time, i.e. in a non-synchronized
manner.
Traffic model 2 can be considered as an extreme scenario in which a large
amount of MTC devices access the network in a highly synchronized manner, e.g.
after a power outage.
### 6.1.1 Time limited Beta distribution
Assuming that all MTC devices activate between t=0 and t=T, the random access
intensity is described by the distribution p(t) and the total number of MTC
devices in the cell is N, then the number of arrivals in the i-th access
opportunity is given by:
Where:
\- t~i~ is the time of the i-th access opportunity.
\- the distribution p(t) follows the Beta distribution:
$p(t) = \frac{t^{\alpha - 1}(T - t)^{\beta - 1}}{T^{\alpha + \beta -
1}\text{Beta}(\alpha,\beta)}\alpha > 0,\beta > 0$, $\text{Beta}(\alpha,\beta)$
is the Beta function. The values of α=3 and β=4 are assumed in the study.
The distribution of access attempts should be limited in the time T:
## 6.2 Methodology
### 6.2.1 Simulator methodology
#### 6.2.1.1 Protocol level simulator methodology
A single cell environment is assumed.
In case of no collision, preamble detection probability is assumed, where i
indicates the i-th preamble transmission (indicates the i-th SYNC_UL
transmission for UMTS 1.28Mcps TDD), to take into account the effects of radio
channels, for example path-loss, fading, inter-cell interference, etc.
#### 6.2.1.2 Impacts on/from H2H traffic
For the purpose of RACH capacity evaluation, all RACH attempts are assumed to
be initiated by MTC devices with no background noise caused by H2H UEs.
#### 6.2.1.3 Statistics collection
For the purpose of RACH capacity evaluation, all the statistics in section 6.3
is collected for the period of time between the activation of the first MTC
device and the (successful or unsuccessful) completion of the last random
access procedure triggered by a MTC device. For LTE, successful completion of
one random access procedure means the successful reception of Msg4. For UMTS,
successful completion of one random access procedure means the complete of
RACH message part.
### 6.2.2 Simulation assumptions
#### 6.2.2.1 Simulation parameters for RACH capacity evaluation
This section defines the simulation parameters which may be required to
conduct the study on the RACH capacity for MTC devices for different systems.
A first set of basic parameters is defined in Tables 6.2.2.1.1 -- 6.2.2.1.4 to
assess the RACH capacity of existing 'MTC-agnostic' networks. This means that
typical parameter configurations are considered (and not ad-hoc MTC-specific
ones).
Table 6.2.2.1.1: Basic simulation parameters for RACH capacity for LTE FDD
* * *
Parameter Setting Cell bandwidth 5 MHz PRACH Configuration Index 6 Total
number of preambles 54 Maximum number of preamble transmission 10 Number of UL
grants per RAR 3 Number of CCEs allocated for PDCCH 16 Number of CCEs per
PDCCH 4 Ra-ResponseWindowSize 5 subframes mac-ContentionResolutionTimer 48
subframes Backoff Indicator 20ms HARQ retransmission probability for Msg3 and
Msg4 (non-adaptive HARQ) 10% Maximum number of HARQ TX for Msg3 and Msg4 (non-
adaptive HARQ) 5
* * *
Table 6.2.2.1.2: Basic simulation parameters for RACH capacity for LTE TDD
* * *
Parameter Setting Cell bandwidth 10 MHz Uplink-downlink allocations
configuration 1 PRACH Configuration Index 6 Total number of preambles 54
Maximum number of preamble transmission 10 Number of UL grants per RAR 6
Number of CCEs allocated for PDCCH 16 Number of CCEs per PDCCH 4 Ra-
ResponseWindowSize 5 subframes mac-ContentionResolutionTimer 48 subframes
Backoff Indicator 20ms HARQ retransmission probability for Msg3 and Msg4 (non-
adaptive HARQ) 10% Maximum number of HARQ TX for Msg3 and Msg4 (non-adaptive
HARQ) 5
* * *
Table 6.2.2.1.3: Basic simulation parameters for RACH capacity for UMTS FDD
* * *
Parameter Setting NB01min 0 NB01max FFS Maximum number of preamble
retransmissions FFS Max number of Preamble Ramping cycles FFS Dynamic
persistence value FFS Number of signatures per PRACH FFS Number of PRACH 1
Available access slots All RACH  
RACH TTI 20 ms EUL in CELL_FACH  
E-DCH TTI FFS Number of common E-DCH resources FFS
* * *
Table 6.2.2.1.4: Basic simulation parameters for RACH capacity for UMTS
1.28Mcps TDD
* * *
Parameter Setting Cell bandwidth 10 MHz Mmax (Mac Layer Transmission Number) 2
Number of signatures (SYNC_UL codes) 8 Pi (transmission probability) 0.3
Number of UpPCH Subchannel 2 Number of FPACH 8 Number of PRACH associated to
each FPACH 1 SF of PRACH 1/4 RACH TTI 5 ms WT 4 subframes Physical Layer
Transmission Number 4 Number of uplink timeslots per carrier 3
* * *
#### 6.2.2.2 Handling of collision
For LTE FDD and TDD, if two (or more) MTC devices select the same preamble at
the same time, it is assumed that the eNB will not be able to decode any of
the preambles; hence, the eNodeB will not send the Random Access Response
(RAR). MTC devices will only detect a collision if Msg2 (RAR) is not received
in the ra-ResponseWindow.
For UMTS FDD, if one MTC device has started the transmission of the message
part while another MTC device selects the same preamble, the Node B will send
NACK on AICH to reject the second MTC device to avoid the collision. If two
(or more) MTC devices select the same preamble at the same access slot, it is
assumed that the Node B will not be able to decode any of the preambles;
hence, the Node B will not send an ACK on the AICH.
For UMTS 1.28Mcps TDD, if a collision happens, e.g. two (or more) MTC devices
select the same SYNC_UL code, it is assumed that all MTC devices which collide
will not receive any FPACH response during WT (RA response window), and will
re-enter into anther preamble ramping cycle.
#### 6.2.2.3 Processing latency
For LTE, the assumed processing latency for each step is as per Table
B.1.1.1-1 (for FDD) and Table B.1.1.2-1 (for TDD) in TR 36.912.
## 6.3 Output for analysis
### 6.3.1 Measures for RACH capacity evaluation
The following measures could be taken into account for the purpose of RACH
capacity evaluation for MTC:
1\. Collision probability, defined as the ratio between the number of
occurrences when two or more MTC devices send a random access attempt using
exactly the same preamble and the overall number of opportunities (with or
without access attempts) in the period.
2\. Access success probability, defined as the probability to successfully
complete the random access procedure within the maximum number of preamble
transmissions.
3\. Statistics of number of preamble transmissions, defined as the CDF of the
number of preamble transmissions to perform a random access procedure, for the
successfully accessed MTC devices.
4\. Statistics of access delay, defined as the CDF of the delay for each
random access procedure between the first RA attempt and the completion of the
random access procedure, for the successfully accessed MTC devices.
5\. Statistics of simultaneous preamble transmissions (for UMTS FDD), defined
as the CDF of the number of MTC devices that transmit preamble simultaneously
in an access slot. This serves an indirect measure of Rise over Thermal (RoT).
6\. Statistics of simultaneous data transmissions (for UMTS FDD), defined as
the CDF of the number of MTC devices that transmit pilot or pilot AND data
simultaneously in an access slot. This serves an indirect measure of Rise over
Thermal (RoT).
## 6.4 Simulation results
### 6.4.1 Simulation results for RACH capacity
This section captures the simulation results for RACH capacity evaluation for
MTC, based on the basic parameters defined in Tables 6.2.2.1.1 -- 6.2.2.1.4.
#### 6.4.1.1 LTE FDD
Table 6.4.1.1.1: Simulation results for RACH capacity for LTE FDD
* * *
Traffic Model Performance measures Number of MTC devices per cell  
5000 10000 30000 1 Collision Probability 0.01% 0.03% 0.22% Access Success
Probability 100% 100% 100% 2 Collision Probability 0.45% 1.98% 47.76% Access
Success Probability 100% 100% 29.5%
* * *
* * *
Traffic Model Number of preamble transmissions Number of MTC devices per cell  
5000 10000 30000 1 Average 1.43 1.45 1.50 10^th^ percentile 1 1 1 90^th^
percentile 1.91 1.92 1.96 2 Average 1.56 1.77 3.49 10^th^ percentile 1 1 1
90^th^ percentile 2.14 2.77 7.33
* * *
* * *
Traffic Model Access Delay (ms) Number of MTC devices per cell  
5000 10000 30000 1 Average 25.60 26.05 27.35 10^th^ percentile 15 15 15 90^th^
percentile 43.92 44.54 46.46 2 Average 29.06 34.65 76.81 10^th^ percentile 15
15.25 15.89 90^th^ percentile 51.61 65.71 174.39
* * *
#### 6.4.1.2 LTE TDD
Table 6.4.1.2.1: Simulation results for RACH capacity for LTE TDD
* * *
Traffic Model Performance measures Number of MTC devices per cell  
5000 10000 30000 1 Collision Probability 0.01% 0.03% 0.24% Access Success
Probability 100% 100% 100% 2 Collision Probability 0.59% 10.21% 52.12% Access
Success Probability 99.95% 82.93% 22.94%
* * *
* * *
Traffic Model Number of preamble transmissions Number of MTC devices per cell  
5000 10000 30000 1 Average 1.43 1.45 1.51 10^th^ percentile 1 1 1 90^th^
percentile 1.86 1.87 1.95 2 Average 1.79 3.42 4.43 10^th^ percentile 1 1 1
90^th^ percentile 2.6 6.78 8.41
* * *
* * *
Traffic Model Access Delay (ms) Number of MTC devices per cell  
5000 10000 30000 1 Average 28.20 28.45 29.77 10^th^ percentile 17.5 17.5 17.5
90^th^ percentile 46.42 46.50 47.97 2 Average 36.44 87.77 102.94 10^th^
percentile 17.5 18.0 23.02 90^th^ percentile 64.66 190.31 196.01
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 UMTS FDD
#### 6.4.1.4 UMTS 1.28Mcps TDD
Table 6.4.1.4.1: Simulation results for RACH capacity for UMTS 1.28Mcps TDD
* * *
Traffic Model Performance measures Number of MTC devices per cell  
1000 3000 5000 10000 30000 1 Collision Probability 0.01% 0.11% 0.31% 1.37%
26.55% Access Success Probability 100% 100% 100% 100% 94.67% 2 Collision
Probability 0.9% 19.38% 43.54% 62.16% 77.52% Access Success Probability 100%
81.13% 32.25% 9.37% 1.74%
* * *
* * *
Traffic Model Number of preamble transmissions Number of MTC devices per cell  
1000 3000 5000 10000 30000 1 Average 1.44 1.48 1.52 1.64 2.95 10^th^
percentile 1 1 1 1 1 90^th^ percentile 1.86 1.91 1.96 2.32 5.21 2 Average 1.66
2.96 3.15 3.03 3.09 10^th^ percentile 1 1 1 1 1 90^th^ percentile 2.40 5.68
6.10 5.92 6.08
* * *
* * *
Traffic Model Access Delay (ms) Number of MTC devices per cell  
1000 3000 5000 10000 30000 1 Average 43.37 48.36 49.45 52.67 91.15 10^th^
percentile 25.10 25.15 25.21 25.86 29.88 90^th^ percentile 79.16 81.87 83.48
89.45 179.64 2 Average 52.51 90.51 96.03 92.73 94.52 10^th^ percentile 25.4 27
27 27 27 90^th^ percentile 90.65 191.00 201.50 196.50 201.50
* * *
# 7 Conclusion
[Editor's note: This section captures the conclusion of the study. The section
can be formulated in such way that the contents can be used as an input of
further specification work.]
For RAN overload control, a number of candidate solutions were investigated
during the study phase. As a result, Extended Access Barring (EAB) is believed
to be a feasible solution and is adopted for RAN overload control. The
different alternatives for EAB design could be further considered as part of a
possible Work Item.
###### ### Annex A: Traffic model for Machine-Type Communications
[Editor's note: This section is intended to describe the typical traffic
characteristics for different M2M applications with machine-type
communications. A traffic model is presented for M2M services to be used to
evaluate gains for the above RAN improvements for machine-type
communications.]
###### ### Annex B: Load Analysis for MTC
## B.1 Example RACH Load Analysis for Smart Electric Metering Application
For the purpose of this analysis, the household density in central and urban
areas of London is considered as an example.
According to the 2001 census data for London [4], the average number of people
per household in Central London is 1.58 and 2.64 in an urban London Area.
Figure B.1 shows the population density in London based on 2007 statistics
[5].
{width="5.995833333333334in" height="4.057638888888889in"}
Figure B.1: Population Density in London
Based on the information provided by [4] and [5], the average number of
households per square Km can be estimated and consequently the number of Smart
Electric meters per cell for different cell radii (assuming each household has
an electric meter). Table B.1 summarises the expected number of households per
cell for typical cell radii. In the example scenario, it is assumed that all
households with a smart electric meter within a cell are served by the same
operator.
Table B.1: Predicted RACH intensity of Smart Meters
* * *
Area Population Density/SqKm Number of people /household Average number of
households /SqKm Typical Cell Size/Km No. Households/cell Central London 10000
1.58 6329 0.5 4968 Urban London 7500 2.64 2840 2 35670
* * *
In [6], a smart meter density of 1000/sector is quoted for the US market.
Analysis for this value is also taken into consideration for further
evaluation.
The other factor that influences the RACH intensity generated by smart meters
in a cell is the frequency with which the meters need to provide their
reading. Smart meters can be used for a variety of applications such as for
Automatic Meter Reading, Energy Demand Management and Micro Electric
Generation management. According to [6], periodical reporting of meter
readings in ranges of 5 mins, 15 mins, 1 hour, 6 hours, 12 hours and 24 hours
are possible.
It is assumed that a concentrator serves a group of smart electric meters. _G_
smart electric meters are grouped and connected to a concentrator. Readings
from the meters of the same group are aggregated by the serving concentrator.
A concentrator connects to eNB and reports to data centre periodically. The
value of _G_ is given by:
_G_ = FFS (General Case)
or
_G_ = 1 (Worst Case).
Table B.2 summarises the expected RACH intensity (Number of RACH attempts/s)
for different periodicities of sending smart meter readings for the different
regions considered. The calculations assume that the sending of meter readings
is uniformly distributed over the required periodicity of sending the
readings.
Table B.2: Predicted RACH intensity of Smart Electric Meters
* * *
Smart Electric Meter Reading Periodicity RACH Intensity (RACH Attempts/s)  
US market (1000 smart meters /sector) [6] Central London (4968
households/cell) Urban London (35670 households/cell) 5 mins 3.3 16.6/G
118.9/G 15 mins 1.1 5.5/G 39.6/G 30 mins 0.6 2.8/G 19.8/G 1 hour 0.3 1.4/G
9.9/G 6 hours 0.05 0.2/G 1.7/G 12 hours 0.02 0.1/G 0.8/G 24 hours 0.01 0.06/G
0.4/G
* * *
**Synchronised Generation of RACH Attempts by Smart Meters**
If Smart Electric meters do not distribute their RACH attempts over time, the
generated RACH intensity will depend on the level of synchronisation of the
generated RACH attempts. During the study, the possibility of all electric
meters generating their attempts within 10 s (due to lack of clock
synchronisation in smart meters) [7] and one minute due to alarms triggered by
smart meters [6] have been indicated. With such tight synchronisation, the
generated RACH intensity is summarised in Table B.3.
Table B.3: RACH Intensity Generated by Synchronised Smart Electric Meters
* * *
Synchronisation range RACH Intensity  
US Market (1000 smart meters per sector) [6] Central London (4968
households/cell) Urban London (35670 households/cell) 10s 100 497/G 3567/G 1
min 17 83/G 595/G
* * *
**3\. RACH Capacity of LTE**
According to [7], an estimate of the RACH collision probability is given by:
$\text{Pr}\text{ob}\left\lbrack \text{collision} \right\rbrack = 1 - e^{-
\gamma L}$,
where L is the total number of random-access opportunities per second and γ is
the random-access intensity, i.e. there are, on average, γ random-access
attempts per second and cell. The analysis assumes that there are a large
number of devices in the cell which is valid for this scenario. Moreover, it
is also assumed that the arrival of RACH requests is uniformly distributed
over time.
In Section 2, the RACH intensity generated by smart meters was evaluated. The
total number of RACH attempts per second depends on the PRACH configuration
index as described in TS 36.211 [8]. Table B.4-1 summarises some possible
values of RACH opportunities/s/preamble for different PRACH configuration
index value for LTE frame structure type 1\. Table B.4-2 summarises some
possible values of RACH opportunities/s/preamble for different PRACH
configuration index value for LTE frame structure type 2 UL/DL configuration
1.
Table B.4-1: Number of RACH opportunities/s/Preamble for Frame Structure Type
1
* * *
PRACH Configuration Index \% resources consumed in a 5MHz bandwidth Number of
RACH opportunities/s/preamble 0 1.25 50 6 5 200 9 7.5 300 12 12.5 500 14 25
1000
* * *
Table B.4-2: Number of RACH opportunities/s/Preamble for Frame Structure Type
2 UL/DL Configuration 1
* * *
PRACH Configuration Index \% resources consumed in a 10MHz bandwidth Number of
RACH opportunities/s/preamble 0 1.5 50 3 3 100 6 6 200 9 9 300 12 12 400 15 15
500 18 18 600
* * *
For a given collision probability Pc, the required number of RACH
opportunities to support a certain RACH intensity is given by:
In Figure B.2, a plot of the supported RACH intensity against the required
number of RACH opportunities is provided.
{width="5.992361111111111in" height="3.8375in"}
Figure B.2: Supported RACH Intensity against number of RACH opportunities per
second for a given collision probability of 1%.
## B.2 Example RACH Load Analysis for Fleet Management Application
Fleet management is becoming a popular M2M application in China. In many
metropolises of China, taxis are equipped with the devices which can report
their latest location information periodically or on demand. Upon receiving
requests, the taxi company can schedule the nearby available taxi to serve the
passengers so that the efficiency of taxi and customer satisfaction can be
improved. Timely location information can also be used to track freight and
stolen vehicles. Another important usage of location information is to
calculate the velocity of vehicles, which can be used by the traffic
management department to estimate the traffic intensity of a certain area. The
higher the velocity, the less the traffic jam, and vice versa. Then the
traffic status information can be distributed timely to help people to avoid
the congested area.
Currently, the fleet management application has been deployed in many cities
of China using GPRS/EDGE network. In Beijing, there are around 80,000 taxis
now, and more than 90% of them, i.e. more than72,000 taxis, have been equipped
with the fleet management devices. The most frequent location report happens
with the interval of 5 seconds, and periodicity of 10-15 seconds is a typical
configuration [9].
When a large number of vehicles using fleet management service gather in a
cell, overload may happen since the location information report is always in
the frequency of seconds. One typical RACH overload scenario that has been
observed in CMCC's GERAN network appears in the taxi area of airport. For
example, such kind of overload is observed often in Beijing Capital
International Airport, since it is normal that there are hundreds of taxis
(even more than 1000 during the peak time) queued for passengers. The overload
caused by fleet management application is also observed in the headquarters of
taxi companies. It is typical in China that taxi companies organize a meeting
periodically, resulting in hundreds of taxis assemble in a small area.
Such kind of congestion has been observed in existing GERAN network due to MTC
devices, and whether this situation will appear if similar fleet management
application continues to be deployed in LTE network needs to be analyzed. To
transfer the fleet management data, following two options could be considered.
Keeping the device in connected mode only when transferring the location
information
Due to small amount of the location information data, i.e. around 100 bytes,
the data transfer could be completed in a very short time. After that, the RRC
connection could be released very soon and initial access procedure could be
re-performed when the new location information coming from upper layer.
Keeping the device in connected mode all the time
In this case, it is no need to perform initial access every time when location
information report is pending. However, it seems inefficient and difficult to
keep the device uplink time aligned between location reports, since typically
the transmission interval is in the order of tens of seconds (e.g. 10-15s) and
the device moves together with vehicle. Therefore, every time when the device
wants to send the location information, normally the uplink synchronization
has been lost and random access procedure still needs to be initiated.
Additionally, extra random access has to be performed due to handover, if
keeping this kind of device in connected mode. For instance, assuming that the
cellular radius in Beijing urban area is about 300m and the average velocity
of vehicle is 40km/h, handover happens for every 27s. Frequent handovers will
possibly burden the load of random access as well.
**Observation 1: No matter whether or not always keeping the fleet management
device in connected mode, at least random access is needed every time the
location information coming from upper layer.**
For the airport scenario, assuming that there are 800 taxis aggregating in one
cell and 90% of them need to send their location information. Assuming that
reporting interval is 10 seconds and reporting time across taxis is uniformly
distributed, the RACH intensity (number of RACH attempts/s) generated by taxis
is about 800*90%/10=72.
As for the case of meeting at taxi company, there are also hundreds of taxis
aggregating in one cell, e.g. 400. All of them are equipped with fleet
management devices once the company has subscribed to the service. Then the
RACH intensity is about 400/10=40 attempts/s.
**Observation 2: The RACH intensity generated by taxis with fleet management
services could be as high as 72 and 40 RACH attempts/s in the cell of Beijing
Capital International Airport and taxi company, respectively.**
To support this RACH intensity for a collision probability of 1%, around 7200
RACH opportunities/s are required for airport case [10]. If PRACH
configuration index of 6 [8] is used, for each preamble there are 200 RACH
opportunities per second. Hence, 7200/200=36 preambles are needed to support
the fleet management application.
## B.3 Example RACH Load Analysis for Earthquake Monitoring Application
With more and more attention on earthquake prediction mechanisms, in several
countries it is highly desired that earthquake monitoring networks will be
deployed in the near future. The earthquake monitoring scenario is one of the
examples where a large number of MTC devices in a specific area can be almost
simultaneously triggered by a sudden event to start RA procedures, and where
the RA attempts cannot be uniformly spread in time.
In the following, the evaluation of RACH congestion in the earthquake
monitoring scenario is given, assuming a density of 10 MTC devices per square
km, which can also account for possible 'concentrators' of the signals
received by individual earthquake sensors. Assuming a cell radius of 2Km, then
the sensors density per cell would be 126. Considering that the typical speed
of seismic surface waves is 4Km/s, then it will take 1 second for the wave to
pass through the whole cell, which means the sensors in the cell will be
triggered with nearly uniform distribution and the RA attempts density will be
126/cell/s.
Assuming that a typical PRACH configuration index 6 is adopted, to achieve a
RACH collision probability lower than 1%, all the available 64 preambles would
be required
P [collision] = 1- e ^-126/(200*64)^ = 0.0098
It is worth mentioning that the current back off mechanism and barring
mechanism of access control may be unacceptable in the earthquake scenario,
because even tens of milliseconds are very important for an earthquake alarm.
These calculations suggest that earthquake monitoring applications can put
some some serious requirements on RACH congestion handling, and that specific
solutions might have to be considered.
## B.4 Preliminary RACH Load Analysis for HSPA and LTE
The random access for HSPA and LTE were dimensioned to provide service to a
target of UEs. Due to uncoordinated random access, RACH has a clearly limited
capacity.
MTC devices, depending on the way they create traffic, might eventually
overcome the RACH capacity. Annex B.1 indicated that in UK, the expected
number of devices in urban areas is above 35000 and in US, the expected number
of devices is in the order of 1000.
In both cases, it is obvious that if all those 35000 or 1000 devices start
their random access at the same time -- same random access slot -- in a
synchronous fashion, the RACH capacity for that slot will be exceeded.
For FDD, from the interference point of view, a rush of random access accesses
will increase the UL thermal noise which may affect other UEs. At the same
time, in one access slot, the Node B can only send a limited amount of AICH in
the DL. Devices which do not receive an AICH will access during next access
slot even with a higher power increasing the interference in the system. Last
but not least, the Node B has a limited amount of RACH HW receivers which may
limit the amount of UEs transmitting at the same time. Similar limitations are
also present in LTE.
For 1.28Mcps TDD, 8 SYNC_UL at most can be used in one random access slot,
i.e. one UpPTS, which means limited number of devices can initial the random
access at the same time. The Node B can only send a limited amout of FPACH in
the DL, depending on the system configuration. Last but not least, limited
amount of RACH resource can be configured depending on the configuration of UL
timeslots in the cell.
**RACH HSPA - ASC Simulation Results for UTRAN FDD**
In these simulations, an ASC has been created so that a sub-set of signatures
is used for MTC devices. An ASC is defined by a set of RACH channels (i.e.
access slots in which the device can start its transmission), by a dynamic
persistence value, and by a set of signatures.
It has been also considered that all MTC devices arrive to the network
uniformly distributed within 1, 2, and 3 minutes.
The basic simulation parameters are below:
* * *
Number of MTC devices 1000  
Arrival time Uniform distribution -- 1, 2, 3 minutes  
Application packet size 200 Bytes (+ UDP/IP headers)  
Back-off parameters  
NB01min 0 NB01max 30 ASC  
Number of signatures 4 Dynamic persistence value 0.3, 0.3, 0.5 (for 1, 2 and 3
minutes respectively) Available access slots All RACH receivers 5  
RACH TTI 20 ms
* * *
Figure B.3 shows the CDF to access the network, i.e. the time from the
beginning of the random access at the MAC layer until the device receives the
ACK on the AICH. Note that due to limited data rate available on RACH, each
MTC device will need to perform several accesses in order to send completely
the 200 bytes (+ headers) of data.
Figure B.4 shows the CDF of the time required for MTC device to complete the
transmission of its data.
{width="4.7756944444444445in" height="3.5875in"}
Figure B.3: CDF of the access delay
We can observe that if the MTC devices start their application transmissions
within 1 minute, 90% of the devices will take less than 1 second to access the
network when they try to access the network to send a piece of their data.
On the other hand, when those 1000 devices are distributed over 2 or 3
minutes, virtually all will access the network within 0.5 seconds. In the case
of 3 minutes, the time to access the network could have been reduced even
further if the persistence value would have been higher and the maximum back-
off value would have been reduced. In the worse scenario, a device would wait
for 300 ms to re-try again to access the network after receiving a NACK on the
AICH. These parameters may be too conservative in case the NW has enough
resources and the network is aware of the intensity of those devices.
{width="4.7756944444444445in" height="3.5875in"}
Figure B.4: CDF of the transmission time
Since the data needs to be sent using several RACH transmissions, it will take
up to 5 seconds for 90% of the MTC devices to complete the transmission of the
whole data if the devices are distributed within 1 minute time. The situation
improves considerably if the devices arrive to the network distributed within
longer period of time.
**RACH LTE**
These simulations show the packet delay (time since the application layer
sends the data to lower layers until the packet is received) when a different
number of MTC devices access the network. For this purpose, the number of MTC
devices has been set to 1200 and 30000 devices. Users arrive randomly spread
during one minute, transmit the packet and leave the system.
The MTC devices are assumed to be in RRC Idle. Application layer packets with
the size of 200 bytes are transmitted to the device using UDP/IP. RLC AM is
configured.
In LTE, the RACH could be configured to occur once every subframe up to once
every other radio frame. For the simulations presented below, we have assumed
that the RACH occurs every 5 ms. 10 preambles are configured to be dedicated;
therefore, the other 54 can be used for the random access. Considering these
assumptions, we end up having 200 RACH opportunities per second and a total of
10800 preambles per second.
UEs are granted access to the network in the Random Access Response (RAR). One
or more RAR can be sent within certain window corresponding to one RACH
opportunity. A UE will wait for that period of time to receive the RAR. In
these simulations, it has been considered that only up to 3 users are provided
with an UL grant per RAR. If the UE does not receive the RAR, the UE will try
to access the network with higher power. Contention resolution is not
explicitly modelled; instead, both users will restart their random access
procedure in case of contention.
PDCCH is the channel used to give a grant to a UE after the eNode-B sends the
RAR and to indicate the presence of RAR. It has been assumed that the PDCCH
can only send up to 3 grants per subframe. Assignments take into consideration
that signalling traffic has absolute priority. In other words, the network
will provide first grants to those UEs which need to send signalling data. LTE
access procedure requires at least 2 uplink and 2 downlink grants and another
uplink and downlink grant for the data transaction (see Figure B.6). Hence,
given the assumptions above, there is a theoretical cap on the capacity of 54
000 random access attempts per minute.
Finally, the simulations have been done considering single cell simulations on
5 MHz.
{width="4.025in" height="3.10625in"}
Figure B.5: CDF of the transmission time
It can be observed that, for high load, a small amount of MTC devices will
experience lower packet delay than for low load. Figure B.6 can assist to
understand this effect.
Figure B.6: Message sequence to transmit data of a UE in RRC Idle
The reason for the lower packet delay resides in messages 8 and 9. Upon
generating the RLC ACK, the UE triggers the Scheduling Request (SR). The NW
sends a scheduling grant in the PDCCH almost immediately. At this point, the
UE has not yet processes the RRC connection reconfiguration message and it
does not have available the RRC Reconfiguration complete message. Once it is
ready, the UE triggers another SR to request a grant and when it gets it, the
UE sends the message.
For high load, when the UE sends the SR to send the RLC ACK, the PDCCH load is
such that the PDCCH is not sent immediately. It takes several milliseconds. In
some cases, when the PDCCH is received by the UE, the RRC connection
reconfiguration has been processed and the RRC reconfiguration complete
message is ready to be sent. If the received grant allows, the UE sends
message 8 (RLC ACK) and message 9 (RRC reconfiguration complete) together.
This behavior can be observed in Figure B.7.a and B.7.b. The former figure
shows the trace of a UE in a low load situation. As explained above, messages
8 and 9 are sent separately in different times. On the later figure, messages
8 and 9 are sent together. The clear consequence is that message 10 (data) is
sent earlier than in the case of low load; hence, reducing the packet
transmission delay.
{width="4.836805555555555in" height="1.9305555555555556in"}
Figure B.7.a: Sample uplink trace for low load
{width="4.836805555555555in" height="1.5694444444444444in"}
Figure B.7.b: Sample uplink trace for high load
**RACH HSPA - ASC Simulation Results for UTRAN 1.28Mcps TDD**
For 1.28Mcps TDD, the RACH capacity is impacted by the configured random
access parameters, i.e. the number of FPACH(s), the Speading Factor and the
TTI of RACH channel(s), maximum numbers of SYNC_UL transmissions in physical
layer, maximum number of synchronisation attempts in MAC layer and the
configuration of ASC parameters.
In this simulation, both the SYNC_UL retransmissions in physical layer and the
synchronisation attempts in MAC layer are taken into account. To achieve the
"best" RACH capacity, the number of the FPACH/PRACH pairs configured for the
cell, i.e. on the primary frequency is set as 8 in the simulation. Simulations
for other FPACH/PRACH configuration case(s) should be done and the detailed
configuration parameters of FPACH/PRACH are FFS.
It is assumed that the arrival of RACH requests matches the Poisson
distribution.
The basic simulation parameters are below:
* * *
RACH attempt failure ratio 1%  
MAC Layer Parameters  
Mmax (Mac Layer Transmission Number) 1, 2, 3, 4  
ASC  
Number of signatures (SYNC_UL codes) 8 Pi (transmission probability) 0.3, 1.0
Physical Layer Parameters  
Number of FPACH 8  
Number of PRACH associated to each FPACH 1  
SF of PRACH 1/4  
RACH TTI 5 ms  
WT 1 (subframe)  
Physical Layer Transmission Number 1, 2, 4, 8
* * *
NOTE: The RACH attempt failure means that for a device, the maximum number of
synchronisation attempts of MAC layer (Mmax) is achieved but it still fails to
access to the network.
#