# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the work item on MIMO OTA,
which was approved at TSG RAN#55 [13]. The scope of the WI is to define a 3GPP
methodology or set of comparable methodologies for measuring the radiated
performance of multiple antenna reception and MIMO receivers in the UE. The
test methodology should be relevant for HSPA and LTE technologies, with
particular focus on handheld devices and devices embedded in laptop computers.
RAN WG4 has been working on the study item "Measurement of radiated
performance for MIMO and multi-antenna reception for HSPA and LTE terminals"
with the objective to define a test methodology for measuring the radiated
performance of MIMO and multi-antenna UE reception in UMTS and LTE.
RAN4 has done sufficient work to be confident that the definition of a
meaningful test methodology is feasible; however RAN4 does not have sufficient
evidence yet to conclude on a single test methodology that would fulfil all
requirements for standardisation, and the standardisation of multiple test
methodologies may be one eventual outcome, with a view to avoid differences in
the decision of what is a "good" or "bad" device from the radiated receiver
performance perspective.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-090352, "Proposed new study item: Measurement of radiated performance
for MIMO and multi-antenna reception for HSPA and LTE terminals."
[3] TD(09) 766, COST2100 SWG 2.2, Braunschweig, Germany, Pekka Kyösti et. al.
"Proposal for standardized test procedure for OTA testing of multi-antenna
terminals", Elektrobit.
[4] 3GPP TS 34.114: "User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS) Over The Air
(OTA) Antenna Performance Conformance Testing".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.214, "Physical Layer Procedures (FDD)"
[6] TD(09) 742, COST 2100 SWG 2.2, Braunschweig, Germany, February 2009, J.
Takada, "Handset MIMO Antenna Testing Using a RF-controlled Spatial Fading
Emulator".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.212, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Multiplexing and channel coding".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.213, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures".
[9] CTIA, "Test Plan for Mobile Station Over the Air Performance - Method of
Measurement for Radiated RF Power and Receiver Performance", Revision 3.0,
4/30/2009.
[10] 3GPP TS 36.101, "User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception".
[11] 3GPP TR 25.914, "Measurements of radio performances for UMTS terminals in
speech mode".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.521-1, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Conformance Testing"
[13] RP-120368 Verification of radiated multi-antenna reception performance of
UEs in LTE/UMTS -- performance aspects
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
H Channel matrix
φ Adjacent probe separation angle
θ Zenith angle in the spherical co-ordinate system
φ Azimuth angle in the spherical co-ordinate system
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AoA Angle of Arrival
AoD Angle of Departure
BS Base Station
BSE Base Station Emulator
BTS Base Transceiver Station
COST Cooperation of Scientific and Technical
CTIA Cellular and Telecommunication Industry Association
DL Downlink
DUT Device Under Test
FRC Fixed Reference Measurement Channel
FTP File Transfer Protocol
HSPA High Speed Packet Access
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
LTE Long Term Evolution
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
OTA Over-the-Air
SCM Spatial Channel Model
SCME Spatial Channel Model Extension
SI Study Item
SISO Single Input Single Output
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SS System Simulator
TBS Transport Block Size
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UL Uplink
VRC Variable Reference Measurement Channel
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 Background
The use of MIMO and receiver diversity in the UE is expected to give large
gains in downlink throughput performance for HSPA and LTE devices. 3GPP
already defined conducted tests for MIMO and multiple antenna receivers (type
1 and type 3 in TS25.101 for HSPA demodulation), but it is clear that the
ability to duplicate these gains in the field is highly dependent on the
performance of the receive-antenna system.
At TSG RAN#41, it was indicated that there is a need for a test methodology to
be created with the aim of measuring and verifying the radiated performance of
multi-antenna and MIMO receiver in UEs for both HSPA and LTE devices. As an
outcome of the discussion, an LS was sent to COST 2100 SWG2.2 and CTIA ERP to
ask them for feedback on their plans/ongoing work in this area, and also the
timescales for which such work could be completed to define such a
methodology, with particular focus on handheld devices and devices embedded in
laptop computers.
Since then, feedback from COST 2100 and CTIA has suggested they are happy to
work on this topic. However given that 3GPP is the customer for this work as
well as being a potential contributor, it is important to aim for commonly-
accepted measurement and test methodology to be used across the industry.
## 4.2 Work item objective
The high level objective of this work item is to define a test methodology
(ies) for verifying the radiated performance of multiple antenna reception in
the UE and such methodology shall be able to:
> \- Verify the radiated "over-the-air" (OTA) performance of multiple antenna
> reception in the UE.
>
> \- Accurately able to reflect MIMO and SIMO performance under realistic MIMO
> and SIMO channel conditions. Be able to distinguish between UEs of "Good"
> and "Bad" multi-Rx antenna OTA performance, and offer a good reflection of
> the likely experience in the field.
>
> \- Offer good reliability, repeatability and an acceptable level of
> measurement uncertainty.
Such test methodology(ies) shall enable performance verification for:
> \- Handheld devices, devices embedded in laptop computers, and other devices
> (such as M2M equipment).
>
> \- All transmission modes of LTE and HSDPA, including spatial multiplexing
> (MIMO) and single spatial layer operation. However the transmission modes
> used in the test shall be defined as part of the work.
>
> \- Initially tests shall use of LTE Transmission Mode 3, Fixed Reference
> Channel, and forced Rank 2. As the work progresses, other transmission modes
> of LTE and HSPA shall be introduced.
>
> \- The utilization of Variable Reference Channels and other-cell
> interference shall also be studied at a later stage.
The following is required for the analysis phase of this work item:
> \- In order to compare results across the different methods, absolute
> throughput shall be used as the Figure of Merit.
>
> \- In order to analyse and accurately validate a method(s) the following
> work shall be performed:
>
> \- eNodeB settings shall be agreed.
>
> \- Realistic MIMO conditions and realistic channel models shall be
> identified to be used as a reference radio environment.
>
> \- The MIMO conditions and channel models shall be validated for the
> proposed test methods.
>
> \- Calibration of the power levels in the methodology shall be performed.
>
> \- The absolute throughput measured for each test method shall be compared
> with the absolute throughput measured in the reference radio environment, in
> order to identify the capability of each method to provide a measurement
> result that matches what is observed in realistic environments.
>
> \- In order to minimize the variables associated with testing of production
> UEs with unknown antenna characteristics, utilize reference antennas in
> combination with a known UE baseband receiver (verified via conducted RF
> tests with and without channel impairments). This is intended to verify
> whether the characteristics of the receive antenna design (i.e. correlation,
> gain imbalance, etc) affecting receiver performance can be accurately
> distinguished by proposed test methods.
In the event that more than one test methodology is agreed to be standardised,
differences between methodologies in the decision of what is a "good" or "bad"
device from the radiated receiver performance perspective shall be avoided.
When selecting the method(s) for specification for LTE MIMO, applicability to
LTE-SIMO UMTS-SIMO/MIMO shall be described.
During the course of this Work Item, maintain ongoing communication with COST
and CTIA MOSG to ensure industry coordination on this topic and to distribute
tasks according to expertise or resource availability.
TSG RAN should contact TSG GERAN to get feedback on the applicability of such
a test methodology for GERAN.
## 4.3 High Level Requirements
The following high level requirements are agreed by RAN4:
1\. Measurement of radiated performance for MIMO and multi-antenna reception
for HSPA and LTE terminals must be performed over-the-air, i.e. without RF
cable connections to the DUT.
> NOTE 1: DUTs to the test house will have accessibility to temporary antenna
> port for conducted purposes.
>
> NOTE 2: Temporary antenna port is used to assess to DUT receiver.
>
> NOTE 3: UE special function to measure antenna pattern is not desirable for
> MIMO OTA purposes.
2\. The MIMO OTA method(s) must be able to differentiate between a good
terminal and a bad terminal in terms of MIMO OTA performance.
3\. The desired primary Figure of Merit (FOM) is absolute throughput. This
will easily allow meaningful comparison of the ability of different methods to
evaluate MIMO OTA performance.
# 5 Performance Metrics
\
## 5.1 Figure of Merits
Absolute throughput performance will be used in order to be able to compare
the different proposed methodologies in their ability to distinguish good and
bad MIMO devices.
The performance metric applies to both HSPA and LTE system.
Other figure of merits and their applicability on the assessment of MIMO
performance is for further study.
### 5.1.1 Definition of MIMO Throughput
MIMO Throughput is defined here as the time-averaged number of correctly
received transport blocks in a communication system running an application,
where a Transport Block is defined in the reference measurement channel. From
OTA perspective, this is also called MIMO OTA throughput.
The MIMO OTA throughput is measured at the top of physical layer of HSPA and
LTE system. Therefore, this is also measured at the same point as in the
conductive measurement setup: under the use of FRC, the SS transmit fixed-size
payload bits to the DUT. The DUT signals back either ACK or NACK to the SS.
The SS then records the following:
 Number of ACKs,
 Number of NACKs, and
 Number of DTX TTIs
Hence the MIMO (OTA) throughput can be calculated as
where Transmitted TBS is the Transport Block Size transmitted by the SS, which
is fixed for a FRC during the measurement period. MeasurementTime is the total
composed of successful TTIs (ACK), unsuccessful TTIs (NACK) and DTX-TTIs.
The time-averaging is to be taken over a time period sufficiently long to
average out the variations due to the fading channel. Therefore, this is also
called the average MIMO OTA throughput. The throughput should be measured at a
time when eventual start-up transients in the system have evanesced.
### 5.1.2 Definition of SNR
# 6 Measurement Methodologies
## 6.1 Fixed Reference Measurement Channels (FRCs)
\
## 6.2 Void
## 6.3 Downlink Measurement Methodologies
The methodologies defined in this subclause are candidate methodologies being
studied for the purpose of defining procedures for conformance testing of over
the air performance.
### 6.3.1 Methodologies based on Anechoic RF Chamber
An OTA method based on the use of an Anechoic RF Chamber is described
consisting of a number of test antenna probes located in the chamber
transmitting signals with temporal and spatial characteristics for testing
multiple antenna devices.
This section describes the methodologies based on Anechoic RF Chamber, where a
number of test antennas are located in different positions of the chamber, and
the device under test (DUT) is located at center position. The DUT is tested
over the air without RF cables.
#### 6.3.1.1 Candidate Solution 1
An Anechoic Chamber technique is defined, consisting of a number of source
elements at one end or surrounding the DUT to create a realistic geometric
based spatio-temporal radio channel for testing MIMO performance. The latter
implementation is illustrated in Figure 6.3.1.1-1.
By utilizing specific geometries of the test probes in the chamber, a range of
possible channels are emulated. The exact number and positioning of the source
antenna probes will be fixed in a final design; however they may be optimized
for the best performance when the OTA channel models are defined. In other
words, depending on the types of channel models required and the range of
parameters needed for testing, the number of probes may be optimized to
produce the best performance with the fewest number of probes. For example,
based on the range of channels defined by the SCM, SCME, Winner I & II channel
models, the optimized number of probes may vary from 6 to 8 for a given
polarization. In general, the most flexible configurations require the higher
number of probes.
Azimuth spread is created by energizing sets of probes separated in azimuth
with signals that will combine over the air at a specific delay to emulate a
path or cluster. Elevation spread may be created by installing probes at
different elevations, however doing this tends to constrain their flexibility.
The components of the solution include:
  * Anechoic Chamber
  * System Simulator (SS)
  * N channel RF emulator, with OTA Channel Generation Features
  * N antenna elements configured with V, H or co-located V&H or slant X polarizations
  * K azimuthally separated antenna positions with predefined angles at radius R
  * Channel Model definition for each test case
{width="4.529166666666667in" height="3.2736111111111112in"}
Figure 6.3.1.1-1: N-Element Anechoic Chamber Approach (Absorbing tiles and
cabling not shown)
{width="5.238888888888889in" height="2.3847222222222224in"}
Figure 6.3.1.1-2: OTA System Level Block Diagram
A system level block diagram is shown in Figure 6.3.1.1-2, which includes the
SS to generate the M branch MIMO signal, and an RF Channel Emulator with an
OTA Channel Generation Feature to properly correlate, fade, scale, delay, and
distribute the signal to each test probe in the chamber.
For research purposes, a range of possible channel models and
parameterizations will be used to specify the most generic and versatile
antenna test probe configuration. For performance and conformance testing, the
channel model is expected to be limited in scope or simplified, which may
allow an optimized design to reduce the number of test probes required. Thus
the number of test probes will be selected to best meet the requirements of
the test so that the most efficient and economical design can be achieved.
##### 6.3.1.1.1 Concept and Configuration
##### 6.3.1.1.1.1 Emulating Spatial Channels
Spatial channel models, including SCM, SCME, Winner I & II, and ITU-A, were
developed from measured data, and attempt to preserve the measured behaviour
of the channel at the path (cluster) level, including spatial, temporal,
polarization, and delay characteristics. Reference [3] described a technique
for reproducing the spatial characteristics of a narrow angle spread signal
with a reduced number of antenna probes. This technique uses pre-faded signals
at each probe wherein the power-adjusted signals from the multiple probes,
i.e. typically 2-4 or more, are combined over the air to produce an accurate
narrow angle spread representation of the signal for each delay. This
technique is able to maintain its close match to an ideal narrow angle spread
signal even for severe antenna variations.
The spacing of the antenna probes in the chamber are constrained by the range
of angle spreads being emulated, and therefore the channel model is a key
determining factor in optimizing an OTA chamber design. For the angle spreads
defined by SCM, SCME, Winner I & II, and the ITU-A channel models, the optimum
number of probes may vary from 6 to 8 for a given polarization, depending on
the device type, and for large devices the number of probes may increase. In
general, the most flexible configurations will tend to require the higher
number of probes. Once the design of parameters of the system are decided, it
is expected that the number of probes will be fixed to a value that works for
all channel models and devices being simulated. Figure 6.3.1.1.1.1-1
illustrates some practical antenna probe configurations to support devices
such as handsets and laptops. The single cluster approach can be performed
using probes distributed over a portion of a circle or in a full ring-like
distribution.
{width="6.079861111111111in" height="1.836111111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.1.1.1.1-1: Some Practical Antenna Probe Configurations, (shown with
dual polarization)
The probe separation angle, φ used in the Chamber design, shown in Figure
6.3.1.1.1.1-1, will be defined in conjunction with the channel models as
described below. In general, the angles will not be exact even integer
fractions of pi, to avoid symmetries. i.e. exact symmetry will produce
convergence problems due to correlated Doppler, e.g. $\text{cos}(\alpha) = -
\text{cos}(\alpha + \pi)$.
##### 6.3.1.1.1.2 Joint Selection of a Channel Model and a Chamber Design
Since link modelling is usually associated with a single "drop" or single
"channel realization" from the channel model, a few specific channel
realizations will likely be specified and standardized for evaluation
purposes. From a testing standpoint, only a few channel realizations will be
measured in an OTA performance/conformance system, and it would be useful to
align the channel model clusters with the probe locations in an optimized
chamber design. However, there is enough flexibility inherent in these probe
configurations to emulate clusters from arbitrary angles if desired.
Specifically, since the chamber layout has probes at specific angles, and
since most spatial channel models draw channel AoAs randomly from specified
distributions, it is reasonable that specific AoAs are chosen to align with
the chamber layout for these few test channels.
For research purposes, a more generic OTA chamber design is possible, but
generally at the cost of having the maximum number of probes. Also, there is a
trade-off in modelling signals with arbitrary AoA while controlling the
signals Angle Spread at the same time. By selecting specific AoAs within a
valid channel realization, a more precise AS can be obtained. Thus performance
of the OTA design is closely tied to the channel modelling assumptions used,
and can be specified more completely when the channel model and it's
associated parameters are specified.
##### 6.3.1.1.2 Test Conditions
For performance and conformance testing purposes, only a small number of
channel realizations is practical due to the nature of the OTA measurements.
Based on this, it is reasonable to define a range of conditions for testing
that can be represented in 2-3 channel realizations. It is anticipated that
these channel realizations would represent a Low, Medium, and High correlation
cases, which generally align to the ability of the channel to support MIMO
operation.
These channels may also be used to optimize the design and layout of the
chamber to reduce the number of probes and achieve the most efficient and cost
effective design.
#### 6.3.1.2 Candidate Solution 2
The MIMO OTA test setup is composed of a number of OTA chamber antennas, a
multidimensional fading emulator, an anechoic chamber, communication tester /
BS emulator and a device under test (DUT). The following figure depicts an
example of the OTA concept. The purpose of the figure is not to restrict the
implementation, but rather to clarify the general idea of the MIMO OTA
concept. For simplicity, uplink cabling is not drawn here.
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="3.8430555555555554in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2-1: Example of MIMO/Multiantenna OTA test setup (Uplink signal
path omitted in the figure)
The DUT is located at center of the anechoic chamber. The idea of locating DUT
into center provides a possibility to create a radio channel environment where
the signal can arrive from various possible directions simultaneously to the
DUT. This is the key aspect of the wideband MIMO radio channel models
implemented today.
The proposed test setup is composed of a transmitter, a multidimensional radio
channel emulator, an anechoic chamber equipped with OTA antennas and a DUT
with multiple antennas. The crucial challenge is to generate realistic angular
and polarization behavior within the anechoic chamber. The family of geometry-
based stochastic channel models (GSCM) is well suitable for MIMO OTA testing.
The GSCM include 3GPP SCM, SCME, WINNER and IMT-Advanced channel models. This
angular and polarization behavior creates appropriate correlation at the DUT
antennas. The correlation is defined implicitly via the per-path angle of
arrival and real antennas. Correlation matrix based model is not suitable for
this, because it includes the antenna information in the model itself.
Geometry based channel modeling methodology models BS and UE antenna arrays
and the propagation between them (including angular power spectra). The
parameters that are included are Doppler, Angle of Arrival, Angle of
Departure, delay and polarization. The parameters are based mainly on
measurements. The measurements define certain statistics and radio channel
realizations are then created by these statistical properties.
The geometrical models are divided in to three parts:
1) BS antenna arrangement and the angular power spectrum as well as the AoD
from the BS are modeled in the channel emulator.
2) AoA is created by dividing the appropriate clusters based on their original
AoA to corresponding OTA antennas. The user terminal is not physically in a
motion, thus the fading and Doppler spectrum are built in the channel model.
3) The angular power spectrum at DUT is created by radiating the signal from
multiple OTA antennas.
UE (DUT) antenna characteristics are assumed unknown. In other words we do not
use this information in the OTA modeling.
##### 6.3.1.2.1 Concept and Configuration
The idea of the MIMO OTA modelling is that the geometric channel models are
mapped into the fading emulator. The mapping process covers all the required
mathematics when converting the traditional geometric channel model to fading
emulator tap coefficients as well as the calibration. The modeling process is
shown in Figure 6.3.1.2.1-1.
{width="4.249305555555556in" height="2.6347222222222224in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2.1-1: Modelling process
The setup of OTA chamber antennas with eight antenna elements is depicted in
Figure 6.3.1.2.1-2. DUT is at center and the antennas are on a circle around
DUT with uniform spacing (e.g. 45° with 8 elements). Let us denote directions
of _K_ OTA antennas with _θ~k~_ , _k_ = 1, ..., _K_ , and antenna spacing in
the angle domain with _∆θ_. Each antenna is connected to a single fading
emulator output port. If single antenna BS is considered the fading emulator
configuration is 1x8 SIMO, with two BS antennas 2x8 MIMO etc. If dual
polarized OTA antennas are used like in Figure 6.3.1.2.1-3 the fading emulator
configuration will be with 1 BS antenna 1x16 SIMO, with two BS antennas 2x16
MIMO etc. In the figure for example antenna A~1V~ denotes the first OTA
antenna position and vertically (V) polarized element, A~8H~ denotes the eight
OTA antenna position and horizontally (H) polarized element, etc.
{width="2.7493055555555554in" height="2.738888888888889in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2.1-2: OTA chamber antenna setup with eight uniformly spaced
chamber antennas
{width="3.707638888888889in" height="3.4472222222222224in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2.1-3: OTA chamber antenna setup with eight uniformly spaced dual
polarized chamber antennas. In the drawing the V-polarized elements are
actually orthogonal to the paper (azimuth plane)
##### 6.3.1.2.1A Scalability of the methodology
The number of antennas is scalable. In theory, there is no upper limit and the
lower limit is one. The required number of channels depends on three main
aspects: channel model, DUT size, and polarization. The key question is how
accurately the channel model is emulated. Based on the quiet zone discussion,
it was proposed to use 8 antennas in the case of single polarization and 16
antennas in the case of dual polarization. However, for single cluster case,
less antennas may be enough. On the other hand, if elevation is needed, the
antenna number will be higher. Additionally, the antenna positions can be
adjusted to optimize the accuracy with limited number of antennas.
Other aspect is the channel model. Most of the geometry-based stochastic
channel models (GSCMs) are two-dimensional, i.e. azimuth plane only, but the
proposed MIMO OTA concept is not limited into azimuth plane. It can also be
extended to elevation plane, when we talk about 3D MIMO OTA. However, the 3D
MIMO OTA is rather complex and it does not provide very much additional
information about the DUT. Therefore, 3D MIMO OTA can be considered as one
future development, but it is not the recommended solution in the beginning of
MIMO OTA testing.
Downscaling of the proposed method is more attractive due to the possibility
to save the cost of the test system. Full SCME requires at least 8 probe
antennas, but single cluster SCME can be implemented with lower number of
antennas. The difference between full SCME and Single Cluster model is
depicted in Figure 6.3.1.2.1A-1. Basically the only difference is that the
mean Angle-of-Arrival (AoA) of each cluster is turned to the same direction.
Obviously, one AoA requires lower number of antennas than multiple AoAs
especially when angular spread is narrow, e.g., 35 degrees. The number of
fading channels is the same as the number of antennas. Therefore, single
cluster SCME would require less fading channels as well.
* * *
{width="3.3243055555555556in" height="3.4541666666666666in"}
{width="3.09375in" height="1.011111111111111in"} a) Full SCME b) Single
Cluster
* * *
Figure 6.3.1.2.1A-1: Full SCME vs. Single Cluster model.
##### 6.3.1.2.2 Test Conditions
This candidate solution supports testing of different figure of merits. It is
also applicable for any 3GPP Release, and even for other standards. It
supports different channel models from SCM to IMT-Advanced. Due to its
generality, it does not restrict the test conditions. However, for simplicity,
it is good to start from downlink throughput testing.
The downlink throughput testing can be done e.g. in following manner.
BS transmits signal through a radio channel emulator. This signal is routed to
several antennas in anechoic chamber. The DUT is placed at center of the
chamber and the performance is measured from the DUT.
  * OTA antennas are located along a circle around the DUT.
  * The circular geometry is needed because we need signal from many directions at the same time (requirement from the channel models)
The test steps can be, e.g., according to [3] or as follows:
1) Calibrate the full system with a test signal.
2) Set the first test case (e.g. channel model) to the fading emulator.
3) Generate test signal by the communication tester / BS emulator.
4) Measure the DUT performance (downlink throughput).
5) If the performance exceeds the specified limit, the DUT passes the test
case.
6) If all test cases done, go to step 7. Otherwise, set the next test case
(e.g. channel model) to the fading emulator and go back to step 3.
7) If DUT passed all the test cases, the DUT passes the full MIMO OTA test.
8) If DUT failed in at least one test case, the DUT failed the full MIMO OTA
test.
#### 6.3.1.3 Candidate Solution 3
The principle of two-stage MIMO OTA method is based on the assumption that the
far-field antenna radiation pattern will contain all the necessary information
for evaluation the antenna's performance like radiation power, efficiency and
correlation and that with channel model approaches, the influence of antenna
radiation pattern can be correctly incorporated into the channel model. Thus
the method will first measure the MIMO antenna patterns and then incorporate
the measurement antenna patterns with chosen MIMO OTA channel models for real-
time emulation. In order to accurately measure the antenna pattern of the
intact device, the chipset needs to support amplitude and relative phase
measurements of the antennas. If the EUT has dynamic antenna tuning elements,
detailed information on the implementation is required to understand the
consequences for the pattern measurement. The BTS and DUT can then be
connected to the real-time channel emulator through the standard temporary
antenna connectors to do the test on throughput, etc., to test how the MIMO
antennas will influence the performance.
It should be noted that should this methodology be chosen for conformance
testing, the method for antenna gain and phase measurement would require to be
standardized. The details for proposed antenna gain and phase measurements are
FFS. Further details will be provided before the RAN4 evaluation of this
methodology can progress.
##### 6.3.1.3.1 Concept and Configuration
The assumption of the two-stage MIMO OTA method is that the measured far field
antenna pattern of the multiple antennas can fully capture the mutual coupling
of the multiple antenna arrays and their influence. Thus to do the two-stage
MIMO OTA test, the antenna patterns of the antenna array needs to be measured
accurately in the first stage. In order to accurately measure the antenna
pattern of the intact device, the chipset needs to support amplitude and
relative phase measurements of the antennas.
Stage 1: Test multiple antennas system in a traditional anechoic chamber. The
chamber for antenna pattern measurement is set up as described in Annex A.2 in
[4], where the DUT is put into a chamber and each antenna element's far zone
pattern is measured. Section B.4.3 gives description on how to measure each
antenna element's pattern using non-intrusive method. The influence of human
body loss can be measured by attaching the DUT to a SAM head and or hand when
doing the antenna pattern measurements. The DUT is placed against a SAM
phantom, and the characteristics of the SAM phantom are specified in Annex A.1
of [4]. The chamber is equipped with a positioner, which makes it possible to
perform full 3-D far zone pattern measurements for both Tx and Rx radiated
performance. The measurement antenna should be able to measure two orthogonal
polarizations (typically linear theta (θ) and phi (φ) polarizations as shown
in Figure 6.3.1.3.1-1).
{width="3.301388888888889in" height="3.5215277777777776in"}
Figure 6.3.1.3.1-1: The coordinate system used in the measurements
Stage 2: Combine the antenna patterns measured in stage 1 into MIMO channel
model, emulate the MIMO channel model with the measured antenna patterns
incorporated in the commercial channel emulator and perform the OTA test in
conducted approach.
The MIMO OTA method based on the above mentioned two-stage method is
illustrated in Figure 6.3.1.3.1-2. The integrated channel model with both MIMO
antenna effect and the multipath channel effect can be emulated with a
commercial MIMO channel emulator. The BS emulator is connected to the MIMO
channel emulator and then to the MIMO device's temporary antenna ports via
approved RF cables. These ports are the standard ones provided for conducted
conformance tests. By controlling the power settings of the channel emulator
and also the integrated channel model, the end-to-end throughput with the MIMO
antenna radiation influence can be measured.
There are two different approaches to combine the antenna patterns with MIMO
channel model.
a) Apply antenna patterns to Ray-based channel models. Ray-based models are
capable to support arbitrary antenna patterns under predefined channel modes
in a natural way as described above. If Ray-based model like SCM model is
specified to be used for MIMO OTA test, then the channel emulator needs to be
able to support SCM channel model emulation and support loading measured
antenna patterns.
b) Apply antenna patterns to correlation-based channel models. MIMO channel
model. With a correlation matrix calculation method for arbitrary antenna
patterns under multipath channel conditions, the correlation matrix and the
antenna imbalance can be calculated and then emulated by the channel emulator.
c) This method can be used to measure the following figure of merit:
1) Throughput
2) TRP and TRS
3) CQI, BLER
4) Antenna efficiency and MEG
5) Antenna correlation, MIMO channel capacity.
> The coupling between the UE antenna and internal spurious emission of the UE
> might be characterized during the antenna pattern measurement stage inside
> the chamber by lowering down the signal power and is for further research.
>
> {width="2.907638888888889in" height="2.00625in"}
Figure 6.3.1.3.1-2: Proposed two-stage test methodology for MIMO OTA test
##### 6.3.1.3.2 Test Conditions
This candidate solution supports testing of different figure of merits. It is
also applicable for any 3GPP Release, and even for other standards.
This method can reuse existing SISO OTA anechoic chambers to make the antenna
pattern measurements; the channel emulator number is required to match the
number of device receiver inputs regardless of the complexity of the chosen
channel model, the method is consequently easily scalable to higher order MIMO
due to the reduced number of instruments required; the channel models are
highly accurate due to being implemented electronically and are also fully
flexible and can be altered to suit any desired operating conditions such as
indoor-outdoor, high or low Doppler spread, high or low delay spread, beam
width, in 2D or full 3D etc.
This method requires the chipset in DUT to support amplitude and relative
phase measurements of the antennas, and it cannot directly measure self-
desensitization since the antenna pattern measurement does not take account of
possible signal leakage from the device transmit antennas into the receive
antennas.
The detailed test procedure can be found in Annex B.
#### 6.3.1.4 Candidate Solution 4
In this method an assessment of the antenna's performance in MIMO or Diversity
operation is performed. Several simplifications are used in order to optimise
the testing.
A test of the UE in an anechoic environment with the help of a base station
emulator is proposed, with a limited number of faded channels and transmitting
antennas, and in a simple geometrical set-up.
The underlying principle is to decompose the task for evaluating MIMO
performance. Since in the conformance test many properties of the DUT are
already tested in a conducted environment, the OTA test only has to add
information not achievable by a cabled set-up.
For that reason it then is sufficient to define some abstract channel
environment during the test which does not need to be very close to reality.
Abstraction on the environment makes it easier to interpret the obtained
results.
The channel information available in the UE can be used to deliver a quick
answer to the test system about the current receive quality. Such a
measurement is much faster than the evaluation of a throughput figure, but it
is nevertheless closely related to it. If necessary, an explicit scaling from
one quantity onto the other one can be made.
##### 6.3.1.4.1 Concept and Configuration
_The_ test set-up uses an anechoic chamber. In case of an RX diversity
measurement the signal from the base station emulator is routed via a two-
channel fading to two antennas in the chamber. For an RX MIMO measurement, the
two signals from the base station emulator can undergo a 2x2 channel fading
simulation before reaching the antennas in the chamber, or can be routed
directly to the probe antennas with some chosen polarization.
Figure 6.3.1.4.1-1 is a sketch of the chamber set-up. For obtaining various
angles of arrival (AoA) at the EUT, two antennas A1 and A2 can be rotated in a
vertical plane and can be put to angles θ1 and θ2. The UE is placed on a
turntable rotating around the vertical axis by some angle φ. In addition, the
UE may be tilted by some additional rotation around the horizontal axis, not
shown in the figure. By this arrangement the two antennas A1 and A2 can send
the signals from the base station emulator to any position on the unit sphere
around the UE, thus creating arbirtrary AoA.
As an alternative to moving the antennas by mechanically rotating them it is
possible to arrange the antennas in a horizontal plane and to move one antenna
with respect to the other in order to vary the angle difference between the
two. In that case the positioner rotating the UE will be designed in a more
complex way.
Typically, the antennas are dual-polarised ones. In the usual configuration
each antenna is sending its signal in one polarization only. Tests are made
for the various combinations of antenna polarizations in order to generate
either co-polarized or cross-polarized signals. As a special case it is also
possible to test with one antenna where each polarization is transmitting one
MIMO data stream. This will lead to identical AoAs for the two data streams.
If one wants to extend this method to 3D AoA, a third antenna outside the
plane can be used.
The figure does not show an additional antenna used for the uplink
communication. This antenna may be placed in the vicinity of the UE, for
example in the φ positioner. It is common practise to use circularly polarized
antennas for this purpose, and to use a limiting amplifier in the path towards
the BSE in order to get a good and constant UL level.
{width="2.504861111111111in" height="2.7055555555555557in"}
Figure 6.3.1.4.1-1: 2 Channel Method, antenna arrangement in anechoic chamber
A test point is described by:
1) Signal from BSE, e.g. frequency, MCS, data rate, MIMO mode, ...
2) Fading characteristics (if applicable) and antenna polarisations
3) Antenna positions
4) UE position elevation, azimuth
The detailed settings for the various parameters describing a test point are
for further study.
The measurement then uses the quantities CQI, RI and PMI for a quick
evaluation of the channel characteristics for each given test point. More
precisely, the DL power will be changed until a change in the returned channel
information is observed.
In case the required figure of merit is some other quantity such as
throughput, some mapping from the channel information onto the figure of merit
can be made. This mapping of course depends on the signal settings on the BSE
and possibly on other parameters. The mapping can be derived in a series of
measurements where changes to the channel parameters lead to different channel
information values and to different corresponding values of the figure of
merit. It is also possible but more time-consuming to measure the figure of
merit for each test point.
The OTA performance can better be described by taking statistical evaluations
into account. If, for example, for each test point a relative throughput value
is obtained as function of subcarrier power, one can plot the results for
different points in a histogram and to obtain some CCDF indicating the
conditions for getting at least a given TP value.
#### 6.3.1.5 Candidate Solution 5
The RF-controlled spatial fading emulator can directly reproduce a multipath
radio propagation environment by radio waves emitted from antenna-probe units
arranged around a handset tested. Moreover, the emulator has an advantage of
measuring radiation characteristics of a handset antenna for the present OTA
testing in 3GPP as well as the multipath testing because of its RF operation
[6].
##### 6.3.1.5.1 Concept and Configuration
The RF-controlled spatial fading emulator can directly reproduce multipath
radio propagation environments both in line-of-sight (LOS) and non line-of-
sight (NLOS) situations by radio waves emitted from antenna probes arranged
around a DUT. Thus, the emulator can be easily used for measurement of the
MIMO characteristics of a HSPA/LTE multiple antenna device in a multipath
fading environment.
Figure 6.3.1.5.1-1 (a) and (b) show the configuration and arrangement of the
antenna probes of the RF spatial fading emulator in an anechoic chamber. In
this method, the DUT is designated as any device that possesses multiple
antennas, including a HSPA or LTE device.
The height of DUT from the floor of the anechoic chamber is **_H_**. The DUT
can also be placed at a rotatable turn-table in order to set and vary the
horizontal angle of the DUT. The DUT is surrounded by **_N_** numbers of
antenna probes. The distance between DUT and each antenna probe is **_r_**.
The antenna probe consists of two antennas. The one is a half-wavelength
dipole set vertically for emitting the vertically-polarized wave and the other
is a horizontally-located half-wavelength dipole for the horizontally-
polarized wave. This configuration of the antenna-probe unit can represent a
cross polarization power ratio, XPR, of incoming wave. The separation between
vertical and horizontal antennas is **_d_**. The height of the antenna probe
from the anechoic chamber floor is **_h_**. The distance between the ring of
antenna probes and the walls of anechoic chamber is **_D_**. (Note if the
anechoic chamber is not square, then **_D~1~_** and **_D~2~_** are used).
A reference antenna probe is designated so that it can be used to determine
the direction of motion of DUT. This parameter is designated as
$\varphi_{\text{shift}}$. The circular angle between antenna probes from the
centre of the ring (i.e. DUT) is $\varphi_{i}$ with respect to the reference
antenna probe.
{width="4.638888888888889in" height="3.6659722222222224in"}
(a) Experimental Setup
{width="2.6979166666666665in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
(b) Arrangement of the antenna probes
Figure 6.3.1.5.1-1: Experimental setup of the spatial fading emulator
The key features of this method are that it does not use the sophisticated
commercial channel emulator. By using the combination of phase shifters, power
dividers and attenuators, operating in the RF band, it has been shown that a
realistic fading channel environment can be emulated. To reduce the influence
from the measurement equipment, the receiver, phase shifter, power divider,
transmitter and computer are set outside of the anechoic chamber. Firstly, we
describe channel response between the _m_ ^th^ base station, BS, antenna and
the _n_ ^th^ handset antenna for _M_ -by-_N_ MIMO radio communication system.
The channel response is calculated by following equation:
$h_{\text{nm}} = \sum_{i = 1}^{N}{E_{n}\left( \varphi_{i}
\right)\sqrt{\Omega\left( \varphi_{i} \right)}}\frac{\lambda}{4\pi \cdot
r}\text{exp}\left\lbrack - j\left{ \text{kr} + 2\pi \cdot t \cdot
f_{D}\text{cos}(\varphi_{0} - \varphi_{i}) + \alpha_{\text{mi}} \right}
\right\rbrack$ (1)
where _E~n~_ and _f~D~_ are radiation component of the _n_ -th handset antenna
and the Doppler frequency respectively. _φ~0~_ is the direction of motion and
_φ_ ~i~ is the direction of the _i_ -th antenna probe. _α~mi~_ is initial
phase of the signal radiated from the _i_ -th antenna probe. The waves
radiated from each base station (BS) antenna are uncorrelated each other. For
the investigation of MIMO antennas, the waves from different BS antenna are
represented by different sets of initial phases, _α~mi~_ , of the waves.
According to the propagation models, such as SCM and SCME, the angular power
spectrum _Ω_ of the spatial cluster of incoming waves in the horizontal plane
can be modelled by a Laplacian distribution in the following, for instance:
$\Omega\left( \varphi \right) = \frac{P}{2\sigma}\text{exp}\left{ -
\frac{\left| \varphi - \mu_{\varphi} \right|}{\sigma} \right}$ (2)
where _P_ and _μ~φ~_ are power and average direction of angle of the cluster.
_σ_ is a standard deviation of the APS. In this case, the spatial distribution
in the vertical plane is modelled by a delta function.
In addition, the strongest point of the spatial fading emulator is to be
capable of evaluating radiation characteristics of a handset antenna for the
present OTA testing in 3GPP as well as the multipath-fading evaluation since
the emulator is operated in a radio frequency (RF) band.
A calibration of the RF-controlled spatial fading emulator is carried out
using the following procedure:
1) Firstly a half-wavelength dipole for the receiving antenna is vertically
placed at the center of a circle arranging the antenna probes.
2) A radio wave with vertical polarization is radiated only from a vertical
dipole of the antenna probe #i (i=1, 2, ..., L), and then, the dipole at the
center of the emulator can receive the wave. From this, we can obtain
amplitude and phase of the RF signal from the transmitter to the receiver via
the vertical dipole of the antenna probe #i.
3) The attenuator and phase shifter are adjusted so that the RF signals
received by the dipole at the center have the same values in amplitude and
phase.
4) Secondly the slotted cylindrical antenna is placed at the center of the
antenna probes located on the circle.
5) A radio wave with horizontal polarization is radiated only from a
horizontally-located dipole of the antenna probe #i (i=1, 2, ..., L). From the
received signal from the antenna probe #i, we also obtain amplitude and phase
of the RF signal from the transmitter to the receiver via the horizontal
dipole of the antenna probe #i.
6) The attenuator and phase shifter are adjusted so that the RF signals
received by the slotted cylindrical antenna at the center have the same values
in amplitude and phase.
The calibration procedure above mentioned can be performed by using an
electrical-controlled RF switch. Thus, the calibration of the emulator can be
done automatically using a computer in our system. Once the calibration is
finished, we can vary the attenuators in order to produce a special
distribution of the incoming wave and to make a cross polarization power ratio
(XPR). Moreover, we can set an initial phase to each antenna probe to create a
multipath fading channel.
With regard to the signal-to-noise power ratio, SNR, of incoming wave, the
signal power can be determined by an average value of faded signal powers
received by a half-wavelength dipole antenna for the vertical polarization and
a slotted cylindrical antenna for the horizontal polarization. Both antennas
have an omni-directional radiation pattern. Thus, SNR can be obtained as the
following equation:
$\text{SNR} = \frac{S_{V} + S_{H}}{N_{0}}$ (3)
where _S~V~_ and _S~H~_ are the average signal powers received by the dipole
and slotted cylindrical antennas, respectively. _N~0~_ is the noise power that
was calculated as a thermal noise within the frequency bandwidth of the radio
communication.
##### 6.3.1.5.2 Test Conditions
In this method, all signals are operated and controlled at RF level. A
computer (either a laptop or relatively powerful computer) is used to provide
the followings:
1) Graphical user interface (GUI) to set the input parameters, determine the
measured parameters to be collected, setting of calibration parameters and
setting of DUT parameters.
2) Generating control signals to manipulate the phase angle of each Phase
Shifter.
3) Collecting measured raw data obtained via the DUT.
4) Post-processing the measured raw data to derive the desired figure of
merits (i.e. minimum requirements for DUT).
5) To initiate the BS emulator and start the testing session (by establishing
a communication session with DUT)
The RF signals transmitted from the BS emulator's antenna connector are fed to
a bank of Power Dividers. Each power divider provides identical RF signal from
each of the output ports. The number of Power Dividers required is determined
by **_N_**.
Each Power Divider output is then fed to a Phase Shifter. The Phase Shifter is
used to change the phase of the RF signal according to the parameter setting
input to the computer earlier. Note that the control signal from the computer
is digital-to-analogue, D/A, converted, before used to control the Phase
Shifter. By controlling the phase of each RF signal, a Rayleigh distributed or
other relevant multipath distribution can be obtained. The number of Phase
Shifters required is determined by **_N_**.
The output of the Phase Shifters is connected to the antenna probes. The
signal from each Phase Shifter is fed to the vertical and horizontal antennas
and radiates toward the DUT. The DUT then measures the signals from each
antenna probe and the measurement data is reported back to the computer. The
amount of measurement data to be collected can be controlled by the computer
by setting the sampling rate, **_R_**.
An example below illustrated the principle of creating Rayleigh faded signal
by control the phase of each component wave in Figure 6.3.1.5.2-1.
Number of antenna probes _N_ : 15
Direction of motion _φ_ ~0 ~: 10 deg.
Doppler frequency _f_ ~D~ : 20 Hz
Sampling frequency _f_ ~S~ : 400 Hz
Radius of circle arranging antenna probes r : 1.0 m
Operating frequency : 2.14 GHz
Receiving antenna (Rx) : half-wavelength Dipole
Radiation pattern of Rx _E~n~_(φ) : omni
APS, Ω(φ) :Uniform
{width="4.375in" height="3.0756944444444443in"}
Figure 6.3.1.5.2-1: Rayleigh faded signal by control the phase of each
component wave
#### 6.3.1.Y Downlink Transmission Modes
\
### 6.3.2 Methodologies based on Reverberation Chamber
#### 6.3.2.1 Candidate Solution 1
The reverberation chambers is a metallic cavity or cavities that can emulate
an isotropic multi-path environment which represents a reference environment
for systems designed to work during fading, similar to how the free space
"anechoic" reference environment is used for tests of Line-Of-Sight systems.
The Rayleigh environment in a reverberation chamber is well known as a good
reference for urban and indoor environments, but does not well represent rural
and suburban environments.
For a future Multi-antenna OTA measurement standard it is important to have a
fast and repeatable test method to evaluate and compare multi-antenna devices
in the environments and under the conditions where most people will use them.
The overwhelming majority of calls/data connections with mobile phones are
made indoors and in urban areas which can be very well represented by the
reverberation chamber. These environments are well characterised by multi-path
and 3D distribution of the communication signals and it makes sense to use the
reverberation chamber for optimizing/evaluating devices with both single and
multiple antenna configurations to be used indoors and in urban areas.
The test setup for testing UE receiver diversity performance is composed of a
base station emulator, a reverberation chamber equipped with fixed BS wall-
mounted antennas, a switch to direct the base station signal to/from one of
the BS wall mounted antennas, mechanical metallic stirrers and a rotating
platform to hold the DUT (Figure 6.3.2.1-1). Alternatively, the chamber may
contain one or more cavities coupled through waveguides or slotted plates
(Figure 7.1-2).
Reverberation chambers have no quiet zone. As long as the DUT is placed at
least 0.5 wavelengths from the wall or metallic stirrers the result will be
the same within the standard deviation of the chamber.
Mechanical stirrers and switching among different fixed BS wall-mounted
antennas (monopoles used for polarization stirring) allow simulating the
Rayleigh fading at each antenna of the terminal inside the chamber. Accuracy
can even been increased by rotating the platform holding the device.
Each position of the mechanical stirrers for each position of the platform and
each fixed BS antenna, represents a point of the Rayleigh distribution in
terms of receive power on the device antennas. In that way a Rayleigh fading
is artificially created.
In that way, several UE metrics can be measured: throughput with RX-DIV, TRP,
TIS (Total isotropic sensitivity), etc.
For each point of the Rayleigh distribution created by the different
configurations of the chamber, the metric is noted. This method can be used to
measure UE sensitivity and UE radiated power.
{width="3.810416666666667in" height="2.8201388888888888in"}
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: Reverberation chamber setup for devices testing with Single
Cavity [source: Bluetest AB] {width="7.540277777777778in"
height="2.2243055555555555in"}
Figure 6.3.2.1-2 Reverberation Chambers with Multiple Cavities [source: EMITE
Ing]
##### 6.3.2.1.1 Concept and Configuration
In order to calibrate the reverberation chamber a broadband antenna can be
used to measure the losses in the chamber with a network analyzer. This takes
\ NOTE 1: If the delay spread is reduced to below this point, the chamber's
> ability to produce the desired Rayleigh amplitude distribution at the DUT is
> degraded.
2) Calibration of the losses from (e)NodeB emulator to DUT location. This is
already described in the test methodology for the reverberation chamber alone
(subclause 6.3.2.1).
The calibrations are performed in this order, using a test antenna as the DUT
antenna, and with the DUT in the chamber as it will be during the test. The
contents of the chamber should not be disturbed after the calibration is
complete. More information about the calibration procedures are found in a
later section.
{width="5.245833333333334in" height="2.7152777777777777in"}
Figure 6.3.2.2.1-1: Test bench configuration for test using channel emulator
and reverberation chamber for a 2x2 MIMO configuration
##### 6.3.2.2.2 Test Conditions
After the chamber is calibrated, the emulator is configured for the desired
channel model, including the end-to-end PDP, the desired fading spectrum and
Doppler spread, and the MIMO fading correlation. At this point, the system is
ready to test the DUT, and a procedure appropriate to the FOM being measured
is carried out.
There are two basic operating methods, dependent on the motion of the stirrers
and the state of the fading in the channel emulator, the "dynamic" and the
"move-and-stop" methods.
In the dynamic method, the stirrers, turntable and channel emulator to operate
continuously while the specific FOM is measured. A good example of this use
would be throughput measurements under the conditions of a high Doppler rate,
or, measured while the signal levels are varied over a wide range.
In the move-and-stop method, the stirrers and turntable are positioned in a
number of combinations as described in 6.3.2.1.2. The channel emulator is
allowed to run for a fixed length of time (usually 1 or 2 seconds is enough)
and paused. The FOM is measured while the stirrers and turntable are not in
motion, and the channel emulator is paused. In this method, the number of
fixed positions and emulator states must be at least enough to guarantee the
proper amplitude distribution. Automation of this entire procedure will
significantly reduce the test time.
#### 6.3.2.Y Downlink Transmission Modes
\
# 7 Base Station Configuration
## 7.1 eNodeB Emulator Parameter Settings
The eNodeB emulator parameters are set according to the Table 7.1-1. Testing
with 64QAM is considered to be done optionally. The settings for DL stream 1
and stream 2 are the same.
Table 7.1-1: Parameter settings for eNodeB emulator
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameters | Unit | Value | | | (Note 1) | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Signal level | | | | | (Note 2) | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameters | Unit | middle | high | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Physical | | | | | channel | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Connection | | Connection | | | mode of UE | | established | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | DL MIMO mode | | 2 x 2 open | | | | | loop spatial | | | | | multiplexing | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Duplex mode | | FDD | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Operating | | [band 7] | | | band\ | | (21100, 3100)\ | | | (UL channel,\ | | [band 20] | | | DL channel) | | (24300, 6300) | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Schedule tyoe | | Reference | | | | | Measurement | | | | | Channel (RMC) | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | | R.11 (Note 3) | R.35 (Note 3) | | Channel | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Bandwidth DL | MHz | 10 | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of RBs | | 50 | | | DL | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Start RB DL | | 0 | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation DL | | 16QAM | 64QAM | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | TBS Idx DL | | 13 (RMC | 24 (RMC | | | | defined) | defined) | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Bandwidth UL | MHz | 10 | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of RBs | | 50 | | | UL | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Start RB UL | | 0 | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation UL | | QPSK | 16QAM | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | TBS Idx UL | | 6 (RMC | 19 (RMC | | | | defined) | defined) | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmit power | dBm | -10/10 MHz, | | | control | | open loop | | | | | (Note 4) | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | PDSCH power | dB | ρ~A~ = -3\ | | | offset | | ρ~B~ = -3 | | | relative to RS | | | | | EPRE | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of HARQ | | 1 (no HARQ | | | transmissions | | re- | | | | | transmissions) | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | AWGN | | OFF | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | DL power | dBm / 15 kHz | Set at eNodeB | | | level\ | | simulator\ | | | (RS EPRE) | | with | | | | | correction | | | | | from | | | | | calibration | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | | 2000 minimum | | | subframes for | | for static | | | FOM | | channel | | | measurement | | | | | | | 20000 minimum | | | | | for faded | | | | | channel\ | | | | | (Note 5) | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
Note 1: This set of parameters is aligned with R&S CMW500, Anritsu MTC8820C,
AT4 S3110B, and Agilent E6621A (to be confirmed).
Note 2: The indications for the signal level to be middle or high are
describing the channel conditions under which either a 16QAM or a 64QAM
modulation, as selected for the test, usually would be applied.
Note 3: This RMC is defined in 3GPP TS 36.521-1, Table A.3.3.2.1-1.
Note 4: No uplink power control.
Note 5: These values might need to be increased for frequency and mobile speed
reasons.
## 7.2 Antenna Array Configuration
\
The emulated base station antennas shall be assumed to be dual polarized equal
power elements that are uncorrelated with a fixed 0λ separation, 45 degrees
slanted.
The slant 45 degree antenna is an "X" configuration and is modelled as an
ideal dipole with isotropic gain and subject to a foreshortening of the
slanted radiating element, which is observed to vary as a function of the path
angle of departure. This foreshortening with AoD is a typical slanted dipole
behaviour and is a source of power variation in the channel model. The
effective antenna pattern for this antenna is illustrated in Figure 7.2-1.
{width="2.9569444444444444in"
height="2.3180555555555555in"}{width="2.9854166666666666in"
height="2.3048611111111112in"}
**Figure 7.2-1, X antenna gain assumption (a) Linear gain (b) dB gain**
# 8 Channel Models
## 8.1 Introduction
In order to understand how different methodologies are able to similarly
distinguish good and bad MIMO devices, it is important to ensure that the
radio propagation conditions that are implying to a particular DUT are the
same or similar to a certain extent.
The different channel models are used as a simple way to create complex
multipath radio propagation conditions and RAN4 has agreed to compare the
realization of those channel models across the different methods.
## 8.2 Channel Model(s) to be Validated
\
The following channel models are to be used in evaluation of MIMO OTA
methodologies.
The generic models are
• SCME Urban micro-cell, and
• SCME Urban macro-cell.
In the following we define the cross polarization power ratio a propagation
channel as $\text{XPR} = \text{XPR}_{V} = \text{XPR}_{H}$, where
$\text{XPR}_{V} = \frac{S_{\text{VV}}}{S_{\text{HV}}}$ and $\text{XPR}_{H} =
\frac{S_{\text{HH}}}{S_{\text{VH}}}$
and
• S~VV~ is the coefficient for scattered/reflected power on V-polarization and
incident power on V-polarization
• S~VH~ is the coefficient for scattered/reflected power on V-polarization and
incident power on H-polarization
• S~HV~ is the coefficient for scattered/reflected power on H-polarization and
incident power on V-polarization
• S~HH~ is the coefficient for scattered/reflected power on H-polarization and
incident power on H-polarization
Note: for Vertical only measurements, the powers per delay are used without
regard to the specified XPR values.
The following SCME Urban Micro-cell is unchanged from the original SCME paper,
with added XPR values, Direction of Travel, and Velocity.
Table 8.2-1: SCME urban micro-cell channel model
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | SCME | | | | | | | | | | Urban | | | | | | | | | | micro | | | | | | | | | | -cell | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | Cl | Delay | Power | AoD | AoA | | | | | | uster | \ | \ | [°] | [°] | | | | | | # | [ns] | [dB] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | 1 | 0 | 5 | 10 | -3.0 | -5.2 | -7.0 | 6.6 | 0.7 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | 2 | 285 | 290 | 295 | -4.3 | -6.5 | -8.3 | 14.1 | -13.2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | 3 | 205 | 210 | 215 | -5.7 | -7.9 | -9.7 | 50.8 | 146.1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | 4 | 660 | 665 | 670 | -7.3 | -9.5 | -11.3 | 38.4 | -30.5 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | 5 | 805 | 810 | 815 | -9.0 | -11.2 | -13.0 | 6.7 | -11.4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | 6 | 925 | 930 | 935 | -11.4 | -13.6 | -15.4 | 40.3 | -1.1 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | Delay | 294 | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [ns] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | Cl | 5 / | | | | | | | | | uster | 35 | | | | | | | | | AS | | | | | | | | | | AoD / | | | | | | | | | | AS | | | | | | | | | | AoA | | | | | | | | | | [°] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | Cl | Lapl | | | | | | | | | uster | acian | | | | | | | | | PAS | | | | | | | | | | shape | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | Total | 18.2 | | | | | | | | | AS | / | | | | | | | | | AoD / | 67.8 | | | | | | | | | AS | | | | | | | | | | AoA | | | | | | | | | | [°] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | M | 3, 30 | | | | | | | | | obile | / 120 | | | | | | | | | speed | | | | | | | | | | [k | | | | | | | | | | m/h] | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Dire | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ravel | | | | | | | | | | [°] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | XPR | 9 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: | | | | | | | | | | V & H | | | | | | | | | | compo | | | | | | | | | | nents | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | | ant | | | | | | | | | | ennas | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | Mid- | AoD, | | | | | | | | | paths | AoA, | | | | | | | | | Share | AS, | | | | | | | | | Cl | XPR | | | | | | | | | uster | | | | | | | | | | para | | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | for: | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
The following SCME Urban Macro-cell is unchanged from the original SCME paper,
with added XPR values, Direction of Travel, and Velocity.
Table 8.2-2: SCME urban macro-cell channel model
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | SCME | | | | | | | | | | Urban | | | | | | | | | | macro | | | | | | | | | | -cell | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | Cl | Delay | Power | AoD | AoA | | | | | | uster | \ | \ | [°] | [°] | | | | | | # | [ns] | [dB] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | 1 | 0 | 5 | 10 | -3 | -5.2 | -7 | 82 | 66 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | 2 | 360 | 365 | 370 | -5.2 | -7.4 | -9.2 | 81 | 46 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | 3 | 255 | 260 | 265 | -4.7 | -6.9 | -8.7 | 80 | 143 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | 4 | 1040 | 1045 | 1050 | -8.2 | -10.4 | -12.2 | 99 | 33 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | 5 | 2730 | 2735 | 2740 | -12.1 | -14.3 | -16.1 | 102 | -91 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | 6 | 4600 | 4605 | 4610 | -15.5 | -17.7 | -19.5 | 107 | -19 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | Delay | 839.5 | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [ns] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | Cl | 2 / | | | | | | | | | uster | 35 | | | | | | | | | AS | | | | | | | | | | AoD / | | | | | | | | | | AS | | | | | | | | | | AoA | | | | | | | | | | [°] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | Cl | Lapl | | | | | | | | | uster | acian | | | | | | | | | PAS | | | | | | | | | | shape | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | Total | 7.8 / | | | | | | | | | AS | 62.6 | | | | | | | | | AoD / | | | | | | | | | | AS | | | | | | | | | | AoA | | | | | | | | | | [°] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | M | 3, 30 | | | | | | | | | obile | / 120 | | | | | | | | | speed | | | | | | | | | | [k | | | | | | | | | | m/h] | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Dire | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ravel | | | | | | | | | | [°] | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | XPR | 9 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: | | | | | | | | | | V & H | | | | | | | | | | compo | | | | | | | | | | nents | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | | ant | | | | | | | | | | ennas | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | Mid- | AoD, | | | | | | | | | paths | AoA, | | | | | | | | | Share | AS, | | | | | | | | | Cl | XPR | | | | | | | | | uster | | | | | | | | | | para | | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | for: | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
The parameters of the channel models are the expected parameters for the MIMO
OTA channel models. However, the final channel model achieved for different
methods could be a combined effect of the chamber and the channel emulator.
The Rayleigh fading may be implementation specific. However, the fading can be
considered to be appropriate as long as the statistics of the generated
Rayleigh fading are within standard requirement on Rayleigh fading statistics.
_\ _
### 8.2.1 Channel Model Spatial and Temporal Characterisitics and Expected
Realization Regardless the Methodology
_\ _
8.3 Verification of Channel Model Implementations
\
Channel Models have been specified in section 8.2. This section describes the
MIMO OTA validation measurements, in order to ensure that the channel models
are correctly implemented and hence capable of generating the propagation
environment, as described by the model, within a test area, Measurements are
done mainly with a vector network analyser (VNA) and a spectrum analyzer.
### 8.3.1 Measurement instruments and setup
The measurement setup includes the following equipment:
**Table 8.3.1-1: Measurement equipment list for the verification procedure.**
* * *
**Item** **Quantity** **Item** 1 1 Channel Emulator 2 1 Signal Generator 3 1
Spectrum Analyzer 4 1 VNA 5 1 Magnetic Dipole 6 1 Sleeve Dipole
* * *
#### 8.3.1.1 Network Analyzer (VNA) Setup
Most of the measurements are performed with a VNA. An example set of equipment
required for this set-up is shown in Figure 8.3.1.1-1. VNA transmits frequency
sweep signals thorough the MIMO OTA test system. A test antenna, within the
test area, receives the signal and VNA analyzes the frequency response of the
system. A number of traces (frequency responses) are measured and recorded by
VNA and analyzed by a post processing SW, e.g., Matlab. Special care has to be
taken into account to keep the fading conditions unchanged, i.e. frozen,
during the short period of time of a single trace measurement. The fading may
proceed only in between traces. This setup can be used to measure PDP, Spatial
Correlation and Polarization of the Channel models defined in Section 8.2.
{width="4.197222222222222in" height="2.1041666666666665in"}
**Figure 8.3.1.1-1: Setup for VNA measurements.**
#### 8.3.1.2 Spectrum Analyzer (SA) Setup
The Doppler spectrum is measured with a Spectrum analyzer as shown in Figure
8.3.1.2-1. In this case a Signal generator transmits CW signal through the
MIMO OTA test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally the signal is analyzed by a Spectrum analyzer and the measured
spectrum is compared to the target spectrum. This setup can be used to measure
Doppler Spectrum of the Channel models defined in Section 8.2.
{width="4.081944444444445in" height="2.046527777777778in"}
**Figure 8.3.1.2-1: Setup for VNA measurements.**
### 8.3.2 Validation Measurements
#### 8.3.2.1 PDP
This measurement checks that the resulting power delay profile (PDP) is like
defined in the channel model.
**Method of measurement:**
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA. I.e. run the emulation to CIR
number 1, pause, measure VNA trace, run the emulation to CIR number 10, pause,
measure VNA trace. Continue until 1000 VNA traces are measured.
**VNA settings:**
**Table 8.3.2.1-1: VNA settings for PDP.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Span MHz 200 [TDB] RF output level dBm -15 Number
of traces 1000 Distance between traces in channel model wavelength (* > 2
Number of points 901 Averaging 1
* * *
(* Time [s] = distance [λ] / MS speed [λ/s]
MS speed [λ/s] = MS speed [λ/s] / Speed of light [m/s] * Center frequency [Hz]
**Channel model specification:**
**Table 8.3.2.1-2: Channel model specification for PDP.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Channel model samples wavelength > 2000 Channel
model As specified in section 8.2
* * *
**Method of measurement result analysis:**
Measured VNA traces (frequency responses H(t,f)) are saved into a hard drive.
The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The analysis is performed by taking the
Fourier transform of each FR. The resulting impulse responses h(t,tau) are
averaged in power over time:
Finally the resulting PDP is shifted in delay, such that the first tap is on
delay zero. The reference PDP plots from Table 8.2-1 and Table 8.2-2 are shown
in Figure 8.3.2.1-1.
**OTA antenna configuration:**
For e.g. 1 full ring (or single cluster configuration) of V polarized
elements.
**Measurement antenna:**
For e.g. Vertically oriented sleeve dipole.
{width="2.6256944444444446in"
height="1.9694444444444446in"}{width="2.6256944444444446in"
height="1.9694444444444446in"}
**Figure 8.3.2.1-1: Reference PDP values for SCME Urban Macro / SCME Urban
Micro plotted from Table 8.2-1 and Table 8.2-2.**
#### 8.3.2.2 Doppler/Temporal Correlation
This measurement checks the Doppler/temporal correlation.
**Method of measurement:**
Sine wave (CW, carrier wave) signal is transmitted from the signal generator.
The signal is connected from the signal generator to fading emulator via
cables. The fading emulator output signals are connected to power amplifier
boxes via cables. The amplified signals are then transferred via cables to the
probe antennas. The probe antennas radiate the signals over the air to the
test antenna The Doppler spectrum is measured by the spectrum analyzer and the
trace is saved.
**Signal generator settings:**
**Table 8.3.2.2-1: Signal generator settings for Doppler/Temporal
correlation.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Output level dBm -15 Modulation OFF
* * *
**Spectrum analyzer settings:**
**Table 8.3.2.2-2: Spectrum analyzer settings for Doppler/Temporal
correlation.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Span Hz 2000 RBW Hz 1 VBW Hz 1 Number of points
401 Averaging 100
* * *
**Channel model specification:**
**Table 8.3.2.2-3: Channel model specification for Doppler/Temporal
correlation.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Channel model As specified in section 8.2 Mobile
speed km/h 100 (*
* * *
(* Or the maximum achievable value
Method of measurement result analysis: Measurement data file (Doppler power
spectrum) is saved into hard drive. The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The
analysis is performed by taking the Fourier transformation of the Doppler
spectrum. The resulting temporal correlation function $R_{t}\left( \text{Δt}
\right)$ is normalized such that $\text{max}\left( \text{Re}\left( R_{t}\left(
\text{Δt} \right) \right) \right) = 1$. Then the function values left from the
maximum is cut out. Further on the function values after, e.g., seven periods
is cut out. The reference temporal correlation plots from Table 8.2-1 and
8.2-2 are shown in Figure 8.3.2.2-1.
**OTA antenna configuration:**
For e.g. 1 full ring (or single cluster configuration) of V polarized
elements.
**Measurement antenna:**
For e.g. vertically oriented dipole.
{width="2.6256944444444446in"
height="1.9638888888888888in"}{width="2.6256944444444446in"
height="1.9638888888888888in"}
**Figure 8.3.2.2-1: Reference Temporal Correlation Functions for SCME Urban
Macro / SCME Urban Micro plotted from Table 8.2-1 and Table 8.2-2.**
#### 8.3.2.3 Spatial Correlation
This measurement checks whether the measured correlation curve follows the
theoretical curve.
**Method of measurement:**
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA. I.e. run the emulation to CIR
number 1, pause, measure VNA traces in 11 different DUT positions, run the
emulation to CIR number 10, pause, measure VNA traces in 11 different DUT
positions, ... etc. Continue until frequency response of 1000 CIRs in 11
positions (=1000*11 VNA traces) are measured.
11 test antenna positions sample a segment of line of length 1 wavelength with
sampling interval of 0.1 wavelengths. Antenna spacing (wave lengths): -0.5 to
+0.5 step of 0.1.
{width="3.5840277777777776in" height="2.686111111111111in"}
**Figure 8.3.2.3-1: Test antenna positions.**
**VNA settings:**
**Table 8.3.2.3-1: VNA settings for spatial correlation.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Span MHz 10 RF output level dBm -15 Number of
traces 1000 Distance between traces in channel model wavelength (* > 2 Number
of points 1 Averaging 1
* * *
(* Time in seconds = distance [λ] / MS speed [λ/s]
MS speed [λ/s] = MS speed [λ/s] / Speed of light [m/s] * Center frequency [Hz]
**Channel model specification:**
**Table 8.3.2.3-2: Channel model specification for spatial correlation.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Channel model samples Wavelength > 2000 Channel
model As specified in section 8.2 Mobile speed km/h 3
* * *
**Measurement Procedure**
> **_CALIBRATE_**
>
> **OPEN** corrVNATrace trace file
>
> **FOR EACH** gridPoint **IN** [test zone grid set]
>
> **MOVE** measurement antenna to gridPoint
>
> **FOR EACH** chanIRNumber **IN** [0:SD:1000*SD]
>
> **Measure** Freq Resp with VNA
>
> **Save** freq resp trace to trace file
>
> **END**
>
> **END**
>
> **CLOSE** corrVNATrace_\_\ trace file
**Method of Measurement Results Analysis**
Calculate correlation of 1000 x 11 matrix **H**(_f_) of frequency response
samples. The procedure is to correlate sixth column (the trace measured at the
centre of chamber) with the 10 other columns as follows (Matlab example)
> for ind = 1:11;
>
> Corr(: , : , ind) = abs(corrcoef(**H**(: , 6),**H**(: , ind)));
>
> end
>
> Correlation = squeeze(Corr(1, 2, :));
The reference spatial correlation plots from Table 8.2-1 and 8.2-2 are shown
in Figure 8.3.2.3-2.
**OTA antenna configuration:**
For e.g. 1 full ring (or a single cluster configuration) of V polarized
elements.
**Measurement antenna:**
For e.g. Sleeve dipole.
{width="2.623611111111111in"
height="1.9743055555555555in"}{width="2.623611111111111in"
height="1.9743055555555555in"}
**Figure 8.3.2.3-2: Reference Spatial Correlation Functions for SCME Urban
Macro / SCME Urban Micro plotted from Table 8.2-1 and Table 8.2-2.**
#### 8.3.2.4 Cross-Polarization
This measurement checks how well the measured vertically or horizontally
polarized power levels follow expected values.
**Method of measurement:**
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA.
**VNA settings:**
**Table 8.3.2.4-1: VNA settings for cross-polarization.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Span MHz 10 RF output level dBm -15 Number of
traces 1000 Distance between traces in channel model Wavelength (* > 2 Number
of points 201 Averaging 1
* * *
> (* Time [s] = distance [λ] / MS speed [λ/s]
>
> MS speed [λ/s] = MS speed [λ/s] / Speed of light [m/s] * Center frequency
> [Hz]
**Channel model specification:**
**Table 8.3.2.4-2: Channel model specification for cross-polarization.**
* * *
**Item** **Unit** **Value** Center frequency MHz Downlink Center Frequency in
36.508 as required per band Channel model samples wavelength > 2000 Channel
model As specified in section 8.2 Mobile speed km/h 3
* * *
**Measurement Procedure**
  1. Play or step through the channel model -> SCME UMi, or UMa X Corr
```{=html}
``` 1\. Measure the absolute power received at the center of the array,
averaged over a statistically significant number of fades.
    a.  Use a vertically polarized sleeve dipole to measure the V
        component.
    b.  Use a horizontally polarized (vertically oriented) magnetic loop
        dipole, or a horizontally polarized sleeve dipole measured in
        two orthogonal horizontal positions and summed to measure the H
        component.
```{=html}
``` 1\. Calculate the V/H ratio
  1. Compare it with the theory -> 0.83dB for UMi, and 8.13dB for UMa
**Expected measurement results**
V/H ratio (composite, i.e., all 6 paths combined) of the 3GPP SCME Umicro
model is 0.83 dB and for Umacro 8.13 dB. The BS antennas are isotropic dipoles
with +/- 45 degrees slant and subject to a foreshortening of the slanted
radiating element. See channel model details specified in Section 8.2.
### 8.3.3 Reporting
Additionally, the results should be summarized in the following table:
**Table 8.3.3-1: table template for reporting validation results.**
* * *
**Item** **Parameter** **Result** **Tolerances** **Comments** 1 Power delay
profile  
2 Doppler / Temporal Correlation  
3 Spatial Correlation  
4\. Cross Polarization
* * *
Note: The exact tolerances are for further study.
8.4 Channel Model Validation Results
\
## 9.2 Reference Devices
## 9.3 Description of Tests with Reference Antennas and Devices
# 10 Measurement Results from Outside of 3GPP
## 10.1 CTIA
\
# 11 Conclusions
# 12 Final Agreed Test Methodology
# Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D |** TSG | **TSG | * | ** |** Su | ** | ** | | ate**| #** | D | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| bject | Old_ _| New_ _| | | | oc.__| | | /Comm | | | | | | | | | ent_ * | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R4# | R4-1 | | | Blank | | 0.0.1 | | 12-03 | 62bis | 21734 | | | re | | | | | | | | | port: | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | itial | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | corpo | | | | | | | | | rated | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.976 | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | 1.8.0 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R4# | R4-1 | | | Up | 0.01 | 0.1.0 | | 12-03 | 62bis | 22118 | | | dated | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2096, | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2097, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2099. | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-1 | | | Up | 0.1.0 | 0.2.0 | | 12-05 | 4#64 | 2XXXX | | | dated | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | text | | | | | | | | | propo | | | | | | | | | sals: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 23526 | | | | | | | | | (pro | | | | | | | | | posed | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 6.4 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8.3) | | |