# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a Technical Report of the Study Item for RF and EMC
requirements for AAS, which was approved at TSG RAN #53 [2]. The report
provides definition of AAS BS, the analysis of RF and EMC requirements for the
corresponding deployment scenarios, as well as the test aspects of AAS BS. The
possible impacts on the BS specifications are also included.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-111349, "Study of RF and EMC Requirements for Active Antenna Array
System (AAS) Base Station".
[3] Recommendation ITU-R SM.1541, "Unwanted emissions in the out-of-band
domain" (2001).
[4] Recommendation ITU-R M.1580-1, "Generic unwanted emission characteristics
of base stations using the terrestrial radio interfaces of IMT-2000"
(2002-2005).
[5] Recommendation ITU-R M.1678, "Adaptive antennas for mobile systems"
(05/2004).
[6] CEPT/ERC/Recommendation 74-01, "Unwanted Emissions in the Spurious Domain"
(Cardiff 2011).
[7] ECC Recommendation 11(06), "Block Edge Mask Compliance Measurements for
Base Stations" (October 2011).
[8] Decision 2008/477/EC, "COMMISSION DECISION of 13 June 2008 on the
harmonisation of the 2 500-2 690 MHz frequency band for terrestrial systems
capable of providing electronic communications services in the Community"
[9] Decision 2010/267/EU, "COMMISSION DECISION of 6 May 2010 on harmonised
technical conditions of use in the 790-862 MHz frequency band for terrestrial
systems capable of providing electronic communications services in the
European Union".
[10] ECC Recommendation (02)05, "Unwanted Emissions".
[11] "Emissions Testing of Transmitters with Multiple Outputs in the Same Band
(e.g., MIMO, Smart Antenna, etc)", KDB publication no 662911 D01, FCC Office
of Engineering and Technology Laboratory Division, 10/25/2011.
[12] "MIMO with Cross-Polarized Antenna", KDB publication no 662911 D02, FCC
Office of Engineering and Technology Laboratory Division, 10/25/2011.
[13] International Telecommunications Union Radio Regulations, Edition of
2008.
[14] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329-11, "Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain" (01/2011).
[15] Report ITU-R M.2040, "Adaptive antennas concepts and key technical
aspects" (2004).
[16] Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Radio Regulatory
Commission Regulation No. 18, 1950, "Ordinance Regulating Radio Equipment"
[17] Information and Communications Technology Subcommittee Committee for
Faster Mobile Phones, "Draft Report from Committee for Faster Mobile Phones;
Concerning technical requirements for mobile communications systems using
700MHz bands"\ (http://www.soumu.go.jp/main_content/000140943.pdf (in
Japanese)).
[18] 3GPP TR 25.942, "UTRA Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios".
[19] 3GPP TR 36.942, "E-UTRA Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios".
[20] 3GPP TR 25.816, "UMTS 900 MHz Work Item Technical Report".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Active Antenna System:** a BS system which combines an Antenna Array with an
Active Transceiver Unit Array. An AAS may include a Radio Distribution
Network.
**Array Element:** a subdivision of a passive antenna array, consisting of a
single radiating element or a group of radiating elements, with a fixed
radiation pattern.
**AAS Transceiver Unit Array** : an array of transceiver units which generate
radio signals in the transmit direction and accept radio signals in the
receive direction**.**
**Antenna Array: a group of antenna elements characterized by the geometry and
the properties of the array elements. The geometry of the array elements can
be either linear or non-linear to meet the system requirements.**
**Directivity (of an antenna) (in a given direction): the ratio of the
radiation intensity in a given direction from the antenna to the radiation
intensity averaged over all directions.**
**NOTES:**
  1. **The average radiation intensity is equal to the total power radiated by the antenna divided by 4π.**
  2. **If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation intensity is implied.**
  3. **For an array antenna the directivity is defined given an excitation (amplitude and phase) applied to the array elements.**
**Gain (in a given direction): the ratio of the radiation intensity, in a
given direction, to the radiation intensity that would be obtained if the
power accepted by the antenna were radiated isotropically.**
**NOTES:**
  1. **Gain does not include losses arising from impedance and polarization mismatches (How to handle these losses in the scope of AAS is FFS).**
  2. **The radiation intensity corresponding to the isotropically radiated power is equal to the power accepted by the antenna divided by 4π.**
  3. **If an antenna is without dissipative loss, then in any given direction, its gain is equal to its directivity.**
  4. **If the direction is not specified, the direction of maximum radiation intensity is implied.**
**Radio Distribution Network: a passive network which distributes radio
signals generated by the active transceiver unit array to the antenna array,
and/or distributes the radio signals collected by the antenna array to the
active transceiver unit array.**
NOTE: In the case when the active transceiver units are physically integrated
with the array elements of the antenna array, the radio distribution network
is a one-to-one mapping.
**Radiating Element: the basic building block of an array element
characterized by its radiation properties.**
**Radiation Pattern:** the angular distribution of the radiated
electromagnetic field in the far field region.
**Transceiver Unit:** the active unit consisting of transmitter and/or
receiver which transmits and/or receives radio signals.
**Cell Partitioning:** one sector in standard deployments is divided into
multi sub sectors in vertical and/or horizontal plane.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> AA Antenna Array
>
> **AAS** Active Antenna System
>
> **AE** Array Element
>
> ECC Electronics Communications Committee
>
> FCC Federal Communications Commission
>
> ITU International Telecommunications Union
>
> RDN Radio Distribution Network
>
> RXU Receiver Unit
>
> TXRU Transceiver Unit
>
> TXRUA Transceiver Unit Array
>
> TXU Transmitter Unit
>
> RR Radio Regulations
>
> WRC World Radio Communication Conference
>
> MIC Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
# 4 General
The Active Antenna System (AAS) within this document refers to a Base Station
equipped with an antenna array system, the radiation pattern of which may be
dynamically adjustable. The main purpose of this document is to study the
characteristics and minimum requirements of the AAS transmitter and receiver
system considering the impacts from antenna array.
This sub-clause captures the SI objectives and establishes the reference
structure as well as the methodologies to achieve the SI objectives.
## 4.1 SI objectives
### 4.1.1 The objectives
The AAS introduces alternative antenna system from the one installed in the
conventional Base Station. The interactions between the antenna array system
and the transmitters and receivers within the AAS might be different from the
convention BS and the convention antenna system. The impacts of the
transmitted or received radio signals on the transmitter and receivers shall
be studied.
To investigate the AAS BS, a Study Item [2] was approved in RAN plenary #53.
The objectives proposed in the SID are quoted below:
_This is the study item to investigate the RF and EMC requirements for an AAS
BS based on macro-cell deployment scenarios for both TDD and FDD. The study
will cover single-RAT UTRA and E-UTRA, as well as multi-RAT base stations. The
study item particularly covers the following two main aspects:_
  * _Feasibility of defining AAS BS requirements based on the > commonality of different architecture and implementations:_
    * _Develop/define relevant terminology associated with AAS BS to ensure common understanding._
    * _Determine the appropriate approaches for standardization, specification implementation and test methodologies_
  * _Study the following aspects_
    * _Transmitter and receiver characteristics and their impact on system performance and co-existence._
    * _The core RF and/or EMC requirements for the transmitter and receiver._
    * _Regulatory aspects related to multiple antenna transmission and the impact on AAS BS._
    * _Feasibility of OTA tests._
_Based on the outcome of the above studies, the following specification-
related work will be identified pending approval of the related Work Item:_
  1. _The RF and/or EMC requirements for AAS BS transmitters and receivers._
  2. _The methodologies for specification implementation of all the > necessary changes._
In summary, the objectives of this Study Item are to study the characteristics
of the AAS transmitters and receivers, and investigate the impacts on the
coexistence performance with other systems based on un-coordinated deployment
scenarios.
### 4.1.2 Methodologies
The methodologies employed to determine the minimum requirements for AAS are
similar to the methodologies used for determining those requirements for
previously considered systems. These methodologies as documented in TR25.942
[18] and TR 36.942 [19] which provides assumptions for typical deployment
conditions can be used as baseline.
#### 4.1.2.1 Detailed methodologies
**Figure 4.1.2.1-1: Procedures for AAS study**
The detailed procedures for AAS study are illustrated in Figure 4.1.2.1-1. The
essential part of this study is to study the new characteristics and evaluate
the impacts on system coexistence and performance. The evaluation results are
used to determine whether to modify existing requirements or define new
requirements. The 3D coexistence simulation study requires the modelling of 3D
antenna model.
## 4.2 Structure of AAS BS
An abstract logical representation of the AAS radio architecture is described
in this section..The radio architecture is represented by three main
functional blocks, the Transceiver Unit Array (TXRUA), the Radio Distribution
Network, (RDN), and the Antenna Array (AA). The Transceiver Units (TXRU)
interface with the base band processing within the eNode B.
The Transceiver Unit Array consists of multiple **Transmitter Units (TXU) and
Receiver Units (RXU). The Transmitter Unit takes the baseband input from the
Base Station and provides the RF TX outputs. The RF TX outputs may be
distributed to the Antenna Array via a Radio Distribution Network. The
Receiver Unit performs the reverse of the Transmitter Unit operations. The
Radio Distribution Network, if present, performs the distribution of the TX
outputs into the corresponding antenna paths and antenna elements, and a
distribution of RX inputs from antenna paths in the reverse direction.**
> **NOTE 1: The RDN may consist of a simple one to one mapping between the
> TXU(s)/RXU(s) and the passive Antenna Array. In this case, the RDN would be
> a logical entity but not necessarily a physical entity.**
>
> **NOTE 2: The Antenna Array includes various implementations and
> configurations e.g. polarization, spatial separations etc.**
>
> **NOTE 3:** The physical location of the Transceiver Unit Array, the Radio
> Distribution Network, and the Antenna Array may differ from this logical
> representation and is implementation dependent.
**Figure 4.2-1: General AAS Radio Architecture**
A BS with AAS, with general radio architecture as shown in Figure 4.2-1, is
generic to all types of AAS structures including diversity, beamforming,
spatial multiplexing, or any combination of the three.
## 4.3 Regulation review
In the work on AAS, several new concepts may be considered in terms of how to
define and measure emission limits. Many limits are defined in regulation and
there are also recommendations for measurements. This clause gives a brief
overview of some international regulation for AAS and systems with multiple
antennas.
NOTE: The impact of the international regulation referred to in the present
clause on the 3GPP work on AAS is TBD.
### 4.3.1 ITU Radio Regulations
The Radio Regulations (RR) is the fundamental international regulatory text,
containing all decisions adopted by the World Radio Congress. The most recent
version is the output of WRC-07 [13]. The following passages may have some
relevance for the work on AAS:
\- The terms "antenna port" and "antenna transmission line" are used
throughout the RR, but no explicit definition is given. RR Volume 1, chapter I
sets Terminology and technical characteristics, but "antenna port" and
"antenna transmission line" are not mentioned there. The terms are however
always used in singular.
\- RR Vol II, Appendix 3 sets limits to spurious emissions for the "antenna
transmission line", which can also be found in the relevant ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [14].
\- RR Vol II, Appendix 3, Article 10bis points out that "Guidance regarding
the methods of measuring spurious domain emissions is given in the most recent
version of Recommendation ITU-R SM.329." and further states that "The e.i.r.p.
method specified in this Recommendation should be used when it is not possible
to accurately measure the power supplied to the antenna transmission line, or
for specific applications where the antenna is designed to provide significant
attenuation in the spurious domain. Additionally, the e.i.r.p. method may need
some modification for special cases."
\- RR mentions "active antennas" only in connection with unwanted emissions
from satellite systems (non-GSO RNSS or MSS systems, in Annex 1 to Rec. ITU-R
M.1583, which is incorporated by reference to the RR). For these cases, it is
stated that in the case of an active antenna, the RF radiated power should be
used instead of the unwanted emission at the input of the antenna.
### 4.3.2 ITU-R Recommendations
Rec. SM.329 Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain [14]
The definitions and terminology used in SM.329 [14] are very similar to the
ones used in the RR. The general emission limits (category A) in SM.329 are
also from the RR.
The following is noted for Space Stations in considering n):
"n) that some space stations have active antennas and the measurement of power
as supplied to the antenna transmission line cannot cover emissions created
within the antenna. For such space stations, the determination of field
strength or pfd at a distance should be established by administrations to aid
in determining when an emission is likely to cause interference to other
authorized services;"
The spurious emission limits in SM.329 are qualified in the following way:
> "Table 2 indicates the maximum permitted levels of spurious domain
> emissions, appearing in RR Appendix 3, in terms of power of any unwanted
> component supplied by a transmitter to the antenna transmission line..."
A general note states that "Use the e.i.r.p. method shown in Annex 2, § 3.3,
when it is not practical to access the transition between the transmitter and
the antenna transmission line." This note exists only for Category A limits.
Annex 2, §3.3 of SM.329 describes an e.i.r.p. measurement method called
"Method 2 -- Measurement of the spurious domain emission e.i.r.p." on a total
of two pages.
**Rec. SM.1541 Unwanted emissions in the out-of-band domain [3]**
The definitions and terminology used in SM.1541 are also very similar to the
one used in the RR.
There is an Annex 12 for Fixed Services that contain a chapter on Methods of
measurement. Two fundamental methods are described:
\- Method 1 is the measurement of emission power supplied to the antenna port
of the equipment under test (EUT). This method should be used whenever it is
practical and appropriate.
\- Method 2 is the measurement of the equivalent isotropic radiated power
(e.i.r.p.), using a suitable test site.
The text describing Method 2 is similar to the one in SM.329 [14].
**Rec. M.1580 Generic unwanted emission characteristics of base stations using
the terrestrial radio interfaces of IMT- 2000 [4]**
This recommendation contains unwanted emission requirements for the different
IMT technologies. The requirements are aligned with what is specified in 3GPP.
**Rec. M.1678 Adaptive antennas for mobile systems [5]**
The recommendation gives a recommendation that adaptive antenna technology
should be considered in the development of new technology and used in
deployments, but it does not give any recommendation regarding measurements or
definitions. The ITU-R report M.2040 [15] is referenced in the recommendation.
### 4.3.3 ECC regulation in Europe
**ERC Rec 74-01 Spurious emissions**
The ERC Recommendation 74-01 [6] is the main European regulatory document
giving unwanted emission limits. The recommendation is aligned with Category B
emission limits in SM.329-1 [14].
In terms of terminology, ERC Rec 74-01 does not use the term antenna
transmission line, but instead antenna port. Also here, no specific
definitions of the terms are given.
There is a note to considering m) that explains Active antenna systems (AAS):
> Note: an "Active Antenna System" (AAS) is an antenna with embedded
> capability for electronic amplification and/or other RF processing. The
> total gain of an AAS may be functionally split into an "active" gain of the
> electronic functions (AG) and a conventional "passive" gain/loss
> (directivity) due to the geometrical design performance of the antenna (PG).
Recommends 2 clearly defines where the reference points are for the emission
limits:
2) that for the purpose of this Recommendation, only unwanted emissions in the
spurious domain conducted to the antenna port or subsequently radiated by any
integral antenna, are subject to the established limits; "
Recommends 6) is concerned with power measurements and has a note on Active
antenna systems (AAS):
> Note 3: When a system is coupled to an \"Active Antenna System\", the limits
> of Table 2 should be met by the combined system; therefore compliance should
> be verified through an e.i.r.p. measurement (either near-field or far-field)
> and subsequent conversion to absolute power/attenuation values delivered to
> the transmission line, taking into account only the conventional \"passive\"
> gain (directivity) of the antenna.
There is no explanation within the recommendation of how to conduct e.i.r.p.
measurements.
**ECC Rec 02(05) [10]**
This is the ECC "umbrella recommendation" for unwanted emissions. It contains
mostly references to other ITU-R and ECC recommendations and does not give any
additional definitions in the AAS area.
**ECC and EU decisions for IMT bands**
There are several decisions made for IMT bands, where regulatory limits are
set both for "in-block" power (intentionally transmitted power) and "out-of-
block power" in terms of "Block Edge Masks" (BEM, for unwanted emissions).
Many of the base station emission limits in those decisions are defined in
terms of e.i.r.p. Examples are the decision for the 2.6 GHz band [8] and the
800 MHz band [9]. There are recommendations of how to measure BEMs in ECC Rec
11(06) [7].
**ECC Rec 11(06) Block Edge Mask Compliance Measurements for Base Stations
[7]**
The recommendation discusses both conducted and radiated measurements. The
following is stated in Annex A.1.4.4 regarding measurements of absolute power
limits:
> "The assessment of block edge masks with absolute power limits should be
> done using a conducted measurement directly at the transmitter output.
> Although a radiated measurement is possible in principle it's not
> recommended, as it will introduce a number of additional uncertainties (e.g.
> measurement distance). Especially in the case of a BEM based on transmitter
> output power or output power density for a radiated measurement the
> knowledge of certain parameters is necessary, which can be acquired only on-
> site; i.e. feeder loss and antenna gain."
### 4.3.4 FCC regulation in the U.S.
There are two recent publications by the FCC of an Administrative Requirements
[11,12] concerning measurements made on a device that employs multiple outputs
in the same band. The documents treat both in-band and out-of-band/spurious
emissions measurements.
For out-of-band/spurious emissions measurements from multiple outputs, two
alternatives are given in [11]:
(1) Measure and sum the spectra across the outputs and compare to the emission
limit.
(2) Measure each output and add 10 log(N) dB to the value before comparing to
the emission limit, where N is the number of outputs.
There is also guidance in [11] on calculating directional gain from antennas,
which are applied e.g. when a conducted measurement is combined with a
directional gain calculation to show compliance with a radiated limit:
\- For cases where signals on different antennas are correlated (beam forming
is given as an example), the antenna gain is GANT + 10log(N) dBi.
\- For cases where all antennas signals are completely uncorrelated (Space
Time Block Codes and Spatial Multiplexing MIMO are given as examples), the
antenna gain is GANT.
Additional guidance is given in [12] for MIMO operation with cross-polarized
antennas.
### 4.3.5 MIC regulation in Japan
Ordinance Regulating Radio Equipment [16] is stipulated by MIC in order to
determine the conditions for radio equipment and high frequency based
equipment. In [16], some details (e.g. the unwanted emissions of specific
systems, the measurement and calculation method of output power etc.) are
explained for each individual technical condition of a specific system.
Regarding the 3GPP systems, the technical conditions of WCDMA/HSPA/DC-
HSDPA/LTE were notified by MIC in [17].
In the technical conditions in [17], the measurement and calculation method of
output power or unwanted emissions (both in-band and out-of-band/spurious
emissions) from multiple outputs are given as follows:
\- For an adaptive array antenna
\- Measure and sum the output powers or emissions (which are specified by
absolute values in the technical conditions) of all the antenna connectors.
\- In this case, the output power of one array element shall be configured
with the maximum output power. Then, the output powers of remaining array
elements shall be configured as the sum of output powers of all array elements
are maximized.
\- For MIMO
\- Measure the output power or emission on each antenna connector.
# 5 Study of AAS deployment scenarios
## 5.1 AAS applications
Examples of AAS applications are provided in this section.
### 5.1.1 Tilt and radiation pattern control
Antennas are usually manufactured with a fixed beamwidth, and antenna
manufacturers typically offer a limited number of beamwidth variations within
their conventional product lines. Conventional BS installations often
introduce physical tilt to the antenna in order to orient the main lobe of the
antenna response towards the ground. Antenna tilt is selected to optimize
desired cell coverage and to minimize interference to and from adjacent cells.
Some installations employ Remote Electrical Tilt (RET) devices which allow
mechanical adjustment of the phase shift so that the antenna tilt angle is
remotely controlled.
An AAS may dynamically control the elevation and azimuth angles, as well as
the beamwidth of its radiation pattern via electronic means. Electronic
control may be used along with mechanical means, The AAS radiation pattern may
be adapted to the specific deployment scenario and possibly to changing
traffic patterns. The AAS radiation pattern may also be independently
optimized for different links such as independently for uplink and downlink,
for coverage and beam forming gain purposes.
#### 5.1.1.1 Cell partitioning in the horizontal and vertical plane
The concepts of tilt and beamwidth control can be extended by a technique
known as cell partitioning in which the cell is subdivided in vertical or
horizontal directions by adjustment of the antenna pattern. For example one
cell partition is located close to the BS and the other cell partition is
located farther away from the BS.
### 5.1.2 Multiple input multiple output (MIMO)
MIMO is a general terminology that includes the various spatial processing
techniques: Beamforming, Diversity, and Spatial Multiplexing. Brief
description of each is provided below.
  * Beamforming: The use of dedicated beam formed towards the UE when the data demodulation based on dedicated reference signal is supported by the UE.
  * Diversity: The use of diversity techniques to jointly optimize in the spatial and frequency domain through the use of, for example, Spatial-Frequency Block Code (SFBC) or Frequency Switching Transmit Diversity (FSTD), or combinations of them;
  * Spatial Multiplexing: The transmission of multiple signal streams to one (SU-MIMO) or more (MU-MIMO) users using multiple spatial layers created by combinations of the available antennas;
### 5.1.3 Differentiated antenna behaviours at different carrier frequencies
AAS supports the use a different number of antennas at different carrier
frequencies and for different RATs. For example the AAS may create 4 virtual
antennas for an LTE carrier and 2 antennas for a GSM or HSPA carrier.
### 5.1.4 Per RB (or UE) Transmission and Reception
.In this case each UE may get its own beam that tracks the movement of the UE.
The current specification support for Spatial Multiplexing, Beamforming and
Transmit Diversity includes the ability to schedule transmission and reception
to one UE within one Resource Block. This allows beamforming to individual UEs
with adaptation to mobility, as an example.
## 5.2 Deployment and coexistence scenarios
### 5.2.1 Deployment scenarios
The AAS BS can be deployed for Wide Area, Medium Range, and Local Area
coverage.
  * Wide Area coverage deployment scenario is typically found in outdoor macro environments, where the BS antennas are located in masts, roof tops or high above street level. Large Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) between the BS and the UE is assumed. The AAS BS used for wide area coverage is called Macro AAS.
  * Medium Range coverage deployment scenario is typically found in outdoor micro environments, where the AAS BSs are located below roof tops. Medium MCL value is assumed. The AAS BS used for medium range coverage is called Micro AAS.
  * Local Area BS deployment assumes relatively low MCL, as is typically found indoors (offices, subway stations etc) where antennas are located on the ceilings or walls. Deployment for local area coverage can also be found outdoors on hot spot areas like market place, high street or railway station. The AAS BS used for local area coverage is called Pico AAS.
### 5.2.2 Coexistence scenarios
The radiation pattern for AAS BS can be dynamically adjustable, while a fixed
beam pattern is assumed for the conventional BS. The dynamic radiation pattern
has been considered for UTRA 1.28Mcps TDD system and the beam pattern can be
found in Annex B in TR36.942[19].
The coexistence of AAS BS with convention BS based on un-coordinated shall be
considered. Analytical approaches can be used to study the coexistence
requirements based on existing results, supplemented with additional
simulations when necessary.
The following initial scenarios are identified for the purpose of studying the
spatial characteristics for AAS BS:
> -E-UTRA Macro AAS BS co-located with another E-UTRA Macro AAS BS
>
> -E-UTRA Macro AAS BS co-located with E-UTRA Macro legacy BS
NOTE: The scenarios that would impact the RF requirements are TBD
## 5.3 Classifications of AAS BS
TR 25.951 and TR 25.952 define deployment scenarios for UTRA Wide-Area,
Medium-Range, Local-Area, and Home base stations. The Base Station RF
requirements in 3GPP specifications are specified for those BS classes based
on studying characteristics of the deployment scenarios in TR25.951/952 using
the methodologies specified in TR25.942. RF requirements for E-UTRA base
stations are based on studies using the methodologies specified in TR36.942.
The methodologies in TR25.942 and TR36.942 can be extended to study AAS
characteristics for Wide-Area, Medium-Range, and Local-Area BS deployment
scenarios, or where necessary further methodologies can be derived based on
the defined deployment scenarios. The scope of the work item will be limited
to study of these classes. Employing those methodologies may result in a
restatement of existing RF requirements transferred to AAS specific reference
points, or may result in new RF requirements for AAS BS.
Further details are within the scope of WI phase.
## 5.4 Simulation study
### 5.4.1 Objectives
**The coexistence simulation objectives include the following:**
**1\. Establishment of coexistence system simulations based on 3-dimensional
antenna patterns for AAS and non-AAS BS systems.**
**\- The coexistence characteristics for non-AAS BS systems are presented to
establish baseline performance.**
**\- Coexistence performance of AAS BS systems with both AAS BS systems and
non-AAS systems in un-coordinated deployment scenarios is evaluated.**
**2\. Evaluate the transmitter and receiver spatial characteristics of AAS
BS.**
**3\. Define and derive a proposal for how to set measurable RF
requirements.**
### 5.4.2 Simulation scenarios
#### 5.4.2.1 Initial simulation cases
The initial simulation cases are based on the AAS fundamental applications
where the AAS BS is used for a 3-sector/site coverage. This is similar as the
legacy passive antenna system.
> Note: Simulation scenarios for other applications will be added later.
For the first step studying, E-UTRA Macro to E-UTRA Macro coexistence scenario
is identified for the purpose of studying the spatial characteristics for AAS
BS. Simulation cases as shown in Table 5.4.2.1-1 and Table 5.4.2.1-2 are
applied for evaluating in-band blocking and ACLR for AAS BS.
**Table 5.4.2.1-1: Simulation cases for in-band blocking**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case | Aggressor | Victim | Simulated | Statistics | | | | | link | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1-a | Legacy | AAS E-UTRA | Uplink | Interferer | | | E-UTRA | Macro | | levels at | | | | system | | victim BS | | | Macro | | | | | | system | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1-b | AAS E-UTRA | AAS E-UTRA | Uplink | Interferer | | | | Macro | | levels at | | | Macro | system | | victim BS | | | system | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1- | Legacy | Legacy | Uplink | Interferer | | c(Baseline) | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | levels at | | | | Macro | | victim BS | | | Macro | system | | | | | system | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
**Table 5.4.2.1-2: S** imulation cases for ACLR
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case | Aggressor | Victim | Simulated | Statistics | | | | | link | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1-a | AAS E-UTRA | Legacy | Downlink | Throughput | | | Macro | E-UTRA | | loss | | | system | | | | | | | Macro | | | | | | system | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1-b | AAS E-UTRA | AAS E-UTRA | Downlink | Throughput | | | | Macro | | loss | | | Macro | system | | | | | system | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1- | Legacy | Legacy | Downlink | Throughput | | c(Baseline) | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | | loss | | | | Macro | | | | | Macro | system | | | | | system | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.4.2.2 Simulation cases based on the other AAS applications
\
### 5.4.3 Simulation assumptions
#### 5.4.3.1 Assumptions for the initial simulation cases
##### 5.4.3.1.1 Network layout
The macro cell network is a tri-sector layout placed on a hexagonal grid with
distance of 3*R, where R is the cell radius with wrap around. For
uncoordinated network simulations, identical cell layouts for each network are
applied, with worst case shift between sites. The second network's sites are
located at the first network's cell edge, as shown in Figure 5.4.3.1.1-1[19].
The ISD is 750 m.
{width="3.4770833333333333in" height="3.029861111111111in"}
**Figure 5.4.3.1.1-1 Multi operator cell layout - uncoordinated operation**
##### 5.4.3.1.2 Propagation model
The path loss model is defined as below
Path_Loss = max {L(R), Free_Space_Loss}+ shadowfading
where the free space loss is defined as
Free_Space_Loss = 98.46 +20*log10(R) (R in kilometre)
and L(R) is defined as below [19]
L(R) = 128.1 + 37.6 Log10(R) (dB)
The shadow fading is modelled as a log-normal distribution.
Then the final coupling loss model is defined as [20]:
Coupling_Loss_macro= max {Path_Loss, Free_Space_Loss} -- G_Tx -- G_Rx
where G_Tx is the transmitter antenna gain and the G_Rx is the receiver
antenna gain.
##### 5.4.3.1.3 Downtilt angle setting
Antenna down-tilt angle shall be set properly in order to optimize the system
throughput in real deployment. For coexistence study, the setting of the
antenna down-tilt angle follows the same principle. To pick up a suitable
value for a Macro cell with ISD of 750m, the downlink and uplink throughput of
AAS single system is evaluated by scanning BS down-tilt angle (both
electrically and mechanically) from 5 degree to 20 degree, as shown in Figure
5.4.3.1.3-1 to Figure 5.4.3.1.3-4.
From the results, it can be observed that:
1\. For downlink system throughput, the system throughput reaches its maximum
with BS down-tilt angle of about 9 degree, for both electrical and mechanical
down-tilt.
2\. The uplink average throughput is not very much sensitive to the down-tilt
angles. This is mainly due to the uplink power control which could fully or
partly compensate the difference of the coupling loss (antenna gain) caused by
different down-tilt angles and ensure the signal power received at BS from
different users is as the same as possible. The uplink edge throughput is
sensitive to the down-tile angle. The maximum throughput is reached at about 9
degree down-tilt. This down-tile also maximize the down link throughput.
3\. A down-tilt angle of 9 degree can be used for the specific scenario under
the assumptions defined in Section 5.4 (e.g. ISD, height of BS and UE, antenna
pattern, etc) for fundamental AAS coexistence simulation as a baseline because
it maximises throughput. In other scenarios and in particular in a real
network deployment, different downtilt angles may maximise throughput and may
be applied.
{width="2.6152777777777776in" height="2.104861111111111in"}
{width="2.7256944444444446in" height="2.095833333333333in"}
**Figure 5.4.3.1.3-1 Downlink cell average and cell edge throughput with
different electrical down-tilt angles**
{width="2.7055555555555557in" height="2.1131944444444444in"}
{width="2.8666666666666667in" height="2.066666666666667in"}
**Figure 5.4.3.1.3-2 Downlink cell average and cell edge throughput with
different mechanical down-tilt angles**
{width="2.8125in" height="2.063888888888889in"} {width="2.782638888888889in"
height="2.01875in"}
**Figure 5.4.3.1.3-3 Uplink cell average and cell edge throughput with
different electrical down-tilt angles**
{width="2.8125in" height="2.076388888888889in"} {width="2.8673611111111112in"
height="2.076388888888889in"}
**Figure 5.4.3.1.3-4 Uplink cell average and cell edge throughput with
different mechanical down-tilt angles**
##### 5.4.3.1.4 General simulation parameters for the initial simulation cases
**Table 5.4.3.1.4-1 General simulation parameters**
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Parameters** | > **Values** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cellular layout | > Hexagonal, 3 sectors/cell (19 | | | > cell wrap-around), | | | > uncoordinated | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE distribution | > Average 10 UEs per sector. UEs | | | > on flat ground | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | > 2GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | > 10MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter Site Distance (ISD) | > 750m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum distance UE\BS | > 35m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Log normal shadowing | > Standard Deviation of 10 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadow correlation coefficient | 0.5 (inter site) / 1.0 (intra | | | site) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduling algorithm | Round Robin, Full buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RB number per active UEs | UL: 16RBs (total: 48 RBs) | | | | | | DL: 50RBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of active UEs | UL: 3 UEs | | | | | | DL: 1 UE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE max Tx power | 23 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE min Tx power | -40 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS max Tx power | 46dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power control parameters | (TR36.942 Section 12.1.4) | | | | | | PC Set 1 (alpha=1; P0=-101dBm) | | | | | | PC Set 2 (alpha=0.8; P0= | | | -92.2dBm) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at UE | Omni-directional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The height of BS | 30 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The height of UE | 1.5 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Down-tilt angle | 9 degree as the baseline (can be | | | mixture of mechanical and | | | electrical) , which corresponds | | | to 99 degrees for | | | $\theta_{\text{etilt}}$ defined | | | in Section 5.4.3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna array configuration(Row | 10*1 | | * Column) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ACS of LTE UE | 33 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Radiation pattern of the antenna | The same as AAS 3D antenna | | installed for legacy BS | pattern as introduced in section | | | 5.4.3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.4.3.2 Assumptions for the other applications
\
### 5.4.4 Antenna 3D model
The differences of the radiation patterns for individual antenna element and
the composite antenna mainly reside in the vertical plane. For the comparison
study between AAS transceiver and the transceiver in the traditional BS, the
coexistence simulation shall be carried out with 3D modeling, and the
radiation pattern in vertical plane shall be modeled.
#### 5.4.4.1 Methodology
Using the one-column linear array as an example, shown in Figure 5.4.3.1-1 the
radiation elements are placed uniformly along the vertical **z** axis in the
Cartesian coordination **and** the **x-y** axis constructs the horizontal
plane. A signal acting at the array elements is in the direction of **u** ,
and elevation angle of the signal direction is denoted as $\theta$(defined
between 0° and 180°, 90° represents perpendicular to array) and the azimuth
angle is denoted as$\phi$(defined between -180° and 180°).
**Figure** **1.4.3.1-1. Antenna Array Geometry**
The beam pattern formed by the AAS antenna is due to 3 things:
  * The individual radiation element pattern
  * The array factor
  * The signals applied to the system
Each of these is defined below:
##### 5.4.4.1.1 Element Pattern
A method similar to 3GPP modelling is applied to model the element radiation
pattern model, which is
$\text{20}\text{*log}\left( P_{E}\left( \theta,\phi \right) \right) =
G_{E,\text{Max}} - \text{min}\left{ - \left\lbrack A_{E,H}\left( \phi \right)
+ A_{E,V}\left( \theta \right) \right\rbrack,A_{m} \right}$
Where
  * P~E~ is the magnitude of the element pattern
  * $\theta$the elevation angle is defined between 0° and 180° (90° > represents perpendicular to array)
  * $\phi$the azimuth angle is defined between -180° and 180°
  * $G_{E,\text{Max}}$ is the maximum directional gain of the radiation > element (in dB), which is assumed to be 8dBi;
```{=html}
``` \- $A_{E,H}\left( \phi \right)$is the horizontal pattern of the >
radiation element,
$A_{E,H}\left( \phi \right) = - \text{min}\left\lbrack \text{12}\left(
\frac{\phi}{\phi_{3\text{dB}}} \right)^{2},A_{m} \right\rbrack$
> where $\phi_{3\text{dB}}$ = 65° is the horizontal 3dB bandwidth, and
> $A_{m}$= 30dB is the front-back ratio. $A_{E,H}\left( \phi \right)$ is
> plotted in Figure 5.4.4.1.1-1.
  * $A_{E,V}\left( \theta \right)$is the vertical radiation pattern of > the radiation element offset by 90° to point perpendicular to > array,
$A_{E,V}\left( \theta \right) = - \text{min}\left\lbrack \text{12}\left(
\frac{\theta - \text{90}}{\theta_{3\text{dB}}} \right)^{2},\text{SLA}_{v}
\right\rbrack$
> where$\theta_{3\text{dB}}$ = 65° is the vertical 3dB bandwidth,
> $\text{SLA}_{v}$is the lower limit, which is set as 30dB.
>
> {width="2.926388888888889in" height="2.198611111111111in"}
> {width="2.926388888888889in" height="2.198611111111111in"}
**Figure 5.4.4.1.1-1. Vertical and Horizontal element radiation patterns**
##### 5.4.4.1.2 Array factor for single column
The performance of the array depends on the spacing and weighting of the
radiation elements, which can be represented by $\overset{\sim}{W}$, i.e.,
in which $V$is the phase shift due to array placement, denoted as
$V = \left\lbrack v_{1},v_{2},\cdots,v_{N} \right\rbrack^{T}$, where
$v_{n} = \text{exp}\left( - 2\pi \cdot i \cdot \left( n - 1 \right) \cdot
\frac{d_{v}}{\lambda} \cdot \text{cos}\left( \theta \right) \right)\ n =
1,2,\ldots N$;
and $W$is the weighting factor, which can provide control of side lobe levels
and also to provide electrical down-tilt. For simplicity, the amplitude of the
weighting vector is assumed to be identical for each radiation element. The
phase of the weighting vector is used to implement electrical down tilt and is
dependent on the required tilt and the element spacing. For mechanical down-
tilt, this can be handled by modifying the elevation angle according to down
tilting setting, which is described in TR36.814 A2.1.6.2 in details.
##### 5.4.4.1.3 Array factor for multiple column
A uniform planar array antenna with radiation elements is employed for
modeling AAS with multiple columns, as shown in figure 5.4.4.1.3-1. The
numbers of the elements placed along Y axis and Z axis are and, respectively.
**Figure** **2.4.4.1.3-1 Geometry distribution of AAS with multiple columns
array**
The array factor of the planar array can be represented by
$\overset{\sim}{W}$, i.e.,
in which $V$is the phase shift due to array placement, denoted as
{width="4.388888888888889in" height="0.34930555555555554in"},
$W$is the weighting factor, which can provide control of side lobe levels and
also to provide electrical steering, both horizontal and vertical. For
simplicity, the amplitude of the weighting vector is assumed to be identical
for each radiation element. The phase of the weighting vector is used to
implement electrical steering and is dependent on the required horizontal and
vertical steering angle and the element spacing.
where $\theta_{\text{etilt}}$is the electrical vertical steering, and
$\phi_{\text{escan}}$ is the electrical horizontal steering.
##### 5.4.4.1.4 Signals and correlation matrix for single column
Correlation of 2 transceiver paths is represented by a correlation
coefficient,0≤ρ≤1, defined below as the similarity of the unwanted signals at
the output of 2 paths when an identical signal is applied at the input.
Unwanted signals generated in the transceivers can under different
circumstances be regarded as correlated , ρ=1, (e.g. unwanted signals
generated by CFR (Crest Factor Reduction) will be generated digitally and
hence identical in each path), or un-correlated,ρ=0, (e.g. amplified thermal
noise is random in nature and hence will have no similarity in different
paths). As the type of unwanted signal is implementation specific and hence
unknown, the correlation matrix allows varying levels of correlation to be
investigated so the worst case can be identified for specification purposes.
The signals at all elements are defined as
The complex output of the array system at far field becomes
where $E_{n}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ denotes the complex gain of the _n_ th
radiation element, together with the phase shift due to array placement,
expressed as
$E_{n}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$=$P_{E}\left( \theta,\phi \right) \cdot
\text{exp}\left( - 2\pi \cdot i \cdot \left( n - 1 \right) \cdot
\frac{d_{v}}{\lambda} \cdot \text{cos}\left( \theta \right) \right),\ \theta =
0,\ldots\text{180},\phi = - \text{180},\ldots 0,\ldots\text{180}\text{.}$
Then the radiation pattern of the antenna array is the mean output power which
can be obtained by taking conditional expectation over $\left| y\left(
\theta,\phi,t \right) \right|^{2}$,
and _R_ is the array correlation matrix defined by
Elements of this matrix denote the correlation between signals in the various
transceiver paths. For example, $R_{\text{nm}}$denotes the correlation between
the signals in the _n_ th and the _m_ th transceiver paths, assuming that the
fast fading between antenna elements is spatially correlated.
For simplicity but still having the correlation sufficiently modelled in the
coexistence study, it is proposed to assume the same correlation level $\rho$,
where $\rho$ is a value between 0 and 1, between signals in transceiver paths,
or
Note that uniform correlation may be an over-simplification of an active array
implementation, when multiple sub-arrays are within the antenna elements it is
possible they have different correlation levels. The modelling of this effect
is FFS.
It's clear that
where U is the all-1 matrix and I is the unit matrix with 1 on the diagonal
elements only. The radiation pattern is simplified as
When $\rho = 1$, the correlation matrix $R$ is an all-1 matrix $U$, and the
radiation pattern is the same as a passive antenna, if their weighting vector
$W$ is configured the same. Therefore the following equation can be used for
legacy system with passive antenna as well.
When $\rho = 0$, the correlation matrix $R$ is the unit matrix _I_ with 1 on
the diagonal elements and the radiation pattern is the same as the radiation
element, or the antenna shows no array gain for uncorrelated inputs.
##### 5.4.4.1.5 Signals and correlation matrix for multiple column
The methodology of antenna modelling for multiple columns follows the same way
with that for single column in Section 5.4.4.1.4.
The signals at all elements are defined as
The complex output of the array system at far field becomes
where $E_{m,n}\left( \phi,\theta \right)$ denotes the complex gain of the
radiation element of _m_ -th column and the _n_ -th row, together with the
phase shift due to array placement, expressed as
Then the radiation pattern of the antenna array is the mean output power which
can be obtained by taking conditional expectation over $\left| y\left(
\phi,\theta,t \right) \right|^{2}$,
and _R_ is the array correlation matrix defined by
Elements of this matrix denote the correlation between signals in the various
transceiver paths. For example, $R_{(i - 1)N_{V} + (j - 1),(k - 1)N_{V} + (t -
1)}$denotes the correlation between the signals in the {_i_ th column, _j_ th
row} and the {_k_ th column, _t_ th row} transceiver paths, assuming that the
fast fading between antenna elements is spatially correlated.
For simplicity but still having the correlation sufficiently modelled in the
coexistence study, it is proposed to assume the same correlation level $\rho$,
where $\rho$ is a value between 0 and 1, between signals in transceiver paths,
or
Note that uniform correlation may be an over-simplification of an active array
implementation, when multiple sub-arrays are within the antenna elements it is
possible they have different correlation levels. The modelling of this effect
is FFS.
It's clear that
where U is the all-1 matrix and I is the unit matrix with 1 on the diagonal
elements only. The radiation pattern is simplified as
When $\rho = 1$, the correlation matrix $R$ is an all-1 matrix $U$, and the
radiation pattern is the same as a passive antenna.
When $\rho = 0$, the correlation matrix $R$ is the unit matrix _I_ with 1 on
the diagonal elements and the radiation pattern is the same as the radiation
element, or the antenna shows no array gain for uncorrelated inputs.
#### 5.4.4.2 Summarized functions and parameters
The parameters for the 3D antenna model are defined in Table 5.4.4.2-1 and
Table 5.4.4.2-2 below:
**Table 5.4.4.2-1** Element pattern
* * *
Horizontal Radiation Pattern  
Front to back ratio A~m~ = 30dB Vertical Pattern method  
Side Lobe lower level  
3D element Pattern  
Additional parameters are provided in A10 of Table 5.4.4.2.1-1.
* * *
**Table 5.4.4.2-2 Composite array pattern for single column**
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Configuration | Single column (N-elements) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Composite Array radiation | the weighting is given by | | pattern in dB | | | $ | the super position vector is | | A_{A}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ | given by | | | | | | $V = \left\lbrack v_{1},v_{2}, | | | \cdots,v_{N} \right\rbrack^{T}$, | | | $ | | | v_{n} = \text{exp}\left( - 2\pi | | | \cdot i \cdot \left( n - 1 \righ | | | t) \cdot \frac{d_{v}}{\lambda} \ | | | cdot \text{cos}\left( \theta \ri | | | ght) \right),\ n = 1,2,\ldots N$ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Active array loss | 0 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Additional parameters are | | | provided in A10 of Table | | | 5.4.4.2.1-1 | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Table 5.4.4.2-3 Composite array pattern for multiple column**
\
#### 5.4.4.2.1 Typical antenna parameters
**Table** 5.4.4.2.1-1 Parameter for typical passive antenna types
* * *
Antenna type **A1** **A5** **A10** **A15** **B5** **B10** **B15** **D5**
**D10** **D15** No of radiation elements 1 5 10 15 5 10 15 5 10 15 No of
columns 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 4 4 4 Max array gain for a single column / dBi 8.7 15 18
19.5 14.5 17 18.5 14.5 17 18.5 Max antenna gain / dBi 8.7 15 18 19.5 17 19.5
21 20 22.5 24 Vertical radiating element spacing d/λ - 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9
0.9 0.9 0.9 Horizontal radiating element spacing d/λ - - - - 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.5
0.5 0.5 Vertical 3dB bandwidth of single element / deg 65 65 65 65 65 65 65 65
65 65 Horizontal 3dB bandwidth of single element / deg 65 65 65 65 80 80 80 80
80 80 Losses of cable network / dB 0.5 0.8 1.0 1.2 0.8 1.0 1.2 0.8 1.0 1.2
* * *
Note: For single column AAS antenna, to calculate the gain of an active
antenna the losses of the cable network has to be added to the max gain.
AAS Max antenna gain = passive Max antenna gain + Losses of cable network
# 6 Study of AAS transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General review of transmitter characteristics
## 6.2 Transmitter spatial characteristics
## 6.3 Simulation results
### 6.3.1 ACLR
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
System simulations were performed to evaluate the downlink average and 5%CDF
throughput loss of the victim system while coexisting with the adjacent system
by varying ACLR value at the antenna connector. Requirement definition point
is FFS. For AAS, different correlation levels between transmitters were
performed to evaluate the impact on the system performance degradation.
The detailed simulation results are present in Annex. B.
6.3.1.1 Observations
1\. Cell average and 5% CDF throughput loss caused by aggressor AAS in Case 1a
(AAS to Legacy) are consistent with that caused by legacy BS in Case 1c
(Legacy to Legacy) with the same ACLR (per connector) assumption.
2\. The impact of correlation level to the system coexistence is evaluated.
Simulation results in Case 1a(AAS to Legacy) and Case 1b(AAS to AAS) show that
different correlation levels have little impact on the throughput loss due to
the fact that the dominant source of adjacent channel interference is due to
UE ACS.
3\. The impact of other downtilt values (5/20 degree) applied in aggressor
system is also investigated to check how sensitive the co-existence is
dependent on the downtilt value. Simulation results in Case 1b indicate that
generally the throughput impact is not sensitive to the amount of tilt in the
aggressor system.
4\. The impact of different downtilt methods (electrical / mechanical) on the
system coexistence is also evaluated. Simulation results in Case 1a\~1c show
that in most cases, the difference is small.
## 6.4 Requirements for AAS transmitters
### 6.4.1 Output power
In current 3GPP specifications, several different terms for the output power
of the BTS are defined. All definitions share the fact the power measured is
the mean power at the antenna connector in the transmitter ON period. The test
purpose is to verify the actual capability of the transmitter to feed an
antenna and the accuracy of the maximum output power under normal and extreme
conditions for all transmitters.
Two approaches have been considered for defining AAS Output power
requirements.
#### 6.4.1.1 Approach 1
Approach 1 is to define requirements at the boundary of the transceiver array
that can be translated as test requirements at either the transceiver array
boundary or in the far field.
Requirements for testing in the far field would be obtained by adding
appropriate antenna array gain characteristics relating to the AAS under test
to the transceiver boundary requirement.
The accuracy of the maximum total output power shall be consistent with
current 3GPP specification.
#### 6.4.1.2 Approach 2
Approach 2 is to define requirements in the far field that can be translated
as test requirements at either the transceiver array boundary or in the far
field.
Requirements for testing at the transceiver boundary would be obtained by
subtracting appropriate antenna array gain characteristics relating to the AAS
under test.
The definition of points in space at which the power requirements should be
defined (e.g. in the main lobe, or around the whole base station) should be
studied further and decided in the work item (WI).
The description of the requirements by Approach 1 would be similar to existing
specifications; Approach 2 would require the requirements to be described in a
different manner from existing specification. How to describe the requirements
is actually the work of the WI stage.
#### 6.4.1.3 Study Item conclusions on output power
The AAS Study Item came to the following conclusions on the way forward for
defining the output power requirement in the work item:
  1. Capture the two approaches in the Technical Report.
  2. The output power requirements can be specified as EIRP at the far field. However, the requirements shall be specified in the way that the equivalent requirements can be translated at the boundary of the transceiver array.
  3. The impacts imposed on the transceiver array and the antenna array by the requirements at either transceiver array or far field shall be the same.
  4. The output power requirement can be specified at the boundary of the transceivers. The requirements shall be specified in the way that the equivalent requirements can be translated at the far field.
  5. Further details are within the scope of WI phase.
### 6.4.2 ACLR requirements
In the current UMTS and LTE specifications, ACLR is defined as the ratio of
the filtered mean power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the
filtered mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency. This definition
can be considered for AAS BS. However, the ACLR performance of the AAS BS
observed in space varies with different directions. The definition of the
reference point locations in space at which the assigned channel and adjacent
channel power are specified needs further study in the work item phase.
For an AAS BS, simulation results indicated that for the specific scenarios
studied, ACLR of 45dB per transceiver is sufficient to fulfil the co-existence
studies as detailed in TR36.942 and TR25.942. These simulations estimate the
mean and 5th percentile throughput impact, while future simulations may
consider and study the impact of the spatial distribution of ACLR on the
spatial distribution of throughput.
The ACLR requirements can potentially be defined either at the far field or at
the boundary of the transceivers. Preferably, the requirement definition point
for ACLR should aim to be consistent with other AAS requirements. If the ACLR
requirements for AAS BS are specified at one point or more points at the far
field, how to equivalently translate between per transceiver ACLR requirements
and the ACLR requirements at the far field should be within the scope of the
work item phase.
# 7 Study of AAS receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General review of receiver characteristics
## 7.2 Receiver spatial characteristics
AAS experiences different spatial selectivity compared to fixed beam antennas.
In figure 7.2-1, a visualization of spatial selectivity loss in AAS is shown.
The AAS system does not achieve full spatial selectivity until after digital
baseband processing of the multiple elements in the array. Hence, an
interfering UE close to antenna would pose higher interferer level towards a
sub-array compared to full array antenna pattern.
**Figure 7.2-1 AAS Receiver Array Patterns**
### 7.2.1 Element or Sub array characteristics
The effective power level of the interferer UE (or the composite power
summation of multiple interferer UEs) is higher due to the lack of multi-
element pattern. The close-in interferers do not experience antenna gain
suppression as there is no array pattern yet. Instead, the interference
signals experience the less selective pattern (more omni-directional) of the
element or sub-array.
In addition the effective gain in the direction of the desired UE is lower
until the spatial gain has been realized, again due to the lack of multi-
element summation to form the array pattern in the antenna. Instead the signal
from the far-away desired UE experiences the same omni-directional (low gain)
pattern. Thus the desired signal appears lower in level to the front end
stages.
### 7.2.2 AAS system characteristics
## 7.3 Simulation results
### 7.3.1 In-band blocking
The in-band blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver's ability to
detect a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an unwanted
interferer inside the operating band.
The methodology of defining BS in-band blocking requirements for UTRA and
E-UTRA is described in TR25.942 and TR36.942, i.e. system simulations were
performed to evaluate the CDF distribution of the received power. In these
simulations the RX power has been measured at the antenna connector (via the
connected antenna) from UEs within the systems at the adjacent channel,
pending discussion on requirement definition points. The in-band blocking
requirement shall be the power level that the BS may receive with very low
probability, for example, 0.01% for Macro BS.
In this section the simulation results for in band blocking from different
companies have been captured based on the simulation scenarios and assumptions
described in Section 5.4.
#### 7.3.1.1 Case 1a: Uplink E-UTRA AAS interferer- legacy system victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with passive antenna system
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 750 m
The blocking level measured at the antenna connector of AAS single radiation
element from UEs within the adjacent legacy system is presented in table
7.3.1.1-1.
**Table 7.3.1.1-1** Blocking level for a 99.99% probability for Case 1a
* * *
Downtilt Power Control Huawei ZTE Ericsson R4-124174/R4-125469 R4-125244
R4-125431 Electrical downtilt : 9 degree PC1 -44.92 -44.8 -43.3 PC2 -54.69
-52.72 -53.7 Mechanical downtilt : 9 degree PC1 -45.39 -46.13 -43.5 PC2 -53.94
-57.85 -53.4
* * *
#### 7.3.1.2 Case 1b: Uplink E-UTRA AAS interferer- AAS victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 750 m
The blocking level measured at the antenna connector of AAS single radiation
element from UEs within adjacent AAS system is presented in table 7.3.1.2 -1.
**Table 7.3.1.2-1 Blocking level for a 99.99% probability for Case 1b**
* * *
Downtilt Power Control Huawei ZTE Ericsson R4-124174/R4-125469 R4-125244
R4-125431 Electrical downtilt : 9 degree PC1 -45.03 -45.12 -43.4 PC2 -55.49
-52.82 -56.3 Mechanical downtilt : 9 degree PC1 -46.18 -46.21 -42.4 PC2 -54.74
-57.69 -54.2
* * *
#### 7.3.1.3 Case 1c: Uplink E-UTRA legacy system interferer- legacy system
victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with passive antenna system
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with passive antenna system
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 750 m
The blocking level measured at the antenna connector of legacy BS from UEs
within adjacent legacy system is presented in table 7.3.1.3-1.
**Table 7.3.1.3-1 Blocking level for a 99.99% probability for Case 1c**
* * *
Downtilt Power Control Huawei ZTE Ericsson R4-124174/R4-125469 R4-125244
R4-125431 Electrical downtilt : 9 degree PC1 -46.6 -44.35 -41.6 PC2 -55.89
-55.63 -55.4 Mechanical downtilt : 9 degree PC1 -49.08 -41.79 -42.8 PC2 -59.15
-53.69 -54.8
* * *
#### 7.3.1.4 Discussion
Simulation results show that,
1\. Comparing Case 1a and Case 1c, the blocking interference signals presented
at the individual receivers relating to radiating elements of the AAS are
within around 1-5dB of those at the receiver of a BS equipped with passive
antenna for both mechanical and electrical tilt.
2\. The blocking interference signal obtained from Case 1a is a little higher
than that from Case 1b. The reason is the legacy BS with a passive antenna has
a higher cable loss than the AAS, resulting in the transmit power of the UE's
being higher and hence leading to a higher blocking level in the victim
network.
Other scenarios, in particular involving different element beamwidth
properties or AAS dimensionality have not been studied.
## 7.4 Requirements for AAS receivers
### 7.4.1 Requirement Reference Point
### 7.4.2 Reference sensitivity
There are two approaches to define the reference sensitivity level
requirements.
#### 7.4.2.1 Approach 1
Approach 1 is to define the requirements at the boundary of the transceiver
array such that they can be translated as test requirements at either the
transceiver boundary or at the far field.
The transceiver boundary requirement may be derived taking into account the
noise figure achievable in AAS transceivers and considering the difference in
gain between AAS antenna systems and legacy antenna systems in order to
achieve as a minimum requirement similar coverage to legacy base stations.
The Work Item would need to further consider whether to trade off noise figure
and coverage when higher AAS array gains are available. Trading the noise
figure for option 1 would require setting multiple requirements.
Requirements for OTA tests would be derived by adding the known gain of the
AAS under test to the core requirement.
#### 7.4.2.2 Approach 2
Approach 2 is to define the requirements AAS in the far field such that they
can be translated to test requirements either in the far field or at the
transceiver boundary.
When setting the minimum far field requirement the achievable noise figure in
AAS transceivers and the coverage achievable in legacy systems may be taken
into account.
AAS systems with different levels of AAS array gain would not change a core
requirement defined in far field. A large AAS gain could be used to either
exceed the minimum requirement or to accept a higher noise figure in the
individual transceivers.
Transceiver boundary tests for far field requirements would be derived by
subtracting the array gain of the specific AAS under test.
The question of whether to trade off noise figure and coverage when higher AAS
antenna array gains are available is also applicable to approach 2 and pending
further investigation in the WI phase.
#### 7.4.2.3 Study Item conclusions on reference sensitivity
The AAS Study Item came to the following conclusions on the way forward for
defining the reference sensitivity requirement in the work item:
  1. The RefSen level requirements can be specified to meet the throughput requirements by receiving a wanted signal at the far field or at the transceiver boundary. However, this RefSen level requirements shall be specified in the way that the equivalent requirements can be translated for conformance test
  2. The impacts imposed on the transceiver array and the antenna array by the requirements at either transceiver array or far field shall be the same.
  3. Whether or not to trade off between the noise figure and antenna gain are within the scope of the work item.
  4. Further details are within the scope of WI phase.
Editor Note: Reference sensitivity refers to the minimum RX signal level that
can be detected and relates to receiver internal noise. Receiver noise will
not add coherently when combined in the baseband, whereas an applied signal
will. Thus the applied signal to receiver noise level will differ between the
individual transceivers and the combined signal, and the SNR for the combined
signal will be modified by the spatial processing. The term \"sub array
reference sensitivity\" refers to the reference sensitivity defined at sub
array level prior to RDN combining, and \"system reference sensitivity\" to
the reference sensitivity defined after baseband combining.
7.4.3 In-band blocking
Receiver in-band blocking requirement for BS with AAS is defined to protect
against high mean power level of the interferers or blocker signals. A
different interferer level could potentially arise in AAS systems compared to
legacy systems as a result of the difference in antenna gain between an
antenna array and a single element or sub-array of an antenna array.
The in-band blocking power level is obtained by system level simulation based
on un-coordinated deployment, and the in-band blocking level is the 99.99%
level of the CDF of the total received power at the transceiver input.
Contributors to this power level include multiple UEs which are distributed at
multiple locations.
Preliminary simulation results for a single column AAS system observed that
the blocking power level for each individual receiver channel of the AAS
system was similar to the in-band blocking level for a legacy BS installed
with an assumed typical reference passive antenna array. Final determination
will be completed in the WI phase.
The in-band blocking requirements can be specified at either the boundary of
the transceivers or in the far field.
The details as to how to implement the RF requirements in the core and testing
specifications will be completed in the WI phase.
# 8 AAS test aspects
The purpose of testing is to verify the requirements for AAS transmitter(s)
and receiver(s). This section captures the study results on the testing of AAS
BS.
There could be multiple measurement setups capable of testing AAS BS, such as
Conducted Test, Over-the-Air Test, Coupling Test, Combined Test, and etc. Some
of the measurement setups were studied and the key aspects are introduced in
this section.
In case that there is not an access to the antenna connectors for conductive
tests, radiated tests can be the alternative. Use of more than one measurement
setups is not precluded if the same level of measurement accuracy and
compliance can be ensured. In this case, using the radiated measurement setups
to test BS with access to antenna connectors could also be possible.
In existing BS test specifications for core requirement verifications, such as
TS36.141, the measurement setup is specified in the Annex part as informative
clauses. For BS with AAS, the measurement setups will also be specified as
informative clause, such as one for AAS with access to antenna connector(s),
and the others for AAS without accessibility of antenna connector(s).
## 8.1 Comparison of different test methods
Methodologies under consideration for AAS testing are presented in 8.1.2. Each
methodology has strengths and weaknesses which are considered in developing
compliance tests.
Test methodologies are compared on multiple criteria:
  * Completeness. A methodology is considered complete if it can provide sufficient data to demonstrate compliance.
  * Accuracy. The methodologies must provide results that correctly characterize the performance of the equipment under test. Methodologies that require extensive calibration or numerous calibration factors are sensitive to systematic error.
  * Measurement Equipment Capabilities. The methodologies must be possible to implement with commonly available test equipment. Sufficient margin must exist between the test equipment noise floor or other test equipment limitations and the characteristic in question. Results recorded near the limits of the equipment capabilities tend to have poor accuracy.
  * Repeatability. Repeatability is a measure of the ability of a methodology to produce the same measurement results for multiple test iterations conducted by multiple test operators at multiple test sites. Methodologies that are very sensitive to calibration or subtle changes in the test environment are associated with questionable repeatability.
  * Cost-effectiveness. Given sufficient resources, any of the test methodologies could conceivably be demonstrated to produce acceptable results. However, some methodologies require significant effort and test discipline (and thus expense) to produce results with the required accuracy and place extensive demands upon test facilities. Reasonable compromises must be considered where the cost of producing acceptable results with a more complicated methodology is prohibitive.
  * Implementation neutrality. The methodology should not place constraints on implementations. Requirements for test ports and test fixtures should be minimized.
## 8.2 AAS test methodologies
**Several test methodologies have been proposed during the discussion. In this
subclause the potential test methodologies for AAS testing are documented to
facilitate the further study.**
### 8.2.1 Conducted Test
Conducted testing is performed via ohmic contact at the antenna connector(s).
Each transceiver can be tested independently or multiple transceivers can be
combined through passive combiners and tested simultaneously.
Independent characterization of individual transceivers follows the existing
3GPP practice of specifying requirements at the antenna connector. Such
testing requires no new procedures. Comparison of AAS conducted requirements
to existing 3GPP requirements is a straightforward process of adjusting
existing requirements by the gains and losses associated with the antenna
array configuration.
Spatial performance of the combined transceiver and antenna array may be
extrapolated from independent conducted test results, but the procedure is not
straightforward and requires assumptions regarding coherent vs. non-coherent
combining of differing signal types and assumptions about the uniformity of
gain between the array elements. As such, conducted tests have limited value
in characterizing spatial performance.
Spatial characteristics can be simulated by connecting multiple transceivers
to test equipment though passive combiners and adjusting phase and attenuation
for each path. TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 illustrate such testing. However, the
necessary phase and attenuation adjustments require detailed knowledge of the
AAS architecture under test to accurately simulate spatial characteristics.
The combining apparatus induces additional loss and phase uncertainties, which
may challenge the dynamic range and noise floor of test equipment. Hence, the
ability of passive combiner tests to characterize spatial performance with
sufficient accuracy is FFS.
The FCC has stated [3][4] that test results for multiple-antenna transmitter
emissions that are based on measurements of combined signals are not
acceptable for FCC type certification. The FCC allows test results to be
derived by measuring individual transceivers and combined in a worst-case
fashion.
A practical limitation of both independent and combined testing methodologies
is that antenna connectors in an AAS may be optimized for connection to the
antenna radiator elements. This may render the connectors incompatible with
commercially available test equipment.
#### 8.2.1.1 Combiner and Splitter Approach
As an example of a conducted test, the combiner approach for the transmitter
test combines the antenna array elements output into a single BS transmit
output connector where tests can be performed. Similarly, a splitter approach
is used for the receiver conducted tests. An illustration of conducted tests
for an M×N Antenna Array using the Combiner and Splitter approach for the
transmitter and receiver tests is shown in Figure 8.2.1.1-1 and Figure
8.2.1.1-2, respectively.
**Figure 8.2.1.1-1: Combiner Approach -Transmitter test set-up for BS with
AAS**
**Figure 8.2.1.1-2: Splitter Approach - Receiver test set-up for BS with AAS**
### 8.2.2 Far Field Over-the-Air Test
Far Field Over-the-Air (OTA) testing is performed in an anechoic chamber or
some other far-field test facility (e.g. outdoor open field). In OTA test data
would be collected at required angle(s) which details are FFS.
OTA testing offers the potential to provide a complete spatial
characterization of an antenna system and the far field behaviours (e.g. EIRP
and EIRS). In principle, it is similar to open-field testing which is
frequently required by regulatory agencies for equipment type certification.
Although specific OTA procedures are FFS, the test step should at least
include calibration and requirements test steps. Great care must be taken with
the calibration of such sites (in addition to test equipment calibration) to
obtain repeatable and stable results and to avoid perturbations to the AAS
system characteristics. To reduce the potential test costs the exact
characteristics tested with far field OTA should be carefully studied and
chose.
All existing 3GPP requirements are stated in terms that correspond to
conducted tests. Developing corresponding tests for radiated tests in three
dimensions would require the development of new test procedures. It also
requires a corresponding translation between the current requirements and
equivalent three dimension EIRP requirements. As the requirement reference
point in sub-clause 6.4.1 is not decided yet, the process for translating
between current measurements to three-dimensional EIRP requirements is FFS.
### 8.2.3 Coupling Test
Coupling tests are close-field tests conducted by arranging an array of field
strength probes in a fixture which aligns the probes with the radiators of the
AAS. Figure 8.2.3-1 is an illustration of the Coupling Test concept.
**Figure 8.2.3-1 Coupling Test Diagram**
From Figure 8.2.3-1, the RF test fixture consists of a passive RF distribution
splitter/combiner and a passive probe array. The splitter/combiner conducts
the RF signal to individual probe ports (i.e. RF connectors) and combines the
RF signal from each individual probe port. The number of probes in the test
fixture is not necessarily equal to the number of radiators in the AAS
Far-field performance can be estimated from close-field measurements using
calculations derived from electromagnetic theory. The calculations are very
sensitive to the precision and accuracy of the close-field measurements, and
simplifying assumptions are required to manage the complexity of the
calculations. The required degree of accuracy and adequate estimation formulas
are FFS. Though the details are FFS, the test should at least include two
steps: calibration and measurement.
This form of testing provides a single connection point for testing the
receiver and transmitter sections of the AAS. It avoids the need for direct
connection to the AAS transceiver but requires the design of a custom close
passive coupler device. The fixture must be accurately aligned to the AAS
enclosure to ensure repeatable measurements with required accuracy.
The Coupling test method also presents challenges to the test equipment. The
close-field coupler should allow testing over the entire frequency range
covered by the Technical Standards (i.e., 9 kHz to 12.75/19 GHz for spectral
emissions, even if only CATA/CATB requirements apply). The setup should
support all applicable UTRA and E-UTRA bands for collocation and coexistence
measurements. The electrical characteristics of the close-field probe should
be characterized very accurately over this entire frequency band so that the
probe response can be de-embedded from the measurements.
### 8.2.4 Combined Test
#### 8.2.4.1 Combined Conducted and Over-the-Air Test
In this section, the combined use of Conducted and Over-the-Air test
approaches is described. It consists of first using the Over-the-Air test
(OTA) methodology, as described in Section 8.2.2 to measure and quantify some
aspect of the antenna performance followed by a Conducted test of the
transceiver.
In the first step, antenna performance obtained during the validation phase
where measurements using OTA can be employed e.g. the difference in antenna
gains between the single element antenna and the complete passive array
antenna over a range of azimuth and elevation angles, which are measured using
OTA test. The results of these measurements are then processed to be applied
towards the second step where Conducted tests, as described in Section 8.2.1
can be employed.
A Combined Test approach can be illustrated below in Figure 8.2.4.1-1.
**Figure 8.2.4.1-1: Combined Conducted-OTA Test**
The details of processing in the two steps are to be defined later for the
specific RF requirement.
#### 8.2.4.2 Combined Close Field Coupling and Over-the-Air Test
In this section, the combined use of closed field coupling and Over-the-Air
test approaches is described. It consists of first using the Over-the-Air Test
methodology to measure and quantify some aspect of the antenna performance
followed by a Conducted test of the transceiver.
In the first step, antenna performance is obtained by OTA testing and the
measurements are then processed to be applied towards the second step. In the
second step, coupling test is employed to achieve RF requirements.
The test details are to be defined later.
### 8.2.5 Rayleigh Faded Multipath Over-the-Air test
**Rayleigh faded multipath Over-the-Air test requires a reverberation chamber.
Inside the chamber the mode stirrers and the reflecting metal walls generate a
Rayleigh fading environment. The measurement antennas, or the AAS antennas if
for receiver measurements collect the power representing the average from all
directions if the measurement time is long enough. The Rayleigh faded
multipath Over-the-Air test is not capable of capturing the spatial effects of
an AAS.**
**Introducing absorption material in the reverberation chamber to change the
propagation modes is also possible for particular measurements. The detailed
test methods are FFS.**
{width="5.2027777777777775in" height="2.8756944444444446in"}
**Figure 8.2.5-1 Rayleigh Faded Multipath Over-the-Air test Diagram**
### 8.2.6 Near-Field Probe Scanner Test
The physical dimensions of a test range can be reduced by adopting near-field
probe scanner measurement method, where the near-field is measured in certain
position by a measurement probe mounted in a mechanical scanner. Applying
analytical methods the measured near-field can be converted to far-field
radiation characteristics, such as gain patterns. The near-field measured data
(amplitude and phase) is acquired by using a probe to scan field close to the
radiating element. The position of the probe is characterized by coordinates
(x, y, z~o~) in the xyz-coordinate system of the antenna under test (AUT).
During the scanning, z~o~ is kept constant, while x and y are varied. The
dimensions of the near-filed scanning aperture must be large enough to accept
all significant energy radiated from the AUT. The measured near-field data
E(x,y,z~o~) is transformed into a plane wave spectrum, by a two-dimensional
Fourier transform resulting in a far-field pattern. The probe response is de-
convoluted from the AUT angular response.
For certain BS antenna configurations it may be better to utilize cylindrical
or spherical scanning techniques where the near-field is probed on a
cylindrical or spherical surface instead of a plane surface. In the
cylindrical scanning technique, the AUT is rotated around the z-axis of a xyz-
coordinate system in ∆φ steps, while the probe is moved on the cylindrical
surface at various heights relative to the xy-plane in ∆z steps. The probe is
located at a distance, which is the smallest cylinder radius enclosing the
AUT. The cylindrical scanning enables obtaining the exact azimuth pattern but
limited elevation pattern due to the truncation of the scanning aperture in z
direction. The cylindrical scanning technique is suitable for BS antenna
measurements since it will capture the wide beam characteristics in the
azimuth plane well and also capture the narrow beam characteristics in the
vertical plane.
The accuracy of the near-field measurement is determined by: RF reflections,
mechanical errors, truncations errors and system errors. A near field range is
suitable for placement in a shielded chamber with absorption material on the
inside minimizing reflections and RF interference.
This method is commercially accepted for BS antenna testing in transmission
mode. The feasibility for testing BS antennas in reception mode is FFS.
# 9 Conclusions
# Annex A: (Informative) Study Item plan and progress
## A.1 The Study Item plan
The work plan for the present Study Item is below:
By end of RAN4 # 62bis (Mar 2012), to complete the study of the following
aspects:
> Study of AAS classifications
>
> Study of AAS definitions and terminologies
By end of RAN4 # 65 (Nov 2012), to complete the following aspects:
> Study of AAS transmitter characteristics (RF and/or EMC)
>
> Study of AAS Receiver characteristics (RF and/or EMC)
>
> Study of AAS test aspects
>
> Capture the study results in clause 6, clause 7, and clause 8 in the present
> document.
Technical Report to be presented in RANP # 58 (Dec 2012) for information.
By end of RAN4 #66 (Jan 2013), to complete the following aspects:
> Concluding the SI by completing the conclusion part (clause 9) in the
> present document.
Technical Report to be presented in RANP # 59 (Mar 2013) for approval.
## A.2 The Study Item progress
**RAN Plenary #54 Completion level 8%**
**RAN Plenary #55 Completion level 20%**
**RAN Plenary #56 Completion level 55%**
**RAN Plenary #57 Completion level 65%**
## A.3 The list of contributions
**RAN4 #59, Barcelona, Spain, 9-13 May, 2011**
> R4-112779, Deployment Scenarios and RF Requirements for Base Station
> Systems, Huawei
**RAN Plenary #52, Bratislava, Slovakia, May 31-June 3, 2011**
> RP-110858, RF Requirements for Active Antenna Array System (AAS) Base
> Station, Huawei
**RAN4 #59 adhoc,** Bucharest, Romania, June 27th -- July 1st, 2011
> R4-113380, Considerations for BS AAS Requirements, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-113423, Discussion of RF requirements for AAS BS, Huawei
>
> R4-113594, BS antenna array aspects, Ericsson
**RAN Plenary #53, Fukuoka, Japan, Sept 13-Sept 16, 2011, SI approved**
> RP-111349, Study of RF and EMC Requirements for Active Antenna Array System
> (AAS) Base Station, Huawei
**RAN4 #60, Zhuhai, China, 10 Oct -- 14 Oct , 2011**
> R4-115008, Discussion on AAS spurious emission, Huawei
>
> R4-115009, Consideration of the framework for AAS study, Huawei
>
> R4-115010, Further considerations of AAS transmitter characteristics, Huawei
>
> R4-115011, Work plan for AAS study item, Huawei
>
> R4-115012, Possible application scenarios of AAS, Huawei
>
> R4-115176, On requirements for Active Antenna Array base-station, Ericsson
>
> R4-115177, On Reference point for requirements and test for AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-115270, BS AAS Requirements & Specification Options, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-115272, BS AAS: Preliminary List of Specifications Coverage, Alcatel-
> Lucent
>
> R4-115330, AAS Taxonomy, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-115457, Work plan for AAS study item, Huawei
>
> R4-115458, Consideration of the framework for AAS study, Huawei
**RAN4 #61, San Francisco, CA, Nov. 14-18, 2011**
> R4-115575, Considerations of system coexistence simulation for AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-115663, BS AAS Radio Architecture, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-115667, BS AAS Acronym and Definition, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-115987, Scope of AAS study item, NTT DOCOMO
>
> R4-116004, On need and feasibility of OTA test in AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-116006, On spatial domain impact on receiver in AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-116008, On the spatial domain in AAS and current specification, Ericsson
>
> R4-116010, On the scope for the AAS work, Ericsson
>
> R4-116011, Terminology and definitions for AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-116012, Overview of international regulation related to AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-116015, TR ver 0.0.1 for AAS SI, Huawei (Rapporteur)
>
> R4-116073, Proposed text for the scope of the AAS technical report, Nokia
> Siemens Networks
>
> R4-116075, AAS nomenclature, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-116078, Baseline AAS deployment scenarios, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-116282, Harmonized AAS Nomenclature, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-116290, TP for Overview of international regulation related to AAS,
> Ericsson
>
> R4-116332, TP on BS AAS Radio Architecture, Alcatel Lucent
**RAN Plenary #54, Berlin** , **Germany, Dec. 6-9, 2011**
> RP-111546, Status report for SI Study of RF and EMC Requirements for Active
> Antenna Array System (AAS) Base Station, Huawei
**RAN4 #62, Dresdon, Germany, Feb. 06-10, 2012**
> R4-120051, Survey of AAS test options, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-120061, Initial simulation results for AAS blocking, ZTE
>
> R4-120062, Some antenna terminologies about AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-120063, Text proposal for simulation assumptions for AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-120064, Discussion on feasibility and necessity of OTA far field testing
> for AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-120185, TP subclause 3.1 and 3.2 Definitions and Abbr, Huawei
>
> R4-120189, TP subclause 4.2 reference structure, Huawei
>
> R4-120194, TP subclause 5.1 Applications, Huawei
>
> R4-120195, TP subclause 5.2 Deployment scenarios, Huawei
>
> R4-120196, TP subclause 5.3 Classifications, Huawei
>
> R4-120199, TP subclause 6.1 General review of the transmitter
> characteristic, Huawei
>
> R4-120200, TP subclause 6.2 The transmitter spatial characteristics, Huawei
>
> R4-120203, TP subclause 7.1: General review of receiver characteristics,
> Huawei
>
> R4-120210, TP subclause Annex A: The SI progress and work plan, Huawei
>
> R4-120215, Further consideration of AAS study, Huawei
>
> R4-120329, BS AAS Requirements and Tests, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-120330, BS AAS Definition and Reference Points, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-120487, On spatial distribution aspects of receiver performance
> requirements, Ericsson
>
> R4-120608, Application scenarios for AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-120610, On spatial domain properties of the transmitter in AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-120614, On AAS specification base-line, Ericsson
>
> R4-120674, AAS spatial aspects, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-120905, Spatial domain impact on AAS specification work, Ericsson
>
> R4-120908, Antenna Model for Active Antenna Array Systems, Kathrein
>
> R4-120987, Way forward for AAS study, Huawei
>
> R4-120988, TP for Overview of international regulation related to AAS,
> Ericsson, Huawei, NTT DOCOMO
>
> R4-120990, Radio Reference Architecture for BS with AAS, Alcatel-Lucent,
> Huawei
>
> R4-120992, TP subclause 4.1 SI Objective and methodologies, Huawei
>
> R4-120993, TP subclause 6.1 General review of the transmitter
> characteristic, Huawei
>
> R4-121094, Harmonized AAS Nomenclature, Nokia Siemens Networks, Huawei, ALU,
> ZTE
**RAN Plenary #55, Xiamen** , C**hina, Feb. 28- Mar. 02, 2012**
> RP-120158, Status report for SI Study of RF and EMC Requirements for Active
> Antenna Array System (AAS) Base Station, Huawei
**RAN4 #62bis, Jeju, Korea, Mar. 26-30, 2012**
> R4-121200, TP for updating AAS definitions and abbreviations in 37.840,
> Ericsson
>
> R4-121201, OTA measurement of AAS unwanted emission, Ericsson
>
> R4-121212, Text Proposal for AAS Definition, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-121213, Text Proposal for Combiner Approach, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-121214, Further Considerations to the Combiner Approach, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-121215, Active Antenna Modeling, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-121216, A combined Conducted and OTA Approach, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-121335, Text proposal for simulation objective for AAS, ZTE, Nokia
> Siemens Networks
>
> R4-121336, Text proposal for comparison of different test methods for AAS,
> ZTE
>
> R4-121337, OTA test methodologies for AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-121498, Baseline test methodologies with consideration of future OTA
> possibility, NTT DOCOMO
>
> R4-121623, Consideration of simulation for AAS study, Huawei
>
> R4-121624, TP for simulation assumptions for AAS, Huawei
>
> R4-121625, TR37.840 for AAS SI ver 010, Huawei
>
> R4-121626, Further considerations of the methdologies for AAS study, Huawei
>
> R4-121627, TP for TR37840 AAS applications and coexistence scenarios, Huawei
>
> R4-121628, TP for AAS tests aspects, Huawei
>
> R4-121644, Multi carrier transmitter spatial domain impact, Ericsson
>
> R4-121647, AAS Reference Structure Update, Ericsson
>
> R4-121650, AAS Structure examples, Ericsson
>
> R4-121653, On AAS impacts to demodulation performance testing, Ericsson
>
> R4-121667, Demodulation performance testing, Ericsson
>
> R4-121835, Modeling Active Antennas, Kathrein
>
> R4-121917, On applications to be covered in AAS SI, Ericsson
>
> R4-121918, AAS applications, Ericsson
>
> R4-121919, On parameterization of reference structure, Ericsson
>
> R4-121920, On AAS BS classification and output power definition, Ericsson
>
> R4-121921, On AAS co-existence scenarios, Ericsson
>
> R4-122100, AAS applications, Ericsson
>
> R4-122101, TP for TR37840 AAS applications and coexistence scenarios, Huawei
>
> R4-122102, Way forward of AAS study, Huawei, NTT DoCoMo, ALU, NSN, Ericsson,
> ZTE
>
> R4-122103, Text proposal for simulation objective for AAS, ZTE, Nokia
> Siemens Networks
>
> R4-122104, TP for simulation assumptions for AAS, Huawei
>
> R4-122195, Text proposal for comparison of different test methods for AAS,
> ZTE
>
> R4-122196, AAS Adhoc meeting minutes, Huawei
>
> R4-122197, Text Proposal for AAS Definition, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-122198, AAS Reference Structure Update, Ericsson
>
> R4-122224, AAS Adhoc meeting minutes, Huawei
**RAN4 #63, Prague, Czech Republic, May. 21-25, 2012**
> R4-122355 Extension of the new antenna model to a 2D antenna array, Kathrein
>
> R4-122378 Antenna tilt angle considerations, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-122379 Spatial aspects of passive antenna arrays, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-122380 AAS study item goals and outputs, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-122395 Discussion on modeling AAS antenna pattern, ZTE
>
> R4-122397 Text proposal for simulation assumptions for AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-122398 Discussion for ACLR requirements , ZTE
>
> R4-122399 Discussion for blocking requirements, ZTE
>
> R4-122400 Discussion for antenna requirements in AAS BS, ZTE
>
> R4-122402 Text proposal for comparison of different test methods for AAS,
> ZTE, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-122525 TR 37.840 ver 0.2.0, Huawei
>
> R4-122526 Corrections on TR 37.840 ver 0.2.0, Huawei
>
> R4-122529 Minimum coupling loss of AAS, Huawei
>
> R4-122530 TP on simulation assumptions for AAS studying, Huawei
>
> R4-122531 On AAS antenna modelling, Huawei
>
> R4-122533 Simulation results of in-band blocking for AAS receiver, Huawei
>
> R4-122534 Modeling of AAS transmitters spatail characteristics, Huawei
>
> R4-122536 On the RF requirements for AAS receiver, Huawei
>
> R4-122538 Lab results of the AAS transmitter spatial characteristics, Huawei
>
> R4-122543 On spatial ACLR of AAS, Huawei
>
> R4-122960 Text Proposal on AAS demodulation performance, Ericsson
>
> R4-122963 Text proposal on AAS areas to Study, Ericsson
>
> R4-122966 TP on AAS Scenarios, Ericsson
>
> R4-122968 TP on transmitter spatial domain aspects, Ericsson
>
> R4-122970 TP on receiver spatial domain aspects, Ericsson
>
> R4-123004 Text proposal: Collection of AAS RF performance test methods,
> Ericsson
>
> R4-123010 AAS spatial performance simulation results, Ericsson
>
> R4-123011 AAS spatial performance simulation results, Ericsson
>
> R4-123072 Deployment Scenarios and Assumptions, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-123077 Antenna Model for AAS, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-123079 AAS RF Requirements, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-123081 Further Considerations of Combined Conducted-OTA Approach,
> Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-123084 Text Proposal for Testing Methodologies, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-123085 AAS example applications, Ericsson
>
> R4-123086 Example of reference structure parameterization, Ericsson
>
> R4-123092 Text Proposal for Combined Conducted-OTA Approach, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-123368 On co-existence study of AAS, NTT DOCOMO
>
> R4-123518 AAS Adhoc meeting minutes, Huawei
>
> R4-123519 Way Forward on AAS Tx ACLR Requirement, Alcatel Lucent, NTT
> DOCOMO, Huawei
>
> R4-123521 AAS antenna modelling Way Forward, Huawei, Ericsson, Kathrein,
> Alcatel-Lucent, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Nokia Siemens Networks
**RAN Plenary #56, Ljubljana, Slovenia, June 13 - 15, 2012**
> **RP-120581 Status report for SI Study of RF and EMC Requirements for Active
> Antenna Array System (AAS) Base Station, Huawei**
**RAN4 #64, Qingdao, China, August. 13-17, 2012**
> R4-123805 On ACLR requirement for BS with AAS, NTT DOCOMO
>
> R4-123925 Discussion for composite radiation pattern of AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-123926 Discussion for ACLR requirements, ZTE
>
> R4-123957 Methodologies of Far field OTA test and Close field coupling test
> for AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-123960 Text proposal for comparison of different test methods for AAS,
> ZTE
>
> R4-124007 Antenna Tilt Considerations, Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-124033 TP on antenna model, Ericsson
>
> R4-124034 TP on receiver spatial domain aspects, Ericsson
>
> R4-124035 TP on AAS far-field characteristics for large tilt angles,
> Ericsson
>
> R4-124036 TP on simulation parameter assumptions, Ericsson
>
> R4-124041 TP on placing together AAS RF performance test methods, Ericsson
>
> R4-124042 Impact of Coupling between Sub-Arrays, Ericsson
>
> R4-124045 Spatial Modelling for BS with AAS, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124046 ACLR Considerations, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124047 Further Considerations of Combined Conducted-OTA Approach,
> Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124048 Receive Blocking Requirements: Simulation Results, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124049 RF Requirements: Receive Blocking, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124050 Spurious Emissions Requirements for AAS, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124051 Text Proposal for Combined Conducted-OTA, Approach Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124053 Text Proposal for Testing Methodologies, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124054 Text Proposal: Receive Blocking, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124169 Text Proposal: 3D coexistence scenarios and simulation
> assumptions, Huawei
>
> R4-124170 Text Proposal: 3D antenna modelling, Huawei
>
> R4-124171 Discussion on BS down-tilt angle, Huawei
>
> R4-124172 Simulation results for AAS spatial ACLR, Huawei
>
> R4-124174 Simulation results: AAS in-band blocking, Huawei
>
> R4-124175 Text Proposal: AAS receiver characteristics, Huawei
>
> R4-124176 On AAS spatial EVM, Huawei
>
> R4-124179 On AAS applications, Huawei
>
> R4-124180 On the remaining work of AAS SI, Huawei
>
> R4-124221 Close field coupling test methodology for the RF parameters of
> AAS, ZTE
>
> R4-124222 Far field OTA test methodology for the spacial performance of AAS,
> ZTE
>
> R4-124406 TP on AAS Scenarios, Ericsson
>
> R4-124409 TP on transmitter spatial domain impacts of AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-124414 Legacy base-line E-UTRA co-existence simulation results for AAS,
> Ericsson, ST-Ericsson
>
> R4-124416 Text proposal on impact of AAS on demodulation performance
> requirements, Ericsson
>
> R4-124419 Downlink co-existence with electronic tilt, Ericsson
>
> R4-124420 Further results on downlink AAS coexistence with non AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-124422 Further results on downlink AAS coexistence with AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-124425 On defining spatial ACLR, Ericsson
>
> R4-124427 TP on general AAS TX characteristics , Ericsson
>
> R4-124429 TP on general AAS RX characteristics , Ericsson
>
> R4-124485 Consideration on AAS antenna modelling, CATT
>
> R4-124571 AAS example applications, Ericsson
>
> R4-124573 Further elaboration of AAS parametirization, Ericsson
>
> R4-124576 Example for reference structure parameterization, Ericsson
>
> R4-124578 Discussion on test and requirement points for AAS, Ericsson
>
> R4-124749 Simulation results for AAS spatial ACLR, Huawei
>
> R4-124885 AAS Ad Hoc minutes, Huawei
>
> R4-124886 Text Proposal: 3D antenna modelling, Huawei
>
> R4-124887 Text Proposal: 3D coexistence scenarios and simulation
> assumptions, Huawei
>
> R4-124889 Way forward on AAS transmitter characteristics, Huawei, Ericsson,
> Alcatel Lucent, NSN, Kathrein
>
> R4-124890 AAS RX characteristics, Alcatel Lucent
>
> R4-124891 AAS example applications, Ericsson, Nokia Siemens Networks,
> Huawei, Kathrein, Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-124978 Way forward on AAS test methodology, ZTE, Huawei, Alcatel Lucent,
> Kathrein, NSN
>
> R4-124997 AAS Ad Hoc minutes, Huawei
**RAN Plenary #57, Chicago, USA, Sept 4 - 7, 2012**
> RP-121081 Status report for SI Study of RF and EMC Requirements for Active
> Antenna Array System (AAS) Base Station, Huawei
**RAN4#64Bis, Santa Rosa, USA, October 8-12, 2012**
> R4-125127 Transmitter Spurious Emission for AAS Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-125128 Text Proposal for Receiver Blocking Requirements Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-125131 Combined Test Methodology Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-125132 Testing Methodologies Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-125133 Requirement Points for AAS Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-125215 TP on modeling AAS with multiple-column array antenna CMCC, Huawei
>
> R4-125243 Updated simulation results on downlink AAS ACLR ZTE
>
> R4-125244 Simulation results for BS uplink in-band blocking requirements of
> AAS ZTE
>
> R4-125245 Correction on Composite Array Radiation Pattern for AAS ZTE
>
> R4-125247 Discussions on the reference point of the composite ACLR in AAS
> ZTE
>
> R4-125248 Text Proposal on AAS spatial characteristics ZTE
>
> R4-125249 Discussion on Far field OTA Test ZTE
>
> R4-125251 Text Proposal on Far field OTA Test ZTE
>
> R4-125253 Methodologies of Close field coupling test for AAS ZTE
>
> R4-125254 Text proposal on close field coupling test for AAS ZTE
>
> R4-125260 TP for 8.2.1 Conducted Test Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-125262 for 8.2.2 Far Field Over-the-Air Test Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-125263 TP for 8.2.3 Coupling Test Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-125265 TP for 8.2.4 Combined Test Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-125370 TP adding a 2D array model to TR 37.840 Ericsson
>
> R4-125372 TP adding a sub-section with a second set of simulation parameters
> to the TR Ericsson
>
> R4-125374 TP adding sub-section for directivity characteristics in Annex C
> Ericsson
>
> R4-125426 AAS impact on demodulation performance requirements Ericsson
>
> R4-125427 Initial ACLR results considering horizontal domain beamforming
> Ericsson
>
> R4-125428 Text Proposal on reference points for ACLR Ericsson
>
> R4-125429 Considerations on further scenarios to investigate for RX blocking
> and ACLR Ericsson
>
> R4-125430 TX ACLR simulations Ericsson
>
> R4-125431 RX blocking simulations Ericsson
>
> R4-125432 On the requirement definition points for RX blocking Ericsson
>
> R4-125433 On requirement definition points for reference sensitivity
> Ericsson
>
> R4-125434 TP on spatial domain impacts of AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-125456 TR 37.840 v030 Huawei
>
> R4-125458 Further considerations of AAS SI next step Huawei
>
> R4-125462 Summary of the issues and solutions for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-125466 TP on ACLR simulation results summary Huawei
>
> R4-125467 TP analyzing directivity and gain of parameterized antenna element
> model Ericsson
>
> R4-125469 Additional simulation results for AAS in-band blocking Huawei
>
> R4-125471 TP adding introduction body text to section of TR 37.840 Ericsson
>
> R4-125474 Updated simulation results for AAS ACLR Huawei
>
> R4-125475 TP with editorial corrections to TR 37.840 Ericsson, Huawei
>
> R4-125477 TP on BS down-tilt angle Huawei
>
> R4-125481 TP on EVM simulation resuts summary Huawei
>
> R4-125484 TP on in-band blocking simulation results summary Huawei
>
> R4-125487 Text Proposal to clause 8: AAS Testing Huawei
>
> R4-125491 Discussion of AAS transmitter characteristics and requirements
> Huawei
>
> R4-125494 Discussion on AAS receiver characteristics and requirements Huawei
>
> R4-125503 Test methodologies of Far field OTA test with reverberation
> chamber for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-125708 Output power requirements for AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-125711 Reference point principles Ericsson
>
> R4-125712 On spatial EVM for AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-125965 AAS Ad Hoc minutes Huawei
>
> R4-125967 Text Proposal on Far field OTA Test ZTE
>
> R4-125978 TP on modeling AAS with multiple-column array antenna CMCC,
> Huawei, Ericsson
>
> R4-125980 TP on BS down-tilt angle Huawei
>
> R4-125981 TP on ACLR simulation results summary Huawei, Ericsson, ZTE
>
> R4-125982 TP on in-band blocking simulation results summary Huawei,
> Ericsson, ZTE
>
> R4-125983 Text Proposal to clause 8: AAS Testing Huawei, Alcatel Lucent
>
> R4-125984 TP for 8.2.3 Coupling Test Nokia Siemens Networks, ZTE, Huawei
>
> R4-125985 TP for 8.2.1 Conducted Test Nokia Siemens Networks, Alcatel-
> Lucent, Huawei, ZTE
>
> R4-125986 Combined Test Methodology Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia Siemens Networks,
> ZTE
>
> R4-125987 Test methodologies of Far field OTA test with reverberation
> chamber for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-125988 Summary of the issues and solutions for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-125989 Requirement Points for AAS Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-126073 Requirements for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126074 WF and Text Proposal for Requirements Points for AAS Alcatel-
> Lucent, Ericsson
**RAN4#65, New Orleans, USA, November 12-16, 2012**
> R4-126323 TR37.840 ver 040 Huawei
>
> R4-126872 AAS Ad Hoc minutes Huawei
>
> R4-126882 AAS Ad Hoc minutes Huawei
>
> R4-126537 AAS study item completion Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-126547 Way forward for AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-126548 On the inclusion of radiating elements for AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-126551 TP: Requirement and test point approach for AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-126685 TP: TP on spatial domain impacts of AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-126688 TP: Aligning section 3 with TR 37.840 version 0.4.0 Ericsson
>
> R4-126888 TP: TP on spatial domain impacts of AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-126890 TP: Aligning section 3 with TR 37.840 version 0.4.0 Ericsson
>
> R4-126898 TP: Way forward for output power requirement Ericsson
>
> R4-126899 TP: Way forward for reference sensitivity requirement Ericsson,
> Huawei
>
> R4-126532 AAS classification Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-126885 AAS classification Nokia Siemens Networks, Huawei
>
> R4-126571 TP on Section 5.4.4.2. for general parameters on the AAS antenna
> model Kathrein
>
> R4-126689 TP: Adding directivity and gain to definitions in section 3 of
> 37.840. Ericsson
>
> R4-126692 TP: Adding directivity analysis to Annex C or TR 37.840 Ericsson
>
> R4-126886 TP on Section 5.4.4.2. for general parameters on the AAS antenna
> model Kathrein
>
> R4-126887 TP: Adding directivity and gain to definitions in section 3 of
> 37.840. Ericsson
>
> R4-126889 TP: Adding directivity analysis to Annex C or TR 37.840 Ericsson
>
> R4-126977 TP on Section 5.4.4.2. for general parameters on the AAS antenna
> model Kathrein
>
> R4-126324 Update of the SI plan Huawei
>
> R4-126325 Review of the requirements and antenna for legacy BS Huawei
>
> R4-126326 Summary of the methodologies for AAS study Huawei
>
> R4-126328 Output power requirements for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126329 ACLR requirements for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126330 Spurious emission requirements for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126331 EVM requirements for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126332 Reference sensitivity requirements for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126333 In-band blocking requirements for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126396 Text proposal for TR37.840 Subclause 9 Huawei
>
> R4-126458 Guideline for specifying AAS requirements Huawei
>
> R4-126515 AAS Requirements Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-126534 Reference sensitivity requirement definition Ericsson
>
> R4-126535 Reference point for AAS receiver requirements Nokia Siemens
> Networks
>
> R4-126541 Output power requirements definition Ericsson
>
> R4-126543 Receiver blocking requirements definition Ericsson
>
> R4-126544 ACLR requirement definition Ericsson
>
> R4-126545 Unwanted emissions requirements definition Ericsson
>
> R4-126549 Further elaboration on spatial EVM for AAS Ericsson
>
> R4-126550 EVM requirements definition Ericsson
>
> R4-126883 Update of the SI plan Huawei
>
> R4-126884 Text proposal for TR37.840 Subclause 9 Huawei
>
> R4-126896 TP for AAS ACLR ZTE, Huawei, Ericsson, Alcatel Lucent, Nokia
> Siemens Networks
>
> R4-126897 In-band blocking requirements for AAS Huawei, Ericsson, Alcatel
> Lucent, Nokia Siemens Networks, ZTE
>
> R4-126917 Summary of the methodologies for AAS study Huawei
>
> R4-126114 Further explanation on the near-field coupling test fixture ZTE
> Corporation
>
> R4-126115 TP on improved diagram of the coupling test ZTE Corporation
>
> R4-126334 TP on reverberation chamber OTA test for AAS Huawei
>
> R4-126520 Combined OTA-Conducted Test Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-126536 AAS test methods comparison Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-126686 TP: Adding Near-Field Probe Scanner Test method to section 8\.
> Ericsson
>
> R4-126891 AAS test methods comparison Nokia Siemens Networks
>
> R4-126892 Combined OTA-Conducted Test Alcatel-Lucent
>
> R4-126893 TP: Adding Near-Field Probe Scanner Test method to section 8\.
> Ericsson
>
> R4-127000 Updated on AAS TR TR37.840 v0.5.0 Huawei
# Annex B: Simulations results
The simulation results for ACLR (per element) from different companies have
been captured based on the simulation scenarios and assumptions described in
Section 5.4.
## B.1 Case 1a: Downlink E-UTRA AAS interferer- legacy system victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with passive antenna system
Downtilt angle: 9 degree downtilt in aggressor and victim system
Correlation level: 0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8. 1.0
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 750 m
Simulation results are presented in Table B.1-1for electrical downtilt and
Table B.1-2 for mechanical downtilt.
**Table B.1‑1** Case 1a simulation results summary (Electrical downtilt)
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 6.0929 23.9549 6.4980 22.8180 6.8261 22.2874 7.0837 21.5957 7.2587
21.1872 7.2207 19.0198 35 4.8476 15.9239 4.9697 15.5777 5.0757 15.2120 5.1605
14.7111 5.2134 13.5116 5.1733 12.1408 40 4.2737 11.1952 4.3016 10.9334 4.3254
10.6982 4.3435 10.4384 4.3519 10.1315 4.3193 9.5474 45 4.0276 9.4984 4.0326
9.3892 4.0358 9.3027 4.0377 9.2495 4.0364 9.2104 4.0149 8.8281 50 3.9307
8.9929 3.9309 8.9722 3.9308 8.9707 3.9303 8.9687 3.9287 8.9602 3.9147 8.6013
* * *
* * *
ZTE (R4-125243) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4 Correlation:
0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.9106 20.2684 6.3600 21.1764 6.7141 21.6916 7.0187 21.6602 7.2652
20.4283 7.3705 19.6064 35 4.7621 15.6824 4.8974 15.6195 5.0092 15.1871 5.1078
14.6385 5.1895 14.2075 5.2250 13.9391 40 4.2324 12.5605 4.2647 12.0792 4.2914
11.6938 4.3147 11.5711 4.3341 11.5945 4.3429 11.4494 45 4.0085 11.0662 4.0143
10.8066 4.0194 10.7919 4.0240 10.7722 4.0279 10.7015 4.0290 10.6069 50 3.9222
10.5553 3.9231 10.4964 3.9242 10.3897 3.9251 10.3154 3.9254 10.2912 3.9259
10.3006
* * *
* * *
Ericcson (R4-125430) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.8010 22.6056 6.1369 24.5186 6.4065 25.8766 6.6207 27.2267 6.7697
27.9175 6.6685 28.2114 35 4.4337 16.7285 4.5551 17.9056 4.6530 18.3543 4.7301
18.5422 4.7794 18.9312 4.7216 18.9885 40 3.7465 15.5633 3.7923 15.7568 3.8253
15.8147 3.8494 16.0168 3.8622 16.1395 3.8357 16.2241 45 3.4539 15.2556 3.4756
15.5620 3.4880 15.7127 3.4960 15.7257 3.4995 15.7262 3.4899 15.7264 50 3.3466
15.0479 3.3607 15.1163 3.3669 15.1163 3.3705 15.2062 3.3722 15.2062 3.3693
15.2513
* * *
**Table B.1‑** 2 Case 1a simulation results summary (Mechanical downtilt)
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 3.5786 14.0827 3.7739 14.6345 3.9308 13.5067 4.0493 12.9034 4.1144
12.3559 4.0003 10.6685 35 2.7853 6.0808 2.8304 6.0181 2.8649 6.1911 2.8853
6.3956 2.8844 6.4574 2.7976 5.8873 40 2.4138 4.7018 2.4171 4.6158 2.4165
4.6766 2.4111 4.5316 2.3975 4.3468 2.3427 3.4315 45 2.2442 3.8258 2.2407
3.8030 2.2360 3.6515 2.2293 3.4225 2.2193 3.3515 2.1877 2.8893 50 2.1687
3.2419 2.1661 3.2200 2.1630 3.1969 2.1588 3.1850 2.1531 3.0401 2.1373 2.7372
* * *
* * *
ZTE (R4-125243) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4 Correlation:
0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 2.9219 10.6241 3.1098 10.4443 3.2741 10.2447 3.3983 9.9706 3.4709
9.3203 3.4760 8.9923 35 2.1550 6.5387 2.1979 6.5004 2.2324 6.0789 2.2565
5.9615 2.2651 5.7411 2.2545 5.6770 40 1.7968 5.2378 1.8021 5.0606 1.8045
4.9980 1.8046 4.7461 1.8012 4.6654 1.7933 4.5784 45 1.6466 4.4512 1.6461
4.4493 1.6444 4.3635 1.6425 4.3368 1.6397 4.3388 1.6362 4.3424 50 1.5905
4.2997 1.5897 4.3022 1.5887 4.3048 1.5877 4.2946 1.5865 4.2972 1.5852 4.2998
* * *
* * *
Ericsson (R4-125430) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 6.0587 24.1687 6.4010 26.8229 6.6808 28.7331 6.9009 30.6639 7.0547
31.4792 6.9464 32.0624 35 4.6905 19.2959 4.8131 19.7520 4.9126 20.2582 4.9912
21.0362 5.0415 21.7296 4.9762 21.9114 40 3.9775 17.1361 4.0239 17.2949 4.0568
17.5085 4.0805 17.6989 4.0919 17.7632 4.0583 17.7985 45 3.6598 16.5307 3.6815
16.5307 3.6937 16.5307 3.7012 16.5840 3.7037 16.6371 3.6904 16.6371 50 3.5371
15.3523 3.5510 15.3523 3.5571 15.2786 3.5604 15.2786 3.5616 15.3117 3.5574
15.3523
* * *
## B.2 Case 1b: Downlink E-UTRA AAS interferer- AAS victim with equal downtilt
angles
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Downtilt angle: 9 degree downtilt in aggressor and victim system
Correlation level: 0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8. 1.0
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 750 m
Simulation results are presented in Table B.2-1 for electrical downtilt and
Table B.2-2 for mechanical downtilt.
**Table B.2‑2** Case 1b simulation results summary (Electrical downtilt)
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.3426 20.7257 5.7125 20.6483 6.0130 19.6488 6.2501 18.9976 6.4128
18.4933 6.3846 16.4072 35 4.2216 13.9657 4.3328 13.4933 4.4275 12.9340 4.5035
11.7741 4.5532 11.1628 4.5205 10.0884 40 3.7069 9.5738 3.7325 9.4169 3.7543
9.2403 3.7712 8.9711 3.7799 8.7062 3.7521 8.2707 45 3.4894 8.2557 3.4939
8.2009 3.4973 8.1578 3.4992 7.8511 3.4983 7.8027 3.4798 7.4957 50 3.4042
7.6123 3.4045 7.6022 3.4046 7.5994 3.4044 7.5965 3.4033 7.5935 3.3902 7.3285
* * *
* * *
ZTE (R4-125243) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4 Correlation:
0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.1803 18.3029 5.5833 18.2090 5.9016 19.0236 6.1745 18.5968 6.3992
17.8076 6.4967 17.0596 35 4.1436 13.7661 4.2639 13.5598 4.3624 13.3167 4.4492
12.9323 4.5225 12.1806 4.5546 12.0952 40 3.6667 10.2602 3.6949 10.0423 3.7185
10.3673 3.7388 10.0804 3.7563 9.9191 3.7633 9.6364 45 3.4650 8.7739 3.4704
8.7962 3.4749 8.6918 3.4786 8.5830 3.4821 8.5761 3.4837 8.5224 50 3.3879
8.1770 3.3890 8.1593 3.3900 8.1476 3.3905 8.0914 3.3913 8.1011 3.3919 8.1166
* * *
* * *
Ericsson (R4-125430) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.0490 17.8383 5.3526 19.5973 5.6014 20.9169 5.7976 21.9064 5.9365
23.1688 5.8565 23.3411 35 3.8246 14.7246 3.9346 15.2660 4.0231 15.6994 4.0934
15.9439 4.1396 16.2466 4.0959 16.3624 40 3.2277 12.9305 3.2703 13.2089 3.3006
13.2937 3.3228 13.5048 3.3355 13.8731 3.3159 13.9720 45 2.9813 12.6096 3.0021
12.7990 3.0139 12.7990 3.0217 12.7990 3.0258 12.8705 3.0188 12.8884 50 2.8928
11.9565 2.9067 12.0287 2.9128 12.0287 2.9164 12.1007 2.9183 12.1007 2.9164
12.1007
* * *
**Table B.2‑2 Case 1b simulation results summary (Mechanical downtilt)**
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 3.1517 12.6415 3.3151 11.2450 3.4472 10.9667 3.5461 10.0202 3.5983
10.3055 3.4909 9.1215 35 2.4489 4.9736 2.4862 4.8950 2.5143 4.9382 2.5298
5.0418 2.5261 4.9831 2.4476 3.7916 40 2.1205 3.9868 2.1222 4.0009 2.1216
3.9035 2.1171 3.7370 2.1046 3.4180 2.0560 2.5176 45 1.9721 3.2334 1.9692
3.0999 1.9648 2.9193 1.9589 2.7357 1.9501 2.6623 1.9218 2.1941 50 1.9060
2.6029 1.9037 2.5789 1.9010 2.5674 1.8972 2.5558 1.8923 2.3469 1.8785 2.1037
* * *
* * *
ZTE (R4-125243) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4 Correlation:
0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 2.5076 9.1243 2.6635 9.3049 2.7988 8.8567 2.9014 8.1983 2.9604 7.5941
2.9599 7.5392 35 1.8262 5.6494 1.8604 5.4981 1.8876 5.4054 1.9065 5.3499
1.9113 5.0218 1.9007 4.8700 40 1.5113 4.2005 1.5145 4.3511 1.5159 4.1487
1.5160 4.1416 1.5123 4.1069 1.5048 4.1283 45 1.3804 3.6771 1.3797 3.7099
1.3780 3.6046 1.3760 3.5769 1.3734 3.5799 1.3701 3.6423 50 1.3315 3.3844
1.3308 3.4067 1.3298 3.4301 1.3288 3.4487 1.3277 3.4654 1.3265 3.4778
* * *
* * *
Ericsson (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.2893 20.4516 5.6017 22.7150 5.8575 24.1853 6.0644 25.5291 6.2092
27.0379 6.1231 27.2605 35 4.0603 15.6654 4.1745 16.2303 4.2659 17.2965 4.3376
17.6232 4.3842 17.8159 4.3319 18.2315 40 3.4365 14.0680 3.4805 14.0881 3.5119
14.1446 3.5344 14.1516 3.5466 14.3692 3.5212 14.3769 45 3.1658 13.6960 3.1866
13.6960 3.1988 13.6960 3.2065 13.6965 3.2098 13.6971 3.2003 13.6977 50 3.0638
13.4009 3.0775 13.4021 3.0835 13.4021 3.0869 13.4033 3.0884 13.4044 3.0855
13.4054
* * *
## B.3 Case 1b: Downlink E-UTRA AAS interferer- AAS victim with non-optimal
downtilt angles
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with AAS
Downtilt angle: 9 degree downtilt in victim system;
5, 20 degreee downtilt in aggressor system
Correlation level: 0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8. 1.0
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 750 m
Simulation results are presented in Table B.3-1and Table B.3-2 for 5 degree of
electrical/mechanical downtilt being used in aggressor system, respectively,
and Table B.3-3 and Table B.3-4 for 20 degree of electrical/mechanical
downtilt being used in aggressor system, respectively.
**Table B.3‑3** Case 1b simulation results summary (Aggressor: eDT of 5 deg,
Victim: eDT of 9deg)
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.1610 19.7218 5.5890 19.7181 5.9519 19.1890 6.2481 17.5939 6.4592
15.9986 6.4905 13.1144 35 3.9495 13.3687 4.0605 12.6874 4.1541 12.1554 4.2261
10.9186 4.2695 10.2342 4.2501 8.4364 40 3.3650 8.3973 3.3836 8.0171 3.3969
7.7662 3.4043 7.5594 3.4030 6.9639 3.3854 6.0968 45 3.1061 6.5258 3.1060
6.4226 3.1045 6.3248 3.1016 6.1217 3.0967 5.8349 3.0876 5.4293 50 3.0031
5.8116 3.0016 5.7074 2.9998 5.5951 2.9977 5.4788 2.9953 5.3967 2.9910 5.2054
* * *
* * *
Ericsson (R4-125430) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 5.1914 18.0054 5.5806 19.8025 5.9110 20.7884 6.1914 22.4449 6.4110
22.9942 6.4062 23.3760 35 3.9267 12.4522 4.0634 13.7554 4.1779 14.1611 4.2740
15.0396 4.3452 15.3576 4.3245 15.4526 40 3.3133 11.4236 3.3640 11.5677 3.4023
11.6132 3.4329 11.9213 3.4535 12.0033 3.4410 12.1838 45 3.0611 11.3447 3.0845
11.4197 3.0989 11.4197 3.1092 11.4224 3.1157 11.4224 3.1109 11.4249 50 2.9708
11.2740 2.9856 11.2749 2.9925 11.2745 2.9969 11.2745 2.9996 11.2740 2.9984
11.2740
* * *
**Table B.3‑** 2 Case 1b simulation results summary (Aggressor: mDT of 5 deg,
Victim: mDT of 9deg)
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 3.0679 11.6197 3.2427 10.4943 3.3904 9.2671 3.5052 8.7004 3.5757 8.0609
3.5133 5.3592 35 2.3301 5.4686 2.3666 5.2448 2.3959 4.8107 2.4134 3.6796
2.4141 3.2744 2.3595 2.5943 40 1.9897 2.7419 1.9932 2.6126 1.9933 2.4249
1.9885 1.6957 1.9780 1.5678 1.9460 1.0906 45 1.8408 1.3827 1.8388 1.3377
1.8359 1.3052 1.8312 1.2287 1.8244 0.9765 1.8084 0.7852 50 1.7804 0.8569
1.7789 0.8343 1.7771 0.8147 1.7746 0.7917 1.7710 0.7350 1.7638 0.7128
* * *
* * *
Ericsson (R4-125430) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 4.2973 14.9384 4.7065 16.3019 5.0652 18.3227 5.3815 19.3731 5.6540
21.1699 5.7957 22.2737 35 3.5404 12.0871 3.6840 12.4732 3.8102 12.7342 3.9246
13.4003 4.0237 14.2156 4.0724 14.5000 40 3.2023 10.3409 3.2554 10.4495 3.2984
10.4966 3.3365 10.6089 3.3687 10.9148 3.3831 11.0234 45 3.0682 10.3257 3.0923
10.3257 3.1082 10.3257 3.1213 10.4144 3.1319 10.4442 3.1364 10.4589 50 3.0203
9.9770 3.0352 9.9770 3.0426 9.9732 3.0479 9.9760 3.0520 9.9770 3.0538 10.0001
* * *
**Table B.3‑3 Case 1b simulation results summary (Aggressor: eDT of 20 deg,
Victim: eDT of 9deg)**
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 3.5321 24.9152 3.3497 26.1466 3.1374 26.6997 2.8883 27.0329 2.5950
26.8593 2.1796 25.8399 35 2.2273 19.5129 2.1402 19.5166 2.0448 19.6223 1.9372
19.5456 1.8148 19.5207 1.6470 19.6573 40 1.6599 16.7480 1.6213 16.6986 1.5803
16.6737 1.5357 16.7019 1.4863 16.6608 1.4192 16.5114 45 1.4307 15.8894 1.4157
15.8990 1.4003 15.8597 1.3833 15.8119 1.3641 15.7863 1.3376 15.6971 50 1.3463
15.1493 1.3410 15.4107 1.3353 15.4138 1.3287 15.4134 1.3209 15.4157 1.3110
15.4178
* * *
* * *
Ericsson (R4-125430) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 3.2834 12.2470 3.3768 13.1667 3.4342 13.6213 3.4583 13.7961 3.4415
13.9851 3.2505 13.6983 35 2.1561 7.5908 2.1985 7.6184 2.2218 7.9897 2.2307
8.3053 2.2208 8.3232 2.1393 8.3149 40 1.6419 6.4718 1.6629 6.6668 1.6734
6.6684 1.6767 6.7225 1.6719 6.6699 1.6409 6.7212 45 1.4381 6.1523 1.4522
6.4673 1.4576 6.4673 1.4594 6.5469 1.4582 6.5469 1.4483 6.6262 50 1.3660
6.0972 1.3779 6.1522 1.3820 6.1522 1.3838 6.1522 1.3840 6.1522 1.3811 6.1522
* * *
**Table B.3‑4 Case 1b simulation results summary (Aggressor: mDT of 20 deg,
Victim: mDT of 9deg)**
* * *
Huawei (R4-125474) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 2.5711 10.7954 2.5160 11.3001 2.4383 11.0524 2.3368 11.0892 2.1976
12.3859 1.9214 12.1904 35 1.8309 6.1074 1.7975 6.5883 1.7565 6.7182 1.7042
6.5232 1.6365 6.1193 1.5112 5.8223 40 1.4970 3.8662 1.4790 3.7678 1.4579
3.5091 1.4326 3.3754 1.4021 3.2465 1.3458 3.5312 45 1.3550 2.7577 1.3462
2.7474 1.3364 2.7369 1.3257 2.7260 1.3130 2.6868 1.2879 2.5604 50 1.2963
2.4456 1.2928 2.4401 1.2889 2.4346 1.2844 2.4246 1.2795 2.4100 1.2683 2.3951
* * *
* * *
Ericsson (R4-125430) Correlation: 0 Correlation: 0.2 Correlation: 0.4
Correlation: 0.6 Correlation: 0.8 Correlation: 1  
ACLR per element (dBc) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) 5% CDF throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF
throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss (%) 5% CDF throughput loss
(%) 30 2.6459 15.9192 2.7573 16.9524 2.8373 17.5192 2.8928 17.5799 2.9179
17.9168 2.8296 17.6816 35 1.9455 13.4507 1.9908 13.3129 2.0224 13.3092 2.0438
13.3092 2.0520 13.3129 2.0124 13.2312 40 1.6208 11.3959 1.6429 11.3959 1.6551
10.8433 1.6622 10.8463 1.6638 10.8487 1.6477 10.8744 45 1.4872 10.8328 1.5015
10.8328 1.5076 10.7930 1.5108 10.7930 1.5116 10.7930 1.5060 10.7929 50 1.4381
10.6954 1.4500 10.6954 1.4544 9.7687 1.4565 9.7758 1.4574 9.7829 1.4560 9.7900
* * *
## B.4 Case 1c: Downlink E-UTRA legacy system interferer- legacy system victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with passive antenna system
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA with passive antenna system
Downtilt angle: 9 degree downtilt in aggressor and victim system
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 750 m
Simulation results are presented in Table B.4-1for electrical downtilt and
Table B.4-2 for mechanical downtilt.
**Table B.4‑4 Case 1c simulation results summary (Electrical downtilt)**
* * *
ACLR per element (dBc) Huawei (R4-125474) ZTE (R4-125243) Ericsson(R4-125430)  
cell average throughput loss (%) cell edge throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) cell edge throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) cell edge throughput loss (%) 30 6.3859 16.4113 6.4934 17.0554 5.4533
24.4796 35 4.5223 10.0939 4.5520 12.0912 3.8742 17.2686 40 3.7541 8.2778
3.7610 9.6536 3.2146 14.3383 45 3.4818 7.5024 3.4815 8.5370 2.9805 13.0830 50
3.3923 7.3351 3.3898 8.2019 2.9036 11.9269
* * *
**Table B.4‑2 Case 1c simulation results summary (Mechanical downtilt)**
* * *
ACLR per element (dBc) Huawei (R4-125474) ZTE (R4-125243) Ericsson (R4-125430)  
cell average throughput loss (%) cell edge throughput loss (%) cell average
throughput loss (%) cell edge throughput loss (%) cell average throughput loss
(%) cell edge throughput loss (%) 30 3.4918 9.1213 2.9593 7.5394 5.6895
29.4684 35 2.4486 3.7918 1.9003 4.8682 4.0673 19.3364 40 2.0570 2.5194 1.5044
4.1353 3.3908 14.7612 45 1.9229 2.1965 1.3697 3.6460 3.1497 13.7009 50 1.8796
2.1061 1.3262 3.4793 3.0674 13.6154
* * *
# Annex C: (Informative)AAS spatial domain aspects
The purpose of this informative annex is to collect the studies and aspects
considering the spatial effects observable with AAS systems. To illustrate the
spatial effects under consideration, a theoretical model of a uniform linear
array is examined. The parameters chosen for the model are strictly for this
examination and are not claimed to be an accurate representation of physical
systems. Common antenna array features such as power tapering are not
considered. Note that the results given in this annex are link oriented. The
spatial characteristics given in this annex may suggest further system
analysis and studies where the results are captured in the main body of this
TR.
## C.1 Transmitter spatial characteristics
Interference emitted from AAS BS system may show different spatial
characteristics to that from traditional BS, depending on the extent of beam-
forming effects on the interference. Adjacent channel emissions, spurious
emissions and intermodulation may be affected.
The transmitter intermodulation as a function of angle and frequency for an
active Uniform Linear Array (ULA) has been elaborated by means of simulations.
Power Amplifiers on each antenna element within the array were modelled with
respect to non-linear behaviour to simulate the contribution from several
power amplifiers / sub-arrays. Simulations were made over separate carrier
frequencies, but also using the same carrier frequency. Results showed that
intermodulation products may occur outside the main beams of the carriers, and
are then also in general split into several sub-beams according to general
side lobe behaviour of linear array antennas. The radiating elements were
modelled based on agreed antenna models and the distance between radiating
elements was chosen to be 0.9 λ.
{width="4.154861111111111in" height="3.7465277777777777in"}
Figure C.1-1, ULA configuration for the simulation
## C.1.2 Simulation assumptions
The simulations of AAS intermodulation spatial characteristics assume a number
of antenna elements radiating into free space. Each of radiating elements is
connected to an active amplifier which outputs non-linear distortion still
remaining despite pre-distortion. That is, some non-linear components still do
exist in order to study how these distribute over the antenna angular range.
As an example scenario a Uniform Linear Array (ULA) which has the
characteristics of having all of its elements aligned along a straight line is
selected. The inter-element distance is all equal among the elements and is
set to 0.9λ (see figure C.1-1).
In some of the plots due to chosen inter-element distance, the grating lobes
which occurs at inter-element distance of larger than 0.5 λ become visible.
Another assumption is that the array antenna is fed by two E-UTRA-signals of
20 MHz, being un-correlated and having phase offsets on each antenna element
corresponding to a particular scanning angle for the array. The number of
antenna elements is 10.
The non-linearity of each amplifier is modelled by a simple polynomial
approach having the magnitude as a variable for the non-linearity. The PA
characteristics may be most conveniently described by the following equation:
Each coefficient may be a complex number associated with the IM-level for the
third order intermodulation, the fifth order intermodulation and so forth.
Each antenna element is connected to one such amplifier which may either have
the same coefficients or they may all have different coefficients, depending
on the simulation scenario.
In the simulations only the third order intermodulation is retained, and the
phase of this coefficient is varied with the index of the antenna. The
magnitude is kept the same over all amplifiers. This is done in a random
manner over 360°. Thus, the representation of the PAs boils down to the
following:
The combination of having the summation of two different E-UTRA signals fed
into the PA leads to some interesting results with regard to where in the
angular space different IM components may occur. For the simulations in this
section a few examples are shown just to highlight the behaviour.
The resulting signal as a function of the angle θ may be described by the
following equation:
Where θ is to be taken as the observation angle from broadside direction. If
the output signal is transferred into frequency domain, by use of for example
the FFT, then the radiation pattern may be plotted in two dimensions being
angle in one dimension and frequency in the other direction.
## C.1.3 Simulation results
With the method described in above, the 2D radiation patterns may be plotted
when different PA's are configured in various ways and at the same time the
beam for the two E-UTRA signals is steered towards different directions. Note
that the E-UTRA signals may be deployed at different carrier frequencies or
even at the same carrier frequency (spatial multiplexing/MIMO).
Figure C.1.3-1 represents the scenario where the PAs have only 3:rd order
intermodulation products and the PA non-linear characteristics to be
identical. The two E-UTRA-signals are phase adjusted differently into all the
10 PAs such as to form a constructive antenna pattern in some direction for
the first E-UTRA carrier while letting the second carrier radiate
constructively in a yet another direction.
The result shows that if all the PAs can be assumed identical, then the
intermodulation also shows an ordered radiation pattern with its associated
side-lobe pattern very much like the radiation pattern for the two carriers
themselves. However, it can be noted that the 3:rd order intermodulation is
radiated into slightly different angles being it one left or right side of the
carrier spectrum. Note the pronounced antenna lobe for the intermodulation in
two distinct directions.
The blue area represents the carriers while the red/yellow areas in the plots
represent the intermodulation / unwanted emissions.
{width="4.1506944444444445in" height="3.214583333333333in"}
Figure C.1.3-1, Same PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, different scan
angles.
In figure C.1.3-2 similar to figure C.1.3-1, the two E-UTRA carriers were
given phase distributions to produce beams in slightly different direction. It
can be seen that the intermodulation follows the main beams and also similar
to figure C.1.3-1, the angular distribution of the two 3:rd order IM bumps are
aligned asymmetrically with respect to the angular beam directions.
{width="3.9451388888888888in" height="3.3368055555555554in"}
Figure C.1.3-2, Same PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, yet another scan
angles.
In figure C.1.3-3 to C.1.3-7, the different PAs were given individual non-
linear characteristics. A set of randomly picked phases (0-360°) has been
chosen for each PA. The results may be seen in the 2D-plot where the
intermodulation now has become more smeared out over all angles, but with
still the typical side-lobe behaviour of a linear uniform array is maintained.
{width="4.072222222222222in" height="3.501388888888889in"}
Figure C.1.3-3, Same PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, different scan
angles.
{width="4.113888888888889in" height="3.216666666666667in"}
Figure C.1.3-4, Same PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, different scan
angles.
{width="3.8541666666666665in" height="3.134027777777778in"}
Figure C.1.3-5, Same PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, different scan
angles.
{width="3.921527777777778in" height="3.4611111111111112in"}
Figure C.1.3-6, Same PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, different scan
angles.
Figure C.1.3-7 and C.1.3-8 represent the behaviour when the two E-UTRA signals
are actually placed at the same carrier frequency which would resemble a dual
layer beam-forming. In first scenario, the phase of the third order
intermodulation coefficient is the same over all 10 amplifiers which lead to
the intermodulation being well concentrated around the carriers. In second
scenario where the phases of the coefficient for the third order
intermodulation is each given a different phase, it can be observed that the
intermodulation products are smeared out over the angular space.
{width="3.845833333333333in" height="3.0854166666666667in"}
Figure C.1.3-7, Same PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, same frequency and
different scan angles.
{width="3.933333333333333in" height="3.225in"}
Figure C.1.3-8, Different PAs, two different E-UTRA carriers, same frequency
and different scan angles.
The simulations above indicate that there is a difference on how unwanted
emission expressed as transmitter intermodulation can vary in spatial domain,
depending on the beam-forming applied to each carrier and the amount of
correlation between third order intermodulation products. This emphasises the
need for carefully investigating the spatial domain aspects for AAS
transmitters.
## C.2 Receiver spatial characteristics
AAS sub-arrays experience different spatial selectivity compared to fixed beam
antennas. Furthermore, a sub-array may experience a differing spatial
selectivity to the AAS array as a whole. In figure C.2-1, a visualization of
spatial selectivity loss in AAS is given where an interfering UE close to
antenna would pose higher interferer level towards a sub-array compared to
full antenna beam.
Since the receiver spatial characteristics of the sub-arrays would influence
the minimum coupling loss and thus receive requirements for AAS, the spatial
aspects of the receiver and its possible impact in terms of minimum coupling
loss of an example AAS implementation based on several sub-arrays compared to
a fixed beam antenna was investigated. In sub-clause C.2.1 simulations of
simple example antenna indicate that the height, direction and distance would
influence coupling loss and consequently the blocking interferer level.
{width="4.559027777777778in" height="1.7555555555555555in"}
Figure C.2-1, Visualization of spatial selectivity loss in AAS.
## C.2.1 Simulation results
Simulation results for the minimum coupling loss of an example antenna array
at 2 GHz and compared to various number of array elements for various cases
are presented in the following sub-clauses.
### C.2.1.1 Antenna patterns for sub-arrays
For this simulation the element far-field pattern is defined by elements
models defined in section 5.4.4.2.
The element separation was set to 0.9λ. The composite sub-array pattern is
calculated using the superposition principle. The sub-array gain is obtained
from the maximum normalized far-field pattern compensated with respect to the
antenna directivity.
The sub-array gain patterns for a single, 2, 4 and 8 element array is shown in
Figure C.2.1.1-1.
{width="4.320833333333334in" height="3.234722222222222in"}
Figure C.2.1.1-1, Gain pattern for different sub-array configurations.
### C.2.1.2 Coupling loss
Considering the example antenna (2 GHz) and taking into account 1,2, 4 and 8
element arrays, the coupling loss for 1, 2, 4, 8 element-arrays are compared
for the down tilt angles of 0° and 10° respectively is given in figure
C.2.1.2-1 to C.2.1.2-2. Base station antenna height was set to h=30 m.
The coupling loss is calculated with free space path loss as propagation
model.
{width="4.271527777777778in" height="3.2020833333333334in"}
Figure C.2.1.2-1, Coupling loss, 0 degrees tilt for an antenna with 1, 2, 4
and 8 elements
{width="4.209027777777778in" height="3.1590277777777778in"}
Figure C.2.1.2-2, Coupling loss, 10 degrees tilt for 1, 2, 4 and 8 elements.
The simulation results indicate that there is a distance and tilt dependent
minimum coupling loss comparing a full antenna beam and also 2, 4 and
8-element arrays.
## C.3 Impact of mutual coupling
Coupling between sub-arrays in a base station antenna array can in general
have an impact on antenna performance since some of the energy coupled to
other sub-arrays is re-radiated. In this sub-clause, the impact of coupling
between sub-arrays on the sub-array patterns and on the composite patterns for
a simple example antenna is shown.
The sub-array pattern as a function of the coupling magnitude has been
simulated for an arrangement of four sub-arrays as shown in Figure C.3-1. The
horizontal spacing between sub-arrays is 0.5λ.
The input signals to the sub-arrays are given by:
Each sub-array has a horizontal radiation pattern defined by:
$A_{E,H}\left( \phi \right) = - \text{min}\left\lbrack \text{12}\left(
\frac{\phi}{\phi_{3\text{dB}}} \right)^{2},A_{m} \right\rbrack$, where
$\phi_{3\text{dB}}$ is 65 degrees and $A_{m}$ is 25 dB.
The composite array pattern is given by:
$A = \overset{\sim}{W}\left( \phi \right) \cdot \text{10}^{\left(
\frac{A_{E,H}\left( \phi \right)}{\text{20}} \right)}$, where
$\overset{\sim}{W}\left( \phi \right)$ is the array factor.
The re-radiated energy due to mutual coupling between sub-arrays is
represented by a coupling matrix $C$, where
The coupling to an adjacent sub-array is $c\angle\text{160}{^\circ}$ (e.g.
from sub-array 1 to 2), to an alternate sub-array is $\left( \frac{c}{2}
\right)\angle\text{320}{^\circ}$(e.g. from sub-array 2 to 4), and to a second
alternate sub-array is $\left( \frac{c}{4}
\right)\angle\text{480}{^\circ}$(e.g. from sub-array 4 to 1). The actual
amount of coupling in practice will depend on many factors such as element
design, sub-array spacing, impedance matching etc.
The horizontal radiation pattern is determined by the following matrix
product:
{width="2.823611111111111in" height="3.9993055555555554in"}
Figure C.3-1, Geometry of four sub-Arrays.
## C.3.1 Simulation results
The coupling impact to the sub--array patterns is simulated by applying a
signal to each sub-array in turn and applying the coupling matrix $C$ (e.g. $S
= \left\lbrack 1,0,0,0 \right\rbrack$ for Sub-Array 1 of 4) The total power
into the sub-arrays is normalized to the level corresponding to the case when
_c_ =0 (i.e. no coupling).
Composite patterns are determined by vector addition of the normalized sub-
array patterns using a magnitude weighting of ¼ and applying a fixed phase
progression.
Figure C.3.1-1 represents the coupling impact with a signal fed into the
leftmost sub-array (Sub-Array 1 of 4) represented by the top row of _C_ and
where the coupling _c_ ranges from 0 to 0.25.
{width="4.4743055555555555in" height="3.407638888888889in"}
Figure C.3.1-1, Coupling impact on Sub-Array Patterns (Sub-Array 1 of 4).
The coupling impact with a signal fed into the rightmost sub-array (Sub-Array
4 of 4) represented by the fourth row of _C_ will be the same as that in
Figure C.3.1-1 but flipped left-right.
Figure C.3.1-2 represents the coupling impact with a signal fed into the
second sub-array (Sub-Array 2 of 4) represented by the second row of _C_ and
where the coupling _c_ ranges from 0 to 0.25.
{width="4.420833333333333in" height="3.377083333333333in"}
Figure C.3.1-2, Coupling impact on Sub-Array Patterns (Sub-Array 2 of 4).
The coupling impact with a signal fed into the third sub-array (Sub-Array 3 of
4) represented by the third row of _C_ will be the same as that in Figure
C.3.1-2 but flipped left-right.
With some level of coupling the sub-array bore site gain is not necessarily
the highest, the sub-array pattern may not be symmetrical and the 3 dB beam
width can be affected.
Figure C.3.1-3 represents the coupling impact on the composite horizontal
pattern with equal magnitude weighting and a phase progression of 0 degrees.
{width="4.138194444444444in" height="3.1618055555555555in"}
Figure C.3.1-3, Coupling impact on Composite Pattern (phase progression of 0
degrees).
Figure C.3.1-4 represents the coupling impact on the composite horizontal
pattern with equal magnitude weighting and a phase progression of 90 degrees.
{width="4.167361111111111in" height="3.1743055555555557in"}
Figure C.3.1-4, Coupling impact on Composite Pattern (phase progression of 90
degrees).
As expected, the coupling between sub-arrays has an impact on individual sub-
arrays as well as the composite pattern for the example antenna. The impact
would certainly vary depending on the implementation. In AAS BS systems
involving sub-arrays, it may be necessary to consider the coupling impact to
define the AAS requirements. It should be noted that coupling and its impact
on composite beam for an AAS antenna can not be captured by performing
conducted test.
## C.4 Spatial EVM characteristics
In existing BS specifications, the EVM consist of both linear and non-linear
distortion. Group delay variation in the filters is a kind of linear
distortion while phase noise and peak reduction algorithms induced distortion
is categorized as non-linear distortion. The EVM requirements for E-UTRA are
defined in such a manner that the test equipment should contain an equalizer
to remove the linear contributions to EVM while for UTRA such equalization is
not allowed.
EVM in active antenna arrays will give rise to unwanted in-band emissions that
in general do not follow the beam forming or beam shaping that one might
anticipate. This is due to the fact that the individual EVM contributions from
the different radios supporting each element array separately will in general
not be identical but rather in some cases actually being uncorrelated.
The relation between correlated and uncorrelated contributions where peak
reduction distortion can possibly be assumed as correlated in some cases but
depending on implementation, this contribution could vary significantly and
consequently the portion of correlated versus uncorrelated contributions
affecting the EVM in particularly side-lobes or nulls.
Considering the peak reduction scheme also called clipping which is one of the
main contributing mechanisms to EVM, The spatial distribution of EVM for a
10-element antenna array is further investigated.
As normally only the magnitude of the signal is undergoing the peak reduction
process, the phase of the clip distortion is unchanged and follows the carrier
phase itself. This means that the clip distortion in this case, follows the
beam shaping in the same manner as the carrier itself. The result will be that
the same EVM figure will be measured all over the angular sphere as what is
measured at each individual antenna port.
A simple simulation is presented below, where a 10-element linear and uniform
array antenna is undergoing clipping at a certain magnitude threshold. It is
seen that although the phase of the carrier in each branch varies with the
port number, the EVM as a function of angle will in fact be constant as shown
in figure C.4-1.
The amplitude taper will have a uniform distribution as described below, and
the clip threshold is set to 0.5 in relation to normalized amplitude of 1.
{width="4.053472222222222in" height="3.3027777777777776in"}
Figure C.4-1, Spatial EVM with uniform amplitude tapering weights.
The outcome would somewhat be different if the clip contributions are not
identical from the different array elements. In this case we have tapered the
actual antenna weights instead of having a uniform distribution and the
spatial EVM is shown in figure C.4-2. The amplitude taper weights were assumed
to be as following:
{width="4.247222222222222in" height="3.342361111111111in"}
Figure C.4-2, Spatial EVM with non-uniform amplitude tapering weights.
It can be seen that in the null regions in the radiation pattern and side
lobes from a linear array antenna with individual array element clipping, the
EVM may rise to very high values. The reason is mainly due to the fact that
the EVM contributions may not any longer be considered as correlated among
array elements and as a result does not give the usual beam forming
characteristics as a coherent antenna array system.
We recognize this behaviour regardless of the actual implementation of the
peak reduction schemes, and stress the importance to further study this
characteristic.
There are however case which we may relax this spatial distribution of EVM
behaviour. Viewing a linear uniform array antenna, that is with equal
amplitude tapering on all radio branches and given an only down-tilt to the
beam by means of applying a progressive phase shift to the carrier, then the
clip distortion will in fact be identical from all of the sub-arrays.
Given the complexity, different level of correlations which would also have
tapering weight dependency, the linear and non-linear distortion depending on
the RAT as well as implementation specific behaviour, we would propose to
further investigate the spatial EVM for AAS.
## C.5 Directivity characteristics
The directivity is determined by the electrical far-field pattern generated by
an antenna meaning that the directivity will depend on array configuration and
excitation.
The maximum directivity is a ratio of the maximum radiation intensity to the
radiation intensity averaged over all directions.
The maximum directivity of an antenna is defined as:
$D_{0} = \text{10} \cdot \text{log}\left( \frac{4\pi\text{max}\left\lbrack
\left| P\left( \theta,\phi \right) \right|^{2}
\right\rbrack}{\int_{}^{}{\int_{}^{}{\left| P\left( \theta,\phi \right)
\right|^{2}\text{sin}\left( \theta \right)\text{dθdϕ}}}} \right)$, where
$P\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ is the electric far-field pattern of an
arbitrary antenna.
### C.5.1 Array Element
In section 5.4.4.2 parameters defining the array element characteristics are
stated. This section presents an analysis of the directivity of a single array
element based on currently defined parameter values.
According to section 5.4.4.2 the radiation pattern for a single antenna
element for vertical and horizontal plane is defined as:
Where the composite array element pattern is defined as:
Since the vertical and horizontal contribution is maximum normalized the
composite radiation pattern is adjusted with a gain factor
($G_{E\text{,max}}$).
Together with the parameterized model corresponding parameter values are
defined in Table 5.4.4.2.-1. The parameters related to the element
characteristics are listed in Table C.5.1-1.
Table C.5.1-1: Array Element Parameters
* * *
Parameter Symbol Value Unit Horizontal 3dB Beam-width 65 degrees Front-to-Back
Ratio 30 dB Vertical 3dB Beam-width 65 degrees Side Lobe Suppression 30 dB
Array Elemen Gain 8 dBi
* * *
The maximum gain of an array element is determined by the vertical beam-width,
horizontal beam-width, Side-lobe suppression and Front-to-back ratio. It can
be noted from Table C.5.1-1 that element gain is specified specifically.
The array element directivity is analysed for given parameters. The electrical
far-field pattern generated by a single antenna element can be expressed as:
$P\left( \theta,\phi \right) = \text{10}^{\left( \frac{A_{E}\left( \theta,\phi
\right)}{\text{20}} \right)}$, where $A_{E}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ is the
far-field pattern in dB.
The directivity is plotted in Figure C.5.1-1 as function of vertical beam-
width ($\theta_{3\text{dB}}$) and horizontal beam-width ($\phi_{3\text{dB}}$).
From Figure C.5.1-1 the directivity variation is identified to be in the
interval 6-13 dBi depending of element beam-width configuration
($\theta_{3\text{dB}}$ and $\phi_{3\text{dB}}$ is swept from 40 to 120
degrees).
{width="3.752083333333333in" height="2.8208333333333333in"}
Figure C.5.1-1: Array Element Directivity
For an element configuration with beam-widths of 65 degrees for both
horizontal and vertical domain, as assumed for simulations of coexistence in
Table 5.4.4.2.-1 the directivity for a single element is 9.8 dBi.
### C.5.2 Scan Loss
The spatial characteristics will describe capabilities of enabling spatial
filtering and thereby reducing interference and increase the total cell
capacity. The directivity is a vital property of an array antenna. The
directivity of an array antenna will depend on element separation, element
characteristics and applied beam control angles.
Table C.5.2-1: Array Parameters
* * *
Parameter Symbol Value Unit Note Array configuration 10x1 units Vertical ULA
Vertical element separation 0.5λ, 0.7λ, 0.9λ m  
Array Gain 0 dBi  
Down-tilt angle 0..50 degrees
* * *
The simulations in this section will analyze radiation pattern and directivity
of an array antenna when large tilt angles are applied. The directivity of an
antenna is crucial property to capture in link- and system level simulations
analyzing receiver in-band blocking or cell capacity.
The electrical far-field pattern generated by an array antenna can be
expressed as:
$P\left( \theta,\phi \right) = \text{10}^{\left( \frac{A_{A}\left( \theta,\phi
\right)}{\text{20}} \right)}$, where $A_{A}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ is the
far-field pattern in dB.
To evaluate the directivity as function of tilt angles a 10 element ULA was
configured. The elements were placed along the z-axis with the main beam
direction along the x-axis. The main beam is tilted electrically by applying
linear phase taper weights as described in Table 5.4.4.2-2. Since the
directivity of an array antenna is depended of the element separation
distance, the directivity will be calculated for tree different configurations
with element separation of 0.5λ, 0.7λ and 0.9λ.
To visualize side lobe and grating lobe response as function of element
separation and tilting the radiation pattern is plotted as maximum normalized
far-field pattern for 0, 20 and 40 degrees down tilt angles in for array
configuration with element separation of 0.5λ and 0.9λ.
{width="3.763888888888889in" height="2.8194444444444446in"}\ Figure C.5.2-1:
Array Antenna Pattern with element separation equal to 0.5λ.
As seen in Figure C.5.2-1 the radiation pattern is dominated by the main beam
for array antennas with 0.5λ element separation.
{width="3.763888888888889in" height="2.8194444444444446in"}\ Figure C.5.2-2:
Array Antenna Pattern with element separation equal to 0.9λ.
In Figure C.5.2-2 the element separation distance is increased to 0.9λ. It can
be noticed that with this configuration the antenna is more susceptible to
generate grating lobes when tilt is applied. The grating lobes will impact
antenna directivity by radiating energy is unwanted directions.
The directivity of the antenna will depend on the tilt angle and element
separation as showed in Figure C.5.2-3.
{width="3.85in" height="2.8868055555555556in"}\ Figure C.5.2-3: Directivity as
function of down-tilt angle.
The directivity loss due to large tilt angles is known as scan-loss, Figure
C.5.2-3 show scan-loss characteristics for a 10 element ULA antenna different
element separations and tilt-angles. Since the gain of an antenna is directly
associated to the directivity is it important to capture the scan-loss
characteristics in link level and system level simulation studies.
### C.5.3 Array Gain
The gain, $G$ of an array antenna can be calculated by subtracting the losses
from the directivity. In practice, gain is often a more interesting
performance measure than directivity.
The array antenna gain as function of $\theta$ and $\phi$ is the directivity
minus dissipative losses according to:
, where $L_{\text{dis}}$ is the dissipative loss of the AAS excluding loss
associated with impedance matching and polarization loss.
When referring to directivity and gain without specifying the direction
explicitly, one usually refers to maximum directivity $D_{0}$ and maximum gain
$G_{0}$.
# Annex D: (Informative) Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D |** TSG | **TSG | * | ** |** Su | ** | ** | | ate**| #** | D | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| bject | Old_ _| New_ _| | | | oc.__| | | /Comm | | | | | | | | | ent_ * | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-1 | | | Ske | N/A | 0.0.1 | | 11-11 | 4#61 | 16015 | | | leton | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-1 | | | The | 0.0.1 | 0.1.0 | | 12-03 | AN4# | 21625 | | | text | | | | | 62bis | | | | prop | | | | | | | | | osals | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | docu | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | incl | | | | | | | | | uded: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 0195, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5.2 | | | | | | | | | Deplo | | | | | | | | | yment | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 0210, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | SI | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | gress | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | work | | | | | | | | | plan | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 0988, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | Ove | | | | | | | | | rview | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | ernat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | regul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 0990, | | | | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | Ar | | | | | | | | | chite | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 0992, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 4.1 | | | | | | | | | SI | | | | | | | | | Obje | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | met | | | | | | | | | hodol | | | | | | | | | ogies | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 1094, | | | | | | | | | Harmo | | | | | | | | | nized | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | Nom | | | | | | | | | encla | | | | | | | | | ture, | | | | | | | | | Nokia | | | | | | | | | Si | | | | | | | | | emens | | | | | | | | | Net | | | | | | | | | works | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-1 | | | The | 0.1.0 | 0.2.0 | | 12-05 | #63 | 22525 | | | text | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | docu | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2100, | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2101, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37840 | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | oexis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2103, | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | obje | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2197, | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | Defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 2198, | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | Stru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-1 | | | R4-1 | 0.2.0 | 0.3.0 | | 12-08 | # | 25456 | | | 24886 | | | | | 64bis | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Prop | | | | | | | | | osal: | | | | | | | | | 3D | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 24887 | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Prop | | | | | | | | | osal: | | | | | | | | | 3D | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | oexis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ssump | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 24890 | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Prop | | | | | | | | | osal: | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | Blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 24891 | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | ample | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 24978 | | | | | | | | | Way | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rward | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | ethod | | | | | | | | | ology | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-1 | | | [ | 0.3.0 | 0.4.0 | | 12-11 | #65 | 26323 | | | R4-12 | | | | | | | | | 5475] | | | | | | | | | (../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | ../.. | | | | | | | | | /../. | | | | | | | | | ./../ | | | | | | | | | C:%5C | | | | | | | | | Docum | | | | | | | | | ents% | | | | | | | | | 20and | | | | | | | | | %20Se | | | | | | | | | tting | | | | | | | | | s%5Cz | | | | | | | | | 00142 | | | | | | | | | 839%5 | | | | | | | | | CRAN4 | | | | | | | | | 会议% | | | | | | | | | 5CThu | | | | | | | | | %5Ctd | | | | | | | | | ocs%5 | | | | | | | | | CR4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25475 | | | | | | | | | .zip) | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrec | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.840 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25978 | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | | eling | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | ple-c | | | | | | | | | olumn | | | | | | | | | array | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25981 | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | mmary | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25982 | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | mmary | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25980 | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | down | | | | | | | | | -tilt | | | | | | | | | angle | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25983 | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25985 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 8.2.1 | | | | | | | | | Cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | Test | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25984 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 8.2.3 | | | | | | | | | Cou | | | | | | | | | pling | | | | | | | | | Test | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25967 | | | | | | | | | Text | | | | | | | | | Pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | Far | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | Test | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25987 | | | | | | | | | Test | | | | | | | | | met | | | | | | | | | hodol | | | | | | | | | ogies | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Far | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | rev | | | | | | | | | erber | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | amber | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 25986 | | | | | | | | | Com | | | | | | | | | bined | | | | | | | | | Test | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | ethod | | | | | | | | | ology | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-1 | | | R4-1 | 040 | 050 | | 12-11 | #65 | 27000 | | | 26115 | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | imp | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | | agram | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | cou | | | | | | | | | pling | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26334 | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | rev | | | | | | | | | erber | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | amber | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26883 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | SI | | | | | | | | | plan | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26885 | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | clas | | | | | | | | | sific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26887 | | | | | | | | | TP: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | irect | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | gain | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 3 of | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .840. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26888 | | | | | | | | | TP: | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | atial | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | omain | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pacts | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26889 | | | | | | | | | TP: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | irect | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | ana | | | | | | | | | lysis | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | C or | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.840 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26891 | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | thods | | | | | | | | | compa | | | | | | | | | rison | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26892 | | | | | | | | | Com | | | | | | | | | bined | | | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | | | -Cond | | | | | | | | | ucted | | | | | | | | | Test | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26893 | | | | | | | | | TP: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | dding | | | | | | | | | Near- | | | | | | | | | Field | | | | | | | | | Probe | | | | | | | | | Sc | | | | | | | | | anner | | | | | | | | | Test | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | ethod | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26896 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26897 | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26898 | | | | | | | | | TP: | | | | | | | | | Way | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rward | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26899 | | | | | | | | | TP: | | | | | | | | | Way | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rward | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26917 | | | | | | | | | Su | | | | | | | | | mmary | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | met | | | | | | | | | hodol | | | | | | | | | ogies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AAS | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-1 | | | | | | | | | 26977 | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 5.4 | | | | | | | | | .4.2. | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | | | neral | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | AAS | | |