# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS gives the stage 3 description of the User-to-User signalling
supplementary services within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification gives the stage 3 description of the User-to-User
signalling supplementary services.
The User-to-user supplementary service is divided into 3 different services:
\- Service 1 (UUS1)
\- Service 2 (UUS2)
\- Service 3 (UUS3)
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.087: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
User-to-User Signalling (UUS); Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification \".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services specification; Formats
and coding\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
**Remote party:** For service 1 and 2 the remote party is the called party of
a call to which the served subscriber activates the UUS supplementary service.
For service 3 the remote party can be either the called or the calling party
of an established call to whom the use of the UUS supplementary service is
requested by the served subscriber.
**Served subscriber:** The subscriber who has a provision of the UUS
supplementary service and who activates the UUS supplementary service. For
service 1 and 2 the served subscriber is always the calling subscriber, for
service 3 either the calling or the called subscriber can be the served
subscriber.
**User-to-User Information (UUI):** The information transferred by using the
UUS supplementary service.
**UUS not required:** If the \"UUS not required\" indication is given by the
subscriber, the call will be completed even if UUI cannot be passed to the
called subscriber.
**UUS required:** If the \"UUS required\" indication is given by the
subscriber, the call shall not be completed if UUI cannot be passed to the
called subscriber.
**UUS Service:** The UUS services (Service 1, 2 and 3) are components of the
UUS supplementary service. If the UUS supplementary service is provided to a
subscriber, he can handle the UUS services independently within a call.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
MS A Mobile Station A, the mobile station of the served subscriber
MS B Mobile Station B, the mobile station of the remote subscriber
UUI User-to-User Information
UUS User-to-User Signalling
UUS1 User-to-User Signalling Service 1
UUS2 User-to-User Signalling Service 2
UUS3 User-to-User Signalling Service 3
Further GSM related abbreviations are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 4 User-to-User Signalling (UUS); served mobile subscriber side
## 4.1 UUS1
For UUS1, both parties may exchange UUI during the set-up and the clearing
phases of a call by including User-user information element(s) in basic call
control messages (ALERTING, CONNECT, DISCONNECT, PROGRESS, RELEASE, RELEASE
COMPLETE, SETUP).
UUS1 can be activated implicitly or explicitly. When UUS1 has been activated,
either subscriber may include UUI when accepting, rejecting or terminating the
call.
UUS1 is automatically deactivated when the call is cleared.
### 4.1.1 Operation when implicitly activated
To activate UUS1 implicitly, the MS A shall include a User-user information
element in the SETUP message as part of a normal call request. See 3GPP TS
24.008. Implicitly activated UUS1 is active for the duration of the call; i.e.
the remote party is not required to send a response to the implicit activation
request. However, the remote party may include a User-user information element
in the call response.
The served subscriber or the remote party may terminate the call before a
connection is established.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS A NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | ------------------------ | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | User-user | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | .\ | | ALERTING\ | | \\ | | User-user (Note 1), (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 1: UUS1 when implicitly activated
NOTE 1: The User-user information element is optional.
NOTE 2: Under normal conditions DISCONNECT message is used for clearing the
call, but also RELEASE or RELEASE COMPLETE message may be used as the first
call clearing message.
### 4.1.2 Operation when explicitly activated
UUS1 is explicitly requested by the MS A when including a Facility information
element with a UserUserService invoke component in the SETUP message. See 3GPP
TS 24.008, 3GPP TS 24.080. The UserUserService invoke component shall indicate
whether the service is \"UUS required\" or \"UUS not required\".
If the remote party accepts the request, the network shall include a Facility
information element with a UserUserService Return Result component in the
ALERTING or the CONNECT message sent to the MS A.
If the request is not accepted, the network shall include a Facility
information element with a UserUserService Return Error component in the
DISCONNECT message (when UUS required) or in the ALERTING or in the CONNECT
message (when UUS not required) sent to the MS A. See errors in 3GPP TS
24.080.
An explicit activation request may include UUI. The network may include User-
user information element when accepting the activation request.
The served subscriber or the remote party may terminate the call before a
connection is established.
For UUS1 explicit activation SS Version Indicator value 3 or above has to be
used.
#### 4.1.2.1 UUS required
If the MS A gives the \"UUS required\" indication, the call shall not be
completed if UUI cannot be passed to the remote party.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS A NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | ------------------------ | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS1, UUS required)), User-user | | (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | \ | | ALERTING\ | | \\ | | User-user (Note 1), (Note 5) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 2: Request for explicit activation of UUS1, UUS required
NOTE 1: The User-user information element is optional.
NOTE 2: The Return Result component in the Facility information element shall
be sent either in the ALERTING or in the CONNECT message.
NOTE 3: If the remote party rejects the service request or does not respond
with an explicit service 1 acceptance or rejection, DISCONNECT message is sent
to the MS A with Facility information element including Return Error component
with error value \"rejectedByUser\". If the network rejects the request, the
error value shall be \"rejectedByNetwork\". See information on Cause values in
Annex A.
NOTE 4: If the MS A does not receive an explicit service 1 acceptance or
rejection in the ALERTING or the CONNECT message, the MS A shall clear the
call. UUS1 is not activated.
NOTE 5: Under normal conditions DISCONNECT message is used for clearing the
call, but also RELEASE or RELEASE COMPLETE message may be used as the first
call clearing message.
#### 4.1.2.2 UUS not required
If the MS A gives the \"UUS not required\" indication, the call will be
completed even if UUI cannot be passed to the remote party.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS A NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | ------------------------ | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS1, UUS not required)), | | User-user (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | \ | | ALERTING\ | | \\ | | User-user (Note 1), (Note 4) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 3: Request for explicit activation of UUS1, UUS not required
NOTE 1: The User-user information element is optional.
NOTE 2: The Return Result component in the Facility information element shall
be sent either in the ALERTING or in the CONNECT message.
NOTE 3: If the MS A does not receive an explicit service 1 acceptance or
rejection in the ALERTING or the CONNECT message, the served subscriber shall
continue normal call handling. UUS1 is not activated.
NOTE 4: Under normal conditions DISCONNECT message is used for clearing the
call, but also RELEASE or RELEASE COMPLETE message may be used as the first
call clearing message.
## 4.2 UUS2
For UUS2, both parties may send UUI after the alerting indication has been
sent/received and until the connect indication has been sent/received. The UUI
is sent in USER INFORMATION message and is limited to two messages in each
direction.
UUS2 is automatically deactivated when the called subscriber is no longer
being informed of the call, i.e. if the call is established or released.
### 4.2.1 Operation
In order to activate UUS2 the MS A shall include a Facility information
element with a UserUserService invoke component indicating service 2 in the
SETUP message. See 3GPP TS 24.008, 3GPP TS 24.080. The UserUserService invoke
component shall also indicate whether the service is \"UUS required\" or \"UUS
not required\".
If the remote party accepts the request, the network shall include a Facility
information element with a UserUserService Return Result component in the
ALERTING message received by the MS A.
If the request is not accepted, the network shall include a Facility
information element with a UserUserService Return Error component in the
DISCONNECT message (when UUS required) or in the ALERTING or in the CONNECT
message (when UUS not required) sent to the MS A. See errors in 3GPP TS
24.080.
At any time between the activation of UUS2 and the connection is being
established, either subscriber may transfer up to two USER INFORMATION
messages in each direction to the other subscriber involved in the call.
User-user information element is mandatory in USER INFORMATION message (refer
3GPP TS 24.008). More data information element may be included in USER
INFORMATION message indicating that another USER INFORMATION message
pertaining to the same message block will follow.
For UUS2 activation SS Version Indicator value 3 or above has to be used.
#### 4.2.1.1 UUS required
If the MS A gives the \"UUS required\" indication, the call shall not be
completed if UUI cannot be passed to the remote party.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS A NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | ------------------------ | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS2, UUS required)) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | \ | | ALERTING\ | | \\ | | User-user, More data (Note 3) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | CONNECT\ | | \\ | | Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS2, UUS not required)) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | \ | | ALERTING\ | | \\ | | User-user, More data (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | CONNECT\ | | \\ | | Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS3, UUS required)) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | CONNECT\ | | \\ | | Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS3, UUS not required)) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | CONNECT\ | | \
FACILITY\
\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->\
Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS3, UUS not required))
FACILITY\
\ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | USER INFORMATION\ | | \\ | | User-user, More data (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | DISCONNECT /RELEASE / RELEASE COMPLETE\ | | \\ | | (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 9: Sending USER INFORMATION messages when UUS3 has been activated
NOTE 1: User-user information element is mandatory and More data information
element is optional in USER INFORMATION message.
NOTE 2: Under normal conditions DISCONNECT message is used for clearing the
call, but also RELEASE or RELEASE COMPLETE message may be used as the first
call clearing message.
### 4.3.4 Flow Control
Network flow control mechanisms shall exist after the call has entered the
Active call state to control USER INFORMATION message flow in each direction.
If USER INFORMATION messages are received at a rate which exceeds the flow
control limit set by the network, the network shall discard the USER
INFORMATION messages that cannot be handled and respond to the first discarded
USER INFORMATION message with a control indication.
If USER INFORMATION message has been discarded due to flow control, a
CONGESTION CONTROL message shall be sent to the MS.
When the flow control restrictions are removed, and a USER INFORMATION message
has been discarded due to that restriction, an indication that further USER
INFORMATION messages can be accepted shall be given.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS A NETWORK\ | | Active call\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | USER INFORMATION\ | | ------------------------ | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | User-user, More data (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | USER INFORMATION\ | | ----------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | User-user, More data (Note 1), (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONGESTION CONTROL\ | | \\ | | User-user, More data (Note 1), (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | . | | | | CONGESTION CONTROL\ | | \\ | | Facility (Invoke=UserUserService (UUS1, UUS required), | | Invoke=UserUserService (UUS2, UUS required),\ | | Invoke=UserUserService (UUS3, UUS required)), User-user (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | \ | | ALERTING\ | | \\ | | Facility (Return Result), User-user (Note 1), (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ALERTING\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - >\ | | (Note 3) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONNECT\ | | ---------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | User-user (Note 1), (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONNECT\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - >\ | | (Note 3) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | DISCONNECT / RELEASE COMPLETE / RELEASE\ | | \\ | | User-user (Note 1), (Note 3), (Note 4) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 12: Request for explicit activation of UUS1, UUS required
NOTE 1: The User-user information element is optional.
NOTE 2: The Return Result component in the Facility information element may be
sent either in the ALERTING or in the CONNECT message.
NOTE 3: If the MS B does not respond with an explicit service 1 acceptance or
rejection, ALERTING or CONNECT message does not include a Return Result
component. The following DISCONNECT message clears the call. See information
on Cause values in Annex A.
NOTE 4: Under normal conditions DISCONNECT message is used for clearing the
call, but also RELEASE or RELEASE COMPLETE message may be used as the first
call clearing message.
### 5.1.2 Operation when explicitly activated, UUS not required
In this subclause the operation of UUS1, explicitly activated and with the
indication \"UUS not required\", is described at the remote mobile subscriber
side.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS B NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | \\ | | Facility (Return Result), User-user (Note 1), (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ALERTING / CONNECT\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - >\ | | Facility (Return Error) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONNECT\ | | ---------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | ---------------------------------- | | --------------------------------->\ | | User-user (Note 1), (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | DISCONNECT / RELEASE COMPLETE / RELEASE\ | | \\ | | User-user (Note 1), (Note 3) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 13: Request for explicit activation of UUS1, UUS not required
NOTE 1: The User-user information element is optional.
NOTE 2: The Return Result component in the Facility information element may be
sent either in the ALERTING or in the CONNECT message.
NOTE 3: Under normal conditions DISCONNECT message is used for clearing the
call, but also RELEASE or RELEASE COMPLETE message may be used as the first
call clearing message.
## 5.2 UUS2
### 5.2.1 Operation, UUS required
In this subclause the operation of UUS2, with the indication \"UUS required\",
is described at the remote mobile subscriber side.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS B NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | \\ | | Facility (Return Result) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ALERTING\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - >\ | | (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | DISCONNECT / RELEASE COMPLETE / RELEASE\ | | \\ | | User-user, More data (Note 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | CONNECT\ | | ----------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------> | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 14: Request for explicit activation of UUS2, UUS required
NOTE 1: If the MS B does not respond with an explicit service 2 acceptance or
rejection, ALERTING message does not include a Return Result component. The
following DISCONNECT message clears the call. See information on Cause values
in Annex A.
NOTE 2: User-user information element is mandatory and More data information
element is optional in USER INFORMATION message.
### 5.2.2 Operation, UUS not required
In this subclause the operation of UUS2, with the indication \"UUS not
required\", is described at the remote mobile subscriber side.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS B NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | \\ | | Facility (Return Result) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ALERTING\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - >\ | | Facility (Return Error) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | USER INFORMATION\ | | \\ | | User-user, More data (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | CONNECT\ | | ----------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------> | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 15: Request for explicit activation of UUS2, UUS not required
NOTE 1: User-user information element is mandatory and More data information
element is optional in USER INFORMATION message.
## 5.3 UUS3
### 5.3.1 Activation when originating a call
#### 5.3.1.1 UUS required
In this subclause the activation of UUS3 when originating a call, with the
indication \"UUS required\", is described at the remote mobile subscriber
side.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS B NETWORK\ | | SETUP\ | | \\ | | Facility (Return Result) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONNECT\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - -> | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | DISCONNECT\ | | \\ | | Facility (Return Result) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONNECT\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - ->\ | | Facility (Return Error) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 17: Request for explicit activation of UUS3 when originating a call,
UUS not required
### 5.3.2 Activation during an active call
In this subclause the activation of UUS3 during an active call is described at
the remote mobile subscriber side.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS B NETWORK\ | | Active call\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | . | | | | .\ | | FACILITY\ | | \\ | | Facility (Return Result) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | FACILITY\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - ->\ | | Facility (Return Error (Error)) (Note 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 18: Request for explicit activation of UUS3 during an active call
NOTE 1: If the remote party rejects the service request or does not respond
with an explicit service 3 acceptance of rejection, the FACILITY message
includes Facility information element with Return Error component indicating
error \"rejectedByUser\". If the network rejects the request, the error value
shall be \"rejectedByNetwork\".
# 6 Identification of parallel transactions in UUS
If more than one parallel CC transaction is active, UUS operations are
directed to the desired transaction identified by the pertaining transaction
identifier.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Cause values used in UUS supplementary service
* * *
Cause value Situation Information on usage #29 facility rejected To served
mobile subscriber side, call clearing If the remote party rejects the
activation request of a UUS service, the Cause value #29 is sent to the served
subscriber. #47 resource unavailable, unspecified To served mobile subscriber
side, call clearing If the network rejects the activation request of a UUS
service, the Cause value #47 or #50 is sent to the served subscriber. #50
requested facility not subscribed To served mobile subscriber side, call
clearing If the network rejects the activation request of a UUS service, the
Cause value #47 or #50 is sent to the served subscriber. #69 requested
facility not implemented To served mobile subscriber side, call clearing If
the remote party does not respond with an explicit UUS service acceptance or
rejection to the activation request, the Cause value #69 is sent to the served
subscriber. #31 normal, unspecified To remote mobile subscriber side, call
clearing If the remote party does not respond with an explicit UUS service
acceptance or rejection, the Cause value #31 is sent to him. #43 access
information discarded To served mobile subscriber side, flow control The Cause
value #43 is sent within CONGESTION CONTROL message to the served subscriber.
* * *
#