# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the management object (MO) for Multi-Device and
Multi-Identity in IMS.
The MO for Multi-Device (MuD) and Multi-Identity (MiD) in IMS is compatible
with OMA device management protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards,
and is defined using the OMA DM device description framework as described in
the enabler release definition OMA-ERELD_DM-V1_2 [2].
The MO for Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS consists of relevant
configuration parameters that can be managed for a UE supporting the UE role
specified in 3GPP TS 24.174 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] OMA OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2-20070209-A: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA
Device Management, Version 1.2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.174: \"Support of Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS; Stage
3\".
[4] OMA-TS-DM_TND-V1_3-20160524-A: \"OMA Device Management Tree and
Description\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MiD Multi-iDentity
MO Management Object
MuD Multi-Device
# 4 Multi-Device and Multi-Identity management object
The MO for Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS is used to manage settings
of the UE for Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS. Figure 4-1 gives an
overview of the configuration parameters of this MO. The conventions used in
this specification are as defined in OMA-TS-DM_TND [4] with the following
modifications:
\- interior nodes are drawn as rectangles, not rectangles with rounded
corners; and
\- leaf nodes are plain text, not rectangles.
The MO for Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS covers configuration
parameters for a UE supporting Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS
specified in TS 24.174 [3].
The MO identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-mudmid:1.0.
Figure 4-1: MO for Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS
# 5 Management object parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the configuration parameters for the MO for Multi-Device
and Multi-Identity in IMS.
## 5.2 Node: /\
This interior node acts as a placeholder for the MO for Multi-Device and
Multi-Identity in IMS.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
The interior node is mandatory for a UE supporting the UE role specified in TS
24.174 [3].
NOTE: One node is normally used. More nodes are only used in case the terminal
supports multiple UICCs.
Child nodes of this interior node which are not defined in this version of the
present document are ignored.
## 5.3 /\/MultiIdentity
This interior node contains the multi-identity parameters.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.4 /\/MultiIdentity/SharedIdentity
This interior node contains the parameters of shared identities.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.5 /\/MultiIdentity/SharedIdentity/\
This interior node contains the settings of shared identities.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.6 /\/MultiIdentity/SharedIdentity/\/SharedId
This leaf node contains a shared identity the UE can use.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.7 /\/MultiIdentity/DelegatedIdentity
This interior node contains the multi-device parameters of delegated
identities.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.8 /\/MultiIdentity/DelegatedIdentity/\
This interior node contains the settings of delegated identities.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.9 /\/MultiIdentity/DelegatedIdentity/\/DelegatedId
This leaf node contains a delegated identity that is allowed to use the native
identity.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.10 /\/MultiDevice/
This interior node contains the multi-device parameters.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.11 /\/MultiDevice/CallLogUri
This leaf node contains a URI the UE can use to access the call log.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
###### ## Annex A (informative) DDF of MO for Multi-Device and Multi-Identity
in IMS
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
\
\
\1.2\
\\--The device manufacturer--\
\\--The device model--\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The Management Object (MO) for Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in
IMS.\
\
\urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-mudmid:1.0\
\
\
\
\MultiIdentity\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Interior node containing multi-identity parameters\
\\\
\
\
\SharedIdentity\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Interior node containing parameters of shared identities\
\\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This interior node contains the settings of shared
identities\
\\\
\
\
\SharedId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This leaf node contains a shared identity the UE can use\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\DelegatedIdentity\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Interior node containing parameters of delegated
identities\
\\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This interior node contains the settings of delegated
identities\
\\\
\
\
\DelegatedId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This leaf node contains the delegated identity allowed to use the
native identity\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\MultiDevice\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Interior node containing multi-device parameters\
\\\
\
\
\CallLogUri\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This leaf node contains a URI the UE can use to access the call
log\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#