# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the protocol details for the Customized Ringing
Signal (CRS) service in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem
based on the requirements from 3GPP TS 22.183 [2].
The CRS service is an operator specific service by which an operator enables
the subscriber to customize the media which is played to the called party as
an incoming communication indication during establishment of a communication.
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and Application
Servers (AS) which are intended to support the CRS service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.183: \"Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) Requirements; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[4] RFC 3959: \"The Early Session Disposition Type for the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
Services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
configuration; Stage 3\".
[7] RFC 6086 (January 2011): \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) INFO Method
and Package Framework\".
[8] RFC 7462 (March 2015): \"URNs for the Alert-Info Header Field of the
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[9] RFC 4796: \"The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Content Attribute\".
[10] RFC 3960: \"Early Media and Ringing Tone Generation in the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.628: \"Common Basic Communication procedures; Protocol
specification\".
[12] RFC 3311: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) UPDATE Method\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.174: \"Support of Multi-Device and Multi-Identity in IMS;
Stage 3\".
[14] RFC 3312: \"Integration of Resource Management and Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Media component:** A media component, described by the SDP, is a separate
data-flow related to a media type which is sent by using an IP \--based
transport protocol (e.g. RTP). Multiple media components may be used in the
same session to send multiple media types.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CRS Customized Ringing Signal
MiD Multi-iDentity
MuD Multi-Device
# 4 Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
## 4.1 Introduction
The CRS service is an operator specific service by which an operator enables
the subscriber to customize the media which is played to the called party
during alerting of the called party. The media can consist of music, voice,
text, video or other customized ringing signals.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The service user is able to subscribe to the CRS service, activate (or de-
activate) the service, and update the settings, e.g., to change by
configuration the active CRS media. The media can consist of favourable songs,
multimedia clips or other customized ring signals. The CRS subscriber is able
to refine the CRS media selection behaviour with configured rules, e.g. time,
calling party\'s location, called party\'s location, the identity of the
calling and called party. The CRS service is able to select the appropriate
CRS media according to the rules.
CRS is an originating network service, but can also have a terminating network
functional component. That is, CRS media can be selected on behalf of the
calling subscriber, but the called (IMS) subscriber can also subscribe to and
activate the CRS service. Whether or not the called party\'s CRS media has
precedence over the calling party\'s selected CRS media is a matter of
configuration in the called party\'s (terminating) network.
The presentation of the selected CRS media to the called party starts some
time following the initiation of a session, but prior to session answer. When
the called party answers, the CRS media either stops or continues during the
conversation, depending on operator or user preferences.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
#### 4.3.1.1 CRS provision/withdrawal
The CRS service may be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider.
The CRS service may be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
#### 4.3.1.2 Requirements on the originating network side
The originating network side may support the \"early-session\" extension as
described in RFC 3959 [7]
For the early session model and the gateway model, if the CRS service is
provided by the originating network, the CRS AS shall control an MRF as
described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] that is acting on behalf of a calling
subscriber who has activated CRS.
The CRS service implementing the download and play model adds no additional
requirements on the originating network side.
#### 4.3.1.3 Requirements on the terminating network side
The terminating network side may support the \"early-session\" extension as
described in RFC 3959 [7].
NOTE: the CRS service implementing the early-session model needs the early-
session extension to be supported by intermediate entities and the terminating
UE, else CRS media can not be provided to the called party.
The CRS service implementing the download and play model adds no additional
requirements on the terminating network side.
For early session model and the gateway model, if the CRS service is provided
by the terminating network, the CRS AS shall control an MRF as described in
3GPP TS 24.229 [3] that is acting on behalf of a called subscriber who has
activated CRS.
## 4.4 Syntax requirements
There are no new protocol requirements for the CRS service.
## 4.5 Signalling procedures
### 4.5.1 General
Configuration of supplementary services by the user should:
\- take place over the Ut interface using XCAP as enabling protocol as
described in 3GPP TS 24.623 [5]; or
\- use SIP based user configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 [6].
NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope of the
present document, but are not precluded.
The details of the XCAP document of CRS service are not specified in this
version of the document.
### 4.5.2 Activation/deactivation
The CRS service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at withdrawal.
When a CRS service is activated a subscriber can specify which CRS a called
user should experience, or use the operator\'s default setting.
After a subscriber has activated his CRS service a called user experiences the
CRS that was chosen by the subscriber, or if the called user has activated his
CRS service, he can experiences the CRS that was chosen by himself.
When a CRS service is deactivated a subscriber will not send any CRS to a
called user.
After a subscriber has deactivated his CRS service a called user will not
experience any CRS unless the called user has actived his CRS service and
revert to any alerting provided by the UE.
### 4.5.3 Registration/erasure
The CRS service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
### 4.5.4 Interrogation
For CRS, interrogation is not applicable.
### 4.5.5 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.5.1 Actions at the originating UE
The UE shall follow the procedures specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] for session
initiation and termination.
If a specific CRS media that the originating UE wants to play to the
terminating UE exists, the originating UE in the initial INVITE shall:
a) insert an Alert-Info header field with a URL which indicates the specific
CRS media defined by the CRS AS serving the originating UE; and
b) an XML body as specified in annex D.
#### 4.5.5.2 Actions at the terminating UE
##### 4.5.5.2.1 General
The UE shall follow the procedures specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] for session
termination.
If the terminating UE supports the early session mechanism then the UE shall
make use of the procedures as specified in RFC 3959 [4].
Upon receiving the CRS media, the terminating UE shall play the CRS media. If
media type of the local ringing signal is not in conflict with media type of
the received CRS media, the local ringing signal shall be played at the same
time to the received CRS media otherwise the local ringing signal shall not be
played.
NOTE: How to decide that the media type of the local ringing signal is in
conflict with the media type of the CRS media type depends on UE
implementation.
##### 4.5.5.2.2 UE Actions for download and play model
###### 4.5.5.2.2.1 General
If the terminating UE supports the download and play model, and an initial
INVITE request contains an Alert-Info header field including a URI followed by
a URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\", then the UE shall fetch and play the CRS
media from the URL contained in the Alert-Info header field in the INVITE
request.
###### 4.5.5.2.2.2 UE Actions for CRS copy
In order for the called party to copy the media for the CRS service, the UE
shall send a specific DTMF digit for CRS copy.
NOTE: The definition of which DTMFs are used is outside the scope of this
specification and is dependant on the implementation of operator.
###### 4.5.5.2.2.3 UE Actions for CRS stop
It is the local action of UE for the called party to stop and restart the
media of the CRS service.
##### 4.5.5.2.3 UE Actions for early session model
###### 4.5.5.2.3.1 General
The UE shall follow the procedures specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] for session
termination with the following additions:
-a) Upon receiving an initial INVITE request, the UE shall:
\- check whether an Alert-Info header field with a URN
\"urn:alert:service:crs\" present; and
-b) If present, then the UE shall:
\- send a reliable SIP 18x response as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3];
\- not play local ringing tone to terminating user when a 180 response is
sent;
\- if SIP PRACK request containing an SDP early session offer, containing an
SDP a=content attribute with a \"a.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description
is received, send back a SIP 200(OK) response to the request including an SDP
early session answer; and
\- receive the CRS media from network and play it as ringing tone.
NOTE: The UE plays a local ringing tone if no CRS media is received within a
specific time.
###### 4.5.5.2.3.2 UE Actions for CRS copy
In order for the called party to copy the media for the CRS service, the UE
shall send a specific DTMF digit for CRS copy.
NOTE: The definition of which DTMFs are used is outside the scope of this
specification and is dependant on the implementation of operator.
##### 4.5.5.2.4 UE support of DTMF
In addition to indicating support of the telephone-event media subtype in the
SDP answer, as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3], the UE shall indicate support of
the SIP INFO mechanism for DTMF transport, as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3],
by including a Recv-Info header field with a \"infoDtmf\" value, as defined in
IETF RFC 6086 [7]. The AS will indicate to the UE which DTMF transport
mechanism to use for CRS control.
###### 4.5.5.2.4.2 UE Actions for CRS stop
In order for the called party to stop the media for the CRS service, the UE
shall send a specific DTMF digit for CRS stop.
In order for the called party to restart the media for the CRS service, the UE
shall send a specific DTMF digit for CRS restart.
NOTE: The definition of which DTMFs are used is outside the scope of this
specification and is dependant on the implementation of operator.
##### 4.5.5.2.5 UE Actions for gateway model
###### 4.5.5.2.5.1 General
If the UE supports playing CRS media, the UE shall follow the procedures
specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] for session termination, and additionally, if
the received initial INVITE request contains an Alert-Info header field with
an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\" and without a URL of CRS media, the UE shall
play any CRS media that is received from the network as ringing signal. CRS
media is identified by the a=content media-level attribute with a
\"g.3gpp.crs\" value being in the SDP offer.
NOTE: The UE plays local ringing tone if no UPDATE request with an SDP offer
including a=content media-level attribute with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value and no
CRS media is received within a specific time.
#### 4.5.5.3 Actions at the AS serving the originating UE
##### 4.5.5.3.1 General
The procedures specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3] for an AS acting as a routing
B2BUA apply with additions described in the subclauses below.
Upon receiving a SIP INVITE request containing an XML body as specified in
annex D, the AS shall fetch the URL indication for a specific CRS media in the
Alert-Info header field as indicated in annex D, and delete this URL
indication in the Alert-Info header field and delete the XML body before
forwarding the SIP INVITE request.
If the first reliable SIP 18x response destined to served user includes a
Require header field with \"early-session\" option-tag and the AS supports the
\"early-session\" extension as described in RFC 3959 [4], the AS shall, based
on operator policy, follow the procedures in subclause 4.5.5.3.2 to provide
CRS service according to the configuration rules, e.g. time, calling party\'s
location, called party\'s location, the identity of the calling and called
party, if privacy is required, any information which should be private cannot
be used as the rules to provide the CRS service. The procedures in subclause
4.5.5.3.2 shall not be used if there are intermediates in the network that do
not support the early session extension. In addition, intermediates and
network policy must allow media towards the terminating UE before the call has
been answered.
##### 4.5.5.3.2 AS Actions for early session model
###### 4.5.5.3.2.1 General AS actions
Upon receiving an initial INVITE request from the served user, the AS shall
forward the initial INVITE request to the terminating UE after inserting an
Alert-Info header field with an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\" and inserting a
Supported header field containing \"early-session\" option-tag as specified in
RFC 3959 [4].
Upon receiving the first reliable SIP 18x response to the initial INVITE
request including a Supported header field with \"early-session\" tag, the AS:
\- may contact the MRF to request CRS resource; and
\- shall forward the reliable SIP 18x response to the originating UE.
Upon receiving the PRACK request of the first reliable SIP 18x response from
the served user, the AS shall:
1) contact the MRF to request CRS resource if it has not been previously
requested; and
2) forward the SIP PRACK request to the terminating UE. The PRACK request
shall:
\- include the SDP content for CRS as early-session SDP offer based on the
information from the MRF and if preconditions are used, indicate the local
preconditions are fulfilled. The early session SDP offer shall contain an SDP
a=content attribute with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description.
Upon receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response to the SIP PRACK request of the first
reliable SIP 18x response, the AS shall remove the early-session SDP answer in
the SIP 200 (OK) response, and forward the response to the originator of the
SIP PRACK request.
Upon receiving additional SIP 18x responses to the initial INVITE request, the
AS shall forward them to the originating UE.
Upon receiving a SIP UPDATE request from served user, the AS shall:
\- generate an early-session SDP offer based on the information from the MRF
and, if preconditions are used, indicate that the local preconditions are
fulfilled;
\- include the early-session SDP offer in the SIP request, and forward it to
the terminating UE; and
\- after receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response to the request, remove the early-
session SDP answer in the SIP 200 (OK) response, and forwards the response to
the originator.
NOTE 1: The early-session SDP offer included in the SIP UPDATE request can in
some cases be identical to a previous early-session SDP offer sent towards the
terminating UE, if the associated media parameters have not changed.
If preconditions are used, the AS should not instruct the MRF to start
applicable media for the CRS service before the both the originating and
terminating UE have indicated that local preconditions are fulfilled, and a
180 (Ringing) response has been received from the terminating UE.
If a SIP message from served UE containing an SDP offer related to an early
session is received, the AS shall send an SDP answer to the SDP offer related
to the early-session sent by the served UE and set all port numbers of the
media types to \"0\".
Upon receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response from the terminating UE to the initial
INVITE request, the AS shall instruct the MRF to stop media for the CRS
service and forward the SIP 200 (OK) response to the originating UE.
NOTE 2: The interaction between the AS and MRF is not specified for the CRS
service but can use the Cr reference point as described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3].
Upon receiving a SIP 4xx, 5xx or 6xx response from the terminating UE the AS
shall:
\- instruct the MRF to stop the media for the CRS service; and
\- forward the final response to the originating UE.
###### 4.5.5.3.2.2 AS Actions for CRS stop
Upon receipt of the specific DTMF digit for CRS stop, the AS instructs the MRF
to stop the media for the CRS service.
Upon receipt of the specific DTMF digit for CRS restart, the AS instructs the
MRF to restart the media for the CRS service.
##### 4.5.5.3.2.3 AS Actions for CRS continue {#as-actions-for-crs-continue
.H6}
Upon receiving the SIP 200 (OK) response of the SIP INVITE request from
terminating UE, the AS shall:
a) decide whether the CRS media need to be stopped or continuously played
based on the operator policy and the calling subscribers\' preferences;
b) if the CRS media is provided by the originating network, and the calling
party need the CRS media to be continuously played, then:
1) send a SIP ACK to terminating UE;
2) contact the MRF to request resource of CRS media and original session;
3) send a SIP re-INVITE request to terminating UE. The SIP re-INVITE request
shall include a SDP offer composed of both the original session media received
in the last SDP offer plus the CRS media components apart from those used in
the original session based on the information from MRF, and include an SDP
a=content attribute with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description
associated with CRS media.
4) if a SIP 200 (OK) response containing a SDP answer of the re-INVITE request
from the terminating network is received, the AS shall:
\- send a SIP UPDATE request to originating UE. The SIP UPDATE request shall
include a SDP offer related to the media of original session and the IP
address and port is set based on the information from MRF.
\- upon receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response of SIP UPDATE request from
originating UE, send a SIP 200 (OK) response of the SIP INVITE request to
originating UE.
\- upon receiving the SIP ACK from originating UE, instruct MRF to start to
mix CRS media and regular media for terminating UE and just forward regular
media to originating UE.
otherwise if a SIP 488 (Not Acceptable Here) response of the SIP re-INVITE
request from the terminating network is received, the AS shall send a SIP 200
(OK) response of the SIP INVITE request to the originating UE, but don\'t need
to instruct MRF to start to mix CRS media and regular media for terminating
UE.
##### 4.5.5.3.3 AS Actions for download and play model
Upon receiving an initial INVITE request from the served user, the AS
supporting download and play model shall insert an Alert-Info header field
with the URI of the CRS media labeled with the URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\"
as the value into the INVITE request, and forward the INVITE request to the
terminating UE.
##### 4.5.5.3.4 AS Actions for CRS copy
Upon receipt of the specific DTMF digit, the AS copies the media for the
calling party\'s CRS service.
NOTE: How the AS copies the calling party\'s CRS is out of the scope of this
document.
##### 4.5.5.3.5 AS support of DTMF
If the UE has indicated support of both the \"telephone-event\" media subtype
and the SIP INFO mechanism for DTMF transport, the AS shall based on operator
policy choose which DTMF transport mechanism to use for CRS control between
the UE and the AS.
If the AS wants to use the SIP INFO mechanism for DTMF transport, as defined
in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3], the AS shall indicate support of the mechanism in the
initial SIP INVITE request sent towards the terminating UE by including a
Recv-Info header field with a \"infoDtmf\" value, as defined in IETF RFC 6086
[7].
If the AS wants to use the \"telephone-event\" media subtype for DTMF
transport, the AS shall include the \"telephone-event\" in the SDP for CRS
media, sent to the UE.
NOTE: The usage of the \"telephone-event\" media subtype for CRS control
requires that intermediates allow the telephone-event packages to traverse
from the UE to the AS during the early dialog.
For the remainder of this subclause, when the term \"receipt of DTMF digit\"
is used, it means either the detection of a DTMF digit by the MRF, which is
then passed to the AS over the Cr interface, or the receipt of an INFO request
containing the appropriate INFO package, as negotiated above.
##### 4.5.5.3.6 AS Actions for Gateway model
The AS performing the Gateway model shall follow the procedure as specified in
RFC 3960 [10] and annex G in 3GPP TS 24.628 [11] with the additional
procedures described in this subclause.
Upon receiving an initial INVITE request from the originating UE, the AS shall
forward the initial INVITE request to the terminating UE with the following
clarifications:
a) insert an Alert-Info header field with an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\";
and
b) if no \"precondition\" option tag was received in the Supported header
field of the incoming INVITE request, and if the AS uses precondition
mechanism for providing CRS, add a \"precondition\" option tag to the
Supported header field, insert precondition SDP parameters and indicate the
status of local resource availability as specified in RFC 3312 [14].
Upon receiving the first reliable SIP 18x response to the initial INVITE
request, the AS:
a) may contact the MRF to request CRS resource; and
b) shall forward the reliable SIP 18x response to the originating UE. If no
\"precondition\" option tag was included in the Supported header field of the
INVITE request and if the precondition mechanism is used in the received 18x,
before forwarding the 18x response, the AS shall remove the \"precondition\"
option tag from the Require header field and remove precondition SDP
parameters from the SDP answer.
Upon receiving the PRACK request of the first reliable 18x response from
originating UE, the AS shall forward the PRACK request to the terminating UE
and contact the MRF to request CRS resource if it has not been previously
requested.
When the video media feature tag is not included in the Contact header field
of the previously received 18x response from the terminating UE and there is
no video description in the SDP answer included in the 18x response, the AS
shall not request video CRS resource from MRF, and shall not apply video CRS
media to the terminating UE.
After receiving 180 (Ringing) response or receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response to
the PRACK request of the first reliable SIP 18x response from terminating UE,
the AS shall update media of CRS service with terminating UE by UPDATE request
as specified in RFC 3311 [12] with:
a) P-Early-Media header field with a \"sendrecv\" value or a \"sendonly\"
value;
b) an SDP offer, which is based on the CRS information received from the MRF
and includes an a=content media-level attribute with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value.,
The media types can include additional media types compared to the SDP answer
of the previous 18x response from the terminating UE; and.
c) precondition mechanism as specified in RFC 3312 [14] if \"precondition\"
option tag is included in the Require header field of a received 18x response.
If the terminating UE requires the use of precondition mechanism, the AS shall
not instruct the MRF to start applicable media for the CRS service before the
terminating UE has indicated that preconditions are fulfilled. The point when
the AS instruct the MRF to start applicable media for the CRS service is based
on local policy.
Upon receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response to the INVITE request from the
terminating UE, the AS shall instruct the MRF to stop media for the CRS
service and update media for conversation. If the AS is going to update media
with both originating side and terminating side, the AS shall:
a) send an offerless re-INVITE request to the terminating side;
b) upon receiving a SIP response to the re-INVITE request containing an SDP
offer from the terminating side, generate an UPDATE request as specified in
RFC 3311 [12] to send an SDP offer to the originating UE. The SDP offer shall
only contain the media components which appeared both in the SDP offer
contained in the SIP response to the re-INVITE request and the previously
stored SDP offer in the initial INVITE request. The port number of the
corresponding m-line shall be set to zero if it has been set to zero during
previous SDP negotiation; and
c) upon receiving a 200 (OK) response to the UPDATE request from the
originating side, generate an SDP answer to the terminating side, included in
the ACK request associated with the re-INVITE request. The SDP answer shall be
based on the SDP answer contained in the 200 (OK) response to the UPDATE
request, and for the media components which do not appear in the SDP answer in
the 200 (OK) response, set the port number of the corresponding m-line to
zero.
Upon receiving a SIP 4xx, 5xx or 6xx response to the initial INVITE request
from the terminating UE, the AS shall:
a) instruct the MRF to stop the media for the CRS service; and
b) forward the final response to the originating UE.
#### 4.5.5.4 Actions at the AS serving the terminating UE
##### 4.5.5.4.1 AS Actions for CRS stop
When using early session model, upon receipt of the specific DTMF digit for
CRS stop, the AS instructs the MRF to stop the media for the CRS service.
When using early session model, upon receipt of the specific DTMF digit for
CRS restart, the AS instructs the MRF to restart the media for the CRS
service.
##### 4.5.5.4.2 AS Actions for early session model
##### 4.5.5.4.2.1 General {#general-6 .H6}
The procedures in subclause 4.5.5.3.2 shall apply with following additions:
\- Upon receiving the initial INVITE request containing an Alert-Info header
field including only an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\", the AS shall:
\- decide which CRS service should have priority based on the operator policy
and the called CRS service subscriber\'s preferences;
\- if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has no
priority, then forward the initial INVITE request and do not provide CRS
service;
\- if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has
priority, then upon receiving the PRACK request of the first reliable 18x
response to the initial INVITE request:
a) send the PRACK request to the terminating UE. The request shall include the
SDP content for CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE
instead of the CRS service provided by the AS serving the originating UE as
early-session SDP offer and if preconditions are used, and CRS resource has
been requested, indicate the local preconditions are fulfilled;
b) if a 200 (OK) response of PRACK request from terminating UE containing an
SDP answer related to an early session is received, the AS shall forward the
200 (OK) response with a new SDP answer related to the early-session and set
all port numbers of the media types to \"0\".
\- Upon receiving the initial INVITE request including the Alert-Info header
field with both an URL of CRS media and an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\", the
AS shall:
\- decide which CRS service should have priority based on the operator policy
and the called CRS service subscriber\'s preferences;
\- if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has no
priority, then forward the INVITE request and do not provide CRS service;
\- if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has
priority, then:
a) forward the INVITE request after removing the Alert-Info header field; and
b) send a PRACK request to the terminating UE upon receiving the PRACK request
from the originating network of the first reliable SIP 18x response. The PRACK
request shall include the SDP content for CRS as early-session SDP offer and
if preconditions are used, and CRS resource has been requested, indicate the
local preconditions are fulfilled.
\- if a 200 (OK) response of PRACK request from terminating UE containing an
SDP answer related to an early session is received, the AS shall forward the
200 response after removing the SDP answer related to the early session.
##### 4.5.5.4.2.2 AS Actions for CRS continue {#as-actions-for-crs-continue-1
.H6}
Upon receiving the SIP 200 (OK) response of the SIP INVITE request from
terminating UE, the AS shall:
a) decide whether the CRS media need to be stopped or continuously played
based on the operator policy and the called subscribers\' preferences;
b) if the CRS media is provided by the terminating network, and the called
party needs the CRS media to be continuously played, then:
1) send a SIP ACK to terminating UE;
2) contact the MRF to request resource of CRS media and original session;
3) send a SIP re-INVITE request to terminating UE. The SIP re-INVITE request
shall include a SDP offer composed of both the original session media received
in the last SDP offer plus the CRS media components apart from those used in
the original session based on the information from MRF, and include an SDP
a=content attribute with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description
associated with CRS media..
4)upon receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response contain a SDP answer of the SIP re-
INVITE request from the terminating UE, send a SIP UPDATE request to
originating UE. The UPDATE request shall include a SDP offer related to the
media of original session and the IP address and port is set based on the
information from MRF.
5) upon receiving a SIP 200 (OK) response of the SIP UPDATE request from
originating UE, send a SIP 200 (OK) of the SIP INVITE request to the
originating UE.
6) upon receiving the SIP ACK from originating UE, instruct MRF to start to
mix CRS media and regular media for terminating UE and just forward regular
media to originating UE.
c) if the CRS media is provided by the originating network, and the calling
party need the CRS media to be continuously played while the called party does
not need the CRS media to be continuously played, then:
1) upon receiving the first SIP re-INVITE request after forwarding the final
SIP 200 (OK) response send from the terminating UE, the AS shall:
check whether an SDP a=content attribute with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value is
present for some media components.
If present, then:
Send a SIP 488 (Not Acceptable Here) response to reject the SIP re-INVITE
request.
##### 4.5.5.4.2.3 AS action of CRS Reject {#as-action-of-crs-reject .H6}
This subclause describes the procedures when the CRS AS has decided to reject
CRS offered by the AS serving the originating UE.
Upon receiving the initial INVITE request containing an Alert-Info header
field including an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\", the AS shall decide whether
the CRS service provided by the AS serving the originating UE should be
rejected based on the operator policy and the called CRS service subscriber\'s
preferences.
NOTE: Based on the operator policy, the AS can decide whether to reject the
originating CRS service when receiving the first SIP INVITE request or
receiving the PRACK request.
If the CRS service provided by the AS serving the originating UE needs to be
rejected, the AS shall:
\- remove the Alert-Info header field;
\- when receiving the PRACK request of the first reliable 18x response to the
initial INVITE request,
\- remove the early-session SDP content for CRS service provided by the AS
serving the originating UE;
\- forward the PRACK request to the terminating UE; and
\- if a 200 (OK) response of the PRACK request from terminating UE is
received, the AS shall forward the 200 (OK) response with a new SDP answer
related to the early-session and set all port numbers of the media types to
\"0\".
Upon receiving the initial INVITE request including the Alert-Info header
field with a URL of CRS media, the AS shall decide whether the CRS service
provided by the AS serving the originating UE should be rejected based on the
operator policy and the called CRS service subscriber\'s preferences. If the
CRS service provided by the AS serving the originating UE needs to be
rejected, the AS shall forward the INVITE request after removing the Alert-
Info header field.
##### 4.5.5.4.3 AS support of DTMF
If the UE has indicated support of both the \"telephone-event\" media subtype
and the SIP INFO mechanism for DTMF transport, the AS shall based on operator
policy choose which DTMF transport mechanism to use for CRS control between
the UE and the AS.
If the AS wants to use the SIP INFO mechanism for DTMF transport, as defined
in 3GPP TS 24.229 [3], the AS shall indicate support of the mechanism in the
initial SIP INVITE request sent towards the terminating UE by including a
Recv-Info header field with a \"infoDtmf\" value, as defined in IETF RFC 6086
[7].
If the AS wants to use the \"telephone-event\" media subtype for DTMF
transport, the AS shall include the \"telephone-event\" in the SDP for CRS
media, sent to the UE.
NOTE: The usage of the \"telephone-event\" media subtype for CRS control
requires that intermediates allow the telephone-event packages to traverse
from the UE to the AS during the early dialog.
For the remainder of this subclause, when the term \"receipt of DTMF digit\"
is used, it means either the detection of a DTMF digit by the MRF, which is
then passed to the AS over the Cr interface, or the receipt of an INFO request
containing the appropriate INFO package, as negotiated above.
##### 4.5.5.4.4 AS Actions for download and play model
The procedures in subclause 4.5.5.3.3 shall apply with following additions:
\- Upon receiving the initial INVITE request including an Alert-Info header
field containing both an URL of CRS media and an URN
\"urn:alert:service:crs\", the AS shall:
\- decide which CRS service has priority, based on the operator policy and the
called CRS service subscriber\'s preferences; and
\- if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has no
priority, then forward the INVITE request and do not provide CRS service; or
\- if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has
priority, then replace the URL in the Alert-Info header with the URL of CRS
media specified by terminating user.
##### 4.5.5.4.5 AS Actions for Gateway model
The procedures in subclause 4.5.5.3.6 shall apply with following additions:
Upon receiving UPDATE request from originating side, if P-Early-Media header
field with a \"sendrecv\" value or a \"sendonly\" value is included in the
request, the AS shall:
a) decide which CRS service should have priority based on the operator policy
and the called CRS service subscriber\'s preferences;
b) if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has lower
priority, then forward the UPDATE request and do not provide CRS service; and
c) if the CRS service provided by the AS serving the terminating UE has higher
priority, then either:
1) generate an SDP answer based on the received SDP offer, and set all port
numbers of the media types to \"0\", then send the SDP answer to originating
side in the 200 (OK) response to the UPDATE request;or
2) send a 200 (OK) response to the UPDATE request to the originating side and
include a P-Early-Media header field with an \"inactive\" value.
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication session Hold (HOLD)
In the case that CRS service is stopped after the communication is answered,
there is no impact between CRS service and HOLD.
In the case that CRS service is continued after the communication is answered,
whether the CRS will also be hold or not by the CRS AS when user requests HOLD
depends on user\'s preferences and capability of terminating UE.
### 4.6.2 Termination Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.3 Termination Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e.neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service takes precedence over the CRS service. If the OIR service
prevents CRS media from being played to the called party, then the AS
providing CRS service shall not apply the CRS service to the session.
### 4.6.6 Conference (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.7 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
#### 4.6.7.1 General
If the calling party has CRS service and diverting party has both CRS service
and CDIV active, when the diverted-to party does not have active CRS service,
based on operator policy, either:
a) the CRS service of the calling party shall be applied to the session by the
AS providing the CRS service of calling party; or
b) the CRS service of the diverting party shall be applied to the session by
the AS providing CRS service for the diverting party.
If the calling party has CRS service and diverting party has both CRS service
and CDIV active, when the diverted-to party also has active CRS service, based
on operator policy, either:
a) the CRS service of the calling party shall be applied to the session by the
AS providing the CRS service of calling party; or
b) the CRS service of the diverting party shall be applied to the session by
the AS providing CRS service for the diverting party; or
c) the CRS service of the diverted-to party shall be applied to the session by
the AS providing CRS service for the diverted-to party.
#### 4.6.7.2 CFNR
Based on operator policy, the CRS service of the calling party shall be
applied to the session by the AS providing CRS service for the calling party
until the CFNR timer expires. Alternatively, the CRS service of the diverting
party shall be applied to the session by the AS providing CRS service for the
diverting party until the CFNR timer expires.
Upon the CFNR timer expiring, based on operator policy, either:
a) the CRS service of the calling party shall be applied to the session by the
AS providing the CRS service of calling party; or
b) the CRS service of the diverting party shall be applied to the session by
the AS providing CRS service for the diverting party; or
c) the CRS service of the diverted-to party shall be applied to the session by
the AS providing CRS service for the diverted-to party.
### 4.6.8 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.9 Communication Barring (CB)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.10 Communication Waiting (CW)
The Communication Waiting alert, or the CRS service of calling party or called
party whose audio information is replaced by the communication waiting
indication shall be applied, based on operator policy.
If the calling party has CRS service, and the called party does not have
active CRS service, based on operator policy, either:
a) the Communication Waiting alert shall be applied by the MMTEL AS; or
b) the CRS service of calling party shall be applied by the AS providing the
CRS service of calling party.
If the calling party and the called party both have active CRS service, based
on operator policy, either:
a) the Communication Waiting alert shall be applied by the MMTEL AS;
b) the CRS service of calling party shall be applied by the AS providing the
CRS service of calling party; or
c) the CRS service of called party whose audio information is replaced by the
communication waiting indication shall be applied by the AS providing the CRS
service of called party.
### 4.6.11 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
Before the call is transferring, the CRS service of calling party shall be
applied by the AS providing the CRS service of calling party depending on
operator setting,. otherwise the CRS service of transferor shall be applied by
the AS providing the CRS service of transferor.
Upon the ECT service is invoked, depending on operator setting., either:
a) the CRS service of calling party shall be applied by the AS providing the
CRS service of calling party;
b) the CRS service of transferor shall be applied by the AS providing the CRS
service of transferor; or
c) the CRS service of transfer target shall be applied by the AS providing the
CRS service of transfer target.
### 4.6.12 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.13 Multi-Device (MuD)
No impact.
### 4.6.14 Multi-Identity (MiD)
In the originating network, if identity C, as defined in 3GPP TS 24.174 [13],
has CRS service active, and user A, as defined in 3GPP TS 24.174 [13], has CRS
service active, based on operator policy, either:
a) the CRS service of user A shall be applied to the session by the AS
providing the CRS service of user A; or
b) the CRS service of identity C shall be applied to the session by the AS
providing CRS service for identity C, without the CRS service of user A
applied to the session.
If the identity C has CRS service active, and the user A does not have CRS
service active, based on operator policy, either:
a) no CRS service shall be applied to the session; or
b) the CRS service of identity C shall be applied to the session by the AS
providing CRS service for identity C, without the CRS service of user A
applied to the session.
In the terminating network, no impact.
## 4.7 Service configuration
User configuration of CRS service may use Ut interface, SIP based user
configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 [6] or other possible interfaces.
The details of the Ut interface are not specified in this version of the
document.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
User configuration of CRS service may use Ut interface, SIP based user
configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 [6] or other possible interfaces.
The details of the Ut interface are not specified in this version of the
document.
# A.1 CRS download and play model signalling flows
## A.1.1 Introduction
The following flows show establishment of a session between UE#1 and UE#2,
using the down and play model described in subclause 4.5.5.3.2 to provide CRS
to UE#2. The following flows are included:
\- subclause A.1.2 shows CRS, using the down and play model, when UE#1 and
UE#2 have resources available.
## A.1.2 CRS when UE#1 and UE#2 have resources available
Figure A.1.2-1: CRS, UE#1 and UE#2 have resource available
**1 INVITE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.1.2-1**
UE#1 sends a SIP INVITE request to the intermediate IM CN subsystem.
> Table A.1.2-1: INVITE request (UE#1 to S-CSCF)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> P-Preferred-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
>
> Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Privacy: none
>
> P-Early-Media: supported
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Require: sec-agree
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, gruu, 199
>
> Proxy-Require: sec-agree
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact: \ user1_public1\@home1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6>;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
>
> a=pcfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
>
> a=pcfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**Supported:** The UE indicates support for GRUU, 199 responses, reliable
provisional responses and preconditions.
**SDP** The SDP offer (SDP_O) contains a set of codecs supported by UE#1 and
desired by the calling user for this session. The local preconditions are
indicated as fulfilled.
**2 INVITE request (S-CSCF to CRS-AS)**
The S-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE request to the CRS-AS.
**3-4 INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.1.2-3**
The CRS-AS add an Alert-Info header field with the address of CRS media as the
value into the SIP INVITE request, and forwards the SIP INVITE request to
UE#2.
> Table A.1.2-3: INVITE request (CRS-AS to S-CSCF)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> P-Preferred-Service: urn:urn-7:3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel
>
> Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Privacy: none
>
> P-Early-Media: supported
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Require: sec-agree
>
> Recv-Info: infoDtmf
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, gruu, 199
>
> Proxy-Require: sec-agree
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact: \ user1_public1\@home1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6>;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> Alert-Info:
> \;purpose=icon,
> \
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
>
> a=pcfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF
>
> a=pcfg:1 t=1
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**Alert-Info** : The Alert-Info header field contains the address of the CRS
media and URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\".
**5-6 180 (Ringing) provisional response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)**
The called party is alerted. UE#2 sends a SIP 180 (Ringing) provisional
response for the INVITE request to the CRS-AS.
**7 fetch and play CRS media**
The called party fetches the CRS media from the address carried in the Alert-
Info header field, and renders the media.
**8-9 180 (Ringing) provisional response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the 180 (Ringing) response to the calling party.
**10-11 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in
table A.1.2-10**
The called party answers the call. UE#2 stops the playback of CRS media and
sends a SIP 200 (OK) final response for the SIP INVITE request to the CRS-AS.
> Table A.1.2-10: 200 (OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf2.visited2.net:5088;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> catas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764z87.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> icscf2_s.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK871y12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Record-Route: \,
> \, \,
> \, \,
> \
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=2236
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, REFER, MESSAGE
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 29879336157 29879336157 IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 7398 RTP/AVPF 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 8386 RTP/AVPF 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**SDP** The SDP answer (SDP_A) contains a set of codecs to be used for the
session. If preconditions are used, they are indicated as fulfilled.
**12-13 200 (OK) response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the 200 OK final response to the calling party.
**14-15 ACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS)**
UE#1 sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) final
response, to CRS-AS.
**16-17 ACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2)**
CRS-AS sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) final
response, to UE#2.
# A.2 CRS signalling flows using early session model
## A.2.1 Introduction
The following flows show establishment of a session between UE#1 and UE#2,
using the early session model described in subclause 2.2 to provide CRS to
UE#2. The following flows are included:
\- subclause A.2.2 shows CRS, using the early session model, when UE#1 and
UE#2 have resources available;
\- subclause A.2.3 shows CRS, using the early session model, when UE#1 does
not have resources available; and
\- subclause A.2.4 shows CRS, using the early session model, when UE#2 does
not have resources available.
## A.2.2 CRS when UE#1 and UE#2 have resources available
Figure A.2.2-1: CRS, early session model flow when both UE1 and UE2 have
resource available
**1-2 INVITE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.2-1**
UE#1 sends a SIP INVITE request to the intermediate IM CN subsystem.
The S-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE request to the CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.2-1: INVITE request (UE#1 to S-CSCF)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**Supported:** The UE indicates support for preconditions, reliable
provisional responses, and early-session SDP.
**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP_O) contains a set of codecs supported by UE#1 and
desired by the calling user for this session. If preconditions are used, the
local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**3-4 INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.2-3**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP INVITE request to UE#2 after inserting Alert-Info
header field with an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\".
> Table A.2.2-3: INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 68
>
> Route: \,
> \,
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Recv-Info: infoDtmf
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, early-session
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Alert-Info: \
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**5-6 180 Ringing response (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.2-5**
Since the SIP INVITE request contains an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\" in the
Alert-Info header field, UE#2 will not play a local ringing tone when the SIP
180 (Ringing) response is sent. Instead UE#2 will, for a specific time, wait
for an SDP offer related to CRS early session and, if not received, play a
local ringing tone.
> Table A.2.2-5: 180 (Ringing) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 180 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764z87.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition, early-session
>
> Contact:
> \ >;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**SDP** The SDP answer (SDP_A) contains a set of codecs to be used for the
session. The local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**7-8 180 (Ringing) response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP 180 (Ringing) response to UE#1.
**9-10 PRACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS)**
UE#1 sends PRACK request.
**11-12 PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.2-11**
CRS-AS reserves CRS resource, and forwards the PRACK request to UE#2 after a
CRS SDP is inserted.
> Table A.2.2-11: PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> PRACK tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: precondition, 100rel, early-session
>
> RSeq: 9022
>
> Contact:\;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonlt
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
**early SDP** The early-session SDP offer (early SDP_O) contains a set of
codecs supported to be used for CRS and includes an SDP a=content attribute
with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description. The local
preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**13-14 200 (OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.2-13**
UE#2 sends the 200 (OK) response which contains an SDP answer to the PRACK
request containing the SDP offer to CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.2-13:200 (OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764z87.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 128 PRACK
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3466 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
**early SDP** The early-session SDP answer (early SDP_A) contains a set of
codecs supported by UE#2 to be used for CRS. The local preconditions are
indicated as fulfilled.
**15-16 200 (OK) response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the 200 (OK) response, to the PRACK request, from which
the SDP answer is deleted.
The CRS-AS instructs the MRF to send CRS media to UE#2. UE#2 presents the CRS
media.
**17-18 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (UE#2 to CRS-AS)**
The called party answers the call. UE#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) final response to
the SIP INVITE request towards UE#1.
The CRS-AS stops CRS media.
**19-20 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP 200 (OK) response to UE#1.
A regular session is established between UE#1 and UE#2.
The early session between UE#2 and the CRS-AS is terminated.
**21-22 ACK request (UE#1 to UE#2)**
UE#1 sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) final
response, to UE#2.
## A.2.3 CRS when UE#1 does not have required resources available while UE#2
has resources available
{width="6.097222222222222in" height="8.271527777777777in"}
Figure A.2.3-1: CRS, UE#1 does not have resource available
**1 INVITE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.3-1**
UE#1 sends a SIP INVITE request to the intermediate IM CN subsystem.
> Table A.2.3-1: INVITE request (UE#1 to S-CSCF)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, 199
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**Supported:** The UE indicates support for preconditions and reliable
provisional responses.
**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP_O1) contains a set of codecs supported by UE#1 and
desired by the user at UE#1 for this session. The SDP contains an indication
that the local preconditions are not fulfilled.
**2 INVITE request (S-CSCF to CRS-AS)**
The S-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE request to the CRS-AS.
**3-4 INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.3-3**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP INVITE request to UE#2 after inserting Alert-Info
header field with an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\".
> Table A.2.3-3: INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Recv-Info: infoDtmf
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, 199
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Alert-Info: \
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**5-6 183 (Session Progress) provisional response (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example
in table A.2.3-5**
UE#2 sends a SIP 183 (Session Progress) provisional response for the INVITE
request to the CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.3-5: 183 (Session Progress) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 183 Session Progress
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=6322
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition, early-session, 199
>
> RSeq: 9021
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**SDP:** The SDP answer (SDP_A1) contains a set of codecs to be used for the
session. The local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**7-8 183 (Session Progress) provisional response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP 183 (Session Progress) provisional response to
UE#1.
**9-10 PRACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.3-9**
UE#1 sends a SIP PRACK request to acknowledge the 183 (Session Progress)
provisional response, towards UE#2.
> Table A.2.3-9: PRACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS)
>
> PRACK
> sip:user2_public1\@home2.net;gr=urn:uuid:2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74
> SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 128 PRACK
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Length: 0
**11-12 PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.3-11**
CRS-AS forwards the SIP PRACK request with early-session SDP offer for CRS to
UE#2.
> Table A.2.3-11: PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> PRACK
> sip:user1_public1\@home1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6
> SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK614Q63.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK351b51.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK582f12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> Max-Forwards: 66
>
> Privacy:
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 128 PRACK
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::ccc:aaa:bbb:acc
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::ccc:aaa:bbb:acc
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
**early SDP:** The early-session SDP offer (early SDP_O1) contains a set of
codecs to be used for CRS and includes an SDP a=content attribute with a
\"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description. The preconditions are
indicated as fulfilled.
**13-14 200 (OK) response to PRACK request (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in
table A.2.3-13**
UE#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP PRACK request with early-
session SDP answer for CRS, towards CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.3-13: 200(OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=6322
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition
>
> RSeq: 9021
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3500 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> m=audio 3556 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
**early SDP:** The early-session SDP answer (early SDP_A1) contains a set of
codecs supported by UE#2 to be used for CRS. The preconditions are indicated
as fulfilled.
**15-16 200 (OK) response to PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#1) see example in
table A.2.3-15**
CRS-AS forwards the SIP 200(OK) response without early-session SDP answer to
UE#1.
> Table A.2.3-15: 200(OK) response (**CRS-AS** **to** **UE#** 1)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=6322
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition, 199
>
> RSeq: 9021
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
**17-18 UPDATE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.3-17**
After the resources for regular session is reserved, UE#1 sends a SIP UPDATE
request with regular session SDP offer towards UE#2.
> Table A.2.3-17: UPDATE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS)
>
> UPDATE
> sip:user2_public1\@home2.net;gr=urn:uuid:2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74
> SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 129 UPDATE
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP_O2) contains a set of codecs supported by UE#1 and
desired by the user at UE#1 for this session. The SDP contains an indication
that the preconditions are fulfilled.
**19-20 UPDATE request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.3-19**
CRS-AS forwards the SIP UPDATE request towards UE#2 with early-session SDP.
> Table A.2.3-19: UPDATE request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> UPDATE
> sip:user2_public1\@home2.net;gr=urn:uuid:2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74
> SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK164Q63.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK514b51.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK812f12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> Max-Forwards: 66
>
> Privacy:
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 129 UPDATE
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=\"boundary1\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \--boundary1
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
>
> \--boundary1
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933617 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3500 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote recvonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3556 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote recvonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> \--boundary1
**early SDP:** The early-session SDP offer (early SDP_O1) contains a set of
codecs to be used for CRS. The local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**21-22 200 (OK) response to UPDATE request (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in
table A.2.3-21**
UE#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP UPDATE request to the CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.3-21: 200 (OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK611k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764KS12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK514b51.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK164Q63.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK514b51.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK812f12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=\"boundary1\"
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \--boundary1
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
>
> \--boundary1
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::ccc:aaa:bbb:acc
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::ccc:aaa:bbb:acc
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendonly
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> \--boundary1
**SDP:** The SDP answer (SDP_A2) contains a set of codecs supported by UE#2 to
be used for the session. The preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**early SDP:** The early-session SDP answer (early SDP_A2) contains a set of
codecs supported by UE#2 to be used for CRS. The preconditions are indicated
as fulfilled.
**23-24 200 (OK) response to UPDATE request (CRS-AS to UE#1) see example in
table A.2.3-23**
CRS-AS forwards the SIP 200 (OK) response to the SIP UPDATE request without
early session SDP answer, towards UE#1.
> Table A.2.3-23: 200 (OK) response (CRS-AS to UE#1)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK164Q63.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK514b51.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK812f12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**25-28 180 (Ringing) response to INVITE request (UE#2 to UE#1)**
UE#2 sends a SIP 180 (Ringing) provisional response to the INVITE request
towards UE#1.
The CRS-AS instructs the MRF to play CRS media when it receives the180
(Ringing) response.
**29-30 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (UE#2 to CRS-AS)**
The called party answers the call. UE#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) final response to
the SIP INVITE request towards UE#1.
The CRS-AS instructs the MRF to stop CRS media.
**31-32 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP 200 (OK) response to UE#1.
A regular session is established between UE#1 and UE#2.
The early session between the CRS-AS and UE#2 is terminated.
**33-34 ACK request (UE#1 to UE#2)**
UE#1 sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the 200 (OK) final response,
to UE#2.
## A.2.4 CRS when UE#1 has required resources available while UE#2 do not have
resources available
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="7.718055555555556in"}
Figure A.2.4-1: CRS, UE#2 does not have resource available
**1 INVITE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.4-1**
UE#1 sends a SIP INVITE request to the intermediate IM CN subsystem.
> Table A.2.4-1: INVITE request (UE#1 to S-CSCF)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, 199
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**Supported:** The UE indicates support for preconditions and reliable
provisional responses.
**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP_O1) contains a set of codecs supported by UE#1 and
desired by the user at UE#1 for this session. The SDP contains an indication
that the local preconditions are fulfilled.
**2 INVITE request (S-CSCF to CRS-AS)**
The S-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE request to the CRS-AS.
**3-4 INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.4-3**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP INVITE request to UE#2 after inserting Alert-Info
header field with an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\".
> Table A.2.4-3: INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Recv-Info: infoDtmf
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, 199
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Alert-Info: \
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**5-6 183 (Session Progress) provisional response (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example
in table A.2.4-5**
UE#2 sends a SIP 183 (Session Progress) provisional response for the INVITE
request to the CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.4-5: 183 (Session Progress) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 183 Session Progress
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=6322
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition, early-session, 199
>
> RSeq: 9021
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**SDP:** The SDP answer (SDP_A1) contains a set of codecs to be used for the
session. The local preconditions are indicated as not fulfilled.
**7-8 183 (Session Progress) provisional response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP 183 (Session Progress) provisional response to
UE#1.
**9-10 PRACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.4-9**
UE#1 sends a SIP PRACK request to acknowledge the 183 (Session Progress)
provisional response, towards UE#2.
> Table A.2.4-9: PRACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS)
>
> PRACK
> sip:user2_public1\@home2.net;gr=urn:uuid:2ad8950e-48a5-4a74-8d99-ad76cc7fc74
> SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 128 PRACK
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Length: 0
**11-12 PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.4-11**
CRS-AS forwards the SIP PRACK request with early-session SDP offer for CRS to
UE#2.
> Table A.2.4-11: PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> PRACK
> sip:user1_public1\@home1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6
> SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK614Q63.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK351b51.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK582f12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKna234s7
>
> Max-Forwards: 66
>
> Privacy:
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 128 PRACK
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: 0
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::ccc:aaa:bbb:acc
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::ccc:aaa:bbb:acc
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
**early SDP:** The early-session SDP offer (early SDP_O1) contains a set of
codecs to be used for CRS and includes an SDP a=content attribute with a
\"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description. The preconditions are
indicated as fulfilled.
**13-14 200 (OK) response to PRACK request (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in
table A.2.4-13**
UE#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) response for the SIP PRACK request with early-
session SDP answer for CRS, towards CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.4-13: 200(OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=6322
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition
>
> RSeq: 9021
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3500 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendonly
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> m=audio 3556 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
**early SDP:** The early-session SDP answer (early SDP_A1) contains a set of
codecs supported by UE#2 to be used for CRS. The preconditions are indicated
as not fulfilled.
**15-16 200 (OK) response to PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#1) see example in
table A.2.4-15**
CRS-AS forwards the SIP 200(OK) response without early-session SDP answer to
UE#1.
> Table A.2.4-15: 200(OK) response (**CRS-AS** **to** **UE#** 1)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=6322
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition
>
> RSeq: 9021
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
**17-20 180 (Ringing) response to INVITE request (UE#2 to UE#1)**
UE#2 sends a SIP 180 (Ringing) provisional response to the INVITE request
towards UE#1.
The CRS-AS instructs the MRF to play CRS media.
**21-22 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (UE#2 to CRS-AS)**
The called party answers the call. UE#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) final response to
the SIP INVITE request towards UE#1.
The CRS-AS instructs the MRF to stop CRS media.
**23-24 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP 200 (OK) response to UE#1.
A regular session is established between UE#1 and UE#2.
The early session between the CRS-AS and UE#2 is terminated.
**25-26 ACK request (UE#1 to UE#2)**
UE#1 sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the 200 (OK) final response,
to UE#2.
## A.2.5 Continue to play CRS during the conversation
Figure A.2.5-1: continue to play CRS during the conversation
**1-2 INVITE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.5-1**
UE#1 sends a SIP INVITE request to the intermediate IM CN subsystem.
The S-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE request to the CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.5-1: INVITE request (UE#1 to S-CSCF)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \,
> \
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**Supported:** The UE indicates support for preconditions, reliable
provisional responses, and early-session SDP.
**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP_O) contains a set of codecs supported by UE#1 and
desired by the calling user for this session. If preconditions are used, the
local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**3-4 INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.5-3**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP INVITE request to UE#2 after inserting Alert-Info
header field with an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\".
> Table A.2.5-3: INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 68
>
> Route: \,
> \,
>
> P-Preferred-Identity: \"John Doe\" \
>
> P-Access-Network-Info: 3GPP-UTRAN-TDD; utran-cell-id-3gpp=234151D0FCE11
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Recv-Info: infoDtmf
>
> Supported: precondition, 100rel, early-session
>
> Security-Verify: ipsec-3gpp; q=0.1; alg=hmac-sha-1-96; spi-c=98765432;
> spi-s=87654321; port-c=8642; port-s=7531
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Accept:application/sdp, application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Alert-Info: \
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**5-6 180 (Ringing) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.5-5**
Since the SIP INVITE request contains an URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\" in the
Alert-Info header field, UE#2 will not play a local ringing tone when the SIP
180 (Ringing) response is sent. Instead UE#2 will, for a specific time, wait
for an SDP offer related to CRS early session and, if not received, play a
local ringing tone.
> Table A.2.5-5: 180 (Ringing) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 180 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764z87.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: 100rel, precondition, early-session
>
> Contact:
> \ >;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**SDP** The SDP answer (SDP_A) contains a set of codecs to be used for the
session. The local preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**7-8 180 (Ringing) response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the SIP 180 (Ringing) response to UE#1.
**9-10 PRACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS)**
UE#1 sends PRACK request.
**11-12 PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.5-11**
CRS-AS reserves CRS resource and forwards the PRACK request to UE#2 after a
CRS SDP is inserted.
> Table A.2.5-11: PRACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> PRACK tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP crsas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Require: precondition, 100rel, early-session
>
> RSeq: 9022
>
> Contact:\;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 6666::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote recvonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
**early SDP** The early-session SDP offer (early SDP_O) contains a set of
codecs supported to be used for CRS and includes an SDP a=content attribute
with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each media description. The local
preconditions are indicated as fulfilled.
**13-14 200 (OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in table A.2.5-13**
UE#2 sends the 200 (OK) response which contains an answer SDP for the PRACK
request to CRS-AS.
> Table A.2.5-13:200 (OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf2.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK361k21.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK764XC12.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764z87.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> crsas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK764Q32.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 128 PRACK
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: early-session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933616 2987933616 IN IP6 5555::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3500 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3466 RTP/AVP 97
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local recvonly
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendonly
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
**early SDP** The early-session SDP answer (early SDP_A) contains a set of
codecs supported by UE#2 to be used for CRS. The local preconditions are
indicated as fulfilled.
**15-16 200 (OK) response (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS forwards the 200 (OK) response which the answer SDP is deleted for
the PRACK request.
The CRS-AS instructs the MRF to send CRS media to UE#2. UE#2 presents the CRS
media.
**17-18 200 (OK) response to INVITE request (UE#2 to CRS-AS)**
The called party answers the call. UE#2 sends a SIP 200 (OK) final response to
the SIP INVITE request towards UE#1.
**19-20 ACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2)**
CRS-AS sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) final
response, to UE#2.
**21-22 re-INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2) see example in table A.2.5-21**
> Table A.2.5-21: re-INVITE request (CRS-AS to UE#2)
>
> INVITE tel:+1-212-555-2222 SIP/2.0
>
> Via:
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq: 128 INVITE
>
> Contact: \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933617 2987933617 IN IP6 7777::eee:fff:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 7777::eee:fff:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
>
> a=content:g.3gpp.crs
**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP_O) contains a set of codecs to be used for
original session received in the last SDP offer plus the continuous CRS media,
and includes an SDP a=content attribute with a \"g.3gpp.crs\" value for each
media description. If preconditions are used, the local preconditions are
indicated as fulfilled.
**23-24 200 (OK) response to re-INVITE request (UE#2 to CRS-AS) see example in
table A.2.5-23**
> Table A.2.5-23:200 (OK) response (UE#2 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via:
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933617 2987933617 IN IP6 7777::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 7777::eee:fff:aaa:bbb
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3500 RTP/AVP 98
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local recvonly
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendonly
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**25-26 UPDATE request (CRS-AS to UE#1) see example in table A.2.5-25**
> Table A.2.5-25:UPDATE request (CRS-AS to UE#1)
>
> UPDATE
> sip:user1_public1\@home1.net;gr=urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6>
> SIP/2.0
>
> Via:
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Contact: \;+g.3gpp.icsi_ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933618 2987933618 IN IP6 8888::eee:fff:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 8888::eee:fff:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 5678 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**SDP:** The SDP offer (SDP_O) contains a set of codecs to be used for regular
session. If preconditions are used, the local preconditions are indicated as
fulfilled.
**27-28 200 (OK) request to UPDATE request (UE#1 to CRS-AS) see example in
table A.2.5-27**
> Table A.2.5-27:200 (OK) response (UE#1 to CRS-AS)
>
> SIP/2.0 200 OK
>
> Via:
>
> From:
>
> To:
>
> Call-ID:
>
> Cseq:
>
> Contact:
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Disposition: session
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933618 2987933618 IN IP6 8888::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 8888::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=audio 5678 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local sendrecv
>
> a=curr:qos remote sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos mandatory remote sendrecv
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
**29-30 200 (OK) response to INVITE (CRS-AS to UE#1)**
The CRS-AS sends the SIP 200 (OK) response for the (initial) SIP INVITE
request to UE#1.
**31-32 ACK request (UE#1 to CRS-AS)**
UE#1 sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) final
response, to CRS-AS.
Upon receiving the SIP ACK request from UE#1, AS shall instruct the MRF to mix
CRS media and regular media during the conversation.
**33-34 ACK request (CRS-AS to UE#2)**
CRS-AS sends a SIP ACK request, which acknowledges the SIP 200 (OK) response
of re-INVITE request, to UE#2.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
###### ## Annex C (normative): Registration for URN used within the current
document
Editor's note [CR#0055, WI TEI16]: IANA registration about the CRS service
indication \"urn:alert:service:crs\" needs to be done in IANA.
Namespace ID: alert
Registration Information: Registration version: 1
Registration date: TBD
Declared registrant of the namespace:
> Registering organization: 3GPP
Intended Usage: The URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\" can only be inserted into
the intial INVITE request by the AS as specified in 3GPP TS 24.183. It is used
to indicate that CRS service is initiated.
> On the terminating UE side:
>
> If the received INVITE request contains an Alert-Info header field including
> the URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\" and an media URL, the UE shall fetch and
> play the media from the URL, as specified in subclause 4.5.5.2.2.1 in 3GPP
> TS 24.183.
>
> If the received INVITE request contains an Alert-Info header field including
> the URN \"urn:alert:service:crs\" but not an media URL, the UE shall play
> the media received from network, as specified in subclause 4.5.5.2.3.1 and
> subclause 4.5.5.2.5.1 in 3GPP TS 24.183.
Declaration of syntactic structure:
> The service-indication under the \"service\" alert-identifier for CRS
> service is \"crs\" and is used according to the ABNF as defined in RFC 7462
> [8].
>
> Example:
>
> urn:alert:service:crs
Relevant ancillary documentation: 3GPP TS 24.183
Community considerations: IANA
Namespace considerations: There do not appear to be other URN namespaces that
serve the same need of uniquely identifying \'alert\' communication and
information services.
Identifier uniqueness considerations: This identifier is unique under the
namespace of \'alert\' URN.
Identifier persistence considerations: This identifier is persistent, as long
as it is registered with IANA.
Conformance with URN syntax: The BNF in the \'Declaration of syntactic
structure\' in RFC 7462 [8] constrains the syntax for this URN scheme.
###### ## Annex D (informative): XML body in SIP message for indicating to UE
# D.1 CRS service indication XML schema
## D.1.1 General
This subclause defines XML schema and MIME type related to the CRS service
indication feature.
## D.1.2 XML schema
\
\
\
\
\
## D.1.3 IANA registration template
Editor\'s note: The MIME type \"application/vnd.3gpp.crs+xml\" as defined in
this subclause is to be registered in the IANA registry for Application Media
Types based upon the following template.
MIME media type name:
application
MIME subtype name:
vnd.3gpp.crs+xml
Required parameters:
None
Optional parameters:
\"charset\" the parameter has identical semantics to the charset parameter of
the \"application/xml\" media type as specified in IETF RFC 3023 [21].
Encoding considerations:
Same as encoding considerations of application/xml as specified in IETF RFC
3023 [21]
Security considerations:
Same as general security considerations for application/xml as specified in
section 10 of IETF RFC 3023 [21]. In addition, this content type provides a
format for exchanging information in SIP, so the security considerations from
IETF RFC 3261 [19] apply.
Interoperability considerations:
Same as interoperability considerations as specified in section 3.1 of IETF
RFC 3023 [21].
Published specification:
3GPP TS 24.183 \" IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Customized Ringing Signal\",
version 9.1.0, available via http://www.3gpp.org/specs/numbering.htm.
Applications which use this media:
Applications support the service continuity as described in the published
specification.
Intended usage:
COMMON
Additional information:
1\. Magic number(s): none
2\. File extension(s): none
3\. Macintosh file type code: none
4\. Object Identifiers: none
###### ## Annex E (normative): SDP a=content attribute \"g.3gpp.crs\" value
## E.1 Introduction
This annex provides the IANA registration information for a new value,
g.3gpp.crs, for the SDP a=content media-level attribute defined in RFC 4796
[9]. The attribute value is used to indicate that an SDP media descriptions
are associated with the CRS service.
## E.2 IANA registration
IANA registration table: \"content SDP Parameters\" table of \"Session
Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters\" registry
SDN name: g.3gpp.crs
Description: Stream associated with the 3GPP Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
service.
Reference: 3GPP TS 24.183
#