# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three (protocol description) of the
Enhanced Calling Name (eCNAM) supplementary service based on stage one
description in 3GPP TS 22.173 [1]. It provides the protocol details in the IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem (see 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]) based on
the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) (see RFC 3261 [3]) where the eCNAM data
is retrieved by the terminating network from trusted data sources.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[3] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[5] IETF RFC 3325: \"Private Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) for Network Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks\".
[6] IETF RFC 3323: \"A Privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)\".
[7] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.604: \"Communication Diversion (CDIV) using IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem\".
[9] IETF RFC 8224: \"Authenticated Identity Management in the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation E.164 (11/2010): \"The international public
telecommunication numbering plan\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation I.210 (03/1993): \"Principles of telecommunication
services supported by an ISDN and the means to describe them\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions and
abbreviations apply.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions and
abbreviations apply:
**Identity information:** all the information identifying a user, including
trusted (network generated) and/or untrusted (user generated) addresses.
NOTE: Identity information takes the form of either a SIP URI **(see RFC 3261
[** 3**]) or a tel URI (see RFC 3966 [** 7**]).**
**Originating UE:** sender of a SIP request intended to initiate either a
dialog (e.g. INVITE, SUBSCRIBE), or a standalone transaction.
**Private information:** information that according to RFC 3323 [6] and RFC
3325 [5] is not permitted to be delivered to the remote end.
**Searchkey:** a user identity employed to retrieve the eCNAM data associated
with that identity from the appropriate data sources.
**terminating UE:** recipient of a SIP request intended either to initiate a
dialog or to initiate either a dialog or a standalone transaction
**trusted identity information:** network generated user public identity
information
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions given in
RFC 3261 [3] apply.
**header**
**header field**
**request**
**response**
**session**
**(SIP) transaction**
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions given in
ITU‑T Recommendation I.210 [11] apply:
**supplementary service**
**E.164 telephone number: telephone number formatted according to ITU-T.**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.
**3GPP 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project**
**ACR Anonymous Communication Rejection**
**AS** Application Server
CCBS Completion of Communication to Busy Subscriber
CDIV **Communication DIVersion**
CN Core Network
CUG Closed User Group
CW Communication Waiting
eCNAM Enhanced Calling Name
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
FA Flexible Alerting
HOLD Communication Hold
ICB Incoming Communications Barring
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IM IP Multimedia
IMS **IP Multimedia Subsystem**
IP Internet Protocol
MCID Malicious Communication Identification
MiD **Multi-iDentity**
MuD **Multi-Device**
MWI Message Waiting Indication
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
**PNM Personal Network Management**
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
TN Telephone Number
**UE** User Equipment
**URI** Universal Resource Identifier
# 4 Enhanced Calling Name (eCNAM)
## 4.1 Introduction
The eCNAM service provides the terminating user with the name associated with
the originating user and optionally delivers metadata about that originating
user. While eCNAM is a terminating service, the eCNAM operations rely on
information received from the originating network, such as the originating
user\'s E.164 telephone number (TN) to retrieve eCNAM data from trusted data
sources (via methods outside the scope of this specification).
## 4.2 Service Description
### 4.2.1 General Description
The eCNAM service provides the terminating user with a name that identifies
the originating user, and metadata about that originating user (e.g., address,
language).
NOTE: The terminating service provider retrieves the name and metadata from
pre-selected data sources. The terminating service provider can also partner
with analytics providers that offer risk indicators about the incoming call
(e.g., known perpetrators of scams) as part of the metadata eCNAM delivers.
To retrieve eCNAM data, the service provider formulates queries using a
searchkey to retrieve the name and metadata. The searchkey is a user identity
obtained from the incoming SIP INVITE. Most commonly, the service provider
uses an E.164 TN as that searchkey. Other identities could be used to retrieve
the eCNAM data.
If the terminating network determines that the telephone number\'s (or other
identity\'s) presentation is restricted (i.e., not to be presented to the end
user), the eCNAM data will also be restricted.
If the terminating network determines that the telephone number (or other
identity\'s) presentation is not restricted (i.e., to be presented to the end
user), the eCNAM data will also be presented to the end user with no
restriction.
## 4.3 Operational Requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The eCNAM service can be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider.
The eCNAM service can be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the Originating Network
eCNAM is a terminating service, however, the eCNAM operations rely on
information received from the originating network.
If the originating user identity, such as the originating user\'s E.164 TN, is
not delivered by the originating network to the terminating network, the
terminating service provider will not be able to retrieve eCNAM data from the
relevant data sources.
NOTE: The searchkey element necessary for retrieving eCNAM data from the
relevant data source is, in most cases, restricted to the originating user\'s
E.164 TN for most databases. However, other user identities can be used as
searchkey elements.
The originating network can support a verification capability, such as the
number verification capability described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]. Without a
verification capability at the originating network, the integrity of the eCNAM
data retrieved could be impacted.
### 4.3.3 Requirements on the Terminating Network
#### 4.3.3.1 Data Sources
The eCNAM service involves the retrieval of the name data and the additional
caller information from data sources that the terminating service provider has
access to, based on service provider policy.
The special arrangements and interfaces between the terminating service
provider and the data sources are outside the scope of this document and are
subject to operator procedures.
NOTE 1: The accuracy of the name information and the metadata about the caller
varies among sources; therefore, the terminating service provider exercises a
choice of which source to use. The interfaces and protocols used to retrieve
the data are typically negotiated between the terminating service provider and
the data source.
NOTE 2: The terminating service provider pre‑determines the elements of
metadata that will be delivered on each call to eCNAM subscribers. The set of
metadata varies from one service provider to another.
4.4 Syntax Requirements
The syntax for the header fields are normatively described in 3GPP TS 24.229
[2]. The relevant headers are:
\- The P‑Asserted‑Identity header field which shall conform to the
specifications in RFC 3325 [5] and RFC 3966 [7].
\- The Identity header field which shall conform to the specifications in RFC
8224 [9].
\- The Call-Info header field which shall conform to the specifications in RFC
3261 [3].
\- The Privacy header field which shall conform to the specifications in RFC
3323 [6] and RFC 3325 [5].
NOTE: The privacy level \"session\" and \"critical\" are not used in this
specification.
\- The From header field which shall conform to the specifications in RFC 3261
[3] and RFC 3966 [7].
## 4.5 Signalling Procedures
### 4.5.1 General
Configuration of the eCNAM is performed by the service provider.
### 4.5.2 Activation/Deactivation
The service provider activates the eCNAM service at provisioning, upon the
user\'s request.
The service provider deactivates the service at withdrawal upon the user's
request.
No user configuration is defined in this release.
### 4.5.3 Invocation and Operation
#### 4.5.3.1 Actions at the Originating UE
No actions at the originating UE.
#### 4.5.3.2 Actions at the AS serving the Originating UE
No actions at the AS serving the originating UE.
#### 4.5.3.3 Actions at the AS serving the Terminating UE
##### 4.5.3.3.1 Identity not available
eCNAM is a terminating service; however, the eCNAM operations rely on
information received from the originating network.
If the incoming INVITE does not include the user\'s E.164 TN in the \"tel\"
URI or the \'user element\' of the SIP URI, the terminating AS will not be
able to retrieve eCNAM data from the relevant data sources. Based on service
provider policy, the AS uses the E.164 TN in either the incoming From header
field or the incoming P-Asserted-Identity header field to request eCNAM data
from the trusted data sources.
If this information is not received in the incoming INVITE or is not available
from the data sources (missing data or query timeouts) then the terminating AS
shall consider the eCNAM data unavailable.
As a result, the terminating AS shall, according to local policy, populate the
text string \"Unavailable\" in the \"display-name\" parameter of the outgoing
From header field and/or P-Asserted-Identity header field in the SIP INVITE
request that the terminating AS sends to the terminating UE.
If some elements of the eCNAM metadata are unavailable (e.g., requested data
elements could not be found in the data source), the terminating AS shall
deliver the available data to the terminating UE in Call-Info header fields,
and shall not deliver the string \"unavailable\" for the missing elements.
##### 4.5.3.3.2 Identity available, presentation not allowed
If the terminating AS receives a Privacy header field set to any of the priv-
values \"id\", \"user\" or \"header\" (i.e., presentation is not allowed),
then the terminating AS shall populate the text string \"Anonymous\" in the
\"display-name\" parameter of the From header field in the SIP INVITE request
that the AS sends to the terminating UE. The full SIP URI for Anonymous User
Identity is described in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
The metadata may be sent to the terminating UE, based on service provider
policy.
NOTE: The service provider may allow delivery of only the metadata (such as
analytics), if allowed by local and national policies to caution users against
fraudsters disguised with anonymous identities.
##### 4.5.3.3.3 Identity available, originating user identity verified and
passed, presentation allowed
The terminating AS shall consider that the user identity presentation is
allowed when there is no Privacy header field in the received INVITE or a
Privacy header field set to priv-value \"none\".
If the identity presentation is allowed and the result of the originating user
identity verification performed (such as the verification resulting in the
\"verstat\" tel URI parameter described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]) shows the
verification passed, the AS shall proceed to retrieve eCNAM data from the
trusted sources.
The AS shall extract the originating identity from the incoming INVITE in
order to formulate the query to the trusted data sources. It is based on
service provider policy to decide whether the identity retrieved from the
P-Asserted-Identity header field, the From header field or both with a
priority order.
If the chosen identity is the E.164 TN, the following procedures shall apply:
1 The terminating AS shall extract the TN from the username portion of the
incoming SIP URI request of the incoming From header field or P-Asserted-
Identity header field, if user=phone parameter is present.
2 If user=phone is not present in the SIP URI, the terminating AS shall
extract the TN from the tel URI of the incoming From header field or
P-Asserted-Identity header field.
3 If both a SIP URI with user=phone present, and a tel URI are available, the
terminating AS shall extract the TN from the tel URI of the incoming From
header field or P-Asserted-Identity header field.
4 The terminating AS will query the appropriate data source(s) using the
extracted TN.
NOTE 1: The labels/titles of the data elements are known to the terminating
service provider based on their arrangements with the data sources.
NOTE 2: Semantic translation is outside the scope of the present document.
NOTE 3: In addition to plain text, the Call-Info header field supports the
delivery of icons, which may be needed if analytics results include symbols to
be displayed on the UE.
The terminating AS shall populate the received name (retrieved from data
sources) in the \"display‑name\" parameter of the From header field or the
P-Asserted-Identity header field in the INVITE request being sent to the UE.
The terminating AS shall populate the received metadata elements in one or
more Call-Info header fields.
NOTE 4: The eCNAM metadata elements can include information about the
caller\'s language, address, email, or type of business and more. The metadata
can also include the results of analytics that the service provider makes
available to the user directly or through third party affiliations. The
analytics can contain text and icons about the originating user.
If other name information is received in the INVITE request , the terminating
service provider local policy shall apply. The AS may discard the received
name data.
##### 4.5.3.3.4 Identity available, verification failed
If the originating user identity verification performed (such as the
verification resulting in the \"verstat\" tel URI parameter described in 3GPP
TS 24.229 [2]) shows that verification failed, the terminating AS may deliver
partial or no eCNAM information to the subscriber\'s UE.
As a result, and based on terminating service provider policy, the terminating
AS may perform one or more of the following actions:
a) The AS may remove the display‑name of the From header field or the
P-Asserted-Identity header field in the INVITE request being sent to the UE;
b) The AS may populate a text string of the terminating service provider\'s
choice in the display‑name of the From header field or the P-Asserted-Identity
header field in the INVITE request being sent to the UE. Examples of such
strings include \"Suspected Spam\" or \"Fake Number\";
c) The AS may populate graphical symbols of the service provider\'s choice in
one or more Call-Info header field(s) to the terminating UE. Examples include
warning symbols and text.
#### 4.5.3.4 Actions at the Terminating UE
The terminating UE shall support the receipt of one or more P-Asserted
Identity header fields.
The terminating UE shall retrieve the originating user\'s name from the
\"display-name\" parameter of the P-Asserted Identity header field or the
\"display-name\" parameter of the From header field depending on the header
used for determining the originating party identity.
NOTE 1: The data sources queried for metadata are typically local to the
service provider, and therefore are populated with data represented in the
same language as the subscriber\'s. Therefore, semantic translation is not
likely to be needed. UEs can offer semantic translation of the display as an
individual, manufacturer-based capability. Semantic translation is outside the
scope of the present document.
The UE shall support receipt of one or more Call-Info header fields.
The terminating UE shall retrieve the metadata of the originating user from
the Call-Info header fields.
NOTE 2: UEs can support capabilities such as text-to-speech for the blind, as
well as ensuring that messages delivered in colours intended for warnings be
relayed in a different method to accommodate colour-blind users.
## 4.6 Interaction with other Services
### 4.6.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
For users that subscribe to both OIP and eCNAM, and subject to service
provider policy, the name information retrieved through eCNAM may override any
name information available via OIP.
Subject to service provider policy, eCNAM metadata and other OIP data may both
be presented to the end user with or without individual marking to distinguish
the eCNAM service data from other call information.
### 4.6.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service shall take precedence over the eCNAM service.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Presentation / Terminating Identification
Restriction (TIP/TIR)
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.4 Advice of Charge
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.5 Communication Waiting (CW)
If a terminating party has the eCNAM service active and is notified that an
incoming communication is waiting, then this terminating user shall receive
the eCNAM data on the incoming session, if presentation is not restricted on
that incoming session.
### 4.6.6 Communication Hold
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.7 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact; i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.8 Closed User Group (CUG)
In general, CUG members do not communicate with users outside the group.
However, if members were allowed to activate eCNAM and to receive calls from
outside the group, then eCNAM data will be delivered based on the caller\'s
OIR status.
### 4.6.9 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
The originating party's eCNAM data shall be transmitted to the CCBS
customer\'s UE when the terminating party becomes free, and a CCBS
communication is generated to the terminating party.
### 4.6.10 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
Subject to service provider policy, the terminating AS serving the diverted to
user may optionally deliver the eCNAM data of a diverting user. The identity
of the diverting user is obtained from the History-Info header field, as
described in 3GPP TS 24.604 [8].
### 4.6.11 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.12 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Incoming Communications
Barring (ICB)
Within the network execution of ICB and ACR services, either service shall
take precedence over the eCNAM service.
### 4.6.13 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.14 Flexible Alerting (FA)
If the FA Pilot has eCNAM activated, incoming calls to the FA Pilot shall
apply eCNAM to the members of the FA group.
Metadata that is obtained from analytics shall be based on the FA Pilot and
not the individual members\' identity.
NOTE: Analytics can sometimes be based on the called party\'s identity.
Therefore, it should be noted that in an FA group, the only identity available
for use shall be that of the Pilot.
### 4.6.15 Personal Network Management (PNM)
For a user that subscribes to both PNM and eCNAM, both originating user
identity and eCNAM identity data shall be delivered to the Personal Network UE
that is configured to act as a Personal Network controller.
### 4.6.16 Multi-Device (MuD)
If the terminating user of the eCNAM service has activated the MuD service,
eCNAM data shall be transmitted to all UEs of the terminating user.
### 4.6.17 Multi-Identity (MiD)
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
## 4.7 Parameter values (timers)
Not applicable.
#