# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document defines the IMS Centralised Services Management Object (MO). The
management object is compatible with OMA Device Management protocol
specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA DM
Device Description Framework as described in the Enabler Release Definition
OMA-ERELD _DM-V1_2 [4].
The IMS Centralised Services Management Object consists of relevant parameters
that can be managed for ICS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.292: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem;
Centralized Services (ICS); Stage 3\".
[4] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.292: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Centralized Services;
Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.003 [2] apply:
**Home Network Domain Name**
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.292 [5] apply:
**ICS UE**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DM Device Management
ICS IMS Centralised Services
IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
MO Management Object
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
UE User Equipment
# 4 ICS Managed Object
The ICS Management Object (MO) is used to configure ICS UE behaviour for IMS
Centralised Services.
The Management Object Identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-ICS:1.0.
Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.
The OMA DM Access Control List (ACL) property mechanism (see OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2
[4]) may be used to grant or deny access rights to OMA DM servers in order to
modify nodes and leaf objects of the ICS MO.
The following nodes and leaf objects are possible under the ICS node as
described in figure 4-1:
Figure 4-1: The ICS Management Object
# 5 Management Object parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the parameters for the IMS Centralised Services
Management Object (MO).
## 5.2 Node: _\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for the IMS Centralised Services
Management Object (MO).
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.3 /_\ _/Name
The Name leaf is a name for the IMS Centralised Services settings.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
## 5.4 /_\ _/ICS_Capabilities_Enabled
The ICS_Capabilities_Enabled leaf indicates an operator\'s preference to
enable or disable IMS Centralised Services.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over Gm are enabled.
1 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over Gm are
disabled.
The default value is that IMS Centralised Services over Gm are disabled when
the IMS Centralised Services Management Object is not provisioned. Use of the
ICS_Capabilities_Enabled leaf is specified in 3GPP TS 24.292 [3].
## 5.5 /_\ _/I1_Capabilities_Enabled
The I1_Capabilities_Enabled leaf indicates an operator\'s preference to enable
or disable support for the I1 protocol.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over I1 are
disabled.
1 -- Indicates that IMS Centralised Services capabilities over I1 are enabled
if concurrent use of CS RAT and PS RAT is not supported.
The default value is that IMS Centralised Services over I1 are disabled when
the IMS Centralised Services Management Object is not provisioned. Use of the
I1_Capabilities_Enabled leaf is specified in 3GPP TS 24.292 [3].
## 5.6 /_\ _/Ext/
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the IMS Centralised Services MO is being placed (vendor meaning application
vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified by
vendor specific name under the ext node. The tree structure under the vendor
identified is not defined and can therefore include one or more un-
standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
###### ## Annex A (informative): Management Object DDF
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
\
\
\1.2\
\
\IMS Centralised Services\
\
\
\
\
\ IMS Centralised Services settings\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The IMS Centralised Services Management Object.\
\
\
\
**\ **
**\ Name\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ User displayable name for the node\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
\ICS_Capabilities_Enabled\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This leaf specifies an operator\'s preference to enable or disable
IMS Centralised Services capabilities.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\I1_Capabilities_Enabled\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This leaf specifies an operator\'s preference to enable or disable
I1 capabilities.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
**\ **
**\ Ext\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ A collection of all Extension objects.\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
\
#