# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a Management Object (MO) for Originating
Identification Presentation (OIP) and Originating Identification Restriction
(OIR). The management object is compatible with OMA Device Management protocol
specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA DM
Device Description Framework as described in the Enabler Release Definition
OMA-ERELD _DM-V1_2 [2].
The OIP/OIR MO consists of relevant parameters that can be managed for the UE
configuration related to the Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) service defined in 3GPP TS 24.607
[3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2-20070209-A: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management, Version 1.2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.607: \"Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CN Core Network
DDF Device Description Framework
DM Device Management
IM IP Multimedia
ME Mobile Equipment
MO Management Object
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
# 4 OIP and OIR management object
## 4.1 General
The OIP-OIR Management Object (MO) is used to configure the UE behaviour for
the settings related to Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) supplementary services.
The MO Identifier (MOID) is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-oipoir:1.0.
Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.The following
nodes and leaf objects are possible under the Name node as described in figure
4-1:
Figure 4-1: The OIP-OIR Services MO
# 5 Management object parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the parameters for the Originating Identification
Presentation (OIP) and Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) MO.
## 5.2 Node: /\
This interior node acts as a placeholder for the OIP and OIR services MO.
For the OIP-OIR services configuration MO, the namespace specific string is:
\"urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-oipoir:1.0\"
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
Support for a UE is defined by the UE role as specified in 3GPP TS 24.607 [3].
NOTE: One node is normally used.
## 5.3 /_\ _/Name
The Name leaf is a name for the OIP and OIR services settings.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
## 5.4 /_\ _/FromPreferred
The FromPreferred leaf indicates operator\'s originating party identity
determination policy.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 -- Indicates that the From header field is not used for determination of the
originating party identity in OIP service.
1 -- Indicates that the identity provided within the From header field is used
for determination of the originating party identity in OIP service, regardless
the presence or absence of the P-Asserted-Identity header field.
The default value is \'0\'.
Use of the FromPreferred leaf is specified in 3GPP TS 24.607 [3].
## 5.5 /\/Ext/
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the OIP and OIR services UE configuration MO is being placed. Usually the
vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name under the ext node and
contains the vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor etc. The tree
structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can therefore include
one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
###### ## Annex A (informative): Management object DDF
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
\
\
\1.2\
\
\OIP-OIR\
\
\
\
\
\
\OIP-OIR Services settings\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The OIP-OIR Services Management Object.\
\
\urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-oipoir:1.0\
\
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Name\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ User displayable name for the node.\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
\FromPreferred\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This leaf specifies a preference of the operator to enable the
presentation of the identity in the From header.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
**\ **
**\ Ext\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ A collection of all Extension objects.\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
\
#