# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the management object (MO) for extensible markup
language (XML) configuration access protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for
manipulating supplementary services (SS).
The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS is compatible with OMA
device management protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is
defined using the OMA DM device description framework as described in the
enabler release definition OMA-ERELD_DM-V1_2 [2].
The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS consists of relevant
configuration parameters that can be managed for a UE supporting the UE role
specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] OMA OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2-20070209-A: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA
Device Management, Version 1.2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
Services\".
[4] OMA OMA-TS-XDM_MO-V1_1-20080627-A: \"OMA Management Object for XML
Document Management\".
[5] OMA OMA-TS-DM_Protocol-V1_2-20070209-A: \"OMA Device Management
Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.221: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Support for
subscriber certificates\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 22.011 [6] apply:
**3GPP PS data off**
**3GPP PS data off exempt service**
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 24.623 [3] apply:
**SS configuration via XCAP**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DDF Device Description Framework
DM Device Management
IP Internet Protocol
IP-CAN IP-Connectivity Access Network
MO Management Object
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
PS Packet Switched
SS Supplementary Services
UE User Equipment
XCAP XML Configuration Access Protocol
XML Extensible Markup Language
# 4 MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS
The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS is used to manage
settings of the UE for extensible markup language (XML) configuration access
protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for manipulating supplementary services
(SS). Figure 4-1 gives overview of the configuration parameters of the MO for
XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS.
The MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS covers configuration
parameters for a UE supporting the UE role specified in 3GPP TS 24.623 [3].
The MO identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-xcaputss:1.0.
Protocol compatibility: This MO is compatible with OMA DM 1.2.
Figure 4-1: MO for XCAP over Ut interface for manipulating SS
# 5 MO configuration parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the configuration parameters for the MO for XCAP over Ut
interface for manipulating SS.
## 5.2 Node: /_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more accounts for a fixed
node.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
The interior node is mandatory for a UE supporting the UE role specified in
3GPP TS 24.623 [3].
NOTE: One node is normally used. More nodes are only used in case the terminal
supports multiple UICCs.
Child nodes of this interior node which are not defined in this version of the
present document are ignored.
## 5.3 /_\ _/Name
This leaf is a name for the settings for the XCAP over the Ut interface for
manipulating the SS.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
## 5.4 /_\ _/Ext
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the management of the XCAP over the Ut interface for manipulating the SS is
being placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor etc.). Usually
the vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name under the ext node.
The tree structure under the vendor identified is not defined and can
therefore include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.5 /_\ _/AccessForXCAP
This leaf is the policy on access type used for XCAP.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: one of the values specified in table 5.5-1.
Table 5.5-1: Possible values for the AccessForXCAP leaf
* * *
Value Description 0 any access type 1 3GPP accesses only 2 EPC or 5GCN via
WLAN IP-CAN only 3 Non-seamless WLAN offload only 4 3GPP accesses preferred,
non-seamless WLAN offload as secondary 5 3GPP accesses preferred, EPC or 5GCN
via WLAN IP-CAN as secondary 6-255 not assigned
* * *
A \"not assigned\" value is interpreted as \"any access type\" value.
## 5.5a /_\ _/AuthenticationForXCAP
The AuthenticationForXCAP leaf provides a means to define the authentication
mechanism for Ut reference point.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1, 2, 3
0 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point is
GBA_ME as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [7].
1 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point is
GBA_U as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [7].
2 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point is
GBA_Digest as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [7].
3 -- Indicates that the authentication mechanism for Ut reference point is SSC
(support for subscriber certificates) as defined in 3GPP TS 33.221 [8].
## 5.6 /_\ _/XCAP_conn_params_policy
This interior node contains the XCAP connection parameters policy.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If this interior node contains a child node not defined in this version of the
present document, the child node is ignored.
## 5.7 /_\ _/XCAP_conn_params_policy/_\ _
This interior node contains one XCAP connection parameters policy part.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If this interior node contains a child node not defined in this version of the
present document, this interior node is ignored.
If a descendant node of this interior node contains a value not defined in
this version of the present document, this interior node is ignored.
## 5.8 /_\ _/XCAP_conn_params_policy/_\ _/_access_
This leaf contains an access identifier, with values shown in table 5.8-1
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
Table 5.8-1: Possible values for the access leaf
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Value | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1 | 3GPP accesses | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2 | Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via | | | Wireless Local Access Network | | | (WLAN) IP-CAN (see NOTE 1) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3 | Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via | | | trusted Wireless Local Access | | | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4 | Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via | | | untrusted Wireless Local Access | | | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5 | 5G Core Network (5GCN) via | | | Wireless Local Access Network | | | (WLAN) IP-CAN (see NOTE 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6 | 5G Core Network (5GCN) via | | | untrusted Wireless Local Access | | | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7 | 5G Core Network (5GCN) via | | | trusted Wireless Local Access | | | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 0, 8-255 | Not assigned | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Evolved Packet Core | | | (EPC) via Wireless Local Access | | | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN | | | encompasses both the Evolved | | | Packet Core (EPC) via trusted | | | Wireless Local Access Network | | | (WLAN) IP-CAN and the Evolved | | | Packet Core (EPC) via untrusted | | | Wireless Local Access Network | | | (WLAN) IP-CAN. | | | | | | NOTE 2: 5G Core Network (5GCN) | | | via Wireless Local Access | | | Network (WLAN) IP-CAN | | | encompasses both the 5G Core | | | Network (5GCN) via trusted | | | Wireless Local Access Network | | | (WLAN) IP-CAN and the 5G Core | | | Network (5GCN) via untrusted | | | Wireless Local Access Network | | | (WLAN) IP-CAN. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.9 /_\ _/XCAP_conn_params_policy/_\ _/_XDM_MO_ref_
This leaf contains an XCAP connection parameters reference.
The value of this leaf is a full device URI as specified in OMA-TS-
DM_Protocol-V1_2 [5], identifying the \ interior node specified in OMA-TS-
XDM_MO-V1_1 [4] in the UE management tree.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.10 /_\ _/3GPP_PS_data_off
The interior node contains configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data off.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
## 5.11 /_\ _/3GPP_PS_data_off/SS_XCAP_config_exempt
The leaf indicates whether the manipulation of supplementary services (SS)
settings using XCAP over Ut interface is a 3GPP PS data off exempt service.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is not a 3GPP PS data off
exempt service.
1 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.
## 5.12 /_\ _/3GPP_PS_data_off/SS_XCAP_config_roaming_exempt
The leaf indicates whether the manipulation of supplementary services (SS)
settings using XCAP over Ut interface is a 3GPP PS data off roaming exempt
service.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is not a 3GPP PS data off
roaming exempt service.
1 - Indicates that the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off roaming
exempt service.
###### ## Annex A (informative): DDF of MO for XCAP over Ut interface for
manipulating SS
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
\
\
\1.2\
\\--The device manufacturer--\
\\--The device model--\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Configuration parameters for the XCAP over the Ut interface for
manipulating the SS\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The Management Object (MO) for Extensible Markup Language (XML)
Configuration Access Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating
Supplementary Services (SS).\
\
\urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-xcaputss:1.0\
\
\
\
\Name\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The name for the settings for the XCAP over the Ut interface for
manipulating the SS.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessForXCAP\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The policy on access type used for XCAP\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
**\ **
**\ AuthenticationForXCAP\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
**\ Mechanism used for performing authentication for Ut reference
point\**
**\ **
**\ text/plain\**
**\ **
**\ **
**\ **
\
\XCAP_conn_params_policy\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\XCAP connection parameters policy.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\XCAP connection parameters policy part\
\
\
\
\
\
\_access_ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\An access identifier.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\_XDM_MO_ref_ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\An XCAP connection parameters reference.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\3GPP_PS_data_off\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Configuration parameters for 3GPP PS data off.\
\
\
\
\
\
\SS_XCAP_config_exempt\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Whether the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SS_XCAP_config_roaming_exempt\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Whether the SS configuration via XCAP is a 3GPP PS data off exempt
service for roaming.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\Ext\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\A collection of all Extension objects.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#