# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocols of communication between a DS-TT
and a NW-TT as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] for:
a) gPTP message delivery.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] IEEE Std 1588-2008: \"IEEE Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization
Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control\".
[4] IEEE Std 802.1AS-2020: \"IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area
networks--Timing and Synchronization for Time-Sensitive Applications\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] apply:
**5G System**
**Time Sensitive Communication**
**TSN working domain**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GS 5G System
DS-TT Device-Side TSN Translator
gPTP Generalized Precision Time Protocol
NW-TT Network-Side TSN Translator
OUI Organizational Unique Identifier
TSC Time Sensitive Communication
TSN Time-Sensitive Networking
# 4 General
For time sensitive communication (TSC), a 5G system (5GS) can be integrated as
a bridge in a time-sensitive networking (TSN) network (i.e. a TSN bridge). The
device-side TSN translator (DS-TT) is deployed at the UE-side edge and the
network-side TSN translator (NW-TT) is deployed at the network-side edge in
order to interface with a TSN network while achieving transparency (see 3GPP
TS 23.501 [2]).
The DS-TT and NW-TT fulfil all functions related to IEEE 802.1AS [4], which
include delivery of generalized precision time protocol (gPTP) messages.
Clause 5 describes details of the gPTP message delivery.
# 5 gPTP message delivery
## 5.1 Overview
For TSN time synchronization, a 5G system (5GS) can be considered as a time-
aware system, which needs to support implementation of generalized precision
time protocol (gPTP) requirements (see IEEE 802.1AS [4]).
Within a 5GS, a gPTP message is delivered over the user plane. While the
generic mechanisms for the gPTP message delivery are according to IEEE Std
802.1AS [4], a specific requirement for the DS-TT and the NW-TT is available
in terms of the signalling of ingress time. See clause 5.2 for further
details.
## 5.2 Signalling of ingress time for time synchronization
Upon reception of a downlink gPTP message (Sync message for one-step operation
or Follow_Up message for two-step operation) for a given TSN working domain,
the NW-TT shall create an ingress timestamping (TSi) for each gPTP event
(Sync) message and add Suffix field with TSi to the gPTP message encoded as
specified in clause 5.3.1.
Upon reception of a gPTP message over the user plane, the UE shall forward the
gPTP message to the DS-TT. The DS-TT shall create an egress timestamping (TSe)
for every gPTP event (Sync) message. The DS-TT shall use TSi from the Suffix
field of the gPTP message (Sync message for one-step operation or Follow_Up
message for two-step operation) to calculate the residence time spent within
the 5G system for the gPTP event (Sync) message expressed in 5GS time as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] for the corresponding TSN working domain, then
shall remove the Suffix field that contains TSi from the gPTP message before
sending the gPTP message toward the downstream TSN node.
In case of multiple TSN working domains, the procedure above is repeated for
each TSN working domain sending its own gPTP messages.
In case of a gPTP message (Sync message for one-step operation or Follow_Up
message for two-step operation) locally generated by the NW-TT (i.e.
synchronization is provided by the 5G clock), the NW-TT makes the time
generating the gPTP event (Sync) message as TSi and add Suffix field with TSi
to the gPTP message encoded as specified in clause 5.3.1.
## 5.3 Encoding of organization specific TLV extensions
### 5.3.1 General
Organization specific TLV extensions are included the Suffix field of a gPTP
message as specified in clause 14.3 of IEEE Std 1588-2008 [3]. The Suffix
field is coded as shown in figure 5.3.1.1 and table 5.3.1.1.
+----------------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | +----------------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | TLV type | octet 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | octet2 | | | | | | | | +----------------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Length of TLV | octet 3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | octet 4 | | | | | | | | +----------------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Organization Id | octet 5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | octet 7 | | | | | | | | +----------------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Organization Subtype | octet 8 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | octet 10 | | | | | | | | +----------------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Data field | octet 11 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | octet n | | | | | | | | +----------------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 5.3.1.1: Suffix field
Table 5.3.1.1: Suffix field
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | TLV type (octets 1 to 2) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | This field indicates the type of TLV extension and shall be coded as | | follows: | | | | - 00003H ORGANIZATION_EXTENSION; | | | | All other values are reserved. | | | | Length of TLV (octets 3 to 4) | | | | This field indicates the length of the value part of the TLV | | extension (i.e. octets 5 to n) coded in binary over 2 octets. | | | | Organization Id (octets 5 to 7) | | | | This field indicates the value of the Organizational Unique | | Identifier (OUI) assigned to 3GPP by the IEEE, coded in binary over | | 3 octets. | | | | Organization Subtype (octets 8 to 10) | | | | This field identifies the type of TLV extension included in the Data | | field and shall be coded as follows: | | | | - 00000H Reserved; | | | | - 00001H Ingress timestamp | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | All other values are spare. | | | | Data field (octets 11 to n) | | | | This field contains the contents of the specific TLV extension. Its | | encoding is specified in the corresponding clause. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Editor\'s note: The value of the OUI for 3GPP needs to be assigned by the
IEEE.
### 5.3.2 Ingress timestamp
The Data field of a TLV extension carrying an Ingress timestamp is coded as
shown in figure 5.3.2.1 and table 5.3.2.1.
+------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | +------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Data field | octet 11 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | octet 20 | | | | | | | | +------------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 5.3.2.1: Data field for Ingress timestamp (Organization Subtype =
0001H)
Table 5.3.2.1: Data field for Ingress timestamp (Organization Subtype = 0001H)
* * *
Data field (octets 11 to 20) For Organization Subtype = 0001H, the data field
contains the ingress timestamp of the gPTP event (Sync) message, encoded over
10 octets as specified in clause 5.3.3. of IEEE 1588-2008 [3].
* * *
#