# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements for Rel-9 UEs supporting release
independent features like:
\- additional E-UTRA operating frequency bands on top of Rel-9 of TS 36.101
[2] and TS 36.133 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) Radio Transmission and Reception\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [2].
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [3].
[4] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [4].
[5] Void.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**release independent** : applicable to some frozen releases, starting from a
certain release Rel-M
NOTE 1: Normally, a feature is introduced only in the latest open release
Rel-N and future releases are based on the previous one so that future
releases inherit the requirements of this feature. Introducing a feature \"in
a release independent way from Rel-M onwards\" (M\ 64, | | | | | Power Class 3 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
For example, Band 19 was introduced in the Release 9 specifications. In order
to implement a UE conforming to Release 8 but supporting Band 19, it is
necessary for the UE to additionally conform to some parts of the Release 9
specifications (see corresponding Annexes of TS 36.307 Rel-9 which will point
to the requirements in the Rel-9 of TS 36.101 [2] or TS 36.133 [3] to be
fulfilled), such as the radio frequency and radio resource management
requirements for the Band 19.
# 4 -- 272 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Frequency arrangement for overlapping
operating bands
The following information is provided in order to assist a UE derive the DL
EARFCN and UL EARFCN in a multi-band environment, in which multiple
overlapping operating bands may be indicated in the fields _freqBandIndicator_
and _multiBandInfoList_ of SIB1.
The overlapping bands, independent of release, which may be indicated in a
cell are shown in Table A-1 for applicable E-UTRA bands. The DL EARFCN and UL
EARFCN are derived according to TS 36.101 Rel-9 [2].
Table A-1: Overlapping bands (multi-band environments) for each E-UTRA band
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Overlapping E-UTRA operating bands Duplex Mode 2 25 FDD
3 9 FDD 4 10 FDD 5 18, 19, 26 FDD 9 3 FDD 10 4 FDD 12 17 FDD 17 12 FDD 18 5,
26, 27 FDD 19 5, 26 FDD 25 2 FDD 26 5, 18, 19, 27 FDD 27 18, 26 FDD 33 39 TDD
38 41 TDD 39 33 TDD 41 38 TDD
* * *
###### ## Annex B (normative): Common Requirements
# B.1 Purpose of annex
The purpose of Annex B is to group the requirements that are common for
several bands or CA configurations in this specification and use the common
tables as references.
# B.2 Common RRM requirements
## B.2.1 Common RRM requirements for a release independent band
The requirements and test cases listed in Table B.2.1-1 are specified in TS
36.133 Rel-9 [3].
Table B.2.1-1: Common RRM requirements for a release independent band
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Section / Clause | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4 | E-UTRAN RRC_IDLE state mobility | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5 | E-UTRAN RRC_CONNECTED state | | | mobility | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 6 ^Note\ 1^ | RRC Connection Mobility Control | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 7 ^Note\ 2^ | Timing and signalling | | | characteristics | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 8 ^Note\ 3^ | UE Measurements Procedures in | | | RRC_CONNECTED State | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 9 ^Note\ 4^ | Measurements performance | | | requirements for UE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A.4 | E-UTRAN RRC_IDLE state | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A.5 | E-UTRAN RRC CONNECTED Mode | | | Mobility | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A.6 ^Note\ 1^ | RRC Connection Control | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A.7 ^Note\ 2^ | Timing and Signalling | | | Characteristics | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A.8 ^Note\ 3^ | UE Measurements Procedures | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | A.9 ^Note\ 4^ | Measurement Performance | | | Requirements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: All requirements and the | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except: | | | | | | > \- for supporting the | | | > corresponding band in Rel-8: | | | > clauses 6.3 (RRC Connection | | | > Release with Redirection), 6.4 | | | > (CSG Proximity Indication for | | | > E-UTRAN and UTRAN). | | | | | | NOTE 2: All requirements and | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except those defined in | | | sections 7.4 and 7.5. | | | | | | NOTE 3: All requirements and | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except: | | | | | | > \- for supporting the | | | > corresponding band in Rel-8: | | | > clauses 8.1.2.5 (E-UTRAN OTDOA | | | > Intra-Frequency RSTD | | | > Measurements), 8.1.2.6 | | | > (E-UTRAN Inter-Frequency OTDOA | | | > Measurements), 8.1.2.7 | | | > (E-UTRAN E-CID Measurements). | | | | | | NOTE 4: All requirements and | | | corresponding test cases shall | | | apply, except: | | | | | | > \- for supporting the | | | > corresponding band in Rel-8: | | | > clauses 9.1.9 (UE Rx--Tx time | | | > difference), 9.1.10 (Reference | | | > Signal Time Difference). | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# B.3 Common UE performance requirements
## B.3.1 Void
# B.4 Common UE RF requirements
## B.4.1 Common UE RF requirements for a release independent band
The requirements and test cases listed in Table B.4.1-1 are specified in TS
36.101 Rel-9 [2].
Table B.4.1-1: Common UE RF requirements for a release independent band
* * *
Section / Clause Description 5.5 Operating bands 5.6 Channel bandwidth 5.7
Channel arrangement 6.2 Transmit power 6.3 Output power dynamics 6.5 Transmit
signal quality 6.6 Output RF spectrum emissions 6.7 Transmit intermodulation
7.3 Reference sensitivity power level 7.4 Maximum input level 7.5 Adjacent
Channel Selectivity (ACS) 7.6 Blocking characteristics 7.7 Spurious response
7.8 Intermodulation characteristics 7.9 RX spurious emissions
* * *
#