# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for signalling transport to be
used across M2 and M3 interfaces. M2 interface is a logical interface between
the eNB and the MCE. M3 interface is a logical interface between the MCE and
the MME. The present document describes how the M2-AP signalling messages are
transported over M2, and how the M3-AP signalling messages are transported
over M3.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 2460: \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification\".
[3] IETF RFC 791(September 1981): \"Internet Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (December 1998): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services
Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960 (September 2007): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**M2:** E-UTRAN internal control plane interface between an eNB and an MCE, It
is also considered as a reference point.
**M3:** Control plane interface between an E-UTRAN (MCE) and MME. It is also
considered as a reference point.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
DiffServ Differentiated Service
IP Internet Protocol
MME Mobility Management Entity
PPP Point to Point Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4 M2 Interface
## 4.1 M2 signalling bearer
### 4.1.1 Functions and protocol stack
M2 signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of M2-AP message over M2 interface
\- Provision of networking and routeing function
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network
The protocol stack for M2 signalling bearer is shown in figure 4.1.1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following clauses.
Figure 4.1.1: M2 signalling bearer protocol stack
The transport network layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
## 4.2 Data link layer
The support of any suitable data link layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet,
etc., shall not be prevented.
## 4.3 IP layer
The eNB and MCE shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [2]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC
791 [3]).
The IP layer of M2 only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering
M2-AP messages.
The eNB and MCE shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in
IETF RFC 2474 [4].
## 4.4 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [5]) shall be supported as the transport layer of M2
signalling bearer.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
There shall be only one SCTP association established between one MCE and eNB
pair.
The eNB shall establish the SCTP association.
Within the SCTP association established between one MCE and eNB pair:
\- a single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the use of M2-AP
elementary procedures.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. **For SCTP
endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from MCE or eNB, at any time for an
already established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined in
IETF RFC 4960 [5] in § 5.2.**
# 5 M3 Interface
## 5.1 M3 signalling bearer
### 5.1.1 Functions and protocol stack
M3 signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of M3-AP message over M3 interface
\- Provision of networking and routeing function
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network
The protocol stack for M3 signalling bearer is shown in figure 5.1.1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following clauses.
Figure 5.1.1: M3 signalling bearer protocol stack
The transport network layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
## 5.2 Data link layer
The support of any suitable data link layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet,
etc., shall not be prevented.
## 5.3 IP layer
The E-UTRAN and MME shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [2]) and/or IPv4 (IETF
RFC 791 [3]).
The IP layer of M3 only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering
M3-AP messages.
The MCE and MME shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in
IETF RFC 2474 [4].
## 5.4 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [5]) shall be supported as the transport layer of M3
signalling bearer.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
There shall be only one SCTP association established between one MCE and MME
pair.
The MCE shall establish the SCTP association.
Within the SCTP association established between one MCE and MME pair:
\- a single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the use of M3-AP
elementary procedures.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. **For SCTP
endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from MME or** MCE**, at any time for
an already established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined in
IETF RFC 4960 [5] in § 5.2.**
#