# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the Extended UMTS/LTE 800 work
item, which was established at TSG RAN#42. The objective of this work item is
to provide UTRA and E-UTRA specification support for FDD in the Extended 800
MHz band in Japan. In addition to the schedule and status of the work items,
the report includes a description of the motivation, requirements, study
results and specification recommendations.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] R4-050618, \"**Frequency arrangement plan for IMT-2000 in the 800 MHz band
in Japan** \" (ARIB), RAN4#36
[3] RP-080884, \"Work Item proposal for Extended UMTS/LTE **800 MHz band in
Japan** \", RAN#42
[4] R4-030687, \"**Summary of Partial Report on effective use of mobile
commercial-use frequency in the 800Mhz-range in Japan** \" (ARIB), RAN4#28
[5] R4-090023, \"Technical conditions applied for extended LTE800 **in Japan**
\" (ARIB), RAN4#49bis
[6] \"(Partial report concerning effective use of mobile commercial-use
frequency in the 800MHz-range)\" [June.25, 2003] (Press release of MPHPT, in
Japanese) http://www.soumu.go.jp/s-news/2003/030625_3.html
[7] \"(Executive summary of the Telecommunications Council, Technical
committee #20)\" [June.25, 2003] (in Japanese)
http://www.soumu.go.jp/joho_tsusin/policyreports/joho_tsusin/bunkakai/030625_1.html
[8] R4-051251 \"Technical conditions of UE additional spurious emissions
required in the 800MHz band in Japan,\" Fujitsu, Mitsubishi, NEC, NTT DoCoMo,
Panasonic
[9] R4-051420 \"Revision of additional spurious emissions requirements on
800MHz band in Japan,\" Fujitsu, Mitsubishi, NEC, NTT DoCoMo, Panasonic
[10] R4-051307 \"Band VIII Rx sensitivity,\" Motorola
[11] R4-080965 \"UE Additional MPR (TP for TS36.101),\" Fujitsu, NTT DoCoMo,
Panasonic
[12] R4-091380 \"Further aspects on the harmonisation of the 800/850 bands,\"
Ericsson
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
(void)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
UE User Equipment
BS Base station
UL Uplink (Reverse Link)
DL Downlink (Forward Link)
# 4 Background
After the completion of intensive work in RAN4 for UMTS800 (Band VI), which
was completed at December 2003, a commercial service in the 800MHz band, using
UMTS Band VI, was launched in June 2005. As further informed in RAN4#36 in [2]
as a frequency re-arrangement plan in 800MHz band of Japan before and beyond
year of 2012, the lower part of the band (UL:815 - 830 MHz / DL:860 - 875 MHz)
was allocated to cdma2000 and the upper part of the band (UL:830 - 845 MHz /
DL:875 - 890 MHz) was allocated to UMTS.
Taking into account the latest frequency arrangement above, it is propose to
introduce a new frequency band for UMTS.
As for LTE, Telec _ommunications_ Council of Japan started to study the
possibility of introduction of LTE into the above both bands, which were
allocated to cdma2000 and UMTS, and the detailed studies have been conducted
by the working group under the council with the co-existence studies with the
following technologies: UMTS, cdma2000, MCA system (ARIB standard RCR STD-23,
85).
Thus, the proponents of this work item believe that there is high possibility
that not only UMTS but also LTE would be introduced in Japan in the band near
future in order to enhance frequency efficiency. Accordingly corresponding
necessary work to introduce new bands for LTE are also proposed.
## 4.1 Task description
The purpose of this work item is to:
  1. Study of Extended UMTS/LTE 800 for a potential deployment in Japan. Generate a new technical report based on study results.
The specific bands to be studied are:
> Band 18 for LTE:
  * 815 - 830 MHz: UL
  * 860 - 875 MHz: DL
> Band XIX for UMTS/ Band 19 for LTE:
  * 830 - 845 MHz: UL
  * 875 - 890 MHz: DL
    1. Generate CR\'s to update the appropriate documents
    2. TSG RAN WG2 - study signalling issues related to Extended UMTS/LTE 800.
    3. TSG RAN WG5 - study UE conformance testing issues related to Extended UMTS/LTE 800.
    4. Any additional related issues.
The Work Item description for Extended UMTS/LTE 800 was approved in RAN#42
[3].
# 5 Study of UTRA Requirements
## 5.1 Co-existing with other technologies
As a result of the co-existing studies with the following technologies: PDC,
MCA, Regional Disaster Prevention Radio (RDPR), the required guard bands
between each system were lead in Telec _ommunications_ Council of Japan as
provided in [4]. As further informed in RAN4#36 in [2] as a frequency re-
arrangement plan in 800MHz band of Japan before and beyond year of 2012, the
lower part of the band (UL:815 - 830 MHz / DL:860 - 875 MHz) was allocated to
cdma2000 and the upper part of the band (UL:830 - 845 MHz / DL:875 - 890 MHz)
was allocated to UMTS.
## 5.2 Technical conditions for UTRA
For Extended UMTS800, paired frequency band in 800MHz band and channel
arrangement described in section 5.3 are used. Other than the frequency
arrangement, technical conditions for UMTS800 (DS-CDMA800) [2] shall be
applied.
## 5.3 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
### 5.3.1 Frequency bands
UTRA/FDD is designed to operate in the following paired bands:
Table 5.3-1: UTRA FDD frequency bands
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Operating Band | UL Frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | UE transmit, Node B receive | UE receive, Node B transmit | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VI | 830-840 MHz | 875-885 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | | | | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIV | 788 -- 798 MHz | 758 -- 768 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIX | 830-845 MHz | 875-890 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
### 5.3.2 TX-RX frequency separation
UTRA/FDD is designed to operate with the following TX-RX frequency separation
Table 5.3-2: TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
Operating Band TX-RX frequency separation VI 45 MHz
XIV 30 MHz XIX 45 MHz
* * *
### 5.3.3 Channel arrangement
#### 5.3.3.1 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (UARFCN). For Band XIX, the UARFCN values are defined as
follows:
Uplink: N~U~ = 5 * (F~UL~ - F~UL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~UL_low~ ≤ F~UL~ ≤ F~UL_high~
Downlink: N~D~ = 5 * (F~DL~ - F~DL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~DL_low~ ≤ F~DL~ ≤ F~DL_high~
For Band XIX, F~UL_Offset~, F~UL_low~, F~UL_high~, F~DL_Offset~,, F~DL_low~
and F~DL_high~ are defined in Table 5.3-3 for the general UARFCN. For the
additional UARFCN, F~UL_Offset~, F~DL_Offset~ and the specific F~UL~ and F~DL~
are defined in Table 5.3-4.
Table 5.3-3: UARFCN definition (general)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | UPLINK | D | | | | | | _Band_ _| (UL) | OWNLINK | | | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | tr | UE | | | | | | | ansmit, | r | | | | | | | Node B | eceive, | | | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | * | ** | * | ** | | | | |_ UARFCN | Carrier | _UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | o | equency | o | equency | | | | | ffset_ _| (F~UL~) | ffset_ _| (F~DL~) | | | | | | range | | range | | | | | * | [ | * | [ | | | | |_ F~UL_ | MHz]**| *F~DL_ | MHz]** | | | | | Offset~ | | Offset~ | | | | | | [ | | [ | | | | | | MHz]**| | MHz]** | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | **F~UL\ | * | |** F~DL\ | * | | | | _low~**| *F~UL_ | | _low~** | _F~DL_ | | | | | high~__| | | high~_ * | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VI | 0 | 832.4 | 837.6 | 0 | 877.4 | 882.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIV | 12 | 790.4 | 795.6 | -63 | 760.4 | 765.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIX | 770 | 832.4 | 842.6 | 735 | 877.4 | 887.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 5.3-4: UARFCN definition (additional channels)
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Band** | UPLINK (UL) | DOWNLINK | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE | | | | | | transmit, | UE receive, | | | | | Node B | Node B | | | | | receive | transmit | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **UARFCN |** Carrier | **UARFCN |** Carrier | | | formula | frequency | formula | frequency | | | offset**| [MHz]** | offset**| [MHz]** | | | | | | | | | **F~ | (F~UL~) |** F~ | (F~DL~) | | | UL_Offset~ | | DL_Offset~ | | | | [MHz]**| | [MHz]** | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | VI | 670.1 | 832.5, | 670.1 | 877.5, | | | | 837.5 | | 882.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XIV | 2.1 | 790.5, | -72.9 | 760.5, | | | | 795.5 | | 765.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XIX | 755.1 | 832.5, | 720.1 | 877.5, | | | | 837.5, | | 882.5, | | | | 842.5 | | 887.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.3.3.2 UARFCN
The following UARFCN range shall be supported.
Table 5.3-5: UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Band | Uplink (UL) | Downlink | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE transmit, | | | | | | Node B | UE receive, | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | transmit | | | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | General | Additional | General | Additional | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | 4162 to 4188 | 812, 837 | 4387 to 4413 | 1037, 1062 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | | | | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIV | 3892 to 3918 | 3942, 3967 | 4117 to 4143 | 4167, 4192 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | 312 to 363 | 387, 412, | 712 to 763 | 787, 812, | | | | 437 | | 837 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
## 5.4 Specific UE RF requirements
### 5.4.1 Spurious emissions
This section shows the spurious emission requirements for UTRA Band XIX.
#### 5.4.1.1 General spurious emissions requirements
The general spurious emissions requirements for Band XIX UEs are the same for
other bands.
#### 5.4.1.2 Additional spurious emissions requirements
In Japan, to introduce UMTS into the 800MHz band, where other cellular systems
like cdmaOne has been operated simultaneously, required guard band width was
investigated in the Telecommunications Council. As for the case where UMTS
uplink may interfere with cdmaOne downlink, it was reported in [6] that 5MHz
width would be needed as a guard band between those two systems for co-
existence. Regarding the transmitter spurious emission from the UMTS UE to the
interfered band, -36dBm/1.23MHz which power corresponds to -37dBm/1MHz was
assumed for the above scenario [6][7]. According to the above study, the
spurious emission requirements of Band VI were defined [8][9]. Since the above
investigation was conducted for the frequency UL: 815-850MHz / DL: 860-895MHz,
the same spurious emission requirement is applied to Band XIX as shown in
Table 5.4.1.2-1.
Table 5.4.1.2-1 Additional spurious emissions requirements
* * *
Operating Band Frequency Bandwidth Measurement Bandwidth Minimum requirement
VI 860 MHz ≤ f \ \ VI dBm/3.84 MHz -117 -106.7
XIX dBm/3.84 MHz -117 -106.7
* * *
### 5.4.3 Blocking characteristics
In-band blocking and Out-of-band blocking requirements for Extended UMTS 800
(Band XIX) should apply the same requirements for other band.
## 5.5 Specific signalling requirements considering dual band operation
The commercial service in Band VI, was launched in June 2005. After the
completion of the work for the new Band XIX for UMTS, commercial UMTS service
will be launched in the near future in Japan. However, in order to support the
existing legacy UE which has the capability for only Band VI, the band
indicator and the UARFCN must be set as \"Band VI\" and \"UTRA Band XIX\" in
the DL frequency range of 875-885 MHz and 885-890 MHz, respectively in UTRAN
as shown in Figure 5.5-1.
{width="2.609027777777778in" height="1.2590277777777779in"}
Figure 5.5-1 Assumed Band indicator and UARFCN settings in UTRAN
Although the band plan of the new UTRA Band XIX is completely overlapping with
that of Band VI, the difference in supported frequency range is only 5MHz in
UL/DL each. Therefore, many UE RF requirements will be implicitly identical
between Band VI and the new Band XIX. One of the corresponding requirements is
UE reference sensitivity level. However, if the new UTRA Band XIX UE does not
have the Band VI capability, the UE consider the cell which operated as Band
VI to be barred. Therefore, considering (1) implicitly identical UE RF
requirements between Band VI and the new UTRA Band XIX and (2) the above
problem under the dual band operation, UTRA Band XIX UE should have the radio
access capability of both Band VI and UTRA Band XIX.
# 6 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 6.1 Co-existing with other technologies
Telec _ommunications_ Council of Japan started to study the possibility of
introduction of LTE into the above both bands, which were allocated to
cdma2000 and UMTS, and the detailed studies have been conducted by the working
group under the council with the co-existence studies with the following
technologies: UMTS, cdma2000, MCA system. As a result of this study, technical
condition of E-UTRA was lead as provided in [5].
## 6.2 Technical conditions for E-UTRA
The technical conditions for extended LTE 800 were derived based on the
requirements for 800MHz band (E-UTRA Band 6). Necessary changes such as the
frequency arrangement or spurious emission requirements were made. Those
changes and its rationale are summarized in the following sub sections.
Revised parts compared with requirements for Band 6 are colored yellow and
underlined.
### 6.2.1 Mandatory regulatory requirements:
(a) **Frequency arrangement:**
The frequency band for extended LTE800 in Japan is as follows:
> UL: [815MHz - 845MHz (Band 18 : 815 -- 830MHz, Band 19 : 830 --
> 845MHz)]{.underline}
>
> DL: [860MHz - 890MHz (Band 18 : 860 -- 875MHz, Band 19 : 875 --
> 890MHz)]{.underline}.
>
> Tx-Rx frequency separation: 45MHz
Figure 6.2.1: Frequency band for extended LTE800
(b) **Frequency error:**
> Frequency error requirements for extended LTE800 are specified same as other
> Bands shown following;
>
> BS: The modulated carrier frequency of the BS shall be accurate to within ±
> (0.05ppm+12Hz).
>
> UE: The UE modulated carrier frequency shall be accurate to within ± (0.1
> ppm+15Hz) compared to the carrier frequency received from the eNode B.
(c) **Spurious emissions:**
> Spurious emissions requirements for extended LTE800 are specified as in
> Table 6.2.1.
Table 6.2.1: Spurious emission requirements for extended LTE800
+--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Spurious emissions | BS | Table 6.2.1-1 Spurious | | limits | | emissions limits for | | | | extended LTE800 BS | | | | | | | | ------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequ | | | | ency range | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 9kH | | | | z -- 150kHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/1kHz | | | | 150k | | | | Hz -- 30MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/10kHz | | | | 30MHz | | | | -- 1000MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/100kHz | | | | 100 | | | | 0MHz -- 12.75GHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/1MHz | | | | The requirements | | | | are only applicable for | | | | frequencies, which are | | | | greater than 10 MHz away | | | | from the BS transmitter | | | | operating band edge. | | | | ------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | | | | | Table 6.2.1-2 Additional | | | | spurious emission limits | | | | for extended LTE800 BS | | | | | | | | -------------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------------------- --- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | | | | | Frequency range | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 188 | | | | 4.5MHz -- 1919.6MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -41dBm/300kHz * | | | | 2010MHz -- 2 | | | | 025MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | -52dBm/1MHz]{.underline} | | | | * The requ | | | | irement is applicable ev | | | | en if the frequencies ar | | | | e lesser than 10MHz away | | | | from the BS transmitter | | | | operating band edge. | | | | -------------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------------------- --- | | | | ------------------------ | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | UE | The requirements below | | | | are only applicable for | | | | frequencies, which are | | | | greater than 12.5 MHz | | | | away from the UE centre | | | | carrier frequency for | | | | 5MHz LTE system. | | | | Likewise, greater than | | | | 20MHz for 10MHz LTE | | | | system, greater than | | | | 27.5MHz for 15MHz LTE | | | | system and greater than | | | | 35MHz for 20MHz LTE | | | | system. | | | | | | | | Table 6.2.1-3 Spurious | | | | emission limits for | | | | extended LTE800 UE | | | | | | | | ------------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequency r | | | | ange Maximum level | | | | 9kHz -- 1 | | | | 50kHz -36dBm/1kHz | | | | 150kHz -- | | | | 30MHz -36dBm/10kHz | | | | 30MHz -- 10 | | | | 00MHz -36dBm/100kHz | | | | 1000MHz - | | | | - 12.75GHz -30dBm/1MHz | | | | ------------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | | | | | Table 6.2.1-4 Additional | | | | spurious emission limits | | | | for extended LTE800 UE | | | | | | | | ------ | | | | ------------------ ----- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | Frequency rang | | | | e Maximum level | | | | 860M | | | | Hz -- 895MHz [-4 | | | | 0dBm/1MHz*]{.underline} | | | | 1475.9MHz -- | | | | 1500.9MHz -50dBm/1MHz | | | | 1844.9MHz -- | | | | 1879.9MHz -50dBm/1MHz | | | | 1884.5MHz -- 1 | | | | 919.6MHz -41dBm/300kHz | | | | 20 | | | | 10MHz -- 2025MHz [ | | | | -50dBm/1MHz]{.underline} | | | | 2110MHz -- 2 | | | | 170MHz -50dBm/1MHz | | | | ------ | | | | ------------------ ----- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | | | | | * This requirement also | | | | applies for the | | | | frequency ranges that | | | | are less than the above | | | | frequency assumption. | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
(d) **Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR):**
> Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) requirements for extended LTE800
> are specified same as other Bands shown following;
Table 6.2.2: ACLR requirements for extended LTE800
+----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Requirement | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | BS | Either the ACLR limits in the Table 6.2.2-1 below or the | | | absolute limit of -13dBm/MHz apply, whichever is less | | | stringent. | | | | | | Table 6.2.2-1 ACLR for extended LTE800 BS | | | | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | | | Syst | | | em Frequency separation ACLR limit Measurement bandwidth | | | 5MHz 5MHz -44.2dBc 4.5MHz | | | 10MHz -44.2dBc 4.5MHz | | | 5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz 10MHz -44.2dBc 9MHz | | | 20MHz -44.2dBc 9MHz | | | 7.5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 12.5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz 15MHz -44.2dBc 13.5MHz | | | 30MHz -44.2dBc 13.5MHz | | | 10MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | UE | The adjacent channel power shall be less than or equal to -50 | | | dBm/ 4.5MHz (5MHz system) or -50 dBm/ 9MHz (10MHz system ) or | | | -50 dBm/ 13.5MHz (15MHz system ) or -50 dBm/ 3.84MHz (3.84MHz | | | system) or as specified by the ACLR limit in the Table | | | 6.2.2-2, whichever is the higher. | | | | | | Table 6.2.2-2 ACLR for extended LTE800 UE | | | | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | | | Syst | | | em Frequency separation ACLR limit Measurement bandwidth | | | 5MHz 5MHz -29.2dBc 4.5MHz | | | 5MHz -32.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz -35.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz 10MHz -29.2dBc 9MHz | | | 7.5MHz -32.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 12.5MHz -35.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz 15MHz -29.2dBc 13.5MHz | | | 10MHz -32.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz -35.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+
**ACLR limits include the test tolerance which is specified in TS36.141 and
TS36.521-1.**
(e) **Spectrum emission mask:**
> Spectrum emission mask for extended LTE800 are specified same as other Bands
> shown following;
>
> BS: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE800 are specified as
> in Table 6.2.3.
>
> UE: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE800 are specified as
> in Table 6.2.4.
>
> Spectrum emission mask requirements include the test tolerance which is
> specified in TS36.141 and TS36.521-1.
Table 6.2.3: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE800 BS
* * *
Δf in MHz (Note) Requirement Measurement bandwidth 0.05 ≤ Δf \ Occupied bandwidth for extended LTE800 are specified same as other Bands
> shown following;
>
> BS: The occupied channel bandwidth shall be less than 5 MHz (5MHz system) or
> 10MHz (10MHz system) or 15MHz (15MHz system).
>
> UE: The occupied channel bandwidth shall be less than 5 MHz (5MHz system) or
> 10MHz (10MHz system) or 15MHz (15MHz system).
(g) **Maximum output power**
> Maximum output power for extended LTE800 are specified same as other Bands
> shown following;
>
> BS: In normal conditions, the Base station maximum output power shall remain
> within +2.7dB and -2.7dB of the manufacturer\'s rated output power.
>
> UE: The UE maximum output power is defined 23dBm. In normal conditions, the
> UE maximum output power shall remain within +2.7dB and -2.7dB of the defined
> output power.
(h) **Transmit OFF power**
> Transmit OFF power for extended LTE800 are specified same as other Bands
> shown following;
>
> BS: Not specified.
>
> UE: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE800 are specified as
> in Table 6.2.5.
Table 6.2.5: Transmit OFF power requirements for extended LTE800 UE
* * *
Channel bandwidth Transmit OFF power Measurement bandwidth 5MHz -48.5dBm 4.5
MHz 10MHz -48.5dBm 9 MHz 15MHz -48.5dBm 13.5 MHz
* * *
> Transmit OFF power requirements include the test tolerance which is
> specified in TS36.521-1.
(i) **Transmit Intermodulation**
> Transmit Intermodulation for extended LTE800 are specified same as other
> Bands shown following;
>
> BS: The transmit intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation
> products when a LTE modulated interference signal is injected into the
> antenna connector at a mean power level of 30 dB lower than that of the mean
> power of the wanted signal. The occupied bandwidth for the interference
> signal is specified as 5MHz. The frequency of the interference signal shall
> be ±5 MHz, ±10 MHz, ±15MHz (5MHz system), ±7.5 MHz, ±12.5 MHz, ±17.5 MHz
> (10MHz system) , ±10 MHz, ±15 MHz, ±20 MHz (15MHz system) offset from the
> subject signal carrier frequency. The transmitter intermodulation level
> shall not exceed the out of band emission or spectrum emission mask or the
> spurious emission requirements.
>
> UE: Not specified.
(j) **Receiver Spurious emissions:**
> Receiver Spurious emissions requirements for extended LTE800 are specified
> as in Table 6.2.6.
Table 6.2.6: Receiver Spurious emission requirements for extended LTE800
+--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Receiver spurious | BS | Table 6.2.6-1 Receiver | | emissions limits | | spurious emission limits | | | | for extended LTE800 BS | | | | | | | | --------------------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------------------- --- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | Frequen | | | | cy range | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 30MHz -- | | | | 1000MHz | | | | | | | | -57dBm/100kHz* | | | | 1GHz | | | | -- 12.75GHz | | | | | | | | -47dBm/1MHz | | | | 2010MHz -- 2025MHz | | | | | | | | [ | | | | -52dBm/1MHz]{.underline} | | | | *With the excepti | | | | on of frequencies betwee | | | | n 850 MHz and 905MHz. | | | | --------------------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------------------- --- | | | | ------------------------ | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | UE | Table 6.2.6-2 Receiver | | | | spurious emissions | | | | limits for extended | | | | LTE800 UE | | | | | | | | ---------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequenc | | | | y range Maximum level | | | | 30MHz -- | | | | 1000MHz -57dBm/100kHz | | | | 1GHz - | | | | - 12.75GHz -47dBm/1MHz | | | | ---------- | | | | -------- --------------- | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
### 6.2.2 Other technical conditions referred in Japan\'s regulations:
(a) **Reference sensitivity level**
```{=html}
``` (i) BS
> The reference sensitivity level is -100.8dBm. This requirement is applied
> with a width of 25 resource blocks each for each channel BW. The reference
> sensitivity level includes the test tolerance which is specified in
> TS36.141.
(ii) UE
The reference sensitivity level for extended LTE800 is set as:
Table 6.2.7: UE reference sensitivity levels
* * *
Channel BW UE reference sensitivity level (dBm) 5MHz -99.3 10MHz -96.3 15MHz
-94.5
* * *
> The UE sensitivity level is set same values as that of band 6 for extended
> LTE800 in the case of 5MHz and 10MHz channel bandwidth. In the case of 15MHz
> channel bandwidth, considering extended LTE800 by 5MHz channel bandwidth and
> Table 7.3.1-1 in TS 36.101, -94.5dBm is set. Then, these values are 0.7dB
> different from TS 36.101 because these values include the test tolerance
> (0.7dB) which is specified in TS36.521-1.
(b) **Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)**
```{=html}
``` (i) BS
> With the conditions described in Table 6.2.8, the throughput shall not fall
> below 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.8: Test conditions for Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Interfering signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal mean power -52 -52 -52 dBm Few offset (Modulated) 5 7.5 10
MHz
* * *
(ii) UE
> With the conditions described in Table 6.2.9, the throughput shall not fall
> below 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.9: Test conditions for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Interfering signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+14 dBm  
Interfering signal mean power \+45.5 \+45.5 \+42.5
dBm Few offset (Modulated) 5 7.5 10 MHz
* * *
(c) **Blocking**
    i.  BS
> With the conditions described in Table 6.2.10, the throughput shall not fall
> below 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.10: Test conditions for Blocking
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Interfering signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal mean power -43 -43 -43 dBm Few offset (Modulated) 10 12.5
15 MHz
* * *
(ii) UE
> With the conditions described in Table 6.2.11, the throughput shall not fall
> below 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.11: Test conditions for Blocking
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Interfering signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Case 1 Interfering signal mean power -56 -56 -56 dBm Few offset (Modulated) 10
12.5 15 MHz Bandwidth 5 5 5 MHz Case 2 Interfering signal mean power -44 -44
-44 dBm Few offset (Modulated) 15 17.5 20 MHz Bandwidth 5 5 5 MHz
* * *
(d) **Intermodulation characteristics**
```{=html}
``` (i) BS
> With the conditions described in Table 6.2.12, the throughput shall not fall
> below 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.12: Test conditions for Intermodulation characteristics
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal 1 Characteristic Current wave -  
Mean power -52 dBm  
Fuw offset (CW) 10 12.5 15 MHz Interfering signal 2 Characteristic Modulation
wave -  
Bandwidth 5 MHz  
Mean power -52 dBm  
Fuw offset (Modulated) 20 22.7 25.5 MHz
* * *
(ii) UE
> With the conditions described in Table 6.2.13, the throughput shall not fall
> below 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.13: Test conditions for Intermodulation characteristics
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 \+7 dBm  
Interfering signal 1 Characteristic Current wave -  
Mean power -46 dBm  
Fuw offset (CW) 10 12.5 15 MHz Interfering signal 2 Characteristic Modulation
wave -  
Bandwidth 5 MHz  
Mean power -46 dBm  
Fuw offset (Modulated) 20 25 30 MHz
* * *
## 6.3 Operating bands and channel arrangement
### 6.3.1 Operating bands
E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1 E-UTRA operating bands
* * *
**EUTRA Operating Band** Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                             F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
6 830 MHz -- 840 MHz 875 MHz -- 885 MHz FDD
17 704 MHz -- 716 MHz 734 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
18 815 MHz -- 830 MHz 860 MHz -- 875 MHz FDD
19 830 MHz -- 845 MHz 875 MHz -- 890 MHz FDD
...
33 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.3.2 TX--RX frequency separation
> a) The default E-UTRA TX channel (carrier centre frequency) to RX channel
> (carrier centre frequency) separation is specified in Table 6.3-2 for the TX
> and RX channel bandwidths defined in Table 6.3-1
Table 6.3-2: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
Frequency Band **TX - RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation**
6 45 MHz
17 30 MHz
18 45 MHz
19 45 MHz
* * *
### 6.3.3 Channel arrangement
#### 6.3.3.1 Carrier frequency and EARFCN
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 - 65535\. The
relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in
table 6.3-3 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
table 6.3-3 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
Table 6.3-3 E-UTRA channel numbers
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _E-UTRA |_ Do | * | | | | | | Ope | wnlink _| Uplink_ | | | | | | rating _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |_ Band _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | |_ F~D | _N~Of |_ Range | _F~U |_ N~Of | _Range | | | L_low~ | fs-DL~_ | of | L_low~ | fs-UL~_| of | | | (MHz)_ | | N~DL~_| (MHz)_ | | N~UL~_| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |_ 6 _|_ 875 _|_ 2650 _|_ 2650 | _830_ | _20650_ | _20650 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 2749_ | | | 20749 _| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |_ 17 _|_ 734 _|_ 5730 _|_ 5730 | _704_ | _23730_ | _23730 | | | | | -- | | | - | | | | | 5849_ | | | 23849 _| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |_ 18 _|_ 860 _|_ 5850 _|_ 5850 | _815_ | _23850_ | _23850 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 5999_ | | | 23999 _| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |_ 19 _|_ 875 _|_ 6000 _|_ 6000 | _830_ | _24000_ | _24000 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 6149_ | | | 24149 _| +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |_..._| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |_ 33 _|_ 1900 _|_ 26000 _|_ 36000 | _1900_ | _36000_ | _36000 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 36199_ | | | 36199* | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.3.4 Channel bandwidths per operating band
The requirements in this specification apply to the combination of channel
bandwidths and operating bands shown in Table 6.3-4. The transmission
bandwidth configuration in Table 6.3-4 shall be supported for each of the
specified channel bandwidths. The same (symmetrical) channel bandwidth is
specified for both the TX and RX path.
Table 6.3-4: E-UTRA channel bandwidth
* * *
E-UTRA band / channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 6 **Yes** **Yes^[1]^**
17 Yes Yes **Yes^[1]^** **Yes^[1]^**  
18 Yes Yes**^[1]^** Yes**^[1]^**  
19 Yes Yes**^[1]^** Yes**^[1]^**  
...  
33 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** NOTE 1: bandwidth for which a relaxation of
the specified UE receiver sensitivity requirement (Section 6.4.3) is allowed.
* * *
## 6.4 Specific UE RF requirements
### 6.4.1 Maximum output power with additional requirements
#### 6.4.1.1 Outline of evaluation method
To evaluate proper A-MPR to satisfy the above spurious emission requirements,
measurements on leakage interference power were actually conducted under the
test conditions as shown in Table 6.4.1.1-1 which are basically based on [11].
The measurement procedures are summarized below. It should be noted that
unless otherwise stated, some certain implementation margins are incorporated
in the measurement results.
  1. For each Channel bandwidth, the largest transmission resource blocks (RBs) are constantly assigned at the upper edge of the transmission band.
  2. UE UL power is reduced in one dB step until the additional spurious emission requirements are satisfied.
  3. After satisfying the spurious emission requirements, then, RBs are reduced.
  4. The steps 1 to 3 are repeated until the A-MPR is not needed for each Channel bandwidth.
Table 6.4.1.1-1 Test conditions
* * *
# Item Parameter  
1 UE output power Min = +15.0 dBm, Max = +23.0 dBm  
2 UE operating band E-UTRA Band 19  
3 Channel bandwidth 5MHz 10MHz 15MHz 4 Carrier Frequency 842.5MHz 840.0MHz
837.5MHz 5 Modulation QPSK, 16QAM  
6 Position of RBs Upper Edge of the Tx band
* * *
#### 6.4.1.2 Outline of Evaluation results
##### 6.4.1.2.1 Brief overview of measurement results
To confirm the validities of the measurement results, we look at the spurious
emissions generated by full RBs allocation for 10MHz and 15MHz Channel
bandwidth respectively for Band 19 illustrated in Figure 6.4.1.2.1-1 and
6.4.1.2.1-2. From the results, it can be seen that for full RBs allocation of
15MHz Channel bandwidth as well as 10MHz Channel bandwidth, some power
reductions in addition to MPR are needed to satisfy the spurious emission
requirements. It should be also noted that for full RBs allocation for 15MHz
Channel bandwidth, if the allocation is shift toward 15MHz lower, i.e., the
transmission band of Band 18, no power reduction is needed since the PSD
decreases by around 20dB for the range 865 MHz ≤ f ≤ 875 MHz in Figure
6.4.1.2.1-2. It should be noted that any implementation margins are not
incorporated in these two figures.
{width="4.23125in" height="2.35625in"}
Figure 6.4.1.2.1-1: Spurious emission for 50RBs (10MHz Channel bandwidth and
QPSK or 16QAM)
{width="4.222916666666666in" height="2.3541666666666665in"}
Figure 6.4.1.2.1-2: Spurious emission for 75RBs (15MHz Channel bandwidth and
QPSK or 16QAM)
##### 6.4.1.2.2 for 5MHz Channel bandwidth cases
Figure 6.4.1.2.2-1 and 6.4.1.2.2-2 show the maximum leakage interference power
in Rx band for each RB allocation in case of 5MHz channel bandwidth. From the
results, it can be seen that for all the combinations of modulation and number
of RBs, the spurious emission requirement -40 dBm/1MHz is satisfied without
any power reduction. Therefore, no A-MPR is needed to be defined for 5MHz
Channel bandwidth.
{width="3.265277777777778in" height="2.0395833333333333in"}
{width="3.2715277777777776in" height="2.042361111111111in"}
Figure 6.4.1.2.2-1 spurious levels for QPSK Figure 6.4.1.2.2-2 spurious levels
for 16QAM
##### 6.4.1.2.3 for 10MHz and 15MHz Channel bandwidth cases
Figure 6.4.1.2.3-1 to 6.4.1.2.3-4 show the evaluation results in case of 10
MHz and 15 MHz channel bandwidths. From the results, it can be observed that
some Additional Power Reductions are needed to satisfy the spurious emission
requirements. Based on the results, the necessary A-MPRs to satisfy the
spurious emissions requirements are derived by investigating the boundary
number of RBs for which the required A-MPR value changes. In each Figure, the
boundary line A(yellow), B(purple) and C(blue) show the start points where
from each point, A-MPR=1, 2 and 3dB may be allowed to used to meet the
spurious emission requirements respectively in the following ways.
  * From the boundary line A(yellow), A-MPR of 1 dB would be applied.
  * From the boundary line B(purple), A-MPR of 2 dB would be applied.
  * From the boundary line C(blue), A-MPR of 3 dB would be applied.
{width="3.2777777777777777in" height="2.048611111111111in"}
Figure 6.4.1.2.3-1 spurious levels Figure 6.4.1.2.3-2 spurious levels (10MHz
CBW and QPSK) (10MHz CBW and 16QAM)
{width="3.2895833333333333in" height="2.0965277777777778in"}
Figure 6.4.1.2.3-3 spurious levels Figure 6.4.1.2.3-4 spurious levels (15MHz
CBW and QPSK) (15MHz CBW and 16QAM)
#### 6.4.1.3 Summary of results
Based on the evaluation results reported in Figure 6.4.1.3-1 to 6.4.1.3-2, the
required minimum A-MPR for each combination, number of RBs and Channel
bandwidth can be obtained and summarized in table 6.4.1.3-1. It should be also
noted that these results are well aligned with [12].
Table 6.4.1.3-1 Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
* * *
Network Signalling value Requirements (sub-clause) E-UTRA Band Channel
bandwidth (MHz) Resources Blocks A-MPR (dB) NS_[08] 6.6.3.3.3 19 10, 15 >29
for QPSK ≤ 1 >39 for 16QAM  
10 >39 for QPSK ≤ 2 10, 15 >44 for 16QAM  
10, 15 >44 for QPSK ≤ 3 15 >59 for 16QAM
* * *
Finally, the above table is further summarized as shown Table 6.4.1.3-2.
Table 6.4.1.3-2 Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
* * *
Network Signalling value Requirements (sub-clause) E-UTRA Band Channel
bandwidth (MHz) Resources Blocks A-MPR (dB) NS_[08] 6.6.3.3.3 19 10, 15 > 29 ≤
1 > 39 ≤ 2 > 44 ≤ 3
* * *
### 6.4.2 Spurious emissions
This section shows the spurious emission requirements for E-UTRA Band 18 and
Band 19.
#### 6.4.2.1 Minimum requirements
The general spurious emission requirements for Band 18 and Band 19 UEs are the
same for other bands.
#### 6.4.2.2 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
In Japan, the technical conditions for the effective use of mobile commercial-
use frequencies for LTE and other next generation communication systems had
been investigated by the Study Group to Examine Expanded Use of Frequency
Bands for Mobile Service [7]. The technical conditions for extended LTE 800
had also been investigated and by considering the operation in 15MHz channel
bandwidth for Band 18 and Band 19 and the corresponding traffic increase, the
spurious emission limit for extended LTE 800 was introduced as regulation as
follows.
For the frequency range 860 MHz ≤ f ≤ 895 MHz,
the required spurious emission limit for the protection of LTE UE receiver
band is -40dBm/1MHz.
In addition, the downlinks of Band 1, 9, 11, 34 and PHS protection band also
need protection from both Band 18 and Band 19 UEs. Therefore additional
entries should be introduced as shown in Table 6.4.2.2-1.
Table 6.4.2.2-1 Spurious emission requirement for extended LTE 800
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | E-UTRA | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Pro | Fre | Level | Ban | C | | | | | tected | quency | (dBm) | dwidth | omment | | | | | band | range | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | 6 | E-UTRA | FD | - | FDL | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | L_low | | _high | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, 34 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 1884.5 | - | 1919.6 | -41 | 0.3 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | 18 | E-UTRA | FD | - | FDL | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | L_low | | _high | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, 34 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 860 | - | 895 | -40 | 1 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 1884.5 | - | 1919.6 | -41 | 0.3 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | 19 | E-UTRA | FD | - | FDL | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | L_low | | _high | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, 34 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 860 | - | 895 | -40 | 1 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 1884.5 | - | 1919.6 | -41 | 0.3 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+-----+---+
#### 6.4.2.3 Additional spurious emissions
Though Japanese low does not clearly mention the frequency range 860 MHz ≤ f ≤
865 MHz, i.e. OOB domain which occurs if Band 19 is operated in the 15MHz
channel bandwidth, for co-existence between Band 18 and Band 19, the OOB
domain necessarily has to be protected [5]. Therefore, the additional spurious
emission requirement should be specified for the frequency range 860 MHz ≤ f ≤
895 MHz. From the frequency allocation, this additional requirement will only
need to be specified for Band 19.
Therefore when \"NS_[08]\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE
spurious emission shall not exceed the level specified in Table 6.4.2.3-1. The
A-MPR to meet this requirement is for further study.
Table 6.4.2.3-1 Additional requirement for extended LTE 800
+----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | Frequency band | Channel | Measurement | | | | | bandwidth / | bandwidth | | | | (MHz) | Spectrum | | | | | | emission limit | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | +----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | | 5MHz | 10MHz | 15MHz | | +----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+ | 860 ≤ f ≤ 895 | -40 | -40 | -40 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+-------+
### 6.4.3 Reference sensitivity power level
#### 6.4.3.1 Direction of investigation for LTE
The details of the extended Band 18 and Band 19 are described in Figure
6.4.3.1-1. It should be noted that they have the same pass bandwidth and
duplex gap. As the reference sensitivity mostly depends on the difference in
pass bandwidth and duplex gap, we assume that the same reference sensitivity
could be applied for both Band 18 and Band 19.
{width="6.472916666666666in" height="1.136111111111111in"}
Figure 6.4.3.1-1 Frequency arrangement for new Bands
#### 6.4.3.2 Evaluation of the reference sensitivity of Band 18 and Band 19
for LTE
The section 5.4.2 shows that the reference sensitivity of Band XIX for UMTS is
the same as that of Band VI. Therefore, we propose to apply the same reference
sensitivity requirement of Band 6 for Band 19 in the case 5MHz and 10MHz
channel bandwidth. Reference sensitivity power levels for the 15 MHz Channel
bandwidths could be derived by scaling according to the number of resource
blocks.
The same requirement can be applied to Band 18 as both bands have the same
pass bandwidth and duplex gap.
#### 6.4.3.3 Proposal of reference sensitivity of Band 18 and Band 19 for LTE
According to the evaluation in section 6.4.3.2, the proposed requirements for
TS36.101 are summarized in Table 6.4.3.3-1.
Table 6.4.3.3-1 Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
+-------------+-------------------+-------------+-------+--------+--------+--------+-----+ | E-UTRA Band | Channel bandwidth | Duplex Mode | | | | | | +-------------+-------------------+-------------+-------+--------+--------+--------+-----+ | | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +-------------+-------------------+-------------+-------+--------+--------+--------+-----+ | 1 | - | - | -100 | -97 | -95.2 | -94 | FDD | +-------------+-------------------+-------------+-------+--------+--------+--------+-----+ | 6 | - | - | -100 | -97 | - | - | FDD | +-------------+-------------------+-------------+-------+--------+--------+--------+-----+ | 18 | - | - | -100 | -97 | -95.2 | - | FDD | +-------------+-------------------+-------------+-------+--------+--------+--------+-----+ | 19 | - | - | -100 | -97 | -95.2 | - | FDD | +-------------+-------------------+-------------+-------+--------+--------+--------+-----+
#### 6.4.3.4 Evaluation of maximum uplink configuration of Band 18 and Band 19
for LTE
The maximum uplink configuration for reference sensitivity for TS36.101 is
needed for further study as listed in Table 6.4.3.4-1.
Table 6.4.3.4-1Maximum uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
**E-UTRA Band** **Number of RBs for each Channel bandwidth** **Duplex Mode**  
**1.4 MHz** **3 MHz** **5 MHz** **10 MHz** **15 MHz** **20 MHz**  
6 - - 25 25 - - FDD 18 - - 25 25 25 - FDD 19 - - 25 25 25 - FDD
* * *
### 6.4.4 Blocking characteristics
#### 6.4.4.1 In band blocking
In-band blocking for LTE 800 (both Band 18 and Band 19) should apply the same
requirements for other band.
#### 6.4.4.2 Out of band blocking
Out of band blocking for LTE 800 (both Band 18 and Band 19) should apply the
same requirements for other band.
## 6.5 E-UTRA Band 6 handling
The frequency arrangement of Band 6 and Extended LTE 800 (Band 19) is as
follows.
  * Band 6: 830-840MHz(UL), 875-885MHz(DL)
  * Band 19: 830-845MHz(UL), 875-890MHz(DL)
In Japan, the commercial service in Band VI for UTRA has already been
operated, so the Band VI remains handled as ever. On the other hand, there are
no plans for the commercial service in Band 6 to be operated at least in Japan
due to use Band 19 for E-UTRA. In this case, it is expected that the
maintenances for Band 6 need to be continued in spite of not be in use and the
misinterpretation that Band 6 is applicable like Band VI in Japan occurs. In
order to prevent these problems from occurring, two solutions can be imagined
that Band 6 is deleted or \"Band 6 is not applicable\" is added in 3GPP
specification where the descriptions on Band 6 are not maintained any longer.
The former is seemingly-simple, but it is difficult to predict the risk of
influencing other specifications because there is no precedent for this. So,
it is assumed that the latter is reasonable. Therefore the following two items
are proposed.
**_Proposal 1 : The descriptions on Band 6 are not updated for the WI TR and
the corresponding 3GPP specifications._**
**_Proposal 2 : \"Band 6 is not applicable\" is added in TS36.101, TS36.104,
TS36.141, and TS36.521-1 as shown in Table 6.5-1._**
Table 6.5-1 E-UTRA operating bands
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                                      F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
6^[1]^ 830 MHz -- 840 MHz 875 MHz -- 885 MHz FDD
18 815 MHz -- 830 MHz 860 MHz -- 875 MHz FDD
19 830 MHz -- 845 MHz 875 MHz -- 890 MHz FDD
NOTE 1: Band 6 is not applicable.
* * *
# 7 Summary of required changes to UTRA specifications
## 7.1 Required changes to TS 25.101
Required changes in TS25.101 are shown in Table 7.1-1.
Table 7.1-1 Required Changes for TS25.101
+---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Clause | Description | Description of change | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.2 | Frequency band | A new row for the band in | | | | the table | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.3 | TX-RX frequency separation | A new row for the band in | | | | the table | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.4.2 | Channel raster | No changes. [100kHz | | | | offset] | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.4.3 | Channel number | A new channel numbering | | | | for the band. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.4.4 | UARFCN | Channel numbering for the | | | | band | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.1 | Max Output Power | Required for regulatory | | | | (Same for Band VI) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.2.1 | Emission Mask | Required for regulatory | | | | (Same for Band VI) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.3 | Tx Spurious emissions | Required for regulatory | | | | (Same for Band VI) | | | | | | | | A new row for the band in | | | | the table | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.3 | Reference sensitivity | Add requirement for Band | | | | XIX(Same for Band VI) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.6 | Blocking | Add requirement for Band | | | | XIX | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.8 | Intermodulation | **No changes** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.9 | Rx spurious emission | Required for regulatory | | | | (Same for Band VI) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | B.2.2 | Multi-path fading | Add conditions for Band | | | propagation conditions | XIX (Same for Band VI) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | B.2.6 | MIMO propagation | Add conditions for Band | | | conditions | XIX (Same for Band VI) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | E.2 | List of UARFCN used for | Add conditions for Band | | | UTRA FDD bands | XIX (Same for Band VI) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 7.2 Required changes to TS 25.104
Required changes in TS25.104 are shown in Table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1 Required Changes for TS25.104
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.2 Frequency band A new row for the
band in the table 5.3 TX-RX frequency separation A new row for the band in the
table 5.4.2 Channel raster No changes. [100kHz offset] 5.4.3 Channel number A
new channel numbering for the band. 6.6.2.1 Emission mask No changes 6.6.3.1.1
Tx Spurious emissions(Category A) Required for regulatory (Same for Band VI)
6.6.3.2 Protection of BS receiver **Add requirement for Band XIX** 6.6.3.3 Co-
existence with other systems in the same geographical area **Add requirement
for Band XIX** 6.6.3.4 Co-existence with co-located and co-sited base stations
**Add requirement for Band XIX** 6.6.3.5 Co-existence with PHS Required for
regulatory (Same for Band VI) 6.6.3.6 Co-existence with services in adjacent
frequency bands **No changes** 6.6.3.9 Co-existence with Home BS operating in
other bands **Add requirement for Band XIX** 6.6.3.x Co-existence requirements
(Other than above) **No changes** 7.5 Blocking **Add requirement for Band
XIX** 7.6 Inter-modulation **No changes** 7.7 Rx spurious emission Required
for regulatory (Same for Band VI) B.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
Add conditions for Band XIX (Same for Band VI) B.5 Multipath fading
propagation conditions Add conditions for Band XIX (Same for Band VI)
* * *
## 7.3 Required changes to TS 25.113
Required changes in TS25.113 are shown in Table 7.3-1.
Table 7.3-1 Required changes for TS25.113
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band Add a
new line for Band XIX
* * *
## 7.4 Required changes to TS 25.133
Required changes in TS25.133 are shown in Table 7.4-1.
Table 7.4-1 Required changes for TS25.133
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 8.1.2.6.1 Identification of a new
cell Add requirement for Band XIX. 9.1 Measurement Performance for UE Add
requirement for Band XIX. A.9.1 Measurement Performance for UE (Normative
Annex for Test cases) Add requirement for Band XIX.
* * *
## 7.5 Required changes to TS 25.141
Required changes in TS25.141 are shown in Table 7.5-1.
Table 7.5-1 Required Changes for TS25.141
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 3.4.1 Frequency band A new row for
the band in the table 3.4.2 TX-RX frequency separation A new row for the band
in the table 3.5.2 Channel raster No changes. [100kHz offset] 3.5.3 Channel
number A new channel numbering for the band. 6.5.2.1 Emission mask No changes
6.5.3.7.1 Tx Spurious emissions (Category A) Required for regulatory (Same for
Band VI) 6.5.3.7.3 Protection of BS receiver **Add requirement for Band XIX**
6.5.3.7.4 Co-existence with other systems in the same geographical area **Add
requirement for Band XIX** 6.5.3.7.5 Co-existence with co-located and co-sited
base stations **Add requirement for Band XIX** 6.5.3.7.6 Co-existence with PHS
Required for regulatory (Same for Band VI) 6.5.3.7.7 Co-existence with
services in adjacent frequency bands **No changes** 6.5.3.7.10 Co-existence
with Home BS operating in other bands **Add requirement for Band XIX**
6.5.3.7.X Co-existence requirements(Other than above) **No changes** 7.5
Blocking **Add requirement for Band XIX** 7.6 Inter-modulation **No changes**
7.7 Rx spurious emission Required for regulatory (Same for Band VI) D.2 Multi-
path fading propagation conditions Add conditions for Band XIX (Same for Band
VI) D.5 Multi-path fading propagation conditions Add conditions for Band XIX
(Same for Band VI)
* * *
## 7.6 Required changes to TS 34.124
Required changes in TS34.124 are shown in Table 7.6-1.
Table 7.6-1 Required changes for TS34.124
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.4 Receiver exclusion band Add a new
line for Band XIX
* * *
## 7.7 Required changes to TS 25.306
Required changes in TS25.306 are shown in Table 7.7-1.
Table 7.7-1 Required changes for TS25.306
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.5.7 RF parameters Insert the text
that UEs that supports Band XIX shall also support Band VI 5.1 Value ranges
Insert the text that UEs that supports Band XIX shall also support Band VI in
the line of FDD RF parameters
* * *
## 7.8 Required changes to TS 25.307
Required changes in TS25.307 are shown in Table 7.8-1.
Table 7.8-1 Required changes for TS25.307
* * *
Clause Description Description of change X[TBD] Band XIX independent of
release Add a new section of Band XIX
* * *
## 7.9 Required changes to TS 25.331
Required changes in TS25.331 are shown in Table 7.9-1.
Table 7.9-1 Required changes for TS25.331
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 10.3.3.21a Measurement capability
extension Define a new value of Band XIX 10.3.3.42a UE radio access capability
extension Define a new value of Band XIX 10.3.6.35c Frequency band indicator
Define a new value of Band XIX
* * *
## 7.10 Required changes to TS 25.461
Required changes in TS25.461 are shown in Table 7.10-1
Table 7.10-1 Required changes for TS25.461
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.3.7 New operating band introduction
Introduction of new bands for FDD and TDD both in UTRA and E-UTRA in table
4.3.7.1
* * *
## 7.11 Required changes to TS 25.466
Required changes in TS25.466 are shown in Table 7.11-1.
Table 7.11-1 Required changes for TS25.466
* * *
Clause Description Description of change Annex B Antenna operating band field
extension for RETAP and TMAAP - Antenna operating band field is extended in a
backward compatible manner
* * *
## 7.12 Required changes to TS 34.108
Required changes in TS 34.108 are shown in Table 7.12-1.
Table 7.12-1 Required changes for TS 34.108
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.1.1.19 Test frequencies Add a new
table for FDD reference test frequencies for Operating Band XIX
* * *
## 7.13 Required changes to TS 34.121-1, TS34.121-2
Required changes in TS 34.121-1 are shown in Table 7.13-1.
Table 7.13-1 Required Changes for TS 34.121-1
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.2 Frequency band Add a new row for
the band in the table 4.3 TX-RX frequency separation Add a new row for the
band in the table 4.4.3 Channel number Add a new channel numbering for the
band. 4.4.4 UARFCN Add channel numbers for the band 5.2 Max Output Power Add
minimum requirement and test requirement for Band XIX (same as Band VI) 5.4.1
Open Loop Power Control in the Uplink Add band XIX in the test parameter table
of the test case 5.11 Tx Spurious emissions Add minimum requirement and test
requirement for Band XIX (same as Band VI) 6.2 Reference sensitivity Add
minimum requirement and test requirement for Band XIX (same as Band VI) 6.5
Blocking Characteristics Add minimum requirement and test requirement for Band
XIX 6.8 Rx spurious emission Add minimum requirement and test requirement for
Band XIX (same as Band VI) 8.2.3 UTRAN to GSM Cell Re-Selection Add
requirement for Band XIX. 8.3.4 Inter-system Handover from UTRAN FDD to GSM
Add requirement for Band XIX. 8.3.5.3 Cell Reselection to GSM Add requirement
for Band XIX. 8.3.6.3 Cell re-selection during an MBMS session Add requirement
for Band XIX. 8.6.4 GSM measurements Add requirement for Band XIX. 8.6.5
Combined Interfrequency and GSM measurements Add requirement for Band XIX. 8.7
Measurements Performance Requirements Add requirement for Band XIX into
related test cases D.2.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions Add
conditions for Band XIX (Same for Band VI) D.2.9 MIMO propagation conditions
Add conditions for Band XIX (Same for Band VI)
* * *
Required changes in TS 34.121-2 are shown in Table 7.13-2.
Table 7.13-2 Required changes for TS 34.121-2
* * *
Clause Description Description of change A.4.3 Implementation Capabilities Add
new lines for Band XIX
* * *
## 7.14 Required changes to TS 34.123-1, TS 34.123-2, TS 34.123‑3
Required changes in TS 34.123-1 are shown in Table 7.14-1.
Table 7.14-1 Required changes for TS 34.123-1
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 6 Idle mode operations Add a new line
for Band XIX in Table 6.3
* * *
Required changes in TS 34.123-2 are shown in Table 7.14-2.
Table 7.14-2 Required changes for TS 34.123-2
* * *
Clause Description Description of change A.4.3.2 Implementation Capabilities
Add a new line for Band XIX in Table A.15
* * *
# 8 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 8.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Required changes in TS36.101are shown in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1-1 Required Changes for TS36.101
+---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Clause | Description | Description of change | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.5 | Frequency band (Operating | A new row for the | | | bands) | bands(Band 18 and 19) in | | | | the table | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5. 6.1 | Channel bandwidth | A new row for the bands in | | | | the table | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5. 7.3 | Channel number (EARFCN) | A new channel numbering | | | | for the bands. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.7.4 | TX-RX frequency separation | A new row for the band in | | | | the table | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.2 | Max Output Power | Required for regulatory | | | | | | | | A new row for the band in | | | | the table | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.4 | Max power with additional | Add requirements for Band | | | requirements | 19 | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.2.1 | Emission Mask | Required for regulatory | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.3 | Tx Spurious emissions | Required for regulatory | | | | | | | | Add requirements for the | | | | bands (Band 18 and 19) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.3 | Reference sensitivity | Add requirements for the | | | | bands (Band 18 and 19) | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.6 | Blocking | Add requirement for the | | | | bands | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.8 | Intermodulation | **No changes** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.9 | Rx spurious emission | Required for regulatory | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 8.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
Required changes in TS36.104 are shown in Table 8.2-1.
Table 8.2-1 Required Changes for TS36.104
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.3 Frequency bands A new row for the
bands (Band 18 and 19) in the table 5.4.3 Channel number A new channel
numbering for the bands. 6.6.3 Operating band unwanted emissions Required for
regulatory 6.6.4.1 Tx Spurious emissions(Cat. A) Required for regulatory (Same
for Band 6) 6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emissions **Add requirements for the
bands** 6.6.4.4 Co-location with other BS **Add requirements for the bands**
6.7 Inter-modulation **No changes** 7.6 Blocking **Add requirement for the
bands** 7.7 Rx spurious emission Required for regulatory (Same for Band 6) 7.8
Receiver Inter-modulation **No changes**
* * *
## 8.3 Required changes to TS 36.113
Required changes in TS36.113 are shown in Table 8.3-1.
Table 8.3-1 Required changes for TS36.113
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band Add new
lines for the bands (Band 18 and 19)
* * *
## 8.4 Required changes to TS 36.124
Required changes in TS36.124 are shown in Table 8.4-1.
Table 8.4-1 Required changes for TS36.124
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.4 Receiver exclusion band Add new
lines for the bands (Band 18 and 19)
* * *
## 8.5 Required changes to TS 36.133
Required changes in TS36.133 are shown in Table 8.5-1.
Table 8.5-1 Required changes for TS36.133
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.2.2.3 Measurements of intra-
frequency E-UTRAN cells Add requirements for the bands (Band 18 and 19).
4.2.2.4 Measurements of inter-frequency E-UTRAN cells Add requirements for the
bands (Band 18 and 19). 8.1.2.2 E-UTRAN intra frequency measurements Add
requirements for the bands (Band 18 and 19). 8.1.2.3 General Measurement
Requirements Add requirements for the bands (Band 18 and 19). 9.1 E-UTRAN
Measurements Add requirements for the bands. A.9 Measurement Performance
Requirements Add requirements for the bands.
* * *
## 8.6 Required changes to TS 36.141
Required changes in TS36.141 are shown in Table 8.6-1.
Table 8.6-1 Required Changes for TS36.141
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.5 Operating bands A new row for the
bands (Band 18 and 19) in the table 5.7.3 Channel number A new channel
numbering for the bands. 6.6.3 Operating band unwanted emissions Required for
regulatory 6.6.4.1 Tx Spurious emissions(Cat. A) Required for regulatory (Same
for Band 6) 6.6.4.5.4 Additional spurious emissions **Add requirements for the
bands** 6.6.4.5.5 Co-location with other BS **Add requirements for the bands**
6.7 Inter-modulation **No changes** 7.6 Blocking **Add requirement for the
bands** 7.7 Rx spurious emission Required for regulatory (Same for Band 6) 7.8
Receiver Inter-modulation **No changes**
* * *
## 8.7 Required changes to TS 36.331
No required changes since there is no band specific requirement.
## 8.8 Required changes to TS 36.508
Required changes in TS 36.508 are shown in Table 8.8-1.
Table 8.8-1 Required changes for TS 36.508
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.3.1.1 FDD Mode Test frequencies Add
new tables for FDD reference test frequencies for band 18 and 19
* * *
## 8.9 Required changes to TS 36.521-1, TS 36.521-2, TS 36.521-3
Required changes in TS 36.521-1 are shown in Table 8.9-1.
Table 8.9-1 Required Changes for TS 36.521-1
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.2 Frequency band (Operating bands)
Add new rows for the bands (Band 18 and 19) in the table 5.3 TX--RX frequency
separation Add new rows for the bands (Band 18 and 19) in the table 5.4.2
Channel bandwidth Add new rows for the bands (Band 18 and 19) in the table
5.4.4 Carrier frequency and EARFCN Add new rows for the bands (Band 18 and 19)
in the table 6.2.2 Max Output Power Add minimum requirement and test
requirement for the new bands (Band 18 and 19) 6.2.4 Additional Maximum Power
Reduction (A-MPR) Add minimum requirement and test requirement for band 19
(NS_08) 6.6.3.2 Spurious emission band UE co-existence Add minimum requirement
and test requirement for the new bands (Band 18 and 19) 6.6.3.3 Additional
spurious emissions Add minimum requirement and test requirement for band 19
(NS_08) 7.3 Reference sensitivity Add minimum requirement and test requirement
for the new bands (Band 18 and 19) 7.6 Blocking characteristics Add minimum
requirement and test requirement for the new bands (Band 18 and 19)
* * *
Required changes in TS 36.521-2 are shown in Table 8.9-2.
Table 8.9-2 Required changes for TS 36.521-2
* * *
Clause Description Description of change A.4.3 Implementation Capabilities Add
new lines for Band 18 and 19
* * *
Required changes in TS 36.521-3 are shown in Table 8.9-3.
Table 8.9-3 Required changes for TS 36.521-3
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 8.1 E-UTRAN FDD intra frequency
measurements Add requirements for Band 18 and 19 to the related test cases 8.3
E-UTRAN FDD-FDD Inter-frequency Measurements Add requirements for Band 18 and
19 to the related test cases 9.1 RSRP measurement Add requirements for Band 18
and 19 to the related test cases 9.2 RSRQ measurement Add requirements for
Band 18 and 19 to the related test cases
* * *
## 8.10 Required changes to TS 36.523-1, TS 36.523-2, TS 36.523-3
_There are no changes required for TS 36.523-1, TS 36.523-2, TS 36.523-3 at
the current state._
# 9 Project plan
## 9.1 Schedule and Work Task Status
Table 9.1-1 summarises the schedule and work task status for Extended UMTS/LTE
800 WI.
Table 9.1-1 Schedule and work task status
+--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | Item# | Effort | R | Schedule | Status | | | Required | esponsibility | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 1 | Provide | ARIB^*1^ | RAN4#49bis | Completed | | | deployment | | | | | | scenarios for | | | | | | Extended | | | | | | UMTS/LTE 800 | | | | | | MHz in Japan | | | | | | [5] | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 2 | Provide | ARIB^*1^ | RAN4#49bis | Completed | | | requirements | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-existence | | | | | | with other | | | | | | technologies | | | | | | in Japan | | | | | | [5] | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 3 | Propose | ARIB^*2^ | RAN4#49bis | Completed | | | necessary | | | | | | changes for | | | | | | the relevant | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifications | | | | | | based on the | | | | | | information | | | | | | provided in | | | | | | #2 | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 4.1 | Study and | RAN4 | RAN4#50 - | Completed | | | check | | #50bis | | | | necessary | | | | | | changes for | | | | | | the relevant | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifications | | | | | | and collect | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | information | | | | | | into a TR | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 4.2 | Generate CRs | RAN4 | RAN4#50bis - | Completed | | | to update the | | #51 | | | | appropriate | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifications | | | | | | and other | | | | | | documents | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 5 | Study any | RAN2 | RAN2#65 | Completed | | | signalling | | | | | | issues | | - #66 | | | | related to | | | | | | Extended | | | | | | UMTS/LTE 800 | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 6 | Study UE | RAN5 | RAN5#42 - | Completed | | | conformance | | #44 | | | | testing | | | | | | issues | | | | | | related to | | | | | | Extended | | | | | | UMTS/LTE 800 | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+
*1: ARIB provided RAN4 outcomes from Telec _ommunications_ Council of Japan.
*2: Individual member of ARIB may provide appropriate information or proposals based on studies at Telec _ommunications_ Council of Japan.
# 10 Open issues
None
###### ### Annex A: UARFCN numbers
# A.1 List of UARFCN used for UTRA FDD bands
The UARFCN numbering scheme detailed in clauses 5.4.3 and 5.4.4 of TS25.101 is
summarized for information in Table A.1. The table shows the UARFCN assigned
to all UTRA FDD operating bands, starting with the lowest UARFCN and
continuing up to the highest one assigned.
Each band may have two table entries, one for the \"general\" numbers and one
for the \"additional\" ones, as specified in Table 5.2 of TS25.101. The
entries in Table A.1 are explained as follows:
**Band range:** The size of the frequency range for the UTRA FDD band
specified in Table 5.0 of TS25.101.
**Range res.:** The size of the frequency range corresponding to the UARFCN
range that has been \"reserved\" in 3GPP for possible future extensions of the
band.
**Formula offset:** The offset parameter (F~UL_Offset~ or F~DL_Offset~) in the
formula, used to calculate the UARFCN as specified in Clause 5.4.3 of
TS25.101.
**Assigned/reserved:** Indicates the significance of the UARFCN and
corresponding frequencies listed as follows:
**Start res**. Start of the UARFCN range reserved for the band.
**Min.** The lowest UARFCN assigned to the band.
**Max.** The highest UARFCN assigned to the band.
**End res.** End of the UARFCN range reserved for the band.
**N~U~, N~D~:** Uplink and downlink UARFCN.
**F~UL~, F~DL~:** Corresponding uplink and downlink frequencies.
**(Add.):** Refers to the additional UARFCN (on the 100 kHz raster) as
specified in Table 5.1A of TS25.101.
Note that bands V and VI are shown with common entries in Table A.1, since
their UARFCN ranges are completely overlapping.
Table A.1: UARFCN used for the UTRA FDD bands
|  |  | Uplink UARFCN | Downlink UARFCN |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**UTRA FDD Band** | **Band range [MHz]** | **Range res. [MHz]** | **Formula offset F UL_Offset** **[MHz]** | **Assigned/Reserved** | **N U** | **F UL [MHz]** | **Formula offset F DL_Offset** **[MHz]** | **Assigned/Reserved** | **N D** | **F DL [MHz]**  
**II** **(Add.)** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1850.1 | Start res. | 0 | 1850.1 | 1850.1 | Start res. | 400 | 1930.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **12** | **1852.5** |  | **Min.** | **412** | **1932.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **287** | **1907.5** |  | **Max.** | **687** | **1987.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 299 | 1909.9 |  | End res. | 699 | 1989.9  
**XIX** | 2x15 | 2x15 | 770 | Start res. | 300 | 830.0 | 735 | Start res. | 700 | 875.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **312** | **832.4** |  | **Min.** | **712** | **877.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **363** | **842.6** |  | **Max.** | **763** | **887.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 374 | 844.8 |  | End res. | 774 | 889.8  
**XIX** **(Add.)** | 2x15 | 2x15 | 755.1 | Start res. | 375 | 830.1 | 720.1 | Start res. | 775 | 875.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **387** | **832.5** |  | **Min.** | **787** | **877.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **437** | **842.5** |  | **Max.** | **837** | **887.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 449 | 844.9 |  | End res. | 849 | 889.9  
**V  
and  
VI** **(Add.)** | 2x25 (V) 2x10 (VI) | 2x45 | 670.1 | Start res. | 700 | 810.1 | 670.1 | Start res. | 925 | 855.1  
|  |  |  | **Min. (V)** | **782** | **826.5** |  | **Min. (V)** | **1007** | **871.5**  
|  |  |  | **Min. (VI)** | **812** | **832.5** |  | **Min. (VI)** | **1037** | **877.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (VI)** | **837** | **837.5** |  | **Max. (VI)** | **1062** | **882.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (V)** | **862** | **842.5** |  | **Max. (V)** | **1087** | **887.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 924 | 854.9 |  | End res. | 1149 | 899.9  
**III** | 2x75 | 2x75 | 1525 | Start res. | 925 | 1710.0 | 1575 | Start res. | 1150 | 1805.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **937** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **1162** | **1807.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1288** | **1782.6** |  | **Max.** | **1513** | **1877.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1299 | 1784.8 |  | End res. | 1524 | 1879.8  
**IV** | 2x45 | 2x70 | 1450 | Start res. | 1300 | 1710.0 | 1805 | Start res. | 1525 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **1312** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **1537** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1513** | **1752.6** |  | **Max.** | **1738** | **2152.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1649 | 1779.8 |  | End res. | 1874 | 2179.8  
**IV  
(Add.)** | 2x45 | 2x70 | 1380.1 | Start res. | 1650 | 1710.1 | 1735.1 | Start res. | 1875 | 2110.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **1662** | **1712.5** |  | **Min.** | **1887** | **2112.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1862** | **1752.5** |  | **Max.** | **2087** | **2152.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1999 | 1779.9 |  | End res. | 2224 | 2179.9  
**VII** | 2x70 | 2x70 | 2100 | Start res. | 2000 | 2500.0 | 2175 | Start res. | 2225 | 2620.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2012** | **2502.4** |  | **Min.** | **2237** | **2622.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2338** | **2567.6** |  | **Max.** | **2563** | **2687.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2349 | 2569.8 |  | End res. | 2574 | 2689.8  
**VII  
(Add.)** | 2x70 | 2x70 | 2030.1 | Start res. | 2350 | 2500.1 | 2105.1 | Start res. | 2575 | 2620.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2362** | **2502.5** |  | **Min.** | **2587** | **2622.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2687** | **2567.5** |  | **Max.** | **2912** | **2687.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2699 | 2569.9 |  | End res. | 2924 | 2689.9  
**VIII** | 2x35 | 2x35 | 340 | Start res. | 2700 | 880.0 | 340 | Start res. | 2925 | 925.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2712** | **882.4** |  | **Min.** | **2937** | **927.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2863** | **912.6** |  | **Max.** | **3088** | **957.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2874 | 914.8 |  | End res. | 3099 | 959.8  
**X** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1135 | Start res. | 2875 | 1710.0 | 1490 | Start res. | 3100 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2887** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **3112** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3163** | **1767.6** |  | **Max.** | **3388** | **2167.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3174 | 1769.8 |  | End res. | 3399 | 2169.8  
**X  
(Add.)** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1075.1 | Start res. | 3175 | 1710.1 | 1430.1 | Start res. | 3400 | 2110.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3187** | **1712.5** |  | **Min.** | **3412** | **2112.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3462** | **1767.5** |  | **Max.** | **3687** | **2167.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3474 | 1769.9 |  | End res. | 3699 | 2169.9  
**XI** | 2x25 | 2x25 | 733 | Start res. | 3475 | 1428.0 | **736** | Start res. | 3700 | 1476.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3487** | **1430.4** |  | Min. | 3712 | 1478.4  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3587** | **1450.4** |  | Max. | 3812 | 1498.4  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3599 | 1452.8 |  | End res. | 3824 | 1500.8  
**XII** | 2x18 | 2x18 | -22 | Start res. | 3600 | 698.0 | **-37** | Start res. | 3825 | 728.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3612** | **700.4** |  | **Min.** | **3837** | **730.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3678** | **713.6** |  | **Max.** | **3903** | **743.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3689 | 715.8 |  | End res. | 3914 | 745.8  
**XII (Add.)** | 2x18 | 2x18 | -39.9 | Start res. | 3690 | 698.1 | **-54.9** | Start res. | 3915 | 728.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3702** | **700.5** |  | **Min.** | **3927** | **730.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3767** | **713.5** |  | **Max.** | **3992** | **743.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3779 | 715.9 |  | End res. | 4004 | 745.9  
**XIII** | 2x10 | 2x10 | 21 | Start res. | 3780 | 777.0 | **-55** | Start res. | 4005 | 746.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3792** | **779.4** |  | **Min.** | **4017** | **748.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3818** | **784.6** |  | **Max.** | **4043** | **753.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3829 | 786.8 |  | End res. | 4054 | 755.8  
**XIII** **(Add.)** | 2x10 | 2x10 | 11.1 | Start res. | 3830 | 777.1 | **-64.9** | Start res. | 4055 | 746.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3842** | **779.5** |  | **Min.** | **4067** | **748.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3867** | **784.5** |  | **Max.** | **4092** | **753.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3879 | 786.9 |  | End res. | 4104 | 755.9  
**XIV** | 2x10 | 2x10 | 12 | Start res. | 3880 | 788.0 | **-63** | Start res. | 4105 | 758.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3892** | **790.4** |  | **Min.** | **4117** | **760.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3918** | **795.6** |  | **Max.** | **4143** | **765.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3929 | 797.8 |  | End res. | 4154 | 767.8  
**XIV** **(Add.)** | 2x10 | 2x10 | 2.1 | Start res. | 3930 | 788.1 | **-72.9** | Start res. | 4155 | 758.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3942** | **790.5** |  | **Min.** | **4167** | **760.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3967** | **795.5** |  | **Max.** | **4192** | **765.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3979 | 797.9 |  | End res. | 4204 | 767.9  
**V  
and  
VI** | 2x25 (V) 2x10 (VI) | 2x45 | 0 | Start res. | 4050 | 810.0 | 0 | Start res. | 4275 | 855.0  
|  |  |  | **Min. (V)** | **4132** | **826.4** |  | **Min. (V)** | **4357** | **871.4**  
|  |  |  | **Min. (VI)** | **4162** | **832.4** |  | **Min. (VI)** | **4387** | **877.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (VI)** | **4188** | **837.6** |  | **Max. (VI)** | **4413** | **882.6**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (V)** | **4233** | **846.6** |  | **Max. (V)** | **4458** | **891.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 4274 | 854.8 |  | End res. | 4499 | 899.8  
**IX** | 2x45 | 2x75 | 0 | Start res. | 8550 | 1710.0 | 0 | Start res. | 9025 | 1805.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **8762** | **1752.4** |  | **Min.** | **9237** | **1847.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **8912** | **1782.4** |  | **Max.** | **9387** | **1877.4**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 8924 | 1784.8 |  | End res. | 9399 | 1879.8  
**II** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 0 | Start res. | 9250 | 1850.0 | 0 | Start res. | 9650 | 1930.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **9262** | **1852.4** |  | **Min.** | **9662** | **1932.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **9538** | **1907.6** |  | **Max.** | **9938** | **1987.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 9549 | 1909.8 |  | End res. | 9949 | 1989.8  
**I** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 0 | Start res. | 9600 | 1920.0 | 0 | Start res. | 10550 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **9612** | **1922.4** |  | **Min.** | **10562** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **9888** | **1977.6** |  | **Max.** | **10838** | **2167.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 9899 | 1979.8 |  | End res. | 10849 | 2169.8  
#