# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the study item "Further advancements for
E-UTRA" [2].
The document describes relay architectures being discussed for E-UTRA (LTE-
Advanced).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TD RP-091360: \"Revised SID on LTE-Advanced\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.912: \"Further Advancements for E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DeNB Donor eNB
DS DiffServ
RN Relay Node
# 4 Architectures
Editor's note: Primary responsible WG for this clause is RAN3.
## 4.1 General
The following two architectures have been identified for supporting relays in
LTE:
\- Architecture A, with following variants:
\- Alt 1: Full-L3 relay, transparent for DeNB;
\- Alt 2: Proxy S1/X2;
\- Alt 3: RN bearers terminate in DeNB;
\- Architecture B, with following variant:
\- Alt 4: S1 UP terminated in DeNB.
We follow the above grouping of architectures and alternatives when describing
the different solutions throughout this document.
Although not a prioritized scenario, it is assumed that all alternatives in
principle support multi-hop RN deployments.
RN mobility is also not considered a prioritized scenario.
## 4.2 Architecture A
### 4.2.1 Overview
Architecture A is based on the termination of both U-plane and C-plane of the
S1 interface at the RN. This architecture is then differentiated in a basic
variant, Alt 1 and two other variants, Alt 2 and 3.
#### 4.2.1.1 Relationship among alternatives in architecture A
Alternatives 1-3 share the common characteristics of Un interface.
The S1-MME interface is unmodified in all three architectures. In alternative
2, it terminates in a proxy sense in the DeNB, while in the others it
terminates at the relay node after being tunnelled through a bearer on the Un
interface; whether these differences are visible to the core network is
currently under discussion.
Finally, the X2 interface is also unmodified by all alternatives; again,
alternative 2 affects its nominal termination point, but the peer at the other
end of this proxied interface sees no impact. The same applies to the DeNB;
functioning as a donor does not oblige an eNB to support any changes to the X2
interface.
As illustrated in Fig. 4.2.1.1-1, the different optimization approaches
offered by the alternative 1, 2, and 3 are transparent to a RN. Fig. 4.2.1.1-1
also shows that the alternative 1, 2 and 3 are the architecture options in the
same family, which can be realized by grouping/collocating different
functional entities within/out of the DeNB.
Figure 4.2.1.1-1. Relationship among alternatives in architecture A
Note that Relay GW in Fig. 4.2.1.1-1 has "home eNB GW" type of functionality,
which is optional and transparent to the relay, the core network of the UE,
and other eNBs. The Relay GW is included for the alternative 2, but is not
included in the alternative 1 and 3.
The issue of compatibility in the Un interface is important since it means
that no definitive choice really needs to be made among alternatives 1-3:
maintaining the central concepts of this architecture family characterising
all three alternatives, it is possible to either optimise the solution with
incremental steps or to deploy directly what would be considered as the most
optimised choice.
### 4.2.2 User plane aspects
In this set of alternatives, the U-plane of the S1 interface is terminated at
the RN. In the baseline option of Alt 1 (Figure 4.2.2-1), the U-plane packets
of a UE served by the RN are delivered via the Relay's P/S-GW. The UE's P/S-GW
maps the incoming IP packets to the GTP tunnels corresponding to the EPS
bearer of the UE and sends the tunnelled packets to the IP address of the RN.
The tunnelled packets are routed to the RN via the Relay's P/S-GW, as if they
were packets destined to the RN as a UE.
Figure 4.2.1-2 illustrates the packet routing in the downlink for the "Full L3
relay" architecture alternative, showing the UE and RN bearers and the
corresponding GTP tunnels.
\- A packet destined to the UE is classified into UE EPS bearer at the PGW
serving the UE according to the corresponding packet filtering rules and
encapsulated into the respective GTP tunnel (spanned between SGW /PGW of the
UE and the RN).
\- The RN-PGW, which serves the RN, also needs to decide on the UE bearer to
RN bearer mapping. The RN bearer type may be indicated as a Diffserv codepoint
in the DS field of the IP header of the GTP IP packet sent by the UE-S/PGW.
\- The PGW of the RN receives the GTP tunneled packet addressed to the RN and
classifies the packet into RN bearer according to packet filtering rules
(based on the DS field of the packet) and encapsulates the packet into a
second GTP tunnel, corresponding to the RN bearer. This means that EPS bearers
of different UEs connected to the RN with similar QoS are mapped into the same
RN bearer.
\- The donor eNB associates the RN GTP tunnel with the corresponding RN radio
bearer and sends the packet to the RN over the radio interface.
\- The RN associates the received packet with the UE radio bearer according to
the UE GTP tunnel and sends the packet to the UE.
In the uplink, the RN performs the UE bearer to RN bearer mapping, which can
be done based on the QCIs of UE bearers.
Figure 4.2.2-1: User plane protocol stack -- Alt 1
Figure 4.2.2-2: Packet delivery steps -- Alt 1, 3
Figure 4.2.2-3 shows the user plane protocol stack in case of Alt 3, where the
baseline solution is enhanced by integrating the SGW/PGW functionality for the
RN into the DeNB. Thereby, the routing path is optimized as packets do not
have to traverse via a second PGW/SGW but otherwise the same functionality and
packet handling apply as in case of Alt 1.
Figure 4.2.2-3: User plane protocol stack -- Alt 3
Another way of enhancement of the baseline solution is to add "home eNB GW"
type of functionality into the DeNB, which results in the "Proxy S1/X2"
architecture alternative (Alt 2). The user plane protocol stack and the packet
processing and tunneling functionality in case of Alt 2 are shown in Figure
4.2.2-4 and in Figure 4.2.2-5, respectively. In this case there is a GTP
tunnel per UE bearer, spanning from the SGW/PGW of the UE to the donor eNB,
which is switched to another GTP tunnel at the DeNB, going from the DeNB to
the RN (one-to-one mapping).
\- The downlink UE packet is mapped to UE bearer at the PGW serving the UE and
the packet is sent in the corresponding UE bearer GTP tunnel to the donor eNB.
\- The donor eNB classifies the incoming packets into RN radio bearers based
on the QCI of the UE bearer (by filtering on the GTP TEID, where the
association is established at bearer setup) and switches the UE bearer GTP
tunnel from the SGW/PGW to another UE bearer GTP tunnel toward the RN (one-to-
one mapping). Note that EPS bearers of different UEs connected to the RN with
similar QoS are mapped in one radio bearer over the Un interface.
\- The RN associates the received packet with the corresponding UE radio
bearer based on the per UE bearer GTP tunnel.
In the uplink, the RN performs the UE bearer to RN bearer mapping, which can
be done based on the QCIs of UE bearers.
Figure 4.2.2-4: User plane protocol stack -- Alt 2
Figure 4.2.2-5: Packet delivery steps -- Alt 2
### 4.2.3 Control plane aspects
The control plane protocol stack that applies in case of Alt 1 and Alt 3 is
shown in Figure 4.2.3-1. As it can be seen in the figure the S1-AP protocol
terminates at the RN and the signaling messages go via the DeNB and the
SGW/PGW of the RN acting as user plane transport nodes from the signaling
traffic point of view. This means that the S1 signaling messages sent between
the RN and MME are mapped on user plane EPS bearers of the RN.
The RN has to maintain one S1 interface relation to each MME in the respective
MME pool where there is one S1 signaling connection for each connected UE on
the given S1 interface between the RN and the MME serving the UE, as
illustrated in Figure 4.2.3-2 (legacy behavior). The S1 interface and the
signaling connections are spanning through the donor eNB transparently.
Note that the DeNB also maintains its S1 interfaces and it has an S1 signaling
connection corresponding to the RN as a UE, going between the DeNB and the MME
serving the RN. We note also that a similar logical structure would apply for
the X2 interface relations (not shown in the figures).
Figure 4.2.3-1: Control plane protocol stack -- Alt 1, 3
Figure 4.2.3-2: S1 interface relations and signaling connections -- Alt 1, 3
The control plane protocol architecture for the proxy alternative (Alt2) is
shown in Figure 4.2.3-3. In this case, the S1-AP messages are sent between the
MME and the DeNB, and between the DeNB and the RN. Upon the DeNB receiving the
S1-AP messages, it translates the UE IDs between the two interfaces by means
of modifying the S1-AP UE IDs in the message but leaving other parts of the
message unchanged. This operation corresponds to an S1-AP proxy mechanism and
would be similar to the HeNB GW function. The S1-AP proxy operation would be
transparent for the MME and the RN. That is, as seen from the MME it looks
like as if the UE would be connected to the DeNB, while from the RN's
perspective it would look like as if the RN would be talking to the MME
directly. The S1-AP messages encapsulated by SCTP/IP are transferred over an
EPS data bearer of the RN where the PGW functionality for the RN's EPS bearers
is incorporated into the DeNB (as local breakout functionality for HeNB-s).
The S1 interface relations and signaling connections are shown in Figure
4.2.3-4. In this case there is one S1 interface relation between the RN and
the DeNB and between the DeNB and the MME (serving the UE), where the S1
signaling connections are processed by the DeNB (indicated by the arrows in
the figure). Note that the RN has to maintain only one S1 interface (to the
DeNB), while the DeNB maintains one S1 interface to each MME in the respective
MME pool.
Note also that there is an S1 interface relation and an S1 signaling
connection corresponding to the RN as a UE, going from the DeNB to the MME
serving the RN, similarly to the previous case.
Finally, we note that as neither of these alternatives (i.e., Alt 1,2,3)
require any new functionality in the S1-AP (and X2-AP) protocols, the legacy
S1-AP (and X2-AP) protocols can be employed in the relay.
Figure4.2.3-3: Control plane protocol stack -- Alt 2 -
Figure 4.2.3-4: S1 interface relations and signaling connections -- Alt 2
We note that the RN when acting as a UE has to support the NAS and RRC
protocols toward the network, as illustrated in Figure 4.2.3-5. As there is no
need for new functionality in RRC and NAS when used in the RN, the legacy RRC
and NAS protocols can be employed.
Figure 4.2.3-5: NAS and RRC protocols in the relay
### 4.2.4 Signalling procedures
#### 4.2.4.1 UE access procedure
The initial attach of a UE connecting via a relay node in case of Alt 1 and 3
is shown in the figure below. (For Alt 3, the same sequence applies with the
SGW/PGW of the RN moved into the DeNB.) The procedure corresponds to the
legacy attach mechanism as seen from the UE, from the RN and from the MME
point of view. The UE bearer handling follows the legacy procedure.
Note that for each message shown in the figure the protocol type (i.e., S1,
S11, RRC, NAS) and the user context that the message belongs to (i.e., UE or
RN) are also indicated.
Figure 4.2.4.1-1: UE attach at RN -- Alt 1, (3)
The initial attach of a UE connecting via a relay node in case of Alt 2 is
shown in the figure below. The procedure corresponds to the legacy attach
mechanism as seen from the UE, from the RN and from the MME point of view. The
only difference is that the DeNB is involved in the procedure by relaying the
corresponding S1 messages between the RN and the MME. As the S1 signalling
goes via the proxy functionality of the DeNB, the DeNB is explicitly aware of
a UE attaching via the RN.
Figure 4.2.4.1-2: UE attach at RN -- Alt 2
#### 4.2.4.2 UE bearer management procedures
The UE dedicated bearer setup procedure in case of Alt 1, 3 is shown in the
figure below. (For Alt 3, the same sequence applies with the SGW/PGW of the RN
moved into the DeNB.) The procedure is seen as legacy bearer management
sequence as see from the UE, RN and MME point of view. Additional optimization
that could be introduced is to renegotiate the RN bearer resources, e.g., the
bit rate of GBR RN bearers in response to the setup of a new UE bearer. The
update of the RN bearer may be initiated from the RN using the UE initiated
"NAS Bearer Resource Request" procedure.
Figure 4.2.4.2-1: UE bearer setup -- Alt 1, (3)
The UE bearer setup sequence in case of the "Proxy S1/X2" architecture option
is illustrated in the figure below. In this solution the S1 message carrying
the bearer setup request arrives to the donor eNB directly. In case the RN
bearer needs to be updated (e.g., in case of GBR bearers) the "PGW"
functionality in the DeNB can initiate the bearer update toward the MME
serving the RN (network initiated bearer modification). Alternatively, the
bearer update may be initiated from the RN acting as a UE by invoking the UE
initiated bearer resource request procedure, as we have seen in the previous
example.
Figure 4.2.4.2-2: UE bearer setup -- Alt 2
#### 4.2.4.3 Handover procedure
The procedure of an X2 handover, where a UE under an RN makes a handover to an
eNB (donor or non-donor eNB) is shown in the figure below, for architecture
alternative Alt 1 and 3. We note that similar procedure would apply in case of
the UE making a handover to another RN (connecting via the same DeNB or a
different DeNB).
\- The RN makes a handover decision based on UE measurement report and selects
a target cell.
\- The RN sends the Handover Request message to the target eNB over an EPS
data bearer that is provided by the DeNB and the S/P-GW of the RN.
\- The target eNB receives the message and may reply with a Handover Request
Ack message which is routed over the EPS data bearer via the S/P-GW of the RN
and the DeNB back to the RN. For the target eNB the request will look as if
coming from an eNB.
\- After the completion of the X2 signalling, forwarding tunnels are
established from the RN over EPS bearer(s) via the DeNB and the S/P-GW of the
RN and further on to the target eNB. The RN may start packet forwarding at
this point.
Figure 4.2.4.3-1: X2 handover from RN to target eNB -- Alt 1, (3)
The procedure of an X2 handover, where a UE under an RN makes a handover to an
eNB different from the donor eNB is shown in the figure below, for
architecture alternative Alt 2. We note that similar procedure would apply in
case of the UE making a handover to another RN (connecting via a different
DeNB) or in case of a handover to the DeNB.
\- The RN makes a handover decision based on UE measurement report and selects
a target cell.
\- The RN sends the Handover Request message to the DeNB. The DeNB reads the
target cell ID from the message and finds the target eNB corresponding to the
target cell ID and forwards the X2 message toward the target eNB. Note that
the RN has to maintain only one X2 interface, which is to the DeNB and it can
send all handover requests to the DeNB, irrespective of the target cell ID.
\- The target eNB receives the message, which looks like from the target eNB
point of view as if the UE would be making the handover under a cell from the
DeNB.
\- After the completion of the X2 signalling, forwarding tunnels are
established from the RN via the DeNB to the target eNB. The GTP tunnels are
switched at the DeNB. As the DeNB can access the per UE bearer forwarding
tunnels and it is also aware of the ongoing handover through the bypassed
X2-AP messages, the packet forwarding path can also be shortcut; i.e.,
unnecessary back and forth forwarding over the Un interface can be avoided.
Figure4.2.4.3-2: X2 handover from RN to target eNB -- Alt 2
#### 4.2.4.4 RN startup procedure
The RN startup sequence, applicable for Alt 1 and 3, is shown in the figure
below, where the procedure can be divided into two main parts:
\- In the first part the RN attaches to the network via the legacy UE attach
procedure to authenticate the UE (function of the RN) and to establish basic
connectivity.
\- When IP connectivity is established, the O&M system authenticates the eNB
(function of the RN) and downloads configuration data to the RN. The RN
establishes the necessary S1/X2 interfaces and it goes into normal operation.
Figure 4.2.4.4-1: RN startup procedure -- Alt 1, (3)
The RN startup sequence in case of Alt 2 is similar as in the previous case
with some difference in the S1/X2 interface setup. The RN needs to establish
only one S1 interface and one X2 interface, both terminated in the DeNB,
irrespective of the number of MMEs and neighbour eNBs.
The S1/X2 setup signalling initiated from the RN will be terminated by the
donor eNB and the existing S1/X2 connectivity of the DeNB will be used to
proxy the S1/X2 connection of the RN. This may require that the existing S1/X2
connections of the DeNB need to be updated, e.g., to register the new cell(s)
of the RN toward the neighbour eNBs of the DeNB or to register new tracking
area codes (TAC) corresponding to the RN cells toward the MME. The existing
"eNB Configuration Update" procedure on the S1/X2 interfaces can be used for
this purpose.
Figure 4.2.4.4-2: RN startup procedure -- Alt 2
## 4.3 Architecture B
### 4.3.1 Overview
In this architecture, the DeNB acts as the termination for S1 connections
towards EPC, and RN can be simply seen as a cell managed by the DeNB from EPC
and neighbour eNBs point of view. The DeNB acts as a S1-AP gateway, similar to
HeNB gateway.
Figure 4.3.1-1: Overview of Architecture B
### 4.3.2 User plane aspects
In Architecture B/Alt 4, the U-plane of the S1 interface is terminated at the
DeNB. The PGW/SGW serving the UE maps the incoming IP packets to the GTP
tunnels corresponding to the EPS bearer of the UE and sends the tunnelled
packets to the IP address of the DeNB. Upon the DeNB receiving the tunnelled
packets from the S-GW, the received packets are de-tunnelled, and the inner
user IP packets are mapped to Un radio bearers corresponding to the EPS bearer
of the UE (see Figure 4.3.2-2).
Each EPS bearer of a UE connected to the RN is mapped to separate radio
bearers over the Un interface (one-to-one mapping). In order to identify
individual UE bearers on the Un interface a UE identifier needs to be added to
one of the PDCP, RLC or MAC protocol layers; i.e., some parts of the legacy
MAC/RLC/PDCP protocols would need to be modified.
NOTE: A possible alternative bearer mapping model could map EPS bearers of
different UEs connected to the RN with similar QoS in one radio bearer over
the Un interface.
Figure 4.3.2-1: User plane protocol stack -- Architecture B/Alt 4
Figure 4.3.2-2: Packet delivery steps -- Architecture B/Alt 4
### 4.3.3 Control plane aspects
The control plane protocol architecture for Alt 4 is shown in Figure 4.3.3-1.
In this case, the S1-AP messages are sent between the MME and the DeNB, and
between the DeNB and the RN. Upon the DeNB receiving the S1-AP messages, it
translates the UE IDs between the two interfaces by means of modifying the
S1-AP UE IDs in the message but leaving other parts of the message unchanged.
This operation corresponds to an S1-AP proxy mechanism and would be similar to
the HeNB GW function. The S1-AP proxy operation would be transparent for the
MME and the RN. That is, as seen from the MME it looks like as if the UE would
be connected to the DeNB, while from the RN's perspective it would look like
as if the RN would be talking to the MME directly. Over the Un, S1-AP (one per
UE served by the RN) is carried in new containers over RRC instead of over
SCTP/IP as currently defined for S1 signalling.
The S1-C interface relations and signaling connections are shown in
Figure4.3.3-2. In this case there is one S1-C interface relation between the
RN and the DeNB and between the DeNB and the MME (serving the UE), where the
S1 signaling connections are processed by the DeNB (indicated by the arrows in
the figure). Note that the RN has to maintain only one S1-C interface (to the
DeNB), while the DeNB maintains one S1-C interface to each MME in the
respective MME pool.
Note also that there is an S1-C interface relation and an S1-C signaling
connection corresponding to the RN as a UE, going from the DeNB to the MME
serving the RN.
Finally, the architecture is not expected to require any new functionality in
the S1-AP (and X2-AP) protocols, it seems possible to use the legacy S1-AP
(and X2-AP) protocols in the relay. However, modifications to RRC are required
(e.g., to carry S1-AP).
Figure 4.3.3-1: Control plane protocol stack -- Architecture B/Alt 4 --
Figure4.3.3-2: S1 interface relations and signaling connections --
Architecture B/Alt 4
We note that the RN when acting as a UE has to support the NAS and RRC
protocols toward the network, as illustrated in Figure 4.3.2-3.
Figure 4.3.3-3: NAS and RRC protocols in the relay
### 4.3.4 UE Context at DeNB
The DeNB is aware of every UE under the RN and the DeNB will store information
for each bearer of such UE. The information expected to be stored is:
\- UE identity
\- Radio Bearer Configuration information Un (expected that part can be common
for a group of bearers).
_\- Addressing per bearer: \ _
_\- QoS information per bearer (as signaled over S1-AP)._
In the case of mobile relay, it is expected that UE context for UEs in the
mobile RN is transferred to the target DeNB at handover preparation.
### 4.3.5 Signalling procedures
#### 4.3.5.1 UE access procedure
The initial attach of a UE connecting via a relay node in case of Alt 4 is
shown in the figure below. The procedure corresponds to the legacy attach
mechanism as seen from the UE, from the RN and from the MME point of view. The
only difference is that the DeNB is involved in the procedure by relaying the
corresponding S1 messages between the RN and the MME. As the S1 signalling
goes via the proxy functionality of the DeNB, the DeNB is explicitly aware of
a UE attaching via the RN.
Figure 4.3.5.1-1: UE attach at RN -- Architecture B/Alt 4
#### 4.3.5.2 UE bearer management procedures
The UE bearer setup sequence in case of Alt 4 is illustrated in the figure
below. In this solution the S1 message carrying the bearer setup request
arrives to the donor eNB directly.
In case of Alt 4 the DeNB needs to initiate the establishment of the
corresponding radio bearer over the Un interface and forward the S1-AP message
to the RN, which steps might be executed with the same or separate RRC
messages. With alternative 4, the RN radio bearers carrying UE radio bearers
are managed by the DeNB and do not have corresponding RN EPS bearers and,
hence, are not under the control of the EPC.
Figure 4.3.5.2-1: UE bearer setup -- Architecture B/Alt 4
#### 4.3.5.3 Handover procedure
The procedure of an X2 handover, where a UE under an RN makes a handover to an
eNB different from the donor eNB is shown in the figure below, for
architecture alternative Alt 4. We note that similar procedure would apply in
case of the UE making a handover to another RN (connecting via a different
DeNB) or in case of a handover to the DeNB.
\- The RN makes a handover decision based on UE measurement report and selects
a target cell.
\- The RN sends the Handover Request message to the DeNB. The DeNB reads the
target cell ID from the message and finds the target eNB corresponding to the
target cell ID and forwards the X2 message toward the target eNB. Note that
the RN has to maintain only one X2 interface, which is to the DeNB and it can
send all handover requests to the DeNB, irrespective of the target cell ID.
\- The target eNB receives the message, which looks like from the target eNB
point of view as if the UE would be making the handover under a cell from the
DeNB.
\- After the completion of the X2 signalling, forwarding tunnels are
established from the RN via the DeNB to the target eNB. The GTP tunnels are
switched at the DeNB. As the DeNB can access the per UE bearer forwarding
tunnels and it is also aware of the ongoing handover through the bypassed
X2-AP messages, the packet forwarding path can also be shortcut; i.e.,
unnecessary back and forth forwarding over the Un interface can be avoided.
Figure 4.3.5.3-1: X2 handover from RN to target eNB -- Architecture B/Alt 4
#### 4.3.5.4 RN startup procedure
The RN startup sequence for Alt 4 is shown in the figure below, where the
procedure can be divided into two main parts:
\- In the first part the RN attaches to the network via the legacy UE attach
procedure to authenticate the UE (function of the RN) and to establish basic
connectivity.
\- When IP connectivity is established, the O&M system authenticates the eNB
(function of the RN) and downloads configuration data to the RN. The RN
establishes the necessary S1/X2 interfaces and it goes into normal operation.
The S1/X2 setup signalling initiated from the RN will be terminated by the
donor eNB and the existing S1/X2 connectivity of the DeNB will be used to
proxy the S1/X2 connection of the RN. This may require that the existing S1/X2
connections of the DeNB need to be updated, e.g., to register the new cell(s)
of the RN toward the neighbour eNBs of the DeNB or to register new tracking
area codes (TAC) corresponding to the RN cells toward the MME. The existing
"eNB Configuration Update" procedure on the S1/X2 interfaces can be used for
this purpose.
Figure 4.3.5.4-1: RN startup procedure -- Architecture B/Alt 4
# 5 Radio aspects
Editor's note: Primary responsible WG for this clause is RAN2.
## 5.1 Header Compression in PDCP for Relay Architectures and Header Overhead
### 5.1.1 General
RObust Header Compression (ROHC) is used in the PDCP layer to reduce the
overhead of the IP and transport headers. A number of profiles have been
defined in the IETF and a subset can be used in PDCP. Header compression is
particularly important when the payload of user data is small e.g. voice data,
or non-existent e.g. TCP acknowledgements for bulk transfer.
From the architectures discussed in this TR there are two possible U-plane
protocol stacks on the Un interface that can benefit from compression which
are discussed in the following subsections.
### 5.1.2 Architecture A
In this case the protocol stack within PDCP has an outer part (the GTP tunnel)
and an inner part (the contents of the GTP tunnel). Using an 8byte GTP header
makes the assumption that the GTP sequence number is not in use.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="0.7916666666666666in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: Protocol headers in case of Voice over IP packets in
Architecture A
Figure 5.1.2-2: Protocol headers in case of TCP packets in Architecture A
There are a number of options for reducing and compressing the overhead, which
are discussed below.
#### 5.1.2.1 Compress the entire header chain
This suggestion uses one profile and corresponding context identifier to
compress the inner and outer headers together as one header chain. The detail
of the derivation is not given here but the calculation assumes the minimum
compressed header size rather than the average and that the bytes in question
are the following:
NOTE: The flow is assumed to be well behaved; i.e., IP-ID in step with RTP
sequence number and no large breaks in TCP timestamp (either due to codec or
lack of silence suppression). Even so, there will be packets where an
additional byte is needed.
NOTE: It is harder to analytically establish the average size because it
depends on the behaviour of the flow, the configuration of the ROHC
implementations and the versions of the profiles in use. If the IP-ID or other
fields are less well behaved, there will occasionally be a need to send an
additional byte or two. The average is expected to be no more than a byte
larger than the minimum. If the IP-ID is random, the minimum for the inner
headers will be 2 bytes larger.
\- ROHC PT Hdr: 1 byte which is the equivalent of a UO-0 format containing
format identifier, 3-bit CRC and the compressed sequence number and 2 bytes
for the Context Identifiers (CIDs)
NOTE: The context identifier is agreed between the compressor and decompressor
and tells the decompressor which profile to use to decompress the header and
which stored context to decompress it against. Large CIDs can be 1 or 2 bytes
so we assume 2 bytes for throughout this document.
\- Compressed outer part: 2 bytes of IP-ID and 2 bytes of UDP checksum
\- Compressed GTP-U: it is assumed that the GTP header can be compressed to
zero bytes due to most of the GTP header fields being static, where: the
version field would be static, the flags would be zero (assuming an 8 byte GTP
header), the message type would be static, the length would be inferred and
the TEID would be static and part of the flow definition and the sequence
number would not be used. If the sequence number were in use, this could
possibly be correlated to the RTP sequence number and so would still not be 2
bytes.
\- Compressed inner part: 2 bytes of UDP checksum
So the minimum would, in actual fact, be 9 bytes as shown in Figure 5.1.2.1-1.
{width="2.2847222222222223in" height="0.8034722222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.2.1-1: Estimate of compression of entire header chain
For TCP, the compressed inner IP/TCP header (again assuming a well behaved
flow) would be a total 4 bytes -- 2 for the scaled acknowledgement number and
2 for the TCP checksum. Thus the minimum would be 11 bytes. Changing the inner
stack to TCP has the same impact for all the other options and so will not be
discussed further.
In this approach the correlation between any fields can be taken account of.
In particular, a flow can be defined by the IP addresses (outer and inner),
port numbers (outer and inner) and the TEID. However, in order this solution
to be applicable, a new ROHC profile would have to be defined for each set of
inner protocols.
This could, and probably should, be done in the IETF to avoid defining a non-
IETF ROHC profile and polluting the profile identifier space. However, the
work would need to be adopted by the ROHC working group and the pace of the
IETF is partly dependent on the level of support for the work. The ROHC
working group is in the process of deciding whether to re-charter or conclude
with the latter looking more likely. That does not mean that more profiles
cannot be written but the level of support in the IETF for doing so is, at the
moment, very low.
An alternative is to produce the profile in 3GPP but that would also require
time, effort and expertise.
#### 5.1.2.2 Compress the outer and inner headers separately, excluding GTP
This does not require any further standardization in the IETF. The outer
header (the IP and UDP headers) would be compressed using the ROHC IP/UDP
profile. The inner headers would be compressed independently using the
relevant ROHC profile (IP/UDP/RTP or IP/TCP). And both header compressions are
performed in the DeNB for DL and the relay node for UL.
For the overall compression, there would be 1 byte identifying the ROHC packet
type and 2 bytes of CID (assuming large CIDs). This should apply to both the
outer and the inner compressions
Because the outer headers are compressed separately from the inner headers,
correlation between the outer IP-ID and the sequence number in the ROHC PT
header can be assumed so the compressed outer part is only 2 bytes.
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Overhead with of two levels of compression
There is currently no GTP packet type for a ROHC compressed header so this
would need to be added to GTP.
This approach uses existing ROHC profiles.
#### 5.1.2.3 Compress the outer and inner headers separately, including GTP
This solution is similar to that in section X.2.2 but includes compressing the
GTP header. Based on the analysis of the GTP header in section X.2.1 the GTP
header can be compressed to zero bytes. However, it requires the definition of
a new ROHC profile for IP/UDP/GTP, which as discussed in section X.2.1
requires effort from the IETF or 3GPP. The resulting compressed header would
be as shown in Figure 5.1.2.3-1.
{width="2.5347222222222223in" height="0.8034722222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.2.3-1: Two levels of compression including GTP header
#### 5.1.2.4 Compress just the outer headers, excluding GTP
This solution included for completeness. It is simply to use the existing ROHC
IP/UDP profile to compress the outer two headers. The inner headers will stay
as they are without compression. The result would be as shown in Figure
5.1.2.4-1.
{width="3.3472222222222223in" height="0.8034722222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.2.4-1: Outer headers compressed
#### 5.1.2.5 Strip the outer headers, excluding GTP
An alternative to header compression is header stripping. In this case any
essential information in the headers is transmitted out of band, namely via
dedicated signaling that will need to be specified in the specifications, and
then the headers are simply stripped at the sender (the donor eNB in this
case, downlink) and recreated at the receiver (the relay node, downlink).
Actually the information carried in the outer IP header is not essential and
could be recreated arbitrarily by the RN without the need of dedicated
signaling for downlink. The recreation will produce headers that are different
from the original ones, which may cause problems especially for IP packets to
be forwarded onwards.
Transparency of the outer headers is lost. For UL direction, this scheme may
not be applicable for Alt1 and Alt3 since DeNB would then need to reconstruct
the outer IP which would be difficult.
The resulting headers would be 13 bytes in length as shown in Figure
5.1.2.5-1.
{width="3.2847222222222223in" height="0.7409722222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.2.5-1: Estimate with header stripping
This solution does not require new ROHC profiles but requires some
modification in PDCP to simply skip the GTP header and then perform
compression as normal. A new GTP message type for a ROHC compressed header
would also need to be added to GTP, similarly to the solution in X.2.2).
#### 5.1.2.6 3GPP Compression
This solution strips the outer headers (i.e., IP, UDP and GTP, the green parts
in Figure 5.1.2-1 and Figure 5.1.2-2) and replaces it with a 2 byte context
information and it compresses the inner headers using the existing ROHC. The
context information identifies the information needed to recreate the outer
headers (e.g., IP address of the relay, TEID of the relay, etc.), which is
assumed to be transmitted via dedicated signaling that will need to be
specified in the specifications. The outer headers are simply stripped at the
sender (the donor eNB in this case, downlink) and recreated at the receiver
(the relay node, downlink). The IP-ID of the outer IP header can be compressed
to zero length since the donor eNB can ensure segmentation is not used or if
used, any segmented packets can be transmitted non-compressed. The UDP
checksum of the outer UDP header can be disabled (set to 0's) since
transmission reliability is already provided by the Un air-interface. The PDCP
can be made to skip the 2 byte context information and compress the inner
headers.
For UL direction, in case of alternative 1 and 3, the DeNB shall reconstruct
the outer IP.
Figure 5.1.2.6-1: Outer IP/UDP/GTP headers compressed
### 5.1.3 Architecture B
In this case IP/UDP/RTP or IP/TCP would be carried in PDCP in the same way as
it is over the Uu interface. There would be 40/60 bytes of overhead as shown
in the inner parts of Figure 5.1.2-1 and Figure 5.1.2-2. The headers could be
compressed in the same way as on the Uu interface as shown in Figure 5.1.3-1.
{width="1.2847222222222223in" height="0.7409722222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1: Compressed overhead for alternative 4a with and without the UE
ID
It is assumed that the relay node would decompress and recompress the headers
to keep the compression at the same point in the network as for an ordinary
eNB. If this were not done, there would be additional complexity required to
cope with a UE handing over to a different relay node. Additionally it is
expected that some form of UE id would be required over Un to distinguish UEs.
This should be included as corresponding header overhead. UE ID based on UE
C-RNTI has been proposed but the details of the UE ID (e.g., type and size)
are FFS.
### 5.1.4 Summary
A summary of the options considered most feasible is provided here. It is
based on the trade-off between efficiency and standardisation effort.
Table 5.1.4-1: Comparison of efficiency and standardization effort
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Alter | Alte | | | | | | | natives | rnative | | | | | | | 1, 2 & | 4 | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Entire | S | Header | S | 3GPP | | | | header | eparate | st | eparate | Comp | | | | chain | comp | ripping | comp | | | | | comp | excl | | incl | | | | | | GTP | | GTP | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Initial | 76 | 76 | 76 | 76 | 76 | 40/60 | | header | /96/116 | /96/116 | /96/116 | /96/116 | /96/116 | bytes | | size | bytes | bytes | bytes | bytes | bytes | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Minimum | 9 bytes | 18 | 13 | 10 | 7 bytes | 5 + UE | | com | | bytes | bytes | bytes | | IDbytes | | pressed | | | | | | (poten | | header | | | | | | tially, | | size | | | | | | 5+2 | | | | | | | | (FFS) | | | | | | | | bytes) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | S | High -- | Low - | FFS - | High - | FFS -- | FFS - | | tandard | new | new | PDCP | new | PDCP | de | | ization | ROHC | packet | needs | ROHC | needs | pending | | effort | profile | type | to know | profile | to know | on | | r | | for GTP | about | | about | mapping | | equired | | | GTP | | the | of Un | | | | | | | context | to Uu | | | | | | | info | RABs, | | | | | | | rmation | UE | | | | | | | | ide | | | | | | | | ntifier | | | | | | | | would | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | needed | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Other | | Double | Trans | Double | Trans | | | c | | comp | parency | comp | parency | | | omments | | ression | not | ression | not | | | | | -- | mai | -- | mai | | | | | should | ntained | should | ntained | | | | | not | | not | | | | | | present | -- This | present | -- This | | | | | problem | s | problem | s | | | | | | olution | | olution | | | | | | may not | | might | | | | | | be | | not be | | | | | | app | | app | | | | | | licable | | licable | | | | | | to Alt1 | | to Alt1 | | | | | | and | | and | | | | | | Alt3 | | Alt3 | | | | | | | | (FFS) | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Whether there is a need to define a new ROHC profile will depend on the
architecture and approach to header compression that is taken.
The complexity of defining a new profile would depend on whether it was a
profile for the entire header chain or an IP/UDP/GTP profile. In either case
effort would be needed.
# 6 Backhaul aspects
Editor's note: Primary responsible WG for this clause is RAN3.
## 6.1 X2 Interface
It is assumed that the X2 interface is allowed at the relay node and that the
applicable X2 functions comprise all specified X2 functions.
The concern for allowing X2 at the relay node mainly stem from the concern
that too many relays may try to establish X2 connection with the macro eNBs,
as in the case of HeNBs. However, number of Relays within the coverage of a
macro eNB is likely to be much lower than the number of HeNBs, as the relays
normally will be managed and operated by the operator, and the Relays need to
use the air interface of the Donor-eNB.
Hence, the existence of the X2 interface at the relay node is under the
assumption of a similar order of magnitude of X2 interface connections as a
Release 8 deployment.
The X2AP protocol is also terminated at the relay node. Terminating the X2
protocols at the relay has the following benefits:
\- Eliminates any changes to the Donor-ENB, facilitating easier and faster
deployment of the relays;
\- Eliminates the need for new protocols between the relay and the Donor-eNB
to translate the X2 protocol messages and payload.
It is assumed that data forwarding should be supported for HO between the
relay node and another cell.
# 7 Agreements
This sub clause contains agreements reached and serves as a basis for the
inclusion of a description of relaying functionality in [3]:
  * S1AP is terminated at the RN.
# 8 Comparison
Table 8-1: Architecture Comparison
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Metric | Arch | Arch | | | | | | itecture | itecture | | | | | | A | B | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Alt 1 | Alt 2 | Alt 3 | Alt 4 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | RN | RN = eNB | RN = eNB | RN = eNB | New | | | Co | + UE | + UE | + UE | model | | | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | New | | | | | | | functio | | | | | | | nalities | | | | | | | needed | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | e-to-one | | | | | | | mapping | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | two DRBs | | | | | | | (one | | | | | | | over Un | | | | | | | and one | | | | | | | over Uu) | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | need to | | | | | | | be kept | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | hronized | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DeNB | Layer 1 | Deployed | Int | HeNB GW | | | Co | / 2 | with an | egrating | like | | | mplexity | changes | embedded | the | funct | | | | for | RN UE's | SGW/PGW | ionality | | | | inband | P/S-GW + | funct | | | | | relays | HeNB GW | ionality | RRC | | | | | like | into the | impact | | | | | functi | DeNB | | | | | | onality. | | Layer 1 | | | | | | Layer 1 | / 2 | | | | | Layer 1 | / 2 | changes | | | | | / 2 | changes | for | | | | | changes | for | inband | | | | | for | inband | relays | | | | | inband | relays | | | | | | relays | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Node | MME | If 3GPP | In case | If 3GPP | HS | | Impact | | based | of | based | S/MME/S1 | | | | QoS | dynamic | QoS | changes | | | | mapping | Un | mapping | needed | | | | (based | bearer | (based | to | | | | on e.g. | update | on e.g. | a | | | | QCI, | MME | QCI, | uthorize | | | | ARP, | s | ARP, | RN | | | | etc.) is | ignaling | etc.) is | o | | | | needed | is | needed | peration | | | | new SDF | doubled | new SDF | _or_ new | | | | filter | | filter | RRC | | | | is | HS | is | authen | | | | required | S/MME/S1 | required | tication | | | | | changes | | via new | | | | In case | needed | In case | S1/CN | | | | of | to | of | s | | | | dynamic | a | dynamic | ignaling | | | | Un | uthorize | Un | model | | | | bearer | RN | bearer | | | | | update | o | update | | | | | MME | peration | MME | | | | | si | | s | | | | | gnalling | | ignaling | | | | | is | | is | | | | | doubled | | doubled | | | | | | | | | | | | HS | | HS | | | | | S/MME/S1 | | S/MME/S1 | | | | | changes | | changes | | | | | needed | | needed | | | | | to | | to | | | | | a | | a | | | | | uthorize | | uthorize | | | | | RN | | RN | | | | | o | | o | | | | | peration | | peration | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | S/P-GW | PGW of | No | No | No | | | | the RN | impact | impact | impact | | | | needs to | | | | | | | perform | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | mapping | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Higher | | | | | | | CN load | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ignaling | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | passing | | | | | | | through | | | | | | | S/PGW | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Other | In case | No | In case | No | | | Nodes | of X2 | Impact | of X2 | Impact | | | | si | | si | | | | | gnalling | | gnalling | | | | | and | | and | | | | | static | | static | | | | | QoS | | QoS | | | | | mapping | | mapping | | | | | eNB | | eNB | | | | | needs to | | needs to | | | | | perform | | perform | | | | | DSCP | | DSCP | | | | | marking | | marking | | | | | appro | | appro | | | | | priately | | priately | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | De | Implem | From the | Cannot | Cannot | Cannot | | ployment | entation | RAN | be | be | be | | | impact | side, | deployed | deployed | deployed | | | for | could be | in Rel-9 | in Rel-9 | in Rel-9 | | | early | deployed | | | | | | de | in Rel-9 | | | | | | ployment | only | | | | | | | out | | | | | | | -of-band | | | | | | | RN with | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | functio | | | | | | | nalities | | | | | | | such as | | | | | | | static | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | assuming | | | | | | | implem | | | | | | | entation | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | olutions | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | dressing | | | | | | | how to | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tinguish | | | | | | | RN-UE | | | | | | | and UE), | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | header | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | ression, | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | improved | | | | | | | QoS via | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | QCIs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | MME will | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | upgraded | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | dep | | | | | | | loyment. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | De | Same RN | Same RN | Same RN | Unique | | | ployment | for Alt | for Alt | for Alt | RN for | | | fle | 1, 2, 3 | 1, 2, 3 | 1, 2, 3 | Alt. 4 | | | xibility | | | | | | | | Opti | Opti | Some | | | | | misation | misation | opti | | | | | requires | can | misation | | | | | changes | occur | can | | | | | in the | within | occur | | | | | DeNB | the same | within | | | | | and/or | arch | the same | | | | | in the | itecture | archi | | | | | arch | | tecture. | | | | | itecture | | Full | | | | | | | opti | | | | | | | misation | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | changes | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | DeNB | | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | arch | | | | | | | itecture | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Sca | The | The | The | The | | | lability | compl | compl | compl | compl | | | with | exity of | exity of | exity of | exity of | | | respect | radio | radio | radio | radio | | | to | bearer | bearer | bearer | bearer | | | number | handling | handling | handling | handling | | | of RNs | in Un at | in Un at | in Un at | in Un at | | | | the DeNB | the DeNB | the DeNB | the DeNB | | | | is | is | is | is | | | | prop | prop | prop | prop | | | | ortional | ortional | ortional | ortional | | | | to the | to the | to the | to the | | | | number | number | number | total | | | | of first | of first | of first | number | | | | hop | hop | hop | of RNs. | | | | RNs | RNs | RNs | | | | | attached | attached | attached | No | | | | to it. | to it. | to it. | sca | | | | | | | lability | | | | Number | No | Number | issue | | | | of | sca | of | towards | | | | Con | lability | Con | MMEs or | | | | nections | issue | nections | n | | | | to MMEs | towards | to MMEs | eighbour | | | | could be | MMEs or | could be | RNs/eNBs | | | | a | n | a | due to | | | | sca | eighbour | sca | HeNB | | | | lability | RNs/eNBs | lability | GW-like | | | | issue in | due to | issue in | funct | | | | high | HeNB | high | ionality | | | | density | GW-like | density | | | | | RN | funct | RN | | | | | scenario | ionality | scenario | | | | | | | | | | | | Number | | Number | | | | | of X2 | | of X2 | | | | | con | | con | | | | | nections | | nections | | | | | between | | between | | | | | n | | n | | | | | eighbour | | eighbour | | | | | RNs/eNBs | | RNs | | | | | could be | | could be | | | | | a | | a | | | | | sca | | sca | | | | | lability | | lability | | | | | issue in | | issue in | | | | | high | | high | | | | | density | | density | | | | | RN | | RN | | | | | scenario | | scenario | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Sca | No | No | No | Number | | | lability | sca | sca | sca | of DRBs | | | with | lability | lability | lability | could be | | | respect | issue | issue | issue | a | | | to | due to | due to | due to | sca | | | number | EPS | EPS | EPS | lability | | | number | bearer | bearer | bearer | issue on | | | of UEs | agg | agg | agg | Un when | | | | regation | regation | regation | large | | | | with | with | with | number | | | | similar | similar | similar | of UEs | | | | QoS on | QoS on | QoS on | connect | | | | Un | Un | Un | to RN | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Standar | Low | Medium | Medium | High | | | dization | impact. | Impact. | Impact | Impact | | | Effort | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | mplexity | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Header | Extra | Extra | Extra | Can | | | Over | dev | dev | dev | reuse | | | head/Com | elopment | elopment | elopment | the | | | pression | effort | effort | effort | Rel-8 | | | | in case | in case | in case | header | | | | of new | of new | of new | com | | | | header | header | header | pression | | | | com | com | com | m | | | | pression | pression | pression | echanism | | | | m | me | m | of PDCP | | | | echanism | chanism. | echanism | | | | | | | | | | | | Header | Header | Header | | | | | s | s | s | | | | | tripping | tripping | tripping | | | | | also | also | also | | | | | s | su | s | | | | | upported | pported. | upported | | | | | provided | | provided | | | | | that | | that | | | | | extra | | extra | | | | | si | | si | | | | | gnalling | | gnalling | | | | | is in | | is in | | | | | place | | place | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UE | Co | In case | In case | In case | Due to | | mobility | mplexity | of | of | of | one to | | | | dynamic | dynamic | dynamic | one | | | | Un | Un | Un | bearer | | | | bearer | bearer | bearer | mapping | | | | update | update | update | Un | | | | extra | extra | extra | bearer | | | | si | si | si | setup | | | | gnalling | gnalling | gnalling | process | | | | may be | may be | may be | needed | | | | needed | needed | needed | during | | | | | | | RN | | | | | | | inbound | | | | | | | mobility | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Ef | DeNB is | DeNB is | DeNB is | DeNB is | | | ficiency | not | aware of | not | aware of | | | | aware of | per UE | aware of | per UE | | | | UE S1/X2 | S1/X2 | UE S1/X2 | S1/X2 | | | | handover | handover | handover | handover | | | | sig | sig | sig | sig | | | | nalling, | nalling, | nalling. | nalling, | | | | si | si | However, | si | | | | gnalling | gnalling | si | gnalling | | | | routed | routing | gnalling | routing | | | | through | opti | routing | opti | | | | RN | misation | is fully | misation | | | | S/P-GW | can be | op | can be | | | | with | provided | timised. | provided | | | | longer | | | | | | | paths | | Un-o | | | | | | | ptimized | | | | | Un-o | | data | | | | | ptimized | | fo | | | | | data | | rwarding | | | | | fo | | over X2 | | | | | rwarding | | | | | | | over X2 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Delay | Handover | No extra | No extra | No extra | | | | si | handover | handover | handover | | | | gnalling | si | si | si | | | | delay is | gnalling | gnalling | gnalling | | | | larger | delay | delay | delay | | | | than | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | Alt. 2, | | | | | | | 3, and 4 | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | delays | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | the DeNB | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | RN | | | | | | | P/S-GW. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | QoS | Bearer | RN | RN | RN | UE | | | mapping | bearer | bearer | bearer | bearer | | | between | gra | gra | gra | gra | | | Un and | nularity | nularity | nularity | nularity | | | UE EPS | | | | | | | bearer | ... | ... | ... | ... | | | _and_ | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | of Un | | | | | | | bearers | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | QoS | New QCI | New QCI | New QCI | No | | | Control: | could be | could be | could be | ad | | | UE AMBR; | in | in | in | ditional | | | ARP; | troduced | troduced | troduced | QCI | | | QCI; | if the | if the | if the | needed. | | | Control | existing | existing | existing | | | | plane | QCIs | QCIs | QCIs | New SRB | | | | cannot | cannot | cannot | could be | | | | meet the | meet the | meet the | in | | | | requ | requ | requ | troduced | | | | irements | irements | irements | if | | | | for the | for the | for the | needed. | | | | t | t | t | ARP | | | | ransport | ransport | ransport | visible | | | | of S1 | of S1 | of S1 | at DeNB. | | | | sig | sig | sig | Mapping | | | | nalling. | nalling. | nalling. | of EPC | | | | ARP not | ARP | ARP not | bearers | | | | visible | visible | visible | into Un | | | | at DeNB. | at DeNB. | at DeNB. | bearers | | | | Mapping | Mapping | Mapping | could be | | | | of EPC | of EPC | of EPC | done on | | | | bearers | bearers | bearers | the | | | | into Un | into Un | into Un | basis of | | | | bearers | bearers | bearers | ARP. | | | | on the | could be | on the | Flexible | | | | basis of | done on | basis of | confi | | | | ARP | the | ARP | guration | | | | could be | basis of | could be | of | | | | achieved | ARP. | achieved | QCI-ARP | | | | via | Fixed | via | s | | | | static | confi | static | upported | | | | implem | guration | implem | per Un | | | | entation | of | entation | bearer. | | | | config | QCI-ARP | config | | | | | uration, | s | uration, | | | | | which | upported | which | | | | | may have | per Un | may have | | | | | an | bearer. | an | | | | | impact | | impact | | | | | on DSCP | | on DSCP | | | | | confi | | confi | | | | | guration | | guration | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | RB | Higher | Medium | Higher | Lower CN | | | setup | but only | but only | but only | is not | | | /reconfi | when Un | when Un | when Un | involved | | | guration | bearers | bearers | bearers | in Un | | | delay | to be | to be | to be | bearer | | | | updated | updated | updated | setup | | | | o | o | o | /reconfi | | | | therwise | therwise | therwise | guration | | | | same | same | same | pr | | | | | | | ocedures | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Flow | N | No | No | No | No | | control | ecessity | co | co | co | co | | | | nclusion | nclusion | nclusion | nclusion | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Ef | Per-QoS | Per | Per-QoS | Per | | | ficiency | (per Un | UE-RB | (per Un | UE-RB | | | | bearer) | | bearer) | | | | | | Per-QoS | | Per-QoS | | | | or per | (per Un | or per | (per Un | | | | RN | bearer) | RN | bearer) | | | | | | | | | | | | or per | | or per | | | | | RN | | RN | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | S1 | Higher | End to | Higher | End to | | | issues | number | end | number | end | | | | of SCTP | rel | of SCTP | rel | | | | con | iability | con | iability | | | | nections | depends | nections | depends | | | | between | on SCTP | between | on RRC | | | | RN and | over the | RN and | over the | | | | MME | Un | MME | Un | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Impact | | | | | | | on S1 | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | (S1AP | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | RRC) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | X2 | X2 | X2 | X2 | X2 | | | issues | i | i | i | i | | | | nterface | nterface | nterface | nterface | | | | needs to | needs to | needs to | needs to | | | | be | be | be | be | | | | ma | ma | ma | ma | | | | intained | intained | intained | intained | | | | between | only | between | only | | | | any RN | towards | any RN | towards | | | | and | the | and | the | | | | neig | DeNB. | neig | DeNB. | | | | hbouring | | hbouring | | | | | nodes. | | nodes. | Impact | | | | | | | on X2 | | | | X2 must | | | t | | | | always | | | ransport | | | | go | | | (X2AP | | | | through | | | over | | | | RN | | | RRC) | | | | S/P-GW | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | long | | | | | | | path. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | RRC | | | | P | | | issues | | | | otential | | | | | | | head of | | | | | | | line | | | | | | | issues | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nvolving | | | | | | | RRC. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Impacts | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | of S1AP | | | | | | | and X2AP | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Security | USIM and | USIM and | USIM and | USIM\ | | | | NDS\ | NDS\ | NDS\ | (Note 1) | | | | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Future | Captured | Captured | Captured | Captured | | | Enha | in the | in the | in the | in the | | | ncements | De | De | De | De | | | | ployment | ployment | ployment | ployment | | | | section | section | section | section | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NOTE 1: Subject to SA3 response.
Matrix Fields interpretation (informative):
RN Complexity: What is the complexity in specification, design and
implementation of the RN? How easy it is to derive such node from existing
nodes?
DeNB Complexity: What is the complexity in specification, design and
implementation of the DeNB? How easy it is to derive such node from existing
nodes?
Deployment: Implementation impact for early deployment: How easy it is to
deploy the alternative given the current Rel9 architecture as a reference
starting point?\ \ Deployment flexibility: Is the deployment sub-optimal or is
it already optimised to a viable level? Can the deployment be easily
optimised?\ \ Scalability (with respect to number of RNs and number of UEs):
How does the deployment cope with increasing numbers of supported RNs and UEs
(connected to RNs)?
Standardization Effort and Complexity: What is the anticipated impact on
standardization? Is it easy to standardize the alternative as is, or are
simplifications required? Is there any unclear issue that can end up being a
showstopper delaying the standardization process? Is the alternative
achievable for release 10 or should it be postponed for future releases?
Header Overhead/Compression: How much header overhead there is over the Un, as
well as other interfaces due to tunnelling, multiplexing, etc... Is it
possible to use legacy header compression or new ROHC profiles or header
compression algorithms required? If legacy methods can not be used, what is
the complexity and efficiency of the new compression mechanisms/profiles?
UE mobility: Complexity: Relaying is expected to work with release 8 UEs, but
are there any differences from the UE handover procedures of release 8, from
the CN point of view?\ \ Efficiency: Any unnecessary back and forth
forwarding?\ \ Delay: What is the total required time for a UE handover? What
is the handover interruption time? Does the delay fall within the limits set
by release 8 standards?
QoS: Bearer mapping between Un and UE EPS bearer and Number of Un bearers: Is
it straightforward to guarantee the per-bearer QoS over the Un interface? If
not, what upgrades have to be made to support it? Do these changes affect CN
entities such as MME and P/S-GW? How flexible the bearer mapping can be (per
bearer, per UE, per QoS class, etc...)\ \ Can the release 8 limit of 8 bearers
per UE be kept over the Un interface (i.e. 8 Un bearers per RN) or is there a
need for more Un bearers? If more bearer are needed what is the impact of such
increased number?\ \ QoS Control (UE AMBR; ARP; QCI; Control plane): Can we
control the DL AMBR of UEs over the Un interface? Can the ARP of the UE EPS
bearers be used during admission over the Un? Are the nine QCIs of release 8
sufficient or there is a need to define new ones? Will it be possible to keep
the requirements of the release 8 QCIs as is, or would they have to be
redefined taking the extra delay incurred due to relaying?\ \ Can we satisfy
the requirements of control plane messages between the RN and MME? Can control
plane messages such as S1/X2 be transported over the Un with the required
priority within signalling radio bearers? Or do they have to be mapped to
DRBs? If so, are the current QCIs capable of satisfying the requirements? How
about the impact of head of line blocking if DRBs are used for signalling
transport?\ \ RB setup/reconfiguration delay: What is the latency of radio
bearer setup and reconfigurations? Does it meet the release 8 requirements?
Flow control: Do we require new flow control mechanisms between the RN and
DeNB for the different architectures? What kind of flow control mechanisms can
be realized in the different architectures (per-bearer, per -- UE, per QoS,
per RN, etc), and what is the efficiency of each?
S1 issues: How is S1AP impacted with respect to the currently available
protocol? How efficient is the S1 messaging, especially in the case of high
density deployment? Does the RN have to keep S1 links directly with the MME
and as such use part of the Un resources for S1 maintenance, such as SCTP
keepalive or GTP-U echo messages? If so, what is the impact on overall system
utilization as well as the incurred S1 latency?
X2 issues: How is X2AP impacted with respect to the currently available
protocol? How efficient is the X2 messaging, especially in the case of high
density deployment? Does the RN have to keep X2 connections with all neighbour
RNs at all time, as well as (non-donor) eNBs, or it has to keep only one X2
towards the donor eNB? What is the impact of both cases on the Un resource
utilization, i.e. considering the SCTP keepalive and GTP-U echo messages as
well as signalling required to enable optimizations such as ICIC where the RN
might be required to forward its load information towards all the nodes with
which it has X2 connection with?
RRC issues: How is RRC impacted with respect to the currently available
protocol? How efficient is transport of protocols over RRC?
Security: What is the impact on security? Can we still keep the security
requirements of release 8 (ciphering for both SRBs and DRBs and integrity
protection for SRBs)? What kind of security mechanisms should be used over the
Un?
Node Impact: MME: Any upgrades needed in the MME to support RNs? Can the
release 9 bearer setup, modification and QoS control be enough or major
upgrades required?\ \ S/P-GW: Any upgrades needed in the S/P-GW to support
RNs? Can the release 9 S/P-GW be able to support RNs or major upgrades
required?\ \ Other Nodes: Is there any impact on other nodes (such as eNBs not
supporting RNs), or is there the need of extra nodes?
Future Enhancements: Does the straightforward standardization of an
alternative entails the need for future enhancements (standard revisions),
which can already be identified at the moment, in order to provide optimized
performance? Or is the alternative relatively difficult to standardize as is,
but no further enhancements (standard revisions) are required for optimized
performance, or at least no major ones can be seen at the moment?
# 9 Conclusion
During the study of LTE-Advanced many architecture alternatives for relays
were investigated, four of which are described in this TR. It is concluded
that architecture alternative 2 herein has most benefits overall and is
selected for Rel-10.
###### ### Annex A: Additional Signalling Flow Examples
## A.1 Multi-Hop UE Attach procedure
The picture below illustrates UE Attach for a two-relay scenario in Alt 1\.
This is not a prioritized scenario for Release 10.
Figure A.1-1: UE Attach for two-relay scenario -- Alt 1
## A.2 RN Mobility
The picture below illustrates relay mobility between donor eNBs for Alt 1\.
This is not a prioritized scenario for Release 10.
Figure A.2-1: RN Mobility -- Alt 1
#