# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report on \"LTE-Advanced Feasibility
Studies in 3GPP RAN WG4\".
In particular it facilitates within TSG RAN the preparation of the ITU-R
submission template with the parameters which are considered as RAN4
responsibility. The ITU-R submission template and its responsibility across
the WGs is captured in [3] and discussed in RAN. The ITU-R submission template
has been copied in Annex A.1.
This document is intended to gather the relevant background information in
order to address critical UE and BS RF requirements and draw a conclusion on
the feasibility of the identified RF scenarios and parameters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-R recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain
\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] ITU-R Report M.2135, Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface
technologies for IMT-Advanced, 2008-11,
http://www.itu.int/publ/R-REP-M.2135-2008/en
[4] 3GPP TR 36.913: \"Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E-UTRAN)
[5] 3GPP TR 36.814: \"Further Advancements for E-UTRA, Physical Layer
Aspects\"
[6] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Base Station (BS) conformance testing\"
[7] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[8] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
[9] 3GPP TR 25.912:\"Feasibility study for evolved UTRA and UTRAN\"
[10] 3GPP TR 36.912:\"**Feasibility study for Further Advancements for E-UTRA
(LTE-Advanced)** \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[2].
(void)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [2].
(void)
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #39 meeting, the Study Item description on \"Further
Advancements for E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced)\" was approved.
The study item covers technology components to be considered for the evolution
of E-UTRA, e.g. to fulfil the requirements on IMT-Advanced. Within 3GPP these
requirements are captured in [4].
The physical layer aspects of LTE-Advanced are captured in [5]. _Carrier
aggregation_ , where two or more _component carriers_ are aggregated, is
considered for LTE-Advanced in order to support wider bandwidths. The L1
specification shall support carrier aggregation for both contiguous and non-
contiguous component carriers with each component carrier limited to a maximum
of 110 Resource Blocks using the Release 8 numerology.
It will be possible to aggregate a different number of component carriers of
possibly different bandwidths in the UL and the DL. In typical TDD
deployments, the number of component carriers and the bandwidth of each
component carrier in UL and DL will be the same.
The following carrier aggregation scenarios shall be considered when
appraising the feasibility of the RF scenarios and parameters:
• Intra band
\- Contiguous Component Carrier
\- Non contiguous Component Carrier
• Inter band
\- Contiguous Component Carrier
\- Non contiguous Component Carrier
The following additional aspects related to the LTE-Advanced physical layer
concept [5] can also be considered when appraising the feasibility of the RF
scenarios and parameters:
• Uplink transmission schemes , Uplink spatial multiplexing
• Downlink transmission schemes, Downlink spatial multiplexing
• Coordinated multiple point transmission and reception
\- Downlink coordinated multi-point transmission
\- Uplink coordinated multi-point reception
• Relaying functionality
# 5 Radio transmission/reception and radio resource management
## 5.1 RF scenarios
### 5.1.1 Deployment scenarios for ITU-R submission
This section reviews the 4 operator\'s deployment scenarios that were
considered for initial investigation in order to meet the ITU-R submission
timescales. Agreed scenarios are shown in Table 5.1.1-1.
Table 5.1.1-1: Deployment scenarios for ITU-R submission
* * *
Scenario Proposed RAN4 ITU deployment scenario for investigation #1 Single
band contiguous allocation @ 3.5 GHz band for FDD (UL:40 MHz, DL: 80 MHz) #2
Single band contiguous allocation @ 2.3 GHz band 40 for TDD (100 MHz) #7 Multi
band non-contiguous allocation @ Bands 1, 3 and 7 for FDD (UL:40MHz, DL:40
MHz) * #10 Multi band non contiguous allocation Bands 34, 39 and 40 for TDD
(90 MHz) * Note * For some technical aspects for the ITU-R submission this
would be done with 2 carrier aggregations
* * *
### 5.1.2 Deployment scenarios for Feasibility study
Based on operator\'s input RAN4 identified some LTE-Advanced deployment
scenarios and priorities for the feasibility study of LTE-Advanced. RAN4 is
focusing on these selected deployment scenarios considering the priorities and
thereby timely analyses various RF aspects including terminal complexity.
Table 5.1.2-1 provides LTE-A deployment scenarios with the highest priority
for the feasibility study.
Table 5.1.2-1: Deployment scenarios with the highest priority for the
feasibility study
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Scenario | De | Tran | No of | Bands | Duplex | | No. | ployment | smission | LTE-A | for | modes | | | Scenario | BWs of | c | LTE-A | | | | | LTE-A | omponent | carriers | | | | | carriers | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | Sin | UL: 40 | UL: | 3.5 GHz | FDD | | | gle-band | MHz | Co | band | | | | co | | ntiguous | | | | | ntiguous | DL: 80 | 2x20 MHz | | | | | spec. | MHz | CCs | | | | | alloc. @ | | | | | | | 3.5GHz | | DL: | | | | | band for | | Co | | | | | FDD | | ntiguous | | | | | | | 4x20 MHz | | | | | | | CCs | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | Sin | 100 MHz | Co | Band 40 | TDD | | | gle-band | | ntiguous | (2.3 | | | | co | | 5x20 MHz | GHz) | | | | ntiguous | | CCs | | | | | spec. | | | | | | | alloc. @ | | | | | | | Band 40 | | | | | | | for TDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | Sin | 100 MHz | Co | 3.5 GHz | TDD | | | gle-band | | ntiguous | band | | | | co | | 5x20 MHz | | | | | ntiguous | | CCs | | | | | spec. | | | | | | | alloc. @ | | | | | | | 3.5GHz | | | | | | | band for | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | Sing | UL: 40 | UL: | 3.5 GHz | FDD | | | le-band, | MHz | Non-co | band | | | | non-co | | ntiguous | | | | | ntiguous | DL: 80 | 20 + 20 | | | | | spec. | MHz | MHz CCs | | | | | alloc. @ | | | | | | | 3.5GHz | | DL: | | | | | band for | | Non-co | | | | | FDD | | ntiguous | | | | | | | 2x20 + | | | | | | | 2x20 MHz | | | | | | | CCs | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | Sin | UL: 10 | UL/DL: | Band 8 | FDD | | | gle-band | MHz | Non-co | (900 | | | | non-co | | ntiguous | MHz) | | | | ntiguous | DL: 10 | 5 MHz + | | | | | spec. | MHz | 5 MHz | | | | | alloc. @ | | CCs | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | | for FDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | Sin | 80 MHz | Non-co | Band 38 | TDD | | | gle-band | | ntiguous | (2.6 | | | | non-co | | 2x20 + | GHz) | | | | ntiguous | | 2x20 MHz | | | | | spec. | | CCs | | | | | alloc. @ | | | | | | | Band 38 | | | | | | | for TDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | Mu | UL: 40 | UL/DL: | Band 3 | FDD | | | lti-band | MHz | Non-co | (1.8 | | | | non-co | | ntiguous | GHz)\ | | | | ntiguous | DL: 40 | 10 MHz | Band 1 | | | | spec. | MHz | CC\@Band | (2.1 | | | | alloc. @ | | 1 + 10 | GHz)\ | | | | Band 1, | | MHz | Band 7 | | | | 3 and 7 | | CC\@Band | (2.6 | | | | for FDD | | 3 + 20 | GHz) | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | CC\@Band | | | | | | | 7 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | Mu | 30 MHz | Non-co | Band 1 | FDD | | | lti-band | | ntiguous | (2.1 | | | | non-co | | 1x15 + | GHz) | | | | ntiguous | | 1x15 MHz | | | | | spec. | | CCs | Band 3 | | | | alloc. @ | | | (1.8GHz) | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | | and Band | | | | | | | 3 for | | | | | | | FDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | Mu | UL: 20 | UL/DL: | 800 MHz | FDD | | | lti-band | MHz | Non-co | band\ | | | | non-co | | ntiguous | Band 8 | | | | ntiguous | DL: 20 | 10 MHz | (900 | | | | spec. | MHz | CC\@UHF | MHz) | | | | alloc. @ | | + 10 MHz | | | | | 800 MHz | | CC\@Band | | | | | band and | | 8 | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | | for FDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10 | Mu | 90 MHz | Non-co | Band 39 | TDD | | | lti-band | | ntiguous | ( | | | | non-con | | 2x20 + | 1.8GHz)\ | | | | tiguous | | 10 + | Band 34 | | | | spec. | | 2x20 MHz | ( | | | | alloc. @ | | CCs | 2.1GHz)\ | | | | Band 39, | | | Band 40 | | | | 34, and | | | (2.3GHz) | | | | 40 for | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 11* | Sin | UL: 20 | UL: 1x20 | Band 7 | FDD | | | gle-band | MHz | MHz CCs | (2.6 | | | | Co | | | GHz) | | | | ntiguous | DL: 40 | DL: 2x20 | | | | | spec. | MHz | MHz CCs | | | | | alloc @ | | | | | | | Band 7 | | | | | | | for FDD | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 | Mu | UL: 20 | UL/DL: | Band 7 | FDD | | | lti-band | MHz | 20 MHz | (2.6 | | | | non-co | | CCs @ | GHz) | | | | ntiguous | DL: 60 | Band 7 | | | | | spec. | MHz | | 3.5 GHz | | | | alloc. @ | | DL : | band | | | | Band 7 | | Non- | | | | | and the | | co | | | | | 3.5 GHz | | ntiguous | | | | | range | | 20 + 20 | | | | | for FDD | | MHz CCs | | | | | | | @ 3.5 | | | | | | | GHz band | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
*Note: From cell view, it has 40MHz both in DL and UL: From UE view, it can mostly have 40MHz in DL and 20MHz in UL. It means that the network can allocate maximum bandwidth of 40MHz in DL for one terminal, but just maximum bandwidth of 20MHz in UL for one UE to reduce the complexity of terminal.
### 5.1.3 Scenario #1 (Single band contiguous allocation \@3.5GHz for FDD (UL:
40MHz, DL: 80MHZ)
The 3500 MHz band is currently still under discussion in both 3GPP and
ITU-R[^1]. Based on current discussion in WP-5D we note the Figure 5.1.3-1 is
the recommended frequency arrangement for implementation of IMT in the 3400 --
3600 MHz band
{width="5.709027777777778in" height="1.1305555555555555in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1: ITU recommended frequency arrangement
In particular, we note the following is still under discussion in ITU;
\- the size of the segments for the FDD uplink (MS Tx) and downlink (BS Tx),
where one could disappear (i.e. zero width);
\- the size of the centre gap and duplex separation;
\- the arrangement of the segments (i.e. the FDD uplink and downlink
direction)
\- the use of the external bands (i.e. combination of any FDD pairing with the
bands other than 3 400-3 600 MHz
Based on the UMTS-LTE TR (R4-091019) we note the following band plan as shown
in Figure 5.1.3.-2, under discussion for deployment in Europe. In particular
practical allocations would start at 3410MHz[^2] and this would lead to
problems for UE harmonization problems if the frequency position of the duplex
gap is different.
{width="5.761805555555555in" height="1.4347222222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.3-2: UMTS-LTE 3500MHz TR recommended frequency arrangement
However, as mentioned in TR (R4-091019), it will be difficult to implement a
complete 2 x 90MHz FDD arrangement with a single duplexer in the UE based on a
10MHz duplex gap at 3.5GHz and a 2x70MHz is suggested. Assuming frequency
scaling based on Band 8, a more reasonable single duplex band arrangement may
be in the order of 2x75MHz with a 45MHz duplex (FFS), but such an arrangement
would cover a smaller portion of the existing band arrangement and would not
be spectrally efficient and, more importantly limit the number of contiguous
CC. This is shown below in Figure 5.1.3-3
{width="5.811805555555556in" height="2.3118055555555554in"}
Figure 5.1.3-3: Scenario 1 deployment
One way to avoid the need for a large duplex gap is to sub-divide this band
into two operating bands but this would increase the number of operating
bands, but more importantly reduce the number of contiguous CC available and
also lead to significant UE to UE co-existence issues.
Observations (assuming band plan as per UMTS-LTE TR);
\- harmonization with ITU-R on location of duplex gap is paramount for global
harmonization
\- Duplex gap of 10 MHz is not sufficient to prevent UE self interference when
a UE UL is on CC1 and DL at 4 CC4. The Tx to Rx spacing for contiguous CC
would be too small
\- Duplex gap of 50MHz is better, but not sufficient to prevent UE self
interference when a UE UL is on CC1 and DL at 4 CC
\- Key issue is if ALCR (Tx leakage component in Rx pass band) is based for
multiple CC is assume to scale with number of CC. This has implications on UE
architecture and addressed in R4-091366
\- Scenario 1 cannot be supported assuming symmetrical UL/DL FDD plan without
scheduler assistance to maintain minimum Tx to Rx duplex distance or half
duplex type service..Note Tx Rx spacing could be 40 -- 100MHz depending on
allocation of RB
\- Other solutions would be to reduce the number of contiguous CC and/or allow
a large reduction in Tx power or an allowed Rx desense value.
\- Adjacent inter-band co-existence would need to be addressed. In this case
the guard band would be determined by the front end RF or duplex filter
The key problem with FDD deployment of very large bandwidths is the resultant
UE self dense if the Tx --Rx spacing is not adequate. Increasing the Tx --Rx
spacing would result in a large duplex gap which is counter productive in the
case of the 3500MHz band. One alternative in order to address this issue is to
allow paring with other bands to increase the effective TX-RX spacing (but
creates problems for existing band users due to UE to UE co-existence) or
deploy HD-FDD or TDD (assuming synchronized CC operation).
### 5.1.4 Scenario #2 (Single band contiguous allocation \@2.3GHz for TDD
(100MHz)
For this scenario the operator\'s have requested 5 x 20 MHz UL/DL -- 5
Component Carrier (CC) of 20MHz
{width="6.009722222222222in" height="1.9194444444444445in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: Scenario 2 deployment
One of the main benefits of TDD is the mitigation available for self
interference. In this case, if synchronised channel can be supported in the
operating band, the impact of UE to UE co-existence within the operating band
is avoided. In this case, only adjacent inter-band co-existence would need to
be addressed and would be FFS.
Taking account of the operator request for 5 x 20MHz DL we note the following;
\- No limitation like the FDD case due to self interference /IP2
\- Synchronization of UL/DL needed for all CC to avoid need for guard band
between operators in this band
\- ALCR (Tx leakage component in Rx pass band) for multiple CC is not an issue
due to TDD operation unlike FDD
## 5.2 Common requirements for UE and BS
### 5.2.1 Operating bands
E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands as defined in [7, 8].
E-UTRA operating bands are shown in Table 5.2.1-1.
Table 5.2.1-1 E-UTRA operating bands
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                                      F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD
3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD
4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894MHz FDD
6 ^Note\ 1^ 830 MHz -- 840 MHz 875 MHz -- 885 MHz FDD
7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD
9 1749.9 MHz -- 1784.9 MHz 1844.9 MHz -- 1879.9 MHz FDD
10 1710 MHz -- 1770 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
11 1427.9 MHz -- [1447.9] MHz 1475.9 MHz -- [1495.9] MHz FDD
12 698 MHz -- 716 MHz 728 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
13 777 MHz -- 787 MHz 746 MHz -- 756 MHz FDD
14 788 MHz -- 798 MHz 758 MHz -- 768 MHz FDD
15 Reserved Reserved FDD
16 Reserved Reserved FDD
17 704 MHz -- 716 MHz 734 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
18 815 MHz -- 830 MHz 860 MHz -- 875 MHz FDD
19 830 MHz -- 845 MHz 875 MHz -- 890 MHz FDD
20 832 MHz 862 MHz 791 MHz 821 MHz FDD
21 1447.9 MHz 1462.9 MHz 1495.9 MHz 1510.9 MHz FDD
22 [3410] MHz [3500] MHz [3510] MHz [3600] MHz FDD
...
33 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
34 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz TDD
35 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz TDD
36 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz TDD
37 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz TDD
38 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz TDD
39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
40 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz TDD
[41] [3400] MHz [3600] MHz [3400] MHz [3600] MHz TDD
Note 1: Band 6 is not applicable.
* * *
Possible IMT bands supported by the RIT include the following frequency bands
as examples:
(a) Possible frequency bands in 3.4-3.8 GHz band
(b) Possible frequency bands in 3.4-3.6GHz as well as 3.6-4.2GHz
(c) Possible frequency bands in 3.4-3.6 GHz band
(d) Possible frequency bands in 470 - 450−470 MHz band,
(e) Possible frequency bands in 698−862 MHz band
(f) Possible frequency bands in 790−862 MHz ban
(g) Possible frequency bands in 2.3−2.4 GHz band
(h) Possible frequency bands in 4.4-4.99 GHz band
### 5.2.2 Component Carrier Aggregation
Aspects related to the aggregation component carriers are considered in RAN4.
The following subclauses summarize some of the findings.
#### 5.2.2.1 Channel raster
For E-UTRA Rel-8 the channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands, which means that
the carrier centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz.
The same channel raster is expected for LTE-Advanced.
#### 5.2.2.2 Channel bandwidth
In TS36.101/104 the following terminology and numerology is defined for the
Rel-8 E-UTRA channel bandwidth:
> **Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF
> carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink
> of a cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a
> reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
>
> **Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
> allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
> Resource Block units.
Figure 5.2.2.2-1 and Table 5.2.2.2-1 show the relation between the Rel-8
E-UTRA Channel bandwidth (BW~Channel~) and the Transmission bandwidth
configuration (N~RB~). The channel edges are defined as the lowest and highest
frequencies of the carrier separated by the channel bandwidth, i.e. at F~C~
+/- BW~Channel~ /2.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="3.25in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: Definition of Channel Bandwidth and Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration for one Rel-8 E‑UTRA carrier
Table 5.2.2.2-1: Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~ in Rel-8 E-UTRA
channel bandwidths
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Transmission bandwidth
configuration _N_ ~RB~ 6 15 25 50 75 100
* * *
The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements
The Rel-8 E-UTRA definitions related to channel edges (i.e. F~C~ +/-
BW~Channel~ /2) can be re-used for LTE-Advanced with respect to the component
carriers at the edges of CC aggregation scenarios in order to provide a
reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements. It is also expected
that LTE-Advanced component carriers will support the channel configurations
of Table 5.2.2.2-1.
#### 5.2.2.3 Additional Transmission bandwidth configurations
Additional transmission bandwidth configurations are not precluded.
The studies in RAN4 have considered usage of component carriers larger than
100 RBs for contiguous carrier aggregation, in particular a 108 RB
configuration. From these investigations it is concluded that the transmit
spectrum shaping is feasible, at least when the component carriers are spaced
such that the distance from the aggregated channel edge to the outermost
subcarrier of the edge RB is comparable to what is obtained from the Rel-8
configurations in Table 5.2.2.2-1.
Component carriers that are larger than 100 RBs can be made backwards
compatible to Rel-8 UEs as additional RBs are transparent and removed by the
RX filtering.
It is noted that the introduction of >100 RB transmission bandwidth
configurations for aggregation of 20 MHz component carriers will prevent the
efficient re-use of LTE Rel-8/9 RF and performance requirements. This is due
to the required increase of the frequency offset from the DC subcarrier of the
aggregation edge CC to the nominal aggregated channel edge (at which RF
requirements shall apply) as well as the increased # of RBs within a CC.
Hence, the introduction of >100 RB transmission bandwidth configurations will
require increased efforts in RAN4 (e.g. additional demodulation performance
requirements) as well as testing and IoT.
Furthermore no actual operator spectrum use cases for introduction of >100 RB
transmission bandwidth configurations have emerged from the studies in RAN4 in
order to justify new transmission bandwidth configurations. There remain still
large uncertainties to the actual available spectrum allocations for LTE-A.
Additionally, the potential gains in optimizing transmission bandwidth
configurations for 20 MHz CCs appear to be small. It is thus premature to
commit to additional transmission bandwidth configurations for 20 MHz CCs. If
such a need arises to support specific deployment cases, this can be then done
in subsequent releases of LTE-A
#### 5.2.2.4 Extension Carrier
An extension carrier is not backward compatible with Rel-8 and complies with
the Transmission bandwidth configuration of Table 5.2.2.2-1. Some of the
common channels, such as PSS/SSS, broadcast channels, paging channels, PRACH,
etc may not be present subject to decisions in other RAN WGs.
#### 5.2.2.5 Carrier spacing between contiguously aggregated component
carriers
In Rel-8 E‑UTRA, the spacing between carriers can depend on the deployment
scenario, the size of the frequency block available and the channel
bandwidths. The nominal channel spacing between two adjacent Rel-8 E-UTRA
carriers is defined as following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective Rel-8 E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to
optimize performance in a particular deployment scenario. This includes the
possibility to reduce the channel spacing in order to support specific
spectrum assignments.
Similarly, with LTE-Advanced it shall be possible to aggregate component
carriers in a spectrum efficient way for the case of contiguous spectrum. This
will, for example, allow two aggregated 100 RB component carriers to be placed
with 18.3 MHz center-to-center frequency separation. To facilitate this
efficiently, the spacing between centre frequencies of contiguously aggregated
component carriers shall be a multiple of 300 kHz. This is in order to be
compatible with the 100 kHz frequency raster of LTE Rel-8 and at the same time
preserve orthogonality of the subcarriers with 15 kHz spacing.
The carrier spacing between an extension carrier and a component carriers is
FFS.
## 5.3 UE RF requirements
### 5.3.1 General
#### 5.3.1.1 UE capability classes
(Void)
### 5.3.2 Transmitter characteristics
Tx characteristic are analysed for 3 generic aggregation scenarios;
\- _Intra band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Intra band non - contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Inter band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
#### 5.3.2.1 General
Figure 5.3.2.1-1 illustrates various Tx architectures options according to
where the component carriers are combined, i.e., at digital baseband, or in
analog waveforms before RF mixer, or after mixer but before the PA, or after
the PA.
Option A
\- In an adjacent _contiguous common carrier_ aggregation scenario, the UE
very likely has one PA. Connected to the PA can be a single RF chain (a zero-
IF mixer, a wideband DAC, and a wideband IFFT)
Option-B
\- Combines analog baseband waveforms from component Carrier first (e.g., via
a mixer operating at an IF of roughly the bandwidth of the other component
carrier in the example of 2-component carrier aggregation). Then the resulting
wideband signal is up-converted to RF.
Option-C
\- Does ZIF up-conversion of each component carrier before combining and
feeding into a single PA.
Option-D
\- Employs multiple RF chains and multiple PAs after which the high-power
signals are combined and fed into a single antenna. PA coupling at the UE can
be challenging for option-D.
{width="6.01875in" height="5.449305555555555in"}
Figure 5.3.2.1-1: Possible UE Architectures in three aggregation scenarios
#### 5.3.2.2 Transmit power
##### _5.3.2.2.1 Power Class_
In the study item report TR 25.912 for LTE [9] related to UE maximum output
power it was indicated; It should be possible to reuse the rel-6 PA in order
**to allow for a single PA implementation for multi-mode (E-UTRA, UTRA) and
multi-band terminals and that the E-UTRA UE power class should be a subset of
the current UTRA Rel-6 power classes.**
However it is not clear if the same requirements would be applicable in the
case of dual Tx antenna (separate or dual PA) or CPE / Relay products. In the
case of case of these scenarios, the conducted transmit power may need to be
reduced in order to support these larger bandwidths but then the radiated
antenna gain is likely to be higher or the cell size would be smaller due to
the larger supported data rate. In this case the transmitter characteristic
could be defined for a new power class (Class 4) as proposed in Table
5.3.2.2.1-1
_Table 5.3.2.2.1-1: UE maximum conducted power_
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | -UTRA | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | Band | | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | 23 | ±2 | \ | \ | | | | | | | | | [20] | [±2] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
_Open issues for FFS are;_
_\- Should the UE class be linked to maximum conducted power_
_\- Should the UE conducted power be linked to the number of Tx antenna
(single or dual antenna)_
_\- How should the maximum conducted power be defined ; per RB, per CC_
##### 5.3.2.2.2 MPR /A-MPR
**_Open issues for FFS are_**
  * **_How should MPR/ A-MPR be extended for single and/or multiple CC bandwidths_**
  * **_How should MPR/ A-MPR be extended new power classes and UE classes_**
#### 5.3.2.3 Output power dynamics
Currently power control is defined on sub-frame basis for a single component
carrier in REL8 in the RAN1 specification. For LTE-A, the architecture of
single or multiple PA can have an impact on the power control dynamics. In the
case where the PA supports a component carrier, the CM is not a concern since
each component carrier will have a fixed maximum transmit power. But a single
PA architecture can potentially impact the power control procedure when its
power is shared amongst component carriers
Another area for study is whether the multi-CC UL signal is combined digitally
(at the baseband) or in analogue ( at IF or RF) since the power control
accuracy in terms accurate power control ratio amongst different CC will be
less precise due to the analog component in the RF chain
_For LTE-A power control would need to consider the following scenarios in the
case of; OFF power, minimum power and power tolerance; In this case the
transmitter characteristic for output power dynamics could be defined;_
_\- Intra band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Intra band non - contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Inter band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Single or multiple segment power control_
#### 5.3.2.4 Transmit signal quality
Currently EVM performance is defined on slot bases for a single component
carrier in REL8 in the RAN1 specification. For LTE-A EVM would need to
consider the following scenarios;
_In this case the transmitter characteristic for EVM could be defined_
_\- Intra band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Intra band non - contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Inter band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
#### 5.3.2.5 Output RF spectrum emissions
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emissions, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
As captured in TR36.803 the spectrum emission mask scales in proportion to the
channel bandwidth due to PA non-linearity for a single component carrier. In
the case of multiple contiguous CC scenarios should the spectrum mask be
proportional to the total number of contiguous channel bandwidth (REL8
approach) or be unchanged and be no different from that of a single CC
bandwidth
_Spectrum mask which is proportional to the single CC channel bandwidth would
require a multi-carrier approach at baseband with a single linear RF PA or
multiple PA solution RF combining approach which each PA supporting a single
CC channel bandwidth. Both solutions have an impact on Tx architecture._
##### 5.3.2.5.1 Adjacent Channel Leakage ratio
Depending on the adjacent channel bandwidth (single or multiple CC) it may be
necessary to investigate the impact of ALCR with different number of CC.
_In this case the transmitter characteristic for ACLR could be defined for;_
_\- Intra band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Intra band non - contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
_\- Inter band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
##### 5.3.2.5.2 Spurious emission (UE to UE co-existence)
One aspect relating to the emission spectrum would be UE to UE co-existence.
_In this case the following aspects would need FFS;_
  * _UE1 (Tx) and U2 (Rx) configuration for UE to UE co-existence analysis_
  * _Should the same limit (-50dBm /1MHz) be applicable or a lower limit of be considered for the case of contiguous CC carrier_
  * _In the case of inter band scenario how do we address harmonic requirements_
  * _Guard band for TDD non synchronized operation_
#### 5.3.2.6 Transmit intermodulation
The transmit intermodulation performance is a measure of the capability of the
transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non linear elements
caused by presence of the wanted signal and an interfering signal reaching the
transmitter via the antenna.
_The current RAN1 assumption assumes in the case of contiguous CC carriers
then RB can be freely allocated for the different CC carriers. In this case
intermodulation performance could be challenging and may need to be defined in
terms; per RB allocation / per CC carrier / all CC._
### 5.3.3 Receiver characteristics
In this section we have deliberately chosen to align with the UE specification
TS36.101 [7] since the impact of Very Large bandwidths would have an impact in
many areas of the Tx / Rx characteristics.
**A terminal may simultaneously receive one or multiple component carriers
depending on its capabilities:** We propose to analyse 3 generic aggregation
scenarios;
  * _Intra band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
  * _Intra band non - contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
  * _Inter band contiguous_ _component_ _carrier (CC) aggregation_
Table 5.3.3-1 illustrates various Rx architectures options for the three
scenarios
Table 5.3.3-1: Possible UE Architecture for the three aggregation scenarios
* * *
Rx Characteristics  
Option Description (Rx architecture) Intra Band aggregation Inter Band
aggregation  
Contiguous (CC) Non contiguous (CC) Non contiguous (CC) A Single (RF + FFT +
baseband) with BW>20MHz Yes B Multiple (RF + FFT + baseband) with BW≤20MHz Yes
Yes Yes
* * *
[]{.underline}
Option A
\- UE may adopt a single wideband-capable (i.e., >20MHz) RF front end (i.e.,
mixer, AGC, ADC) and a single FFT, or alternatively multiple \"legacy\" RF
front ends (\ Option B
\- In this case, using a single wideband-capable RF front end is undesirable
in the case of Intra band non contiguous CC due to the unknown nature of the
signal on the \"unusable\" portion of the band. In the case non adjacent Inter
separate RF front end are necessary
#### 5.3.3.1 General
In order to define the consider the applicable Rx characteristic a number of
working assumptions will be needed to ensure the feature is applicable in
terms of UE implementation. Current REL8 working assumption has assumed some
constraints due to complexity and battery saving
One new form factor that could be consider is Customer Premise Equipment (CPE)
which would have the ability to initial these new features such as 2 Tx
antenna port and 4 Rx antenna port as a baseline work assumption in order to
address the Tx characteristics.
#### 5.3.3.2 Receiver Sensitivity
The current reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean
power applied to both the UE antenna ports at which the throughput shall meet
or exceed the requirements for the specified reference measurement channel
_For LTE-A_
\- _Should this be applicable to all ports_
_\- Sensitivity defined per single CC or multiple CC._
##### _5.3.3.2.1 MSD (Maximum sensitivity reduction)_
_For LTE-A_
\- _For intra and inter CC operation._
_\- TX should be single RB, full allocation (single or multiple CC)?_
#### 5.3.3.3 Selectivity
ACS is the ratio of the receive filter attenuation on the assigned channel
frequency to the receive filter attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
_For LTE-A_
\- _Based on single and/or multiple CC channel bandwidths_
_**-** Need to define power allocation and distribution for RB single and/or
multiple CC_
_Channel bandwidths due to UE Rx operating point (AGC)_
#### 5.3.3.4 Blocking performance
The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive
a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of the spurious response
or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted input signal causing a
degradation of the performance of the receiver beyond a specified limit.
\- In-band blocking
\- Out of -band blocking
\- Narrow band blocking
For _LTE-A_
_\- Based on single and/or multiple CC channel bandwidths_
_\- Power allocation for RB single and/or multiple CC channel bandwidths_
_\- Per Rx antenna ports or across all antenna ports_
_\- Need to define power allocation and distribution for RB single and/or
multiple CC Channel bandwidths due to UE Rx operating point (AGC)_
#### 5.3.3.5 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a wanted
signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given degradation
due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any other
frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for which the out of band
blocking limit is not met.
#### 5.3.3.6 Intermodulation performance
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receiver a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal.
_For LTE-A_
_\- Based on single and/or multiple CC channel bandwidths_
_\- Power allocation for RB single and/or multiple CC channel bandwidths_
_\- Per Rx antenna ports or across all antenna ports_
#### 5.3.3.7 Spurious emission
The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or amplified
in a receiver that appear at the UE antenna connector.
## 5.4 BS RF requirements
### 5.4.1 General
#### 5.4.1.1 RF scenarios
LTE-Advanced BS RF requirements extend those of LTE Rel-8 considering the
following component carrier aggregation scenarios:
\- Intra band
\- Contiguous Component Carrier aggregation
\- Non contiguous Component Carrier aggregation
\- Inter band
\- Non contiguous Component Carrier aggregation
_Intra band, contiguous_ carrier aggregation is specified for DC-HSDPA on the
DL and DC-HSUPA on the UL. The DC-HSDPA specification supports both, carrier
aggregation with a single PA (antenna connector) as well as two PAs (antenna
connectors); for both cases the RF requirements are defined on a per antenna
connector basis. The need for a similar flexibility is also foreseen for CA
within the LTE-Advanced specifications. One important parameter to define
within the WI phase is the # of aggregated carriers and/or the maximum
aggregated bandwidth.
_Intra band, non-contiguous_ carrier aggregation is a new concept for RAN4 BS
specifications and requires appropriate extension of the transmit (e.g.
unwanted emissions, ACLR) and receive (e.g. ACS, blocking, ...) RF
requirements across the \"gaps\" between CCs in order to facilitate co-
existence between uncoordinated systems. In case this scenario is elected for
the WI phase, the LTE-Advanced specifications would need be flexible and
support implementations using one or multiple antenna connectors.
_Inter band, non-contiguous_ carrier aggregation is specified for DB-DC-HSDPA
on the DL. Following the rationale provided in RAN4 the corresponding DB-DC-
HSDPA transmit requirements are based on single band transmission and apply
separately to each antenna connector (pertaining to an aggregated band), with
the other one(s) terminated. This specification concept can be extended to
aggregation on the UL. The concept of per-band requirements shall also be
considered for LTE-Advanced when defining the relevant unwanted emissions
limits and receiver RF requirements.
LTE-Advanced RF requirements shall be considered for WA Base Stations.
Introduction of other base station classes than WA is not precluded. The
requirements for these may be different than for the WA base station class and
may require some co-existence studies.
Some of the LTE-Advanced RF requirements may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
#### 5.4.1.2 Re-use of existing LTE Rel-8 requirements
Whenever appropriate, LTE-Advanced RF requirements shall be based on the re-
use of existing LTE Rel-8 requirements in a \"building block\" manner. This
facilitates faster introduction of LTE-Advanced from the view point of
specification development, compliance with regulatory requirements as well as
the development of conformance test cases.
This \"building block\" approach is already used in TS 36.104, Annex F for the
some of the LTE Rel-8 multi-carrier scenarios. It is also used for carrier
aggregation on DL for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA as well as on UL for DC-HSUPA.
It is also used within the MSR specifications on DL and UL for multi-carrier
and multi-/RAT TX/RX scenarios. From these cases it can be observed that
carrier aggregation can be introduced with minimal impact on existing
specifications as long as the \"numerology\" of the component carriers remains
the same; in case of LTE-Advanced this corresponds maintaining the Channel and
Transmission bandwidth configurations of Rel-8 E-UTRA.
### 5.4.2 Transmitter characteristics
#### 5.4.2.1 General
In LTE Rel-8 transmitter requirements are expressed for a single transmitter
antenna connector. In case of transmit diversity or MIMO transmission; the
requirements apply for each transmitter antenna connector.
In DB-DC-HSDPA separate antenna connectors per active band are assumed. In DC-
HSDPA, aggregated carriers can go through the same or separate antenna
connectors (PAs). In all these cases the transmitter requirements apply for
each transmitter antenna connector. In current BS specifications no RF
combining network across multiple antenna connectors is stipulated in order to
accumulate unwanted emissions originating from multiple carriers and/or MIMO
branches.
To maintain consistency with the existing specifications, LTE-Advanced shall
follow the same principles for carrier aggregation. The following transmit
antenna configurations are expected to be supported by the LTE-Advanced
specifications in order to facilitate relevant implementations related to
component carrier aggregation:
• Multiple CCs can be aggregated at one antenna connector for intra-band
contiguous carrier aggregation. Additionally,
• > 1 antenna connector can be used for intra-band contiguous carrier
aggregation of multiple CCs. This may be required in scenarios with large
aggregated bandwidth due to the limited PA bandwidth available and/or the need
to aggregate high powers from multiple PAs. Similarly,
• In case of intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation, > 1 antenna
connector can be used for the CCs (or groups of contiguous CCs). This will be
necessary if the CCs are widely separated in frequency and don\'t fit within
the PA bandwidth.
• in case of inter-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation, one or multiple
bands may be available on the antenna connector. The latter case is possible
in case diplexers would be integrated within the BS (FFS). However, transmit
requirements and tests shall apply for only one active band at a time, with
the emissions within other transmit bands switched off (terminated). This is
necessary in order to obtain consistent per-band requirements, e.g. the
measurements of spurious emissions on one DL operating band must not be
interfered by the carrier power transmitted on another DL operating band.
#### 5.4.2.2 Base Station output power
In LTE Rel-8 the base station maximum output power is defined as the mean
power level per carrier measured at the antenna connector during the
transmitter ON period in a specified reference condition. There exist
requirements for the base station maximum output power to remain within +/- x
dB of the rated output power declared by the manufacturer.
This can be extended in LTE-Advanced for a component carrier. The output power
of multiple component carriers can be aggregated and it is FFS if nominal
aggregated power per band shall also be declared by the manufacturer.
Base Stations intended for general-purpose applications do not have limits on
the maximum output power. However, there exist regional regulatory
requirements which limit the maximum output power in some instances. Base
Stations other than those belonging to the WA class do have limits on the per-
carrier maximum output power and it needs to be checked if the currently
specified per-carrier limits are also applicable for CA.
The specifications related to the associated conformance tests in TS 36.141
[6] with regard to the E-TMs can also be re-used provided the transmission
bandwidth configurations of Rel-8 E-UTRA are maintained for LTE-Advanced.
#### 5.4.2.3 Transmitted signal quality
In LTE Rel-8 requirements for transmitted signal quality are defined for:
\- Frequency error; a measure of the difference between the actual BS transmit
frequency and the assigned frequency of a carrier. The same source is used for
RF frequency and data clock generation.
\- Error Vector Magnitude; a measure of the difference between the ideal
symbols and the measured symbols after the equalization.
\- In case of Tx Diversity and spatial multiplexing, the time alignment
between transmitter branches, i.e. the delay between the signals from two
antennas at the antenna ports
These requirements can be extended in LTE-Advanced on the basis of component
carriers.
Additionally, in LTE-Advanced the time alignment error between component
carriers shall be considered, for both intra- and inter-band scenarios. Some
relaxations need to be considered (ref. time alignment error requirements for
UTRA DB-DC-HSDPA and DC-HSDPA + MIMO).
The specifications related to the associated conformance tests in TS 36.141
[6] with regard to the E-TMs can also be re-used provided the transmission
bandwidth configurations of Rel-8 E-UTRA are maintained for LTE-Advanced.
#### 5.4.2.4 Unwanted emissions
In LTE Rel-8 requirements for unwanted emissions are defined in form of
operating band unwanted emission limits and transmitter spurious emissions.
These requirements apply, for each transmit antenna connector, whatever the
type of transmitter considered (single carrier or multi-carrier) and for all
transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification.
With the exception of multi-carrier (-RAT) transmissions on a single transmit
antenna connector, the current UTRA, E-UTRA and MSR specifications do _not_
contain any limits for the following aggregated unwanted emissions:
• across MIMO (or transmit diversity) branches
• across multi-carrier (-RAT) transmissions using multiple antenna connectors
• across _aggregated_ multi-carrier transmissions using multiple antenna
connectors (for DC-HSDPA)
• across multiple bands (for DB-DC-HSDPA)
The same approach shall be considered for LTE-A.
Additionally there exist aggregate emission limits stipulated by regulation on
the basis of license blocks (e.g. EIRP BEM) which are, however, outside the
scope of the LTE-Advanced specifications.
##### 5.4.2.4.1 Operating band Unwanted emissions
For each antenna connector, operating band unwanted emission limits are
defined from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the downlink operating band. They
apply below the lower edge of the carrier transmitted at the lowest carrier
frequency and above the higher edge of the carrier transmitted at the highest
carrier frequency. The unwanted emission limits in the part of the downlink
operating band that fall into the spurious domain are consistent with ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [1].
The concept of the LTE Rel-9 operating band unwanted emission limits can also
be considered in LTE-Advanced on the basis of component carriers.
In case the intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation scenario is elected
for the CA WI, the limits across the \"gaps\" between CCs need to be defined,
for the cases of a single, respectively multiple antenna connectors. In case
of multiple antenna connectors (each transmitting one or more contiguous CCs),
it is recommended not to define aggregated unwanted emission limits, but
instead define limits per antenna connector, with the other one(s) terminated.
##### 5.4.2.4.2 Transmitter spurious emissions
The spurious domain covers frequencies, which are separated from the carrier
centre frequency by more than 250% of the necessary bandwidth, as recommended
in ITU-R SM.329. These transmitter spurious emission limits apply, for each
antenna connector, from 9 kHz to 12.75 GHz.
The transmitter spurious emission limits of LTE-Advanced shall comply with
ITU-R SM.329 [1]. These requirements shall apply whatever the type of
transmitter considered (single carrier, multi-carrier, aggregated CCs) for
each antenna connector.
### 5.4.3 Receiver characteristics
#### 5.4.3.1 Reference sensitivity level
In LTE Rel-8, the reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum
mean power of a carrier received at the antenna connector at which a
throughput requirement shall be met for a specified reference measurement
channel.
In LTE Rel-8, reference sensitivity levels are defined on the basis of
transmission bandwidth configurations of 6 (1.4MHz channel bandwidth), 15
(3MHz channel bandwidth) and 25 resource blocks (channel bandwidths ≥5MHz) of
the wanted signal. Rel-8 requirements can be applied on a component carrier
basis, provided the Rel-8 E-UTRA transmission bandwidth configurations are
maintained for LTE-Advanced. For component carriers with _N_ ~RB~ >100
additional reference sensitivity level requirements would be needed, requiring
the introduction of new Fixed Reference Channels together with their
corresponding performance requirements which require additional link level
simulation results.
#### 5.4.3.2 Dynamic range
In LTE Rel-8, the dynamic range is specified as a measure of the capability of
the receiver to receive a wanted signal in the presence of an interfering
signal inside the received channel bandwidth. In this condition a throughput
requirement shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel. The
interfering signal for the dynamic range requirement is an AWGN signal.
In LTE Rel-8, dynamic range requirements are defined on the basis of
transmission bandwidth configurations of 6 (1.4MHz channel bandwidth), 15
(3MHz channel bandwidth) and 25 resource blocks (channel bandwidths ≥5MHz) of
the wanted signal. Rel-8 requirements can be applied on a component carrier
basis, provided the Rel-8 E-UTRA transmission bandwidth configurations are
maintained for LTE-Advanced. For component carriers with _N_ ~RB~ >100
additional dynamic range requirements would be needed, requiring the
introduction of new Fixed Reference Channels together with their corresponding
performance requirements which require additional link level simulation
results.
#### 5.4.3.3 In-channel selectivity
In LTE Rel-8, the in-channel selectivity is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the
presence of an interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density.
In this condition a throughput requirement shall be met for a specified
reference measurement channel.
In LTE Rel-8, reference sensitivity levels are defined on the basis of
transmission bandwidth configurations of 3 (1.4MHz channel bandwidth), 9 (3MHz
channel bandwidth), 15 (5MHz channel bandwidth) and 25 resource blocks
(channel bandwidths ≥10MHz) of the wanted signal. Rel-8 requirements can be
applied on a component carrier basis, provided the Rel-8 E-UTRA transmission
bandwidth configurations are maintained for LTE-Advanced. For component
carriers with _N_ ~RB~ >100 additional reference sensitivity level
requirements would be needed, requiring the introduction of new Fixed
Reference Channels together with their corresponding performance requirements
which require additional link level simulation results.
#### 5.4.3.4 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS), narrow-band blocking,
Blocking, Receiver intermodulation
In LTE Rel-8 the following receiver RF requirements are defined:
\- Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS); a measure of the receiver ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal with a specified centre frequency offset.
\- Blocking characteristics; a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an unwanted
interferer (specified for in-band blocking and out-of-band blocking)
\- Intermodulation response rejection; a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal.
In LTE Rel-8, these requirements are defined on the basis of transmission
bandwidth configurations of 6 (1.4MHz channel bandwidth), 15 (3MHz channel
bandwidth) and 25 resource blocks (channel bandwidths ≥5MHz) of the wanted
signal and by considering an appropriate desensitisation relative to the
reference sensitivity level requirement.
For LTE-Advanced Rel-8 requirements can be considered on a component carrier
basis, provided the Rel-8 E-UTRA transmission bandwidth configurations are
maintained.
For component carriers with _N_ ~RB~ >100 additional requirements would be
needed due to the different structure of the wanted and interfering signals
(e.g. 27 resource blocks of the wanted and interfering signals in case of
component carrier of 108 resource blocks). Also the required increase of the
frequency offset from the DC subcarrier of the aggregation edge CC to the
nominal aggregated channel edge (relative to which interfering signal offsets
shall apply) will require additional considerations. Furthermore, for any
given _N_ ~RB~ >100, these increased frequency offsets are expected to differ
for the various aggregation cases but would need to be reflected in the
specifications.
Extensions to cater for the case of intra-band non-contiguous Component
Carrier aggregation need to be considered keeping in mind the co-existence
issues between uncoordinated systems.
#### 5.4.3.5 Performance requirements
In LTE Rel-8, demodulation performance requirements for the BS are specified
for defined fixed reference channels and propagation conditions.
For UL carrier aggregation within DC-HSUPA demodulation performance
requirements are derived from existing HSUPA requirements on a per-carrier
basis, without the need to introduce additional Fixed Reference Channels. If
the same approach is also utilized for CC aggregation in LTE-Advanced, Rel-8
demodulation performance requirements can be re-used, provided the Rel-8
E-UTRA transmission bandwidth configurations are maintained. For component
carriers with _N_ ~RB~ >100 additional performance requirements would be
needed, requiring the introduction of new Fixed Reference Channels together
with their corresponding performance requirements which require additional
link level simulation results.
Additional requirements to support further features of LTE-Advanced, e.g.
uplink single-user spatial multiplexing, need to be considered.
### 5.4.4 Implementation feasibility of carrier aggregation scenarios
This Subclause discusses aspects related to the implementation feasibility of
the carrier aggregation scenarios in clause 5.1.2. The discussion is limited
to FDD and to the wide area BS class.
##### 5.4.2.5.1 Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation
One important aspect for Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation is the
maximum bandwidth which can be expected for transmit and receive across a
single antenna connector. The BS transmit direction is understood to be more
limiting than BS receive, due to the required high power linear PAs. A typical
DAPD PAs optimized for Rel-8 LTE may have a usable bandwidth of 20 MHz.
Extending the usable bandwidth to > 20 MHz while maintaining the same output
power spectrum density level leads to the following design challenges:
• increasing the bandwidth will make linearization more challenging (DAPD,
clipping,...), leading potentially to lower PA output power and reduced
efficiency.
• LTE-Advanced would need to evolve from the transmit powers per CC (or per
MHz) used on existing Rel-8 LTE sites. This would require higher PA output
power.
• TX IMD products may fall into the own receive channels for operating bands
with narrow duplex gap.
• offset of the own RX channels to the edge of the used TX band decreases,
which makes it more difficult to achieve the necessary attenuation of spurious
emissions to protect the own receiver.
While there is potential to evolve the usable bandwidth of current PA
technologies beyond 20 MHz, performance degradations, e.g., reduced output
power per CC compared to 20 MHz Rel-8 LTE need to be considered. At the same
time the combining of CCs going through separate PAs based on \"air-
combining\" will either require multiple transmit antennas or lossy wideband
combiners as diplexers are not feasible for contiguous CCs. Therefore, in
order to facilitate also > 20 MHz CA with a RF performance per CC aligned with
that of a Rel-8 LTE 20 MHz CC, the specifications should also support CA with
a PA BW ≤ 20 MHz..
These aspects are relevant for the contiguous carrier aggregation scenarios
with DL aggregation bandwidths of > 20 MHz i.e. FDD Scenarios # 1, #4 and #11.
The remaining FDD scenarios, have a maximum contiguous aggregated DL bandwidth
of ≤ 20 MHz per band (or are intra-band non- contiguous CA) and are not
impacted by PA BW limitations.
##### 5.4.2.5.2 Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation
The limitations in the usable PA bandwidth discussed in Subclause 5.4.2.5.1
apply also for Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation with a single PA.
When the resulting frequency range from the lowest CC to the highest CC
exceeds the PA bandwidth, transmission using multiple PAs needs to be
considered, together with either \"air-combining\" using multiple transmit
antennas or, alternatively, some RF combining approach. These remarks are
relevant for Scenarios #4, #5 and #12.
##### 5.4.2.5.3 Inter-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation
Inter-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation requires the use of multiple
PAs. The relationship between the number of operating bands and antenna
connectors has already been discussed in Subclauses 5.4.2.1. Naturally, the
same issues regarding the per-band CA mentioned in Subclauses 5.4.2.5.1 and
5.4.2.5.2 apply here as well. However, in addition to the possible need for
separate antenna connectors (and larger BS configurations) on a per-band
basis, Inter-band CA is not seen to pose specific implementation issues.
##### 5.4.2.5.4 Aspects related to MIMO multi-TX
As shown the previous subclauses, CA might require the use of more than one
transmit antenna (PA). If in addition MIMO is used, the number of required
transmit antennas (PA) is to be multiplied accordingly. As an example,
Scenario #1 using 8x8 MIMO leads to very large BS configurations when compared
to typical 3G (or Rel-8 LTE) sites of today.
## 5.5 TS 36.133 requirements enhancements
As already in LTE Rel-8 and also in LTE-Advanced robust general minimum RRM
requirements ensure good mobility performance across the cellular network for
various mobile speeds and different network deployments. The minimum RRM
requirements are defined both in idle mode and in active mode. In Active mode
the requirements are defined both without DRX and with DRX in order to ensure
that good mobility performance in all cases. Different network controlled
parameter values for cell reselection in idle mode and for handover in active
mode can be utilised for optimising mobility performance in different
scenarios, which also include low mobility and high mobility scenarios.
# 6 Conclusions
This TR contains the outcomes of the RAN WG4 related studies on the technical
feasibility of LTE-Advanced.
The studies related to carrier aggregation used LTE-Advanced deployment
scenarios which were based on operator\'s input.
It is concluded that with LTE-Advanced it will be possible to contiguously
aggregate component carriers in a spectrum efficient way, provided, the
spacing between centre frequencies of component carriers is a multiple of 300
kHz.
UE architectures options to support the carrier aggregation scenarios were
identified and feasible BS configurations to support the selected aggregation
scenarios were found.
The impact of the carrier aggregation scenarios on the UE and BS RF
requirements was also investigated. It was found that the LTE-Advanced RF
requirements can be based on the re-use of existing structure of LTE Rel-8
requirements in a \"building block\" manner.
###### ### Annex A: ITU Template response
# A.1 ITU Description template -- characteristics template
The description template -- characteristics (4.2.3.2) is found in Annex C.1 in
TR 36.912 [10].
# A.2 ITU Description template -- characteristics response (RAN4)
The description template -- characteristics response is found in Annex C.1 in
TR 36.912 [10].
#