# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the \"UMTS/LTE in 800 MHz for
Europe\" work item which was approved at TSG RAN #43 [2]. The purpose of this
work item is to provide specification support for LTE and UMTS with paired
channel arrangement in the band 790-862 MHz.
The report provides motivation for requirements and a list of recommended
changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-090156, \"UMTS/LTE in 800 MHz for Europe\"
[3] ECC/DEC/(09)03 \"Harmonised conditions for MFCN in the band 790-862 MHz\",
30 Oct. 2009
[4] CEPT Report 30: Report from CEPT to the European Commission in response to
the Mandate on \"The identification of common and minimal (least restrictive)
technical conditions for 790 862 MHz for the digital dividend in the European
Union\" 2009-11-11
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
CEPT: European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations
DTT: Digital Terrestrial Television
ECC: European Communications Committee (of CEPT). See www.eco.dk
EU: European Union
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Task description
The purpose of this work item is to provide specification support for LTE and
UMTS with paired channel arrangement in the band 790-862 MHz. The following
tasks should be done:
a) Study UMTS/LTE in upper UHF band for a potential deployment in ITU Region
1. Generate a new technical report based on study results. The specific band
to be studied is 790-862 MHz with FDD arrangements.
b) Develop channel arrangement in line with the pending ECC decision.
c) Generate CR\'s to update the appropriate documents
d) TSG RAN WG2: Study signalling issues related to UMTS/LTE in the UHF band
(FDD only).
e) Study any additional related issues.
## 4.2 Regulatory framework for the band
### 4.2.1 Background
The 2007 ITU-R World Radiocommmunication Conference (WRC-07) allocated the
band 790-862MHz to the mobile service in ITU-R Region 1 (broadly; Europe,
Middle East and Africa) and identified it for IMT. These provisions come fully
into effect on 17th June 2015, although many countries already have national
allocations to the mobile service in this frequency range by footnote.
In April 2008, the European Commission issued a mandate to CEPT on the digital
dividend (second Mandate to CEPT on technical considerations regarding
harmonisation options for the digital dividend in the European Union). In this
Mandate:
\"CEPT is mandated to carry out the technical investigations to define the
technical conditions applicable for the sub-band 790-862 MHz optimised for,
but not limited to, fixed/mobile communications networks (two-way). The CEPT
is requested to study more specifically:
1) The identification of common and minimal (least restrictive) technical
conditions....
2) The development of the most appropriate channelling arrangement: in
addition to (1), the CEPT is requested to develop channelling arrangements
that are sufficiently precise for the development of EU-wide equipment, but at
the same time allow Member States to adapt these to national circumstances and
market demand....\"
The results of these studies are documented in CEPT Reports 30 and 31, which
were approved at the 23rd meeting of ECC, in June 2009.
The 22nd meeting of ECC decided to develop an ECC Decision \"on harmonised
conditions for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks operating in the band
790-862 MHz\", with the same frequency arrangement and technical conditions as
are described in CEPT Reports 30 and 31. This decision ECC/DEC/(09)03 was
approved by the 23rd meeting of ECC to be submitted for public comment, and
was finally approved by the 24th meeting of ECC in October 2009.
# 5 Study of UTRA requirements
## 5.1 Band and channel arrangement
For the band 790-862 MHz the band arrangement for Europe is detailed in
subclause 4.2. The band is arranged as 2x30 MHz with 11 MHz duplex gap:
\- FDD Uplink: 832 -- 862 MHz
\- FDD Downlink: 791 -- 821 MHz
Note the reverse duplex arrangement to protect broadcast receivers below the
band.
The band is given number XX
The band is expected to be allocated in blocks of 5 MHz. Thus there does not
seem to be a need for additional channel numbers beside the default 200 kHz
channel raster. UARFCN definitions are given in table 5.1-1 and 5.1-2
Table 5.1-1: UARFCN definition (general)
+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Band | UPLINK | D | | | | | | | (UL) | OWNLINK | | | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | tr | UE | | | | | | | ansmit, | r | | | | | | | Node B | eceive, | | | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | offset | equency | offset | equency | | | | | | (F~UL~) | | (F~DL~) | | | | | F~UL_ | range | F~DL_ | range | | | | | Offset~ | [MHz] | Offset~ | [MHz] | | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | | | +------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | F~U | F~UL | | F~D | F~DL | | | | L_low~ | _high~ | | L_low~ | _high~ | +------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XX | -23 | 834.4 | 859.6 | -109 | 793.4 | 818.6 | +------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 5.1-2: UARFCN definition (additional channels)
+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Band | UPLINK (UL) | DOWNLINK | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE transmit, | | | | | | Node B | UE receive, | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | transmit | | | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | formula | frequency | formula | frequency | | | offset | [MHz] | offset | [MHz] | | | | | | | | | F | (F~UL~) | F | (F~DL~) | | | ~UL_Offset~ | | ~DL_Offset~ | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XX | - | - | - | - | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
## 5.2 Specific UE requirements
The UE requirements for LTE are based on band 8 performance, see subclause
6.2. Likewise the UE requirements for band XX can be based on band VIII
requirements.
## 5.3 BS specific requirements
The BS requirements for LTE are based on band 8 performance, see subclause
6.3. Likewise the BS requirements for band XX can be based on band VIII
requirements.
# 6 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 6.1 Band and channel arrangement
For the band 790-862 MHz the band arrangement for Europe is detailed in
subclause 4.2. The band is arranged as 2x30 MHz with 11 MHz duplex gap:
\- FDD Uplink: 832 -- 862 MHz
\- FDD Downlink: 791 -- 821 MHz
Note the reverse duplex arrangement to protect broadcast receivers below the
band.
The band is given number 20. EARFCN definitions are given in table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1 EARFCN definition for band 20. Band 17-19 shown for reference.
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ ...  
17 734 5730 5730 -- 5849 704 23730 23730 -- 23849 18 860 5850 5850 -- 5999 815
23850 23850 -- 23999 19 875 6000 6000 -- 6149 830 24000 24000 -- 24149 20 791
6150 6150 -- 6449 832 24150 24150 -- 24449
* * *
### 6.1.1 Channel bandwidths specified for Band 20
For Band [20] specification of radio requirements are considered for the
bandwidths shown in Table 6.1.X-1. Some other bands below 1 GHz are also shown
for reference.
Table 5.6.1-1: E-UTRA channel bandwidth
* * *
E-UTRA band / channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 5 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
6 Yes Yes  
8 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
12 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
13 Yes Yes  
14 Yes Yes  
...  
17 Yes Yes  
20 Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
## 6.2 Coexistence with other technologies
The technical conditions defined in Annex 3 of the ECC Decision are intended
to provide coexistence between mobile technologies deployed within the
791-821MHz and 832-862MHz bands.
Studies have been conducted within ECC on coexistence with services in
neighbouring frequency bands (in particular digital terrestrial television
broadcasting), which are documented in CEPT Report 30 [4].
For the preferred harmonised frequency arrangement , there will be some
interleaved spectrum in the FDD duplex gap. Several uses can be envisaged
(e.g. low power applications such as PMSE) on a non protected/ non interfering
basis in this interleaved spectrum.The technical conditions defined in Annex 3
of the Decision are intended to prevent interference from these applications
to UE and BS operating in the preferred harmonised frequency arrangement.
## 6.3 UE specific requirements
### 6.3.1 Spurious emissions
Band 20 is intended for deployment in Europe, so Category B spurious emissions
will apply. Annex 3 of the Decision states that the out-of-band requirements:
> \"apply without prejudice to spurious emission requirements (which continue
> to apply). This document (i.e. the Decision) does not address spurious
> emission levels; this is the responsibility of the standards development
> organisations (SDOs) . The technical conditions for these terminals are
> defined relative to the channel edge to enable them to be taken into account
> by the SDOs.\"
The spurious emission limit for protecting DTV shall be -65 dBm/8MHz measured
with the filter centered on 786 MHz. The requirement shall be applicable to
band 20 only.
The method for including the requirement in TS 36.101 is FFS.
### 6.3.2 Reference sensitivity level
Table 7.3.1-1 in TS 36.101 defines the reference sensitivity for the receiver
and Table 7.3.1-2 specifies the minimum number of allocated uplink resource
blocks for which the reference receive sensitivity requirement must be met.
For band 20 the following values applies:
Table 7.3.1-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
+-------------------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------------+ | Channel bandwidth | | | | | | | | +-------------------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Duplex Mode | | | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +-------------------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------------+ | 20 | | | [-97] | [-94] | [TBD] | [TBD] | FDD | +-------------------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------------+
Table 7.3.1-2: Minimum uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 20 [25] [25]
[TBD] [TBD] FDD
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc258008016 .anchor}
### 6.3.3 Blocking characteristics
The working assumption for blocking levels is outlined below:
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Out of band blocking
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Units | Fr | | | | | band | rameter | | equency | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | range 1 | range 2 | range 3 | range 4 | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | [-44] | [-30] | [-15] | -15 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1, 2, | F~Inte | MHz | F~D | F~D | F~D | - | | 3, 4, 5 | rferer~ | | L_low~ | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | 6, 7, | | | | | | | | 8, 9, | | | F~D | F~D | 1 MHz | | | 10 | | | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | ,11,12, | | | -60 | -85 | | | | 13, 17, | | | | | | | | 18, 19, | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | 33,34, | | | | | | | | 35, 36, | | | | | | | | 37, 38, | | | | | | | | 39, 40 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | F~DL | F~DL | F~DL | - | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~DL | +12750 | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | MHz | | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2, 5, | F~Inte | MHz | - | - | - | F~U | | 12, 17 | rferer~ | | | | | L_low\ | | | | | | | | **-** ~ | | | | | | | | F~UL | | | | | | | | _high~ | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | - | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.3.4 Maximum Output power, MPR and A-MPR
#### 6.3.4.1 Maximum Output Power
The ECC Decision [aa] defines the maximum mean in-block power for mobile
terminals to be 23dBm, measured as TRP (total radiated power). A footnote to
this value states:
It is recognised that this value is subject to a tolerance of up to +2 dB, to
take account of operation under extreme environmental conditions and
production spread.
This is consistent with the definition of UE Power Class 3 for other E-UTRA
bands.
The UE power class 3 for Band 20 should have the same maximum output power of
23dBm and tolerance of ±2dB. However, the ECC Decision [3] only defines the
upper boundary of the tolerance, because the lower boundary is not relevant
for regulatory purposes.
Administrations may relax this limit in certain situations, for example fixed
TS in rural areas, providing that protection of other services, networks and
applications is not compromised and cross-border obligations are fulfilled.
This will allow the future definition of UE power classes with higher output
powers for this band.
By measure of Relative Duplex Gap (Gap Width/Gap Centre Freq) Band 20 is 4th
challenging the relative duplex Gap = 1.33% (11 MHz/826.5 MHz). Based on
previous RAN4 decisions bands having relative duplex gap smaller than 1.75%
were entitled to have band edge Tx tolerance relaxation. However band 20 shall
also be entitled to the relaxation.
Table 6.2.2-1: UE Power Class
* * *
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) 20 23 ±2^2^  
Note 2: For transmission bandwidths (Figure 5.6-1) confined within F~UL_low~
and F~UL_low~ + 4 MHz or F~UL_high~ -- 4 MHz and F~UL_high~, the maximum
output power requirement is relaxed by reducing the lower tolerance limit by
1.5 dB
* * *
#### 6.3.4.2 Maximum Power Reduction (MPR)
The existing band-independent requirements for MPR in section 6.2.3 also apply
to the UE power class for Band 20.
## 6.4 BS specific requirements
The regulatory requirements are based on EIRP, i.e. radiated power from the
antenna. The BS requirements are based on conducted power at the antenna
connector. The EIRP will depend both on the emissions at the antenna connector
as well as feeder losses, antenna gain and number of antennas.
To incorporate the regulatory requirements into the specifications the
following steps are done:
> • The manufacturer declares the maximum emission level in each TV channel.
>
> • The requirement is written so that the emissions shall not exceed the
> levels requirements specified by the manufacturer, see subsection 6.4.1. The
> corresponding test is introduced in the test specification.
>
> • An informative annex is intoduced that explains how the requirements
> outlined in section 6.4.2 may be used to assess compliance with the
> regulatory requirements.
### 6.4.1 Specification text for DTT protection requirements
In certain regions the following requirement may apply for protection of DTT.
For E-UTRA BS operating in Band 20, the level of emissions in the band 470-790
MHz, measured in an 8MHz filter bandwidth on centre frequencies F~filter~
according to Table 6.6.3.3-4, shall not exceed the maximum emission level
P~EM,N~ declared by the manufacturer. This requirement also applies for the
frequency range 470-780 MHz.
Table 6.6.3.3-4: Declared emissions levels for protection of DTT
* * *
Filter centre frequency, F~filter~ Measurement bandwidth Declared emission
level [dBm]
F~filter~ = 8*N + 306 (MHz);\ 8 MHz P~EM,N~ 21 ≤ N ≤ 60
* * *
Note: The regional requirement is defined in terms of EIRP (effective
isotropic radiated power), which is dependent on both the BS emissions at the
antenna connector and the deployment (including antenna gain and feeder loss).
The requirement defined above provides the characteristics of the basestation
needed to verify compliance with the regional requirement. Compliance with the
regional requirement can be determined using the method outlined in Annex G.
### 6.4.2 Informative text to explain how regulatory compliance can be
assessed
The European Communications Committee (ECC) has adopted the \"ECC Decision on
harmonised conditions for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks operating in
the band 790-862 MHz\" applicable for BS operating in band 20. The decision
defines a requirement for \"Out-of-block BEM baseline requirements for
\'mobile/fixed communications network\' (MFCN) base stations within the
spectrum allocated to the broadcasting (DTT) service\", where three different
cases A, B, and C for protecting broadcasting DTT are defined. These cases can
be applied on a per-channel and/or per-region basis, i.e. for the same channel
different cases can be applied in different geographic areas (e.g. area
related to DTT coverage) and different cases can be applied to different
channels in the same geographic area.
For band 20, compliance with the regulatory requirements in Europe referenced
above can be assessed based on the manufacturer\'s declaration of P~EM,N~
specified in subclause 6.6.3.3, together with the deployment characteristics.
Maximum output Power in 10 MHz (P~10MHz~) is also declared by the
manufacturer. The parameters G~ant~ and N~ant~ are deployment specific
parameters related to the deployment of the BS, where G~ant~ is the antenna
gain and N~ant~ is the number of antennas.
For each channel (N) the EIRP level is calculated using: P~EIRP,N~ = P~EM,N~ +
G~ant~ + 10*log(N~ant~ ). The regulatory requirement in [x] limits the EIRP
level to the Maximum level in Table X-1 for the protection case(s) defined in
the regulation.
Table X-1: EIRP limits for protection of broadcasting (DTT) service
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case | Measurement | Condition | Maximum | Measurement | | | filter | on BS | Level | Bandwidth | | | centre | maximum | | | | | frequency | aggregate | P~ | | | | | EIRP / 10 | EIRP,N,MAX~ | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | P~E | | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | | | | | | | (Note) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A: for DTT | N*8 + 306 | P~E | 0 dBm | 8 MHz | | frequencies | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | where | | ≥ 59 dBm | | | | b | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | | roadcasting | | | | | | is | | | | | | protected | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | 36 ≤ | P~E | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | P~E | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | -- 59 dBm | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | \< 59 dBm | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | P~E | -23 dBm | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | \< 36 dBm | | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B: for DTT | N*8 + 306 | P~E | 10 dBm | 8 MHz | | frequencies | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | where | | ≥ 59 dBm | | | | b | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | | roadcasting | | | | | | is subject | | | | | | to an | | | | | | i | | | | | | ntermediate | | | | | | level of | | | | | | protection | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | 36 ≤ | P~E | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | P~E | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | -- 49 dBm | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | \< 59 dBm | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | P~E | -13 dBm | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | \< 36 dBm | | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C: for DTT | N*8 + 306 | N.A. | 22 dBm | 8 MHz | | frequencies | MHz, | | | | | where | | | | | | b | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | | roadcasting | | | | | | is not | | | | | | protected | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | P~E | | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | (dBm) is | | | | | | defined by | | | | | | the | | | | | | expression | | | | | | P~E | | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | = P~10MHz~ | | | | | | + G~ant~ + | | | | | | 10*l | | | | | | og10(N~ant~ | | | | | | ) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 7\. Summary of changes to UTRA specifications
Table 7-1 required changes to TS 25.101
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.2 Frequency bands The frequwency
range of band XX is added to table 5.0 5.3 TX-RX frequency separation The
frequency separation of band XX is added 5.0A 5.4.3 Channel number The channel
numbers in clause 5 are added to tables 5.1 and 5.1A 6.2.1 UE maximum output
power The band is added to table 6.1 6.6.3.1 Spurious emission requirements
Protection of band XX is added for UEs supporting band I, III, VII and VIII.
Band XX need to protect these band as well. 6.6.3.1A Additional spurious
emission requirement for DC-HSUPA See above 7.3.1 Reference sensitivity The
band is added to table 7.2 7.3.2 Reference sensitivity for DC-HSDPA The band
is added to table 7.2A 7.6.1 In-band blocking The band is added to table 7.6
7.6.1A Additional requirement for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA The band is added
to table 7.6A 7.6.2 Out of band blocking The band is added to table 7.7 7.6.2A
Additional requirement for DC-HSDPA The band is added to table 7.7AA 7.9.1
Receiver spurious emission requirements Protection of band XX is added for UEs
supporting band I, III, VII and VIII. Band XX need to protect these band as
well B.2.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions The band is added to table
B,1, B1.B, B.1C, B.1D and B.1E B.2.6.1 MIMO Single Stream Fading Conditions
The band is added to table B.4 B.2.6.2 MIMO Dual Stream Fading Conditions The
band is added to table B.5 E.2 List of UARFCN used for UTRA FDD bands The
channel numbers in clause 5 are added to table E.1
* * *
Table 7-2 required changes to TS 25.104
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 2 References A reference to ECC
decision covering the band is added. 3.2 Abbreviations DTT is added 5.2
Frequency bands The frequwency range of band XX is added to table 5.0 5.3 TX-
RX frequency separation The frequency separation of band XX is added 5.0A
5.4.3 Channel number The channel numbers in clause 5 are added to tables 5.1
and 5.1A 6.6.2 Out of band emission An extra requirement is added for DTT
protection 6.6.3.2 Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS The
band is added to tables: 6.10, 6.10A, 6.10B and 6.10C 6.6.3.3 Co-existence
with other systems in the same geographical area The band is added to table
6.11 6.6.3.4 Co-existence with co-located and co-sited base stations The band
is added to tables: 6.12, 6.13 and 6.14 6.6.3.9 Co-existence with Home BS
operating in other bands The band is added to table 6.20 7.5.1 Blocking
characteristics The band is added to tables: 7.4, 7.4A and 7.4B 7.5.2 Co-
location blocking requirements The band is added to tables: 7.5C, 7.5D and
7.5E 7.7 Receiver Spurious emissions The band is added to table 7.7A B.2
Multi-path fading propagation conditions The band is added to table B.2 B.5
Multipath fading propagation conditions for E DPDCH and E-DPCCH The band is
added to table B.5 D Regional requirement for protection of DTT (informative)
Clause is added to explain how regulatory compliance can be assessed.
* * *
Table 7-3 required changes to TS 25.113
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band The
receiver exclusion range is added for the band
* * *
Table 7-4 required changes to TS 25.133
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.2.2.5a Measurements of inter-RAT
E-UTRA cells Band 20 is added using the same levels as band 8 8.1.2.6.1
Identification of a new cell Band 20 is added using the same levels as band 8
9.1.1.1.1 CPICH_RSCP Intra frequency absolute accuracy Band XX is added using
the same levels as band VIII 9.1.1.1.2 CPICH_RSCP Intra frequency relative
accuracy Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.1.2.1
CPICH_RSCP Inter frequency relative accuracy Band XX is added using the same
levels as band VIII 9.1.2.1.1 CPICH_Ec/Io Intra frequency absolute accuracy
Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.2.1.2 CPICH_Ec/Io
Intra frequency relative accuracy Band XX is added using the same levels as
band VIII 9.1.2.2.1 CPICH_Ec/Io Inter frequency absolute accuracy Band XX is
added using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.2.2.2 CPICH_Ec/Io Inter frequency
relative accuracy Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.3.1
RSSI Inter frequency absolute accuracy Band XX is added using the same levels
as band VIII 9.1.3.2 RSSI Inter frequency relative accuracy Band XX is added
using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.7.1 CELL_DCH Intra frequency
measurement requirement Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII
9.1.7.2 CELL_DCH Inter frequency measurement requirement Band XX is added
using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.8.1.1 Measurement requirement Band XX
is added using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.8.2.1 Intra frequency
measurement requirement accuracy without IPDL period active Band XX is added
using the same levels as band VIII 9.1.8.2.2 Intra frequency measurement
requirement accuracy with IPDL period active Band XX is added using the same
levels as band VIII 9.1.8.2.3 Inter frequency measurement requirement accuracy
Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII A.9.1.1.1.1 Intra
frequency test parameters Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII
A.9.1.1.1.2 Inter frequency test parameters Band XX is added using the same
levels as band VIII A.9.1.2.1.1 Intra frequency test parameters Band XX is
added using the same levels as band VIII A.9.1.2.1.2 Inter frequency test
parameters Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII A.9.1.2.2 CPICH
Ec/Io Test Requirements Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII
A.9.1.3.1 Test Purpose and Environment Band XX is added using the same levels
as band VIII A.9.1.3.2 Test Requirements Band XX is added using the same
levels as band VIII A.9.1.4.1.1 Intra frequency test parameters Band XX is
added using the same levels as band VIII A.9.1.4.1.2 Inter frequency test
parameters Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII A.9.1.5.1.1
Test Purpose and Environment Band XX is added using the same levels as band
VIII A.9.1.5.2.1 Test Purpose and Environment Band XX is added using the same
levels as band VIII A.9.1.6.1.1 Test Purpose and Environment Band XX is added
using the same levels as band VIII A.9.1.6.2.1 Test Purpose and Environment
Band XX is added using the same levels as band VIII
* * *
Table 7-5 required changes to TS 25.141
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 3.3 Abbreviations DTT is added 3.4.1
Frequency bands The frequwency range of band XX is added to table 3.0 3.4.2
TX-RX frequency separation The frequency separation of band XX is added 3.0A
3.5.3 Channel number The channel numbers in clause 5 are added to tables 3.1
and 3.1A 6.5.2.1.5 Out of band emission An extra requirement is added for DTT
protection 6.5.3.7.3 Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS The
band is added to tables: 6.37, 6.37A, 6.37B and 6.37C 6.5.3.7.4 Co-existence
with other systems in the same geographical area The band is added to table
6.38 6.5.3.7.5 Co-existence with co-located and co-sited base stations The
band is added to tables: 6.39, 6.40 and 6.41 6.5.3.7.10 Co-existence with Home
BS operating in other bands The band is added to table 6.47 7.5.5 Blocking
characteristics The band is added to tables: 7.4K, 7.4L and 7.4M, 7.4N, 7.4P,
7.4Q 7.7.5 Receiver Spurious emissions The band is added to table 7.7A D.2
Multi-path fading propagation conditions The band is added to table D.1 D.5
Multipath fading propagation conditions for E DPDCH and E-DPCCH The band is
added to table D.3
* * *
Table 7-6 required changes to TS 34.101
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.4 Receiver exclusion band The
receiver exclusion range is added for the band
* * *
# 8\. Summary of changes to E-UTRA specifications
The necessary changes to the specifications are chown in Table 8-1 to 8-6
Table 8-1 Required changes to TS 36.101
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.5 Frequency band (Operating bands)
A new row for the band in table 5.5-1 5.6.1 Channel bandwidths per operating
band Channel bandwidths 5-20 MHz are added to Table 5.6.1-1. 5.7.3 Channel
number (EARFCN) A new channel numbering for the band in table 5.7.3-1 5.7.4 TX
--RX frequency separation A new row for the band in table 5.7.4-1 6.2.2 UE
Maximum Output Power A new row for the band in table 6.6.2-1 6.2.4 UE Maximum
Output Power with additional requirements A new NSxx value is defined for use
with reference sensitivity in Table 6.2.4-1. A new table is added for NS_10
outlining A-MPR regions. 6.6.3.2 Spurious emission band UE co-existence The
band is added to table 6.6.3.2-1 protecting E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 7, 8, 33, 34,
38, 39, 40 7.3.1 Reference sensitivity The reference sensitivity is assed to
tables Table 7.3.1-1 and the UL allocation of 25 RB in table 7.3.1-2. The
reference sensitivity for 20 MHz is measured using NS_10, noted in table
7.3.1-3 7.3.2 Requirement for large transmission configurations The band is
added to Table 7.3.2-1 7.6.1 In-band blocking The band is added to Table
7.6.1.1-2 7.6.2 Out-of-band blocking The band is added to Table 7.6.2.1-2
* * *
Table 8-2 Required changes to TS 36.104
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 3.2 Symbols Add new symbols for the
DTT requirements 3.3 Abbreviations Add DTT abbreviation 5.5 Frequency band
(Operating bands) A new row for the band in table 5.5-1 5.7.3 Channel number
(EARFCN) A new channel numbering for the band in table 5.7.3-1 6.6.3.2
Operating band unwanted emissions category B Add the band to category B option
1 6.6.3.3 Additional requirements (operating band unwanted emissions) Add new
subsection to capture the requirements for DTT protection. 6.6.4.3 Coexistence
spurious emission requirements Add new band to table 6.6.4.3.1-1 6.6.4.4 Co-
location spurious emission requirements Add new band to table 6.6.4.4.1-1
7.6.1 Blocking requirements Add new band to table 7.6.1.1-1 7.6.2 Colocation
blocking requirements Add new band to table 7.6.2.1-1 Annex G Regional
requirement for protection of DTT Add new annex explaining how to use the
declared values in 6.6.3.3 to assess compliance with regulatory requirements.
* * *
Table 8-3 Required changes to TS 36.113
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band Add new
line for the band
* * *
Table 8-4 Required changes to TS 36.124
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.4 Receiver exclusion band Add new
line for the band
* * *
Table 8-5 Required changes to TS 36.133
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 3.2 Symbols Add new symbols for the
DTT requirements 4.2.2.3 Measurements of intra-frequency E-UTRAN cells The
band is added using the same parameters as band 8 4.2.2.4 Measurements of
inter-frequency E-UTRAN cells The band is added using the same parameters as
band 8 8.1.2 UE Measurements Procedures in RRC_CONNECTED State The band is
added using the same parameters as band 8 9.1 E-UTRAN measurements performance
requirements The band is added using the same parameters as band 8 A.9.1 Test
parameters for performance requirements The band is added using the same
parameters as band 8
* * *
Table 8-6 Required changes to TS 36.141
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 3.2 Symbols Add new symbols for the
DTT requirements 3.3 Abbreviations Add DTT abbreviation 4.6.5 Additional
operating band unwanted emissions Add declared parameters to the subclause.
5.5 Frequency band (Operating bands) A new row for the band in table 5.5-1
5.7.3 Channel number (EARFCN) A new channel numbering for the band in table
5.7.3-1 6.6.3.5.2 Operating band unwanted emissions category B Add the band to
category B option 1 6.6.3.5.3 Additional requirements (operating band unwanted
emissions) Add new subsection to capture the requirements for DTT protection.
6.6.4.5.4 Coexistence spurious emission requirements Add new band to table
6.6.4.5.4.1-1 6.6.4.5.5 Co-location spurious emission requirements Add new
band to table 6.6.4.5.5.1-1 7.6.5.1 Blocking requirements Add new band to
table 7.6-2 7.6.5.2 Colocation blocking requirements Add new band to table
7.6-3 Annex G.1 Measurement of transmitter Add test tolerance to table G.1-1
* * *
#