# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the Extended UMTS/LTE 1500 work
item, which was established at TSG RAN#44. The objective of this work item is
to provide UTRA and E-UTRA specification support for FDD in the Extended 1500
MHz band in Japan. In addition to the schedule and status of the work items,
the report includes a description of the motivation, requirements, study
results and specification recommendations.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-090469, "**1.5 GHz band plan for UMTS and LTE in Japan** ", RAN#44
[3] RP-090470, "Work Item proposal for Extended UMTS/LTE **1500 MHz band in
Japan** ", RAN#44
[4] \"Report of technical conditions concerning effective use of 1.5 GHz
band\" (In Japanese, Dec. 21, 2006)
http://www.soumu.go.jp/joho_tsusin/policyreports/joho_tsusin/pdf/061221_2.pdf
[5] R4-092407, "**Technical conditions applied for extended UMTS/LTE1500 in
Japan", RAN4#51bis**
[6] "For Introduction of the 3.9-Generation Mobile Communications System"
(Dec. 11, 2008),
http://www.soumu.go.jp/main_sosiki/joho_tsusin/eng/Releases/Telecommunications/news081211_3.html
[7] "Introduction of 3.9G wireless communication systems" (In Japanese, Dec.
11, 2008), MIC, http://www.soumu.go.jp/s-news/2008/081211_3.html
[8] "Report of technical conditions of **3.9G wireless communication systems**
" (In Japanese, Dec. 11, 2008), MIC,\
http://www.soumu.go.jp/joho_tsusin/policyreports/joho_tsusin/bunkakai/pdf/081211_1_si1-2.pdf
[9] R4-091858 "Output power and sensitivity: operating band edge relaxations,"
Ericsson, RAN4#51
[10] R4-091742 "Band edge requirement relaxation TC and RC," Nokia, RAN4#51
[11] R4-051307 "Band VIII Rx sensitivity," Motorola, RAN4#37
[12] 3GPP TS 25.101V9.0.0: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)"
[13] 3GPP TS 36.101V9.2.0: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
UE User Equipment
BS Base station
UL Uplink (Reverse Link)
DL Downlink (Forward Link)
# 4 Background
The work item for UMTS1500 in Japan which corresponds to Band XI (UL: 1427.9
-- 1452.9 MHz / DL: 1475.9 -- 1500.9 MHz) had been completed in September
2007. The UMTS commercial services for this band have not been launched yet.
Meanwhile the study on the technical conditions for LTE has been conducted by
the Telecommunications Council of Japan which includes co-existence studies
with the following existing technologies: Radio astronomy systems and Mobile
satellite communications service. Based on the study outcomes, MIC (Ministry
of Internal Affairs and Communications) elaborated draft guidelines for
establishment of specified base stations for the introduction of the
3.9-generation mobile communications system and consulted with the Radio
Regulatory Council about the guideline. The Council endorsed the guideline
which contains the frequency re-arrangement plan for the 1.5 GHz band as shown
in Fig. 4-1 [2]. The band plan is constituted from three component sub-bands.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.207638888888889in"}
Note 1: In some certain regions in Japan, 1503.35MHz -- 1510.9MHz will not be
feasible for IMT-2000 systems until the end of March 2014.
  * Block A: UL: 1427.9 -- 1437.9 MHz / DL:1475.9 -- 1485.9 MHz
  * Block B: UL: 1437.9 -- 1447.9 MHz / DL:1485.9 -- 1495.9 MHz
  * Block C: UL: 1447.9 -- 1462.9 MHz / DL:1495.9 -- 1510.9 MHz
Figure 4-1: Frequency re-arrangement plan for 1.5GHz bands in Japan
Based on the above allocation, we note that existing Band 11 (36.101) and XI
(25.101) as shown below are not aligned with the above MIC block allocation.
* * *
TS25.101 XI UL : 1427.9 - 1452.9 MHz DL : 1475.9 - 1500.9 MHz TS36.101 11 UL :
1427.9 - 1452.9 MHz DL : 1475.9 - 1500.9 MHz
* * *
In particular we note that only block A and B are a sub-set of existing band
XI/11
We note an existing duplexer cannot support block A, B and C without requiring
a split band approach. Hence considering the existing Band 11 / XI allocation
and the new band plan (Block A/B/C) and taking into practical RF
implementation, it is proposed that existing Band 11 / XI is redefined by with
reduction of 5MHz bandwidth and a new band is also specified.
* * *
New Band 11 / XI UL : 1427.9 -- 1447.9 MHz DL : 1475.9 -- 1495.9 MHz New Band
Y UL : 1447.9 -- 1462.9 MHz DL : 1495.9 -- 1510.9 MHz
* * *
However to allow future performance enhancements in duplexer technologies, it
is proposed that UE which can support the existing Band XI/ 11 and the new
operating band a relaxation could be allowed in the specification similar to
that adopted for band 3 and band 9.
## 4.1 Task description
The purpose of this work item is to:
a) Study of Extended UMTS/LTE 1500 for a potential deployment in Japan.
Generate a new technical report based on the study results.
> The specific bands to be studied are:
>
> Band XI / 11 with reduction of 5MHz bandwidth for UMTS/LTE [Block A, Block
> B]:
>
> \- 1427.9 -- 1447.9 MHz: Up-link
>
> \- 1475.9 -- 1495.9 MHz: Down-link
>
> Band Y for UMTS/LTE [Block C]:
>
> \- 1447.9 -- 1462.9 MHz: Up-link
>
> \- 1495.9 -- 1510.9 MHz: Down-link
>
> In addition to the above study, for terminals which support both Band XI /
> 11 with reduction of 5MHz bandwidth and Band Y a suitable relaxation in the
> specification would be defined.
b) Generate CR's to update the appropriate documents
c) TSG RAN WG2 - study signalling issues related to Extended UMTS/LTE 1500.
d) Any additional related issues.
The Work Item description for Extended UMTS/LTE 1500 was approved in RAN#44
[3].
# 5 Study of UTRA Requirements
## 5.1 Co-existing with other technologies
As a result of the co-existing studies with the following technologies: PDC
system (ARIB standard RCR STD-27), DIGITAL MCA system (ARIB standard RCR
STD-32), Radio astronomy systems, and Mobile satellite communication service,
technical condition of the required guard bands between each system was lead
in Telec _ommunications_ Council of Japan as provided in [4]. Furthermore,
after the co-existing studies with E-UTRA in Telec _ommunications_ Council of
Japan, technical condition of UTRA was lead as provided in [5].
## 5.2 Technical conditions for UTRA
The technical conditions for extended UMTS1500 were derived based on the
requirements for 1500MHz band (revised UTRA Band XI and new UTRA band).
Necessary changes such as the frequency arrangement or spurious emission
requirements were made. Those changes and its rationale are summarized in the
following sub sections. Revised parts compared with requirements for Band XI
are underlined.
### 5.2.1 Mandatory regulatory requirements:
**(a) Frequency arrangement:**
The frequency band for extended UMTS1500 in Japan is as follows:
> UL: 1427.9MHz -- [1462.9MHz]{.underline}
>
> DL: 1475.9MHz -- [1510.9MHz]{.underline}
>
> Tx-Rx frequency separation: 48MHz
{width="6.527777777777778in" height="1.2375in"}
Figure 5.2-1: Frequency band for extended UMTS1500
**(b) Frequency error:**
Frequency error requirements for extended UMTS1500 are specified same as other
Bands shown following;
> BS: The modulated carrier frequency of the BS shall be accurate to within ±
> (0.05ppm+12Hz).\ For UMTS BS whose maximum output power is not exceed 38dBm,
> the modulated carrier frequency shall be accurate to within ± (0.1ppm+12Hz).
>
> UE: The UE modulated carrier frequency shall be accurate to within ± (0.1
> ppm+10Hz) compared to the carrier frequency received from the Node B.
**(c) Spurious emissions:**
Spurious emissions requirements for extended UMTS1500 are specified as in
Table 5.2.1.
Table 5.2.1: Spurious emission requirements for extended UMTS1500
+--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Spurious emissions | BS | Table 5.2.1-1: Spurious | | limits | | emissions limits for | | | | extended UMTS1500 BS | | | | | | | | ----- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Fre | | | | quency range | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 9 | | | | kHz -- 150kHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/1kHz | | | | 15 | | | | 0kHz -- 30MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/10kHz | | | | 30M | | | | Hz -- 1000MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/100kHz | | | | 1 | | | | 000MHz -- 12.75GHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/1MHz | | | | The requiremen | | | | ts apply at frequencies | | | | within the specified fre | | | | quency ranges, which are | | | | more than 12.5MHz below | | | | the first carrier frequ | | | | ency used or more than 1 | | | | 2.5MHz above the last ca | | | | rrier frequency used. | | | | ----- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | | | | | Table 5.2.1-2: | | | | Additional spurious | | | | emission limits for | | | | extended UMTS1500 BS | | | | | | | | ---- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ----- ------------------ | | | | | | | | Frequency range | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 18 | | | | 84.5MHz -- 1919.6MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -41dBm/300kHz * | | | | 2010MHz -- 2025MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -52dBm/1MHz | | | | Note*:The | | | | requirement is applicab | | | | le at specified frequenc | | | | ies falling between 12.5 | | | | MHz below the first carr | | | | ier frequency used and 1 | | | | 2.5MHz above the last ca | | | | rrier frequency used. | | | | ---- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ----- ------------------ | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | UE | The requirements below | | | | are only applicable for | | | | frequencies, which are | | | | greater than 12.5 MHz | | | | away from the UE centre | | | | carrier frequency. | | | | | | | | Table 5.2.1-3: Spurious | | | | emission limits for | | | | extended UMTS1500 UE | | | | | | | | ------------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequency r | | | | ange Maximum level | | | | 9kHz -- 1 | | | | 50kHz -36dBm/1kHz | | | | 150kHz -- | | | | 30MHz -36dBm/10kHz | | | | 30MHz -- 10 | | | | 00MHz -36dBm/100kHz | | | | 1000MHz - | | | | - 12.75GHz -30dBm/1MHz | | | | ------------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | | | | | Table 5.2.1-4: | | | | Additional spurious | | | | emission limits for | | | | extended UMTS1500 UE | | | | | | | | ----------------- | | | | ------- ---------------- | | | | Frequency rang | | | | e Maximum level | | | | 860MHz -- 895MH | | | | z -60dBm/3.84MHz | | | | 1844.9MHz -- 18 | | | | 79.9MHz -60dBm/3.84MHz | | | | 1884.5MHz -- 1 | | | | 919.6MHz -41dBm/300kHz | | | | 2110MHz -- 2170 | | | | MHz -60dBm/3.84MHz | | | | ----------------- | | | | ------- ---------------- | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
**(d) Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR):**
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) requirements for extended UMTS1500
are specified same as other Bands shown in Table 5.2.2. **ACLR limits include
the test tolerance which is specified in TS25.141 and TS34.121-1.**
Table 5.2.2: ACLR requirements for extended UMTS1500
+----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Requirement | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | BS | The ACLR limits in the Table 5.2.2-1 below. | | | | | | Table 5.2.2-1: ACLR for extended UMTS1500 BS | | | | | | --------- | | | ---------------- --------------------- ----------------------- | | | Adjacen | | | t channel offset ACLR limit Measurement bandwidth | | | 5MHz -44.2dBc or -7.2dBm 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz -49.2dBc or -7.2dBm 3.84MHz | | | --------- | | | ---------------- --------------------- ----------------------- | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | UE | The ACLR limits in the Table 5.2.2-2 below. | | | | | | Table 5.2.2-2: ACLR for extended UMTS1500 UE | | | | | | -------- | | | ----------------- -------------------- ----------------------- | | | Adjace | | | nt channel offset ACLR limit Measurement bandwidth | | | 5MHz -32.2dBc or -50dBm 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz -42.2dBc or -50dBm 3.84MHz | | | -------- | | | ----------------- -------------------- ----------------------- | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+
**(e) Spectrum emission mask:**
Spectrum emission mask for extended UMTS1500 are specified same as other Bands
shown following;
> BS: Not specified.
>
> UE: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended UMTS1500 are specified
> as in Table 5.2.3.
Table 5.2.3: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended UMTS1500 UE
* * *
Δf in MHz (Note) Requirements Measurement bandwidth 2.5 ≤ Δf \ BS: In normal conditions, the Base station maximum output power shall remain
> within +2.7dB and -2.7dB of the manufacturer\'s rated output power.
>
> UE: The maximum output power which is defined 23dBm in normal conditions,
> shall remain within +2.7dB and -2.7dB.\ And for 24dBm UE, the maximum output
> power shall remain between +1.7dB and -3.7dB in normal conditions.
**(h) Transmit OFF power**
Transmit OFF power for extended UMTS1500 are specified same as other Bands
shown following;
> BS: Not specified.
>
> UE: Transmit OFF power requirement is defined -55dBm/3.84MHz.
**(i) Transmit Intermodulation**
Transmit Intermodulation for extended UMTS1500 are specified same as other
Bands shown following;
> BS: The transmit intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation
> products when a W-CDMA modulated interference signal is injected into the
> antenna connector at a mean power level of 30 dB lower than that of the mean
> power of the wanted signal. The frequency of the interference signal shall
> be ±5 MHz, ±10 MHz, ±15MHz offset from the subject signal carrier frequency.
> The transmitter intermodulation level shall not exceed the out of band
> emission or spectrum emission mask or the spurious emission requirements.
>
> UE: Not specified.
**(j) Receiver Spurious emissions:**
Receiver Spurious emissions requirements for extended UMTS1500 are specified
as in Table 5.2.4.
Table 5.2.4: Receiver Spurious emission requirements for extended UMTS1500
+--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Receiver spurious | BS | Table 5.2.4-1: Receiver | | emissions limits | | spurious emission limits | | | | for extended UMTS1500 BS | | | | | | | | ---------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequenc | | | | y range | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 30MHz -- | | | | 1000MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | -57dBm/100kHz | | | | 1GHz -- | | | | 12.75GHz | | | | | | | | | | | | -47dBm/1MHz* | | | | 2010MH | | | | z -- 2025MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | -52dBm/1MHz | | | | Note*: With the ex | | | | ception of frequencies b | | | | etween 1465.9MHz and [15 | | | | 20.9MHz]{.underline}. | | | | ---------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | UE | Table 5.2.4-2: Receiver | | | | spurious emissions | | | | limits for extended | | | | UMTS1500 UE | | | | | | | | -------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------- ---------------- | | | | Frequ | | | | ency range | | | | Maximum level | | | | 30MHz | | | | -- 1000MHz | | | | -57dBm/100kHz | | | | 1GH | | | | z -- 12.75GHz | | | | -47dBm/1MHz | | | | 1427.9 | | | | MHz -- [1462.9MHz]{.und | | | | erline} -60dBm/3.84MHz | | | | 1475.9 | | | | MHz -- [1510.9MHz]{.und | | | | erline} -60dBm/3.84MHz | | | | -------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------- ---------------- | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
### 5.2.2 Other technical conditions referred in Japan's regulations:
**(a) Reference sensitivity level**
> BS: The reference sensitivity level for extended UMTS1500 are specified as
> in Table 5.2.5. The reference sensitivity level includes the test tolerance
> which is specified in TS25.141.
Table 5.2.5: UMTS BS reference sensitivity levels
* * *
Rated output power BS reference sensitivity level > 38dBm -120.3dBm ≤ 38dBm
-110.3dBm ≤ 24dBm -106.3dBm
* * *
> UE: The reference sensitivity level is -114.3dBm. In case DC-HSDPA, the
> reference sensitivity level is -110.3dBm. The reference sensitivity level
> includes the test tolerance which is specified in TS34.121-1.
**(b) Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)**
> BS: With the conditions described in Table 5.2.6, BER shall be not exceeded
> 0.1%.
Table 5.2.6: Test conditions of Adjacent channel selectivity for UMTS BS
* * *
Parameter Rated output power Conditions Unit Propagation condition -
**Static** **-** Wanted signal mean power - \+6 dBm Interfering
signal mean power > 38 -52 dBm ≤ 38 -42 dBm ≤ 24 -38 dBm
* * *
> UE: Requirements of UE ACS for extended LTE1500 are specified as in Table
> 5.2.7.
Table 5.2.7: Requirements and Test conditions of Adjacent channel selectivity
for UMTS UE
* * *
Parameter Rel99 DC-HSDPA Propagation condition Static  
Wanted signal mean power (\+14) dBm  
Interfering signal mean power -52dBm  
Bit rate 12.2 kbps 60 kbps Requirements BER shall be not exceeded 0.1%. BLER
shall be not exceeded 10%.
* * *
**(c) Blocking characteristics**
> BS: With the conditions described in Table 5.2.8, BER shall be not exceeded
> 0.1%.
Table 5.2.8: Test conditions of Blocking characteristics for UMTS BS
* * *
Parameter Rated output power Conditions Unit Propagation condition -
**Static** **-** Wanted signal mean power - \+6 dBm Interfering
signal mean power > 38 -40 dBm ≤ 38 -35 dBm ≤ 24 -30 dBm
* * *
> UE: Requirements of UE Blocking characteristics for extended LTE1500 are
> specified as in Table 5.2.9.
Table 5.2.9: Requirements and Test conditions of Blocking characteristics for
UMTS UE
* * *
Parameter Rel99 DC-HSDPA Propagation condition Static  
Wanted signal mean power (\+3) dBm  
Interfering signal mean power -44dBm  
Bit rate 12.2 kbps 60 kbps Requirements BER shall be not exceeded 0.1%. BLER
shall be not exceeded 10%.
* * *
**(d) Intermodulation characteristics**
> BS: With the conditions described in Table 5.2.10, BER shall be not exceeded
> 0.1%.
Table 5.2.10: Test conditions of Intermodulation characteristics for UMTS BS
* * *
Parameter Rated output power Conditions Unit Propagation condition -
**Static** **-** Wanted signal mean power - \+6 dBm Mean power of
Interfering signal 1 and 2 > 38 -48 dBm ≤ 38 -44 dBm ≤ 24 -38 dBm Interfering
signal 1 characteristic - CW, 10MHz offset - Interfering signal 2
characteristic - Modulated, 20MHz offset -
* * *
> UE: Requirements of UE Blocking characteristics for extended LTE1500 are
> specified as in Table 5.2.11.
Table 5.2.11: Requirements and Test conditions of Intermodulation
characteristics for UMTS UE
* * *
Parameter Rel99 DC-HSDPA Propagation condition Static  
Wanted signal mean power (\+3) dBm  
Mean power of Interfering signal 1 and 2 -46dBm  
Interfering signal 1 CW, 10MHz offset  
Interfering signal 2 Modulated, 20MHz offset  
Bit rate 12.2 kbps 60 kbps Requirements BER shall be not exceeded 0.1%. BLER
shall be not exceeded 10%.
* * *
## 5.3 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
### 5.3.1 Frequency bands
UTRA/FDD is designed to operate in the following paired bands:
Table 5.3-1: UTRA FDD frequency bands
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Operating Band | UL Frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | UE transmit, Node B | UE receive, Node B | | | receive | transmit | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | XI | 1427.9 -- | 1475.9 -- | | | 1447.9~~1452.9~~ MHz | 1495.9~~1500.9~~ MHz | | _[revised]_ | | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | XIX | 830 -- 845 MHz | 875 -- 890 MHz | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | XXI | 1447.9 -- 1462.9 MHz | 1495.9 -- 1510.9 MHz | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
### 5.3.2 TX-RX frequency separation
UTRA/FDD is designed to operate with the following TX-RX frequency separation
Table 5.3-2: TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
Operating Band TX-RX frequency separation XI [revised] 48 MHz
XIX 45 MHz XXI 48 MHz
* * *
### 5.3.3 Channel arrangement
#### 5.3.3.1 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (UARFCN). For revised Band XI and Band XXI, the UARFCN values
are defined as follows:
Uplink: N~U~ = 5 * (F~UL~ - F~UL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~UL_low~ ≤ F~UL~ ≤ F~UL_high~
Downlink: N~D~ = 5 * (F~DL~ - F~DL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~DL_low~ ≤ F~DL~ ≤ F~DL_high~
For revised Band XI and Band XXI, F~UL_Offset~, F~UL_low~, F~UL_high~,
F~DL_Offset~,, F~DL_low~ and F~DL_high~ are defined in Table 5.3-3 for the
general UARFCN. For the additional UARFCN, F~UL_Offset~, F~DL_Offset~ and the
specific F~UL~ and F~DL~ are defined in Table 5.3-4.
Table 5.3-3: UARFCN definition (general)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Band | * | **D | | | | | | | *UPLINK | OWNLINK | | | | | | | (UL)** | (DL)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | tr | r | | | | | | | ansmit, | eceive, | | | | | | | Node B | Node B | | | | | | | receive | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | offset | equency | offset | equency | | | | | | (F~UL~) | | (F~DL~) | | | | | F~UL_ | range | F~DL_ | range | | | | | Offset~ | [MHz] | Offset~ | [MHz] | | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | F~U | F~UL | | F~D | F~DL | | | | L_low~ | _high~ | | L_low~ | _high~ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XI | 733 | 1430.4 | 1445.4 | 736 | 1478.4 | 1493.4 | | | | | | | | | |_[rev | | | ~~1 | | | ~~1 | | ised]_ | | | 450.4~~ | | | 498.4~~ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIX | 770 | 832.4 | 842.6 | 735 | 877.4 | 887.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXI | 1358 | 1450.4 | 1460.4 | 1326 | 1498.4 | 1508.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 5.3-4: UARFCN definition (additional channels)
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band | **UPLINK |** DOWNLINK | | | | | (UL)**| (DL)** | | | | | | | | | | | UE | UE receive, | | | | | transmit, | Node B | | | | | Node B | transmit | | | | | receive | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | UARFCN | Carrier | UARFCN | Carrier | | | formula | frequency | formula | frequency | | | offset | [MHz] | offset | [MHz] | | | | | | | | | F~ | (F~UL~) | F~ | (F~DL~) | | | UL_Offset~ | | DL_Offset~ | | | | [MHz] | | [MHz] | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XI | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | | | | | | | | _\ | | | | | | [revised]_ | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XIX | 755.1 | 832.5, | 720.1 | 877.5, | | | | 837.5, | | 882.5, | | | | 842.5 | | 887.5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XXI | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.3.3.2 UARFCN
The following UARFCN range shall be supported.
Table 5.3-5: UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Band | Uplink (UL) | Downlink | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE | | | | | | transmit, | UE receive, | | | | | Node B | Node B | | | | | receive | transmit | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | General | Additional | General | Additional | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XI | 3487 to | **-** | 3712 to | **-** | | | 3562 | | 3787 | | | _\ | ~~3587~~ | | ~~3812~~ | | | [revised]_ | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XIX | 312 to 363 | 387, 412, | 712 to 763 | 787, 812, | | | | 437 | | 837 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XXI | 462 to 512 | **-** | 862 to 912 | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.4 Specific UE RF requirements
### 5.4.1 Spurious emissions
Table 5.4.1-1 shows the additional spurious emission limits for extended UMTS
1500 UE [5]. It is noted that unlike the spurious emission limits for extended
LTE 1500 UE, for extended UMTS 1500, there is no additional spurious emission
limit for the frequency range 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MHz as that of the
current Band XI requirement. However, -60dBm/3.84 MHz for the frequency range
1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1500.9 MHz has been already specified as additional spurious
emission limit for the current Band XI in [12].
Table 5.4.1-1: Additional spurious emission limits for extended UMTS1500 UE
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level 860MHz -- 895MHz -60dBm/3.84MHz 1844.9MHz --
1879.9MHz -60dBm/3.84MHz 1884.5MHz -- 1919.6MHz -41dBm/300kHz 2110MHz --
2170MHz -60dBm/3.84MHz
* * *
Since the frequency range of the current Band XI is just reduced by 5 MHz to
become revised Band XI, it can be seen that there is no need to change the
additional requirements -60 dBm/3.84 MHz of the current Band XI. On the other
hands, for Band XXI, since the upper edge of transmission band of Band XXI is
closer to the lower edge 1475.9 MHz of the spurious emission frequency range
than that of the current Band XI by 10 MHz. Considering the practical UE
performance on spurious emission, it seems to be highly challenging to specify
the same additional requirements of revised Band XI. Therefore, the same
additional spurious emission limits of Band 21 for LTE are applied to Band XXI
for UMTS. The additional spurious emissions of revised Band XI and XXI are
summarized as shown in Table 5.4.1-2.
Table 5.4.1-2: Additional spurious emission limits for extended UMTS1500 UE
* * *
Operating band Frequency range Maximum level Band XI 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1500.9
MHz -60dBm/3.84MHz Revised Band XI 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MHz -60dBm/3.84MHz
Band XXI 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MHz -35dBm/1MHz
* * *
Finally the spurious emissions requirements are summarized in the below Table
5.4.1-3.
Table 5.4.1-3: Additional spurious emissions requirements
* * *
Operating Band Frequency Bandwidth Measurement Bandwidth Minimum requirement
I 860 MHz ≤ f ≤ 895 MHz 3.84 MHz -60 dBm
                   921 MHz ≤ f \ \ XI [revised] dBm/3.84 MHz
-117 ~~-115~~ -106.7 ~~-104.7~~ XXI dBm/3.84 MHz -117 -106.7
* * *
> Note: For the UE which supports both revised Band XI and Band XXI by using
> the single duplexer, the reference sensitivity level is FFS.
## 5.5 Specific BS RF requirements
### 5.5.1 Blocking requirements
UTRA BS Blocking requirements for Band XI and Band XXI should be specified
separately. But the following note is included in this TR considering the BS
which supports both Band XI and Band XXI operating bands.
"NOTE: The minimum / test requirements for BS which supports both Band XI and
Band XXI operating frequencies, are FFS."
# 6 Study of E-UTRA requirements
## 6.1 Co-existing with other technologies
The study on the technical conditions for LTE has been conducted by the
Telecommunications Council of Japan which includes co-existence studies with
the following existing technologies: Radio astronomy systems and Mobile
satellite communications service. As a result of this study, technical
condition of E-UTRA was lead as provided in [5].
## 6.2 Technical conditions for E-UTRA
The technical conditions for extended LTE1500 were derived based on the
requirements for 1500MHz band (revised E-UTRA Band 11 and new E-UTRA bands).
Necessary changes such as the frequency arrangement or spurious emission
requirements were made. Those changes and its rationale are summarized in the
following sub sections. Revised parts compared with requirements for Band 11
are underlined.
**6.2.1 Mandatory regulatory requirements:**
**(a) Frequency arrangement:**
The frequency band for extended LTE1500 in Japan is as follows:
> UL: 1427.9MHz -- [1462.9MHz]{.underline}
>
> DL: 1475.9MHz -- [1510.9MHz]{.underline}
>
> Tx-Rx frequency separation: 48MHz
Figure 6.2-1: Frequency band for extended LTE1500
**(b) Frequency error:**
Frequency error requirements for extended LTE1500 are specified same as other
Bands shown following;
> BS: The modulated carrier frequency of the BS shall be accurate to within ±
> (0.05ppm+12Hz).
>
> UE: The UE modulated carrier frequency shall be accurate to within ± (0.1
> ppm+15Hz) compared to the carrier frequency received from the eNode B.
**(c) Spurious emissions:**
Spurious emissions requirements for extended LTE1500 are specified as in Table
6.2.1.
Table 6.2.1: Spurious emission requirements for extended LTE1500
+--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Spurious emissions | BS | Table 6.2.1-1: Spurious | | limits | | emissions limits for | | | | extended LTE1500 BS | | | | | | | | ------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequ | | | | ency range | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 9kH | | | | z -- 150kHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/1kHz | | | | 150k | | | | Hz -- 30MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/10kHz | | | | 30MHz | | | | -- 1000MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/100kHz | | | | 100 | | | | 0MHz -- 12.75GHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -13dBm/1MHz | | | | The requirements | | | | are only applicable for | | | | frequencies, which are | | | | greater than 10 MHz away | | | | from the BS transmitter | | | | operating band edge. | | | | ------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | | | | | Table 6.2.1-2: | | | | Additional spurious | | | | emission limits for | | | | extended LTE1500 BS | | | | | | | | ---------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ----- ------------------ | | | | Frequ | | | | ency range | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 1884.5MH | | | | z -- 1919.6MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -41dBm/300kHz * | | | | 201 | | | | 0MHz -- 2025MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -52dBm/1MHz | | | | Note*: The requ | | | | irement is applicable ev | | | | en if the frequencies ar | | | | e lesser than 10MHz away | | | | from the BS transmitter | | | | operating band edge. | | | | ---------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ----- ------------------ | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | UE | The requirements below | | | | are only applicable for | | | | frequencies, which are | | | | greater than 12.5 MHz | | | | away from the UE centre | | | | carrier frequency for | | | | 5MHz LTE system. | | | | Likewise, greater than | | | | 20MHz for 10MHz LTE | | | | system, greater than | | | | 27.5MHz for 15MHz LTE | | | | system and greater than | | | | 35MHz for 20MHz LTE | | | | system. | | | | | | | | Table 6.2.1-3: Spurious | | | | emission limits for | | | | extended LTE1500 UE | | | | | | | | ------------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequency r | | | | ange Maximum level | | | | 9kHz -- 1 | | | | 50kHz -36dBm/1kHz | | | | 150kHz -- | | | | 30MHz -36dBm/10kHz | | | | 30MHz -- 10 | | | | 00MHz -36dBm/100kHz | | | | 1000MHz - | | | | - 12.75GHz -30dBm/1MHz | | | | ------------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | | | | | Table 6.2.1-4: | | | | Additional spurious | | | | emission limits for | | | | extended LTE1500 UE | | | | | | | | --- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ----------- ------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | Freq | | | | uency range | | | | Maximum level | | | | 86 | | | | 0MHz -- 895MHz | | | | -50dBm/1MHz | | | | 1 | | | | 475.9MHz -- [1510.9MHz]{ | | | | .underline} [-35dBm/1M | | | | Hz ^(Note)^]{.underline} | | | | 18 | | | | 44.9MHz -- 1879.9MHz | | | | -50dBm/1MHz | | | | 1884 | | | | .5MHz -- 1919.6MHz | | | | -41dBm/300kHz | | | | 20 | | | | 10MHz -- 2025MHz | | | | -50dBm/1MHz | | | | 21 | | | | 10MHz -- 2170MHz | | | | -50dBm/1MHz | | | | --- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ----------- ------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | | | | | (Note) Not applied for | | | | 5MHz LTE system. | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
**(d) Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR):**
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) requirements for extended LTE1500
are specified same as other Bands shown in Table 6.2.2. **ACLR limits include
the test tolerance which is specified in TS36.141 and TS36.521-1.**
Table 6.2.2: ACLR requirements for extended LTE1500
+----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Requirement | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | BS | Either the ACLR limits in the Table 6.2.2-1 below or the | | | absolute limit of -13dBm/MHz apply, whichever is less | | | stringent | | | | | | Table 6.2.2-1: ACLR for extended LTE1500 BS | | | | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | | | Syst | | | em Frequency separation ACLR limit Measurement bandwidth | | | 5MHz 5MHz -44.2dBc 4.5MHz | | | 10MHz -44.2dBc 4.5MHz | | | 5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz 10MHz -44.2dBc 9MHz | | | 20MHz -44.2dBc 9MHz | | | 7.5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 12.5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz 15MHz -44.2dBc 13.5MHz | | | 30MHz -44.2dBc 13.5MHz | | | 10MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 20MHz 20MHz -44.2dBc 18MHz | | | 40MHz -44.2dBc 18MHz | | | 12.5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 17.5MHz -44.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+ | UE | The adjacent channel power shall be less than or equal to -50 | | | dBm/ 4.5MHz (5MHz system) or -50 dBm/ 9MHz (10MHz system ) or | | | -50 dBm/ 13.5MHz (15MHz system ) or -50 dBm/ 18MHz (20MHz | | | system ) or -50 dBm/ 3.84MHz or as specified by the ACLR limit | | | in the Table 6.2.2-2, whichever is least stringent. | | | | | | Table 6.2.2-2: ACLR for extended LTE1500 UE | | | | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | | | Syst | | | em Frequency separation ACLR limit Measurement bandwidth | | | 5MHz 5MHz -29.2dBc 4.5MHz | | | 5MHz -32.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz -35.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 10MHz 10MHz -29.2dBc 9MHz | | | 7.5MHz -32.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 12.5MHz -35.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz 15MHz -29.2dBc 13.5MHz | | | 10MHz -32.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 15MHz -35.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 20MHz 20MHz -29.2dBc 18MHz | | | 12.5MHz -32.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | 17.5MHz -35.2dBc 3.84MHz | | | ------ | | | -- ---------------------- ------------ ----------------------- | +----+----------------------------------------------------------------+
**(e) Spectrum emission mask:**
Spectrum emission mask for extended LTE1500 are specified same as other Bands
larger than 1GHz shown following;
> BS: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE1500 are specified
> as in Table 6.2.3.
>
> UE: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE1500 are specified
> as in Table 6.2.4.
Spectrum emission mask requirements include the test tolerance which is
specified in TS36.141 and TS36.521-1.
Table 6.2.3: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE1500 BS
* * *
Δf in MHz (Note) Requirement Measurement bandwidth 0.05 ≤ Δf \ (Note) Δf is offset frequency from edge of channel bandwidth.
Table 6.2.4: Spectrum emission mask requirements for extended LTE1500 UE
* * *
Δf in MHz (Note) Requirement (dBm) Measurement bandwidth  
5MHz system 10MHz system 15MHz system 20MHz system  
0 ≤ Δf \ BS: In normal conditions, the Base station maximum output power shall remain
> within +2.7dB and -2.7dB of the manufacturer\'s rated output power.
>
> UE: The maximum output power which is defined 23dBm in normal conditions,
> shall remain within +2.7dB and -2.7dB.
**(h) Transmit OFF power**
Transmit OFF power for extended LTE1500 are specified same as other Bands
shown following;
> BS: Not specified.
>
> UE: Transmit OFF power requirements are specified as in Table 6.2.5.
Table 6.2.5: Transmit OFF power requirements for extended LTE1500 UE
* * *
Channel bandwidth Transmit OFF power Measurement bandwidth 5MHz -48.5dBm 4.5
MHz 10MHz -48.5dBm 9 MHz 15MHz -48.5dBm 13.5 MHz 20MHz -48.5dBm 18 MHz
* * *
Transmit OFF power requirements include the test tolerance which is specified
in TS36.521-1.
**(i) Transmit Intermodulation**
Transmit Intermodulation for extended LTE1500 are specified same as other
Bands shown following;
> BS: The transmit intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation
> products when a LTE modulated interference signal is injected into the
> antenna connector at a mean power level of 30 dB lower than that of the mean
> power of the wanted signal. The occupied bandwidth for the interference
> signal is specified as 5MHz. The frequency of the interference signal shall
> be ±5 MHz, ±10 MHz, ±15MHz (5MHz system), ±7.5 MHz, ±12.5 MHz, ±17.5 MHz
> (10MHz system) , ±10 MHz, ±15 MHz, ±20 MHz (15MHz system), ±12.5 MHz, ±17.5
> MHz, ±22.5 MHz (20MHz system) offset from the subject signal carrier
> frequency. The transmitter intermodulation level shall not exceed the out of
> band emission or spectrum emission mask or the spurious emission
> requirements.
>
> UE: Not specified.
**(j) Receiver Spurious emissions:**
Receiver Spurious emissions requirements for extended UMTS/LTE1500 are
specified as in Table 6.2.6.
Table 6.2.6: Receiver Spurious emission requirements for extended LTE1500
+--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | Receiver spurious | BS | Table 6.2.6-1: Receiver | | emissions limits | | spurious emission limits | | | | for extended LTE1500 BS | | | | | | | | ---------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequenc | | | | y range | | | | | | | | | | | | Maximum level | | | | 30MHz -- | | | | 1000MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | -57dBm/100kHz | | | | 1GHz -- | | | | 12.75GHz | | | | | | | | | | | | -47dBm/1MHz* | | | | 2010MH | | | | z -- 2025MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | -52dBm/1MHz | | | | Note*: With the ex | | | | ception of frequencies b | | | | etween 1465.9MHz and [15 | | | | 20.9MHz]{.underline}. | | | | ---------- | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | ------------------------ | | | | -------- --------------- | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+ | | UE | Table 6.2.6-2: Receiver | | | | spurious emissions | | | | limits for extended | | | | LTE1500 UE | | | | | | | | ---------- | | | | -------- --------------- | | | | Frequenc | | | | y range Maximum level | | | | 30MHz -- | | | | 1000MHz -57dBm/100kHz | | | | 1GHz - | | | | - 12.75GHz -47dBm/1MHz | | | | ---------- | | | | -------- --------------- | +--------------------------+-------------+--------------------------+
### 6.2.2 Other technical conditions referred in Japan's regulations:
**(a) Reference sensitivity level**
> BS: The reference sensitivity level is -100.8dBm. This requirement is
> applied with a width of 25 resource blocks each for each channel BW. The
> reference sensitivity level includes the test tolerance which is specified
> in TS36.141.
>
> UE: The reference sensitivity level for extended LTE1500 are specified as in
> Table 6.2.7.
Table 6.2.7: LTE UE reference sensitivity levels
* * *
Channel BW UE reference sensitivity level 5MHz -97.3dBm 10MHz -94.3dBm 15MHz
-92.5dBm 20MHz -91.3dBm
* * *
> These values include the test tolerance (0.7dB) which is specified in
> TS36.521-1.
**(b) Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)**
> BS: With the conditions described in Table 6.2.8, the throughput shall be
> larger than or equal to 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.8: Test conditions of Adjacent channel selectivity for LTE BS
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz 20MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal mean power -52 -52 -52 -52 dBm Few offset (Modulated) 5 7.5
10 12.5 MHz
* * *
> UE: With the conditions described in Table 6.2.9, the throughput shall be
> larger than or equal to 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.9: Test conditions of Adjacent Channel Selectivity for LTE UE
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz 20MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+14 dBm  
Interfering signal characteristic 5MHz BW modulated -  
Interfering signal mean power \ +45.5 \ +45.5 \
+42.5 \ +39.5 dBm Few offset 5 7.5 10 12.5 MHz
* * *
**(c) Blocking characteristics**
> BS: With the conditions described in Table 6.2.10, the throughput shall be
> larger than or equal to 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.10: Test conditions of Blocking characteristics for LTE BS
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz 20MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal characteristic 5MHz BW modulated -  
Interfering signal mean power -43 -43 -43 -43 dBm Few offset 10 12.5 15 17.5
MHz
* * *
> UE: With the conditions described in Table 6.2.11, the throughput shall be
> larger than or equal to 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.11: Test conditions of Blocking characteristics for LTE UE
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz 20MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 \+7 \+9 dBm  
Interfering signal 1 Characteristic 5MHz BW modulated -  
Mean power -56 dBm  
Few offset 10 12.5 15 17.5 MHz Interfering signal 2 Characteristic 5MHz BW
modulated -  
Mean power -44 dBm  
Few offset ≥15 ≥17.5 ≥20 ≥22.5 MHz
* * *
**(d) Intermodulation characteristics**
> BS: With the conditions described in Table 6.2.12, the throughput shall be
> larger than or equal to 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.12: Test conditions of Intermodulation characteristics for LTE BS
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz 20MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal 1 Characteristic CW -  
Mean power -52 dBm  
Few offset 10 12.5 15 17.5 MHz Interfering signal 2 Characteristic 5MHz BW
modulated -  
Mean power -52 dBm  
Few offset 20 22.7 25.5 28.2 MHz
* * *
> UE: With the conditions described in Table 6.2.13, the throughput shall be
> larger than or equal to 95 percent of the maximum throughput.
Table 6.2.13: Test conditions of Intermodulation characteristics for LTE UE
* * *
Parameter Channel bandwidth Unit  
5MHz 10MHz 15MHz 20MHz  
Propagation condition Static -  
Wanted signal characteristic QPSK, code rate:1/3 -  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 \+7 \+9 dBm  
Interfering signal 1 Characteristic CW -  
Mean power -46 dBm  
Few offset 10 12.5 15 17.5 MHz Interfering signal 2 Characteristic 5MHz BW
modulated -  
Mean power -46 dBm  
Few offset 20 25 30 35 MHz
* * *
## 6.3 Operating bands and channel arrangement
### 6.3.1 Operating bands
E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table 6.3-1.
Table 6.3-1: E-UTRA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | EUTRA | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Oper | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | ating | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | Band | oper | oper | | | | | | | | ating | ating | | | | | | | | band\ | band\ | | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | rec | tran | | | | | | | | eive\ | smit\ | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | 11 | 1 | -- | 1 | 1 | -- | 1 | FDD | | | 427.9 | | 447.9 | 475.9 | | 495.9 | | | _[ | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | revis | | | | | | | | | ed]_ | | | ~~1 | | | ~~1 | | | | | | 452.9 | | | 500.9 | | | | | | MHz~~ | | | MHz~~ | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | 19 | 830 | -- | 845 | 875 | -- | 890 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | 21 | 1 | -- | 1 | 1 | -- | 1 | FDD | | | 447.9 | | 462.9 | 495.9 | | 510.9 | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | 33 | 1900 | -- | 1920 | 1900 | -- | 1920 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.3.2 TX--RX frequency separation
> a) The default E-UTRA TX channel (carrier centre frequency) to RX channel
> (carrier centre frequency) separation is specified in Table 6.3-2 for the TX
> and RX channel bandwidths defined in Table 6.3-1
Table 6.3-2: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
Frequency Band TX - RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation
11 [revised] 48 MHz
19 45 MHz
21 48 MHz
* * *
### 6.3.3 Channel arrangement
#### 6.3.3.1 Carrier frequency and EARFCN
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 - 65535\. The
relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in
table 6.3-3 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
table 6.3-3 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
Table 6.3-3: E-UTRA channel numbers
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | D | Uplink | | | | | | Op | ownlink | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | F~D | N~O | Range | F~U | N~O | Range | | | L_low~ | ffs-DL~ | of | L_low~ | ffs-UL~ | of | | | (MHz) | | N~DL~ | (MHz) | | N~UL~ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _11_ | * | _4750_ | _4750 | * |_ 22750 _|_ 22750 | | [re | 1475.9 _| | -- 4949 | 1427.9_ | | -- | | vised] | | | ~~ | | | 22949 | | | | | 4999~~_| | | ~~2 | | | | | | | | 2999~~_ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _19_ | _875_ | _6000_ | _6000 |_ 830 _|_ 24000 _|_ 24000 | | | | | -- | | | - | | | | | 6149 _| | | 24149_ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _21_ | * | _6450_ | _6450 | * |_ 24450 _|_ 24450 | | | 1495.9 _| | -- | 1447.9_ | | - | | | | | 6599 _| | | -24599_ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _..._ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _33_ | _1900_ | _26000_ | _36000 |_ 1900 _|_ 36000 _|_ 36000 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 36199 _| | | 36199_ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.3.4 Channel bandwidths per operating band
The requirements in this specification apply to the combination of channel
bandwidths and operating bands shown in Table 6.3-4. The transmission
bandwidth configuration in Table 6.3-4 shall be supported for each of the
specified channel bandwidths. The same (symmetrical) channel bandwidth is
specified for both the TX and RX path.
Table 6.3-4: E-UTRA channel bandwidth
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | band / | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | | | **Yes** | **Yes^\ | | | | | | | | [1]^** | | | | _[rev | | | | | | | | ised]_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 19 | | | Yes | **Yes^\ |** Yes^\ | | | | | | | [1]^**| [1]^** | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 21 | | | Yes | Yes**^\ | Yes** ^\ | | | | | | | [1]^**| [1]^** | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 33 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | which a | | | | | | | | rel | | | | | | | | axation | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | sens | | | | | | | | itivity | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Section | | | | | | | | 6.4.3) | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | llowed. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 6.4 Specific UE RF requirements
### 6.4.1 Maximum output power
Based on the analysis on the relative duplex distance for LTE 1.5GHz band,
zero ΔTC should be applied for the revised Band 11 and Band 21 which results
in no relaxation of the UE output power at its corner frequency ranges. For
the UE which supports both Band 11 and Band 21 operating frequencies with
single duplexer, applicability of non-zero ΔTC is FFS.
### 6.4.2 Maximum output power with additional requirements
When "NS_09" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE spurious emission
shall not exceed the level specified in Table 6.4.3.2-1. In particular, based
on the study in 6.3.2.2, the UEs which support Band 21 are allowed to use
A-MPR as shown in Table 6.4.2-1 in addition to the allowed MPR requirements
specified in clause 6.2.3 [13].
Table 6.4.2.-1 Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
* * *
Network Signalling value Requirements (sub-clause) E-UTRA Band Channel
bandwidth (MHz) Resources Blocks A-MPR (dB) NS_09 6.6.3.3.4 21 10, 15 > 40 ≤ 1
> 55 ≤ 2
* * *
### 6.4.3 Spurious emissions
#### 6.4.3.1 Spurious emission band UE co-existence for LTE
In Japan, the technical conditions for the effective use of mobile commercial-
use frequencies for LTE and other next generation communication systems had
been investigated by the study group under the Telecommunications Council [5,
6, 7]. The technical conditions for extended LTE 1500 had also been
investigated within the study group, and by considering the operation in up to
20 MHz channel bandwidth for the whole extended band (35 MHz) with the
corresponding traffic increase, the additional spurious emission limit for
extended LTE 1500 was specified as regulations as follows [5].
Table 6.4.3.1-1: Additional spurious emission limits for extended LTE1500 UE
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level 860MHz -- 895MHz -50dBm/1MHz [1475.9MHz
--1510.9MHz (Note)]{.underline} [-35dBm/1MHz *]{.underline} 1844.9MHz --
1879.9MHz -50dBm/1MHz 1884.5MHz -- 1919.6MHz -41dBm/300kHz 2010MHz -- 2025MHz
-50dBm/1MHz 2110MHz -- 2170MHz -50dBm/1MHz Note*: Not applied to 5MHz channel
bandwidth
* * *
From Table 6.4.3.1-1, for the frequency range 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MH, -35
dBm/1MHz is not applied to 5 MHz channel bandwidth and this means that
alternatively general spurious emission limit -30 dBm/1MHz is applied. Taking
into account the practical UE performance on spurious emission and more simply
specifying its requirement, the spurious emission for the frequency range
1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MH for Band 21 is proposed as follows.
**_Proposal:_**
**_For Band 21, regardless of channel bandwidths, the additional spurious
emission for the frequency range 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MHz is
-35dBm/1MHz._**
On the other hands, the frequency range of the current Band 11 is just reduced
by 5 MHz to become revised Band 11, it can be seen that there is no need to
change the additional requirements -50 dBm/1 MHz of the current Band 11.
Finally, additional entries should be introduced as shown in Table 6.4.3.1-2.
Table 6.4.3.1-2: Spurious emission requirement for extended LTE 1500
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Level | Band | Co | | | | | ected | uency | (dBm) | width | mment | | | | | band | range | | (MHz) | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 1 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | Not | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | e^3^, | | | range | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | | te^4^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | Not | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | e^3^, | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | 1900 | - | 1920 | -50 | 1 | No | | | -UTRA | | | | | | te^1^ | | | band | | | | | | | | | 33 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | 1880 | - | 1920 | -50 | 1 | No | | | -UTRA | | | | | | te^1^ | | | band | | | | | | | | | 39 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 6 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | No | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | te^4^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | No | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 9 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | No | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | te^4^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | No | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 11 | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 475.9 | | 510.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | No | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | te^4^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | No | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 18 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 895 | -40 | 1 | No | | | uency | | | | | | te^6^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | No | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | te^4^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | No | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 19 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 895 | -40 | 1 | No | | | uency | | | | | | te^6^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | No | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | te^4^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | No | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 21 | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -35 | 1 | No | | | uency | 475.9 | | 510.9 | | | te^7^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | No | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | te^4^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | No | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | 34 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | No | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | te^2^ | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8,39, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | No | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | te^4^ | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | No | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | te^5^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+ | Note | | | | | | | | | ^1^: | | | | | | | | | To | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | ^2^: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | non | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | nised | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | ^3^: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_05 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.1 | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.101 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | ^4^: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in. | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1919. | | | | | | | | | 6MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | ^5^: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 18 | | | | | | | | | 84.5- | | | | | | | | | 1915. | | | | | | | | | 7MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | ^6^: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | NS_\ | | | | | | | | | [08] | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.3 | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.101 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | ^7^: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | NS_\ | | | | | | | | | [0X] | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | [6 | | | | | | | | | .6.3. | | | | | | | | | 3.X] | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 6.101 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+
#### **6.4.3.2 Additional spurious emissions**
In case of 10 and 15 MHz channel bandwidth for Band 21, the frequency range
1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MHz in clause 6.4.3.1 includes OOB domain up to 1475.9
MHz ≤ f ≤ 1482.9 MHz. However, the whole spurious range 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤
1510.9 MHz shall be protected according to Japanese regulations [8].
Therefore, the additional spurious emission requirement should be specified
for the frequency range 1475.9 MHz ≤ f ≤ 1510.9 MHz as the following.
When "NS_09" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE spurious emission
shall not exceed the level specified in Table 6.4.3.2-1.
Table 6.4.3.2-1: Additional requirement for extended LTE 1500
+----------------+----------------+-------------+--------+-------+ | Frequency band | Channel | Measurement | | | | | bandwidth / | | | | | (MHz) | Spectrum | Bandwidth | | | | | emission limit | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | +----------------+----------------+-------------+--------+-------+ | | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | | +----------------+----------------+-------------+--------+-------+ | 1475.9 MHz ≤ f | -35 | -35 | -35 | 1 MHz | | ≤ 1510.9 MHz | | | | | +----------------+----------------+-------------+--------+-------+
##### 6.4.3.2.1 Relationship between Band 21 and additional spurious emission
region
Figure 6.4.3.2-1 shows the relationship between operating band of both Band 21
and 11 and their additional spurious emission region. From the Figure
6.4.3.2-1, it should be noted that we need to pay close attention to the gap
of 13 MHz between the upper edge of Band 21 uplink and the lower edge of the
additional spurious emission region. It is assumed that Band 11 duplexer would
be designed considering the lower edge of Band 11 downlink which overlaps with
the lower edge of the additional spurious emission region, therefore the UE
which supports Band 11 is not required to define A-MPR. On the other hand, the
duplexer of Band 21 would be designed without taking into consideration of the
lower edge of spurious emission region. Thus, it would be difficult for the UE
which supports Band 21 to obtain sufficient attenuation in the vicinity of
1475.9 MHz under extreme conditions. Even if we focus on obtaining some
isolation at 1475.9 MHz as keeping generally required specs, it would be
difficult to obtain enough it based on the estimation that the ration of the
GAP(13 MHz) to the centre frequency(1469.4 = 1475.9 -- 13/2) is only 0.88%.
This would mean it's much stringent than that of Band 2 and 8. However,
according to our estimate, the obtained value could be around 5 dB at 1475.9
MHz.
Figure 6.4.3.2-1: Relationship between Band 21 and spurious emission region
##### 6.4.3.2.2 Outline of evaluation method
##### 6.4.3.2.2.1 general conditions {#general-conditions .H6}
To evaluate proper A-MPR to satisfy the above spurious emission requirements,
measurements of leakage power were actually conducted under the test
conditions as shown in Table 6.4.3.2-2. The measurement procedures are
summarized below. **It should be noted that unless otherwise stated, some
certain implementation margins are incorporated in the measurement results**.
1- For each CBW, the largest transmission resource blocks (RBs) are constantly
assigned at the upper edge of the transmission band.
2- UE UL power is reduced in one dB step until the additional spurious
emission requirements are satisfied.
3- After satisfying the spurious emission requirements, then, RBs are reduced.
4- The steps from 1 to 3 are repeated until the A-MPR is not needed for each
CBW.
Table 6.4.3.2-2: Test conditions
* * *
# Item Parameter  
1 UE operating band E-UTRA Band 21  
2 Channel bandwidth 10MHz 15MHz 3 Carrier Frequency 1452.9 MHz 1455.4 MHz 4
Modulation QPSK, 16QAM  
5 Position of RBs Upper Edge of the Tx band  
6 IQ imbalance -28 dBc, (ref) -25 dBc  
7 Resolution bandwidth 100 kHz
* * *
##### 6.4.3.2.2.2 Essential consideration on the conditions at the measurement
boundary {#essential-consideration-on-the-conditions-at-the-measurement-
boundary .H6}
As shown in Figure 6.4.3.2.-2, when the UE which supports Band 21 transmit
small number of RBs at the either CBW, it can be seen that we need to pay
close attention to the third-order inter-modulation (IMD3) and its measurement
conditions, since the centre of IMD3 is located just adjacent to the lower
edge of the additional spurious emission region. It is noted that in the
Figure 6.4.3.2.-2, if the position of 1 RB signal is replaced by that of
imbalance image, then CIM3 occurs at the same position of signal and image
folded IMD3. However, from the A-MPR table for NS_07, it can be observed that
in this case, signal and image folded IMD3 level would be higher than that of
CIM3. Therefore, the CIM3 is not handled in this contribution.
In addition, the IMD3 has its certain bandwidth. Thus, not the whole but some
part of it would fall into the additional spurious emission region. From these
facts, its minimum necessary A-MPR would be highly affected by its measurement
conditions at the measurement boundary. Therefore, to improve the measurement
accuracy of PSD at the measurement boundary, the following conditions in 6.6.3
[13] are applied to its evaluation.
\- To improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution
bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be
integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent
noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
\- For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the lowest
frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at
the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest frequency
of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at the
highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
{width="6.776388888888889in" height="2.5125in"}
Figure 6.4.3.2.-2: signal and image folded IMD3
##### 6.4.3.2.2 Evaluation results
##### 6.4.3.2.3.1 For 15 MHz CBW {#for-15-mhz-cbw .H6}
Figure 6.4.3.2-3 and 6.4.3.2-4 show the maximum leakage power in Rx band for
each RB allocation in case of 15MHz CBW. From the results, it can be observed
that some A-MPR is needed to satisfy the spurious emission requirements. Based
on the results, the minimum necessary A-MPR is derived by investigating the
boundary number of RBs for which the required A-MPR value changes. In each
Figure, the boundary line A(blue) and B(pink) show the start points where from
each point, A-MPR = 1 and 2 dB may be allowed to used to meet the spurious
emission requirements respectively in the following ways. It should be noted
that duplexer attenuation has not been included in the measurement results.
\- From the boundary line A (blue), A-MPR of 1 dB would be applied.
\- From the boundary line B (pink), A-MPR of 2 dB would be applied.
It should also be noted that for small RBs cases, the results highly depend on
the IQ imbalance value. Even if the IQ imbalance is set at -25 dBc, it can be
seen that any A-MPR is not necessary. In addition, in commercial service, we
believe that the IQ imbalance of -25 dBc is quite pessimistic and we can
obtain at least -28 dBc at moderate estimate. Therefore, any A-MPR is not
needed for small number of RBs case.
{width="3.375in" height="1.8069444444444445in"}
Figure 6.4.3.2-3: PSD for QPSK Figure 6.4.3.2-4: PSD for 16QAM
##### 6.4.3.2.3.2 For 10 MHz CBW {#for-10-mhz-cbw .H6}
Figure 6.4.3.2-5 and 6.4.3.2-6 show the evaluation results in case of 10 MHz
CBW. From the results, it can be observed that some A-MPR for 10 MHz CBW is
needed to satisfy the spurious emission requirements. A-MPR=1 dB may be
allowed to used to meet the spurious emission requirements respectively in the
following ways.
\- From the boundary line A (blue), A-MPR of 1 dB would be applied.
{width="3.15625in" height="1.6625in"} {width="3.15625in" height="1.6625in"}
Figure 6.4.3.2-5: PSD for QPSK Figure 6.4.3.2-6: PSD for 16QAM
##### {#section .H6}
##### 6.4.3.2.3.3 Comparison of Nokia simulation and NTT DOCOMO measurements
(QPSK and 15 MHz CBW) {#comparison-of-nokia-simulation-and-ntt-docomo-
measurements-qpsk-and-15-mhz-cbw .H6}
{width="3.375in" height="1.8069444444444445in"}{width="3.7708333333333335in"
height="1.7798611111111111in"}
Figure 6.4.3.2-7-a: DOCOMO measurements results Figure 6.4.3.2-7-b: Nokia
simulation results
As a final step, to validate the above results, we compare our measurement
results as shown Figure 6.4.3.2-7-a with Nokia's simulation results as shown
in Figure 6.4.3.2-7-b. These two results are in excellent agreement with each
other. However, it can be seen that some part of them is different.
Specifically, from the Nokia's result, when the number of RBs is more than 62
RBs, then A-MPR of 3 dB would be needed.
##### 6.4.3.2.3.4 Summary of the results {#summary-of-the-results .H6}
Finally, considering the duplexer attenuation of 5 dB, the required minimum
A-MPR for each combination, number of RBs and CBW can be obtained and
summarized in Table 6.4.3.2-3.
Table 6.4.3.2-3 Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
* * *
Network Signalling value Requirements (sub-clause) E-UTRA Band Channel
bandwidth (MHz) Resources Blocks A-MPR (dB) NS_09 6.6.3.3.4 21 10, 15 > 40 ≤ 1
> 55 ≤ 2
* * *
### 6.4.4 Reference sensitivity power level
#### 6.4.4.1 Reference sensitivity of revised Band 11 and Band 21 for LTE
The section 5.4.2.4 verifies that the reference sensitivity of revised Band XI
and XXI for UMTS is the same as that of Band **I, IV, VI, X and XIX** , i.e.
-117 dBm/3.84 MHz. This verification result can be applied also to LTE case.
Therefore, we propose to apply the same reference sensitivity requirement of
Band 1 to that of revised Band 11 and Band 21 in the case 5 MHz, 10 MHz and 15
MHz channel bandwidth respectively. The proposed requirements for TS36.101 are
summarized in Table 6.4.4.1-1.
Table 6.4.4.1-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | E | Ch | D | | | | | | | -UTRA | annel | uplex | | | | | | | Band | band | Mode | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 1 | - | - | -100 | -97 | -95.2 | -94 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 11 | - | - | -100 | -97 | \ | - | FDD | | \ | | | ~~ | ~~ | -~~-9 | ~~ | | | [revi | | | -98~~ | -95~~ | 3.2~~ | -92~~ | | | sed] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 21 | - | - | -100 | -97 | -95.2 | - | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
> Note: For the UE which supports both revised Band 11 and Band 21 by using
> the single duplexer, the reference sensitivity is FFS.
#### 6.4.4.2 Maximum uplink configuration of revised Band 11 and Band 21 for
LTE
##### 6.4.4.2.1 Comparison of the current Band 11 and revised Band 11
The relation between the current Band 11, revised Band 11 and Band 21 is
illustrated in Figure 6.4.4.2.1-1. From Figure 6.4.4.2.1-1, it can be seen
that the current Band 11 can maintain its reference sensitivity up to 25 RBs
for 20 MHz Channel bandwidth and the distance between the upper edge of
transmission frequency and lower edge of receiver frequency is 28 MHz.
Therefore, it can be seen that revised Band 11 can also maintain its reference
sensitivity up to 25 RBs for 10 MHz Channel bandwidth since the distance
between the upper edge of transmission frequency and lower edge of receiver
frequency is 38 MHz. That means it would be reasonable to define the minimum
uplink configuration of revised Band 11 as shown in Table 6.4.4.2.1-1.
{width="6.68125in" height="2.7090277777777776in"}
Figure 6.4.4.2.1-1: Frequency arrangement for the current Band 11, revised
Band 11 and Band 21
Table 6.4.4.2.1-1: Minimum uplink configuration for revised Band 11
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 11 25 25 25
25 FDD Revised 11 25 25 FDD
* * *
6.4.4.2.2 Comparison of the current Band 11 and Band 21
Similar to the relation between the current Band 11 and revised Band 11, it
can be seen that Band 21 can also maintain its reference sensitivity up to 25
RBs for 15 MHz Channel bandwidth since the distance between the upper edge of
transmission frequency and lower edge of receiver frequency is 33 MHz, which
is larger than the distance 28 MHz of the current Band 11. Therefore, it would
be reasonable to define the minimum uplink configuration of Band 21 as shown
in Table 6.4.4.2.2-1.
Table 6.4.4.2.2-1: Minimum uplink configuration for Band 21
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 11 25 25 25
25 FDD 21 25 25 25 FDD
* * *
##### 6.4.4.2.3 Proposal of minimum uplink configuration
From the above observation, although there would be small difference in PA
characteristics etc due to frequency dependency, it is supposed that revised
Band 11 and Band 21 should be easier to meet its reference sensitivity than
for the current Band 11 if the minimum uplink configuration of revised Band 11
or Band 21 defined as 25 RBs for each Channel bandwidth. Therefore, we propose
the minimum uplink configuration as shown in Table 6.4.4.2.3-1.
Table 6.4.4.2.3-1: Minimum uplink configuration of revised Band 11 and Band 21
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / NRB / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 11 25 25 25
25 FDD Revised 11 25 25 FDD 21 25 25 25 FDD
* * *
> Note: For the UE which supports both revised Band 11 and Band 21 by using
> the single duplexer, the minimum uplink configuration for reference
> sensitivity is FFS.
## 6.5 Specific BS RF requirements
### 6.5.1 Blocking requirements
The following note is applied to E-UTRA BS Blocking requirements for Band 11
and Band 21 as well as UTRA BS.
"NOTE: The minimum / test requirements for BS which supports both Band 11 and
Band 21 operating frequencies, are FFS."
# 7 Summary of required changes to UTRA specifications
## 7.1 Required changes to TS 25.101
Required changes in TS25.101 are shown in Table 7.1-1.
Table 7.1-1: Required Changes for TS25.101
+---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Clause | Description | Description of change | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.2 | Frequency band | Revise frequency range for | | | | Band XI and add a new row | | | | for **Band XXI** in the | | | | table. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.3 | TX-RX frequency separation | Add a new row for Band XXI | | | | in the table. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.4.2 | Channel raster | No changes. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.4.3 | Channel number | Revise channel numbering | | | | for Band XI and add a new | | | | one for Band XXI. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.4.4 | UARFCN | Revise channel numbering | | | | for Band XI and add a new | | | | one for Band XXI. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.1 | Max Output Power | Required for regulatory. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.2.1 | Emission Mask | Required for regulatory. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.3 | Tx Spurious emissions | **Required for | | | | regulatory.** | | | | | | | | **Revise frequency range | | | | for Band XI and add a new | | | | row for Band XXI in the | | | | table.** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.3 | Reference sensitivity | **Revise the requirement | | | | for Band XI and add a new | | | | one for Band XXI.** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.6 | Blocking | Revise frequency range for | | | | Band XI and add a new row | | | | for **Band XXI** in the | | | | table. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.8 | Intermodulation | **No changes.** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.9 | Rx spurious emission | Required for regulatory. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | B.2.2 | Multi-path fading | Add conditions for Band | | | propagation conditions | XXI (Same for Band XI). | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | B.2.6 | MIMO propagation | Add conditions for Band | | | conditions | XXI (Same for Band XI). | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | E.2 | List of UARFCN used for | Add conditions for Band | | | UTRA FDD bands | XXI (Same for Band XI). | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 7.2 Required changes to TS 25.104
Required changes in TS25.104 are shown in Table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1: Required Changes for TS25.104
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.2 Frequency band Revise frequency
range for Band XI and add a new row for **Band XXI** in the table. 5.3 TX-RX
frequency separation Add a new row for Band XXI in the table. 5.4.2 Channel
raster No changes. 5.4.3 Channel number Revise channel numbering for Band XI
and add new one for Band XXI. 6.6.2.1 Emission mask No changes. 6.6.2.2
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) A**dd requirement for Band XXI.**
6.6.3.1.1 Tx Spurious emissions(Category A) Required for regulatory. 6.6.3.2
Protection of BS receiver Revise frequency range for Band XI and a**dd
requirement for Band XXI.** 6.6.3.3 Co-existence with other systems in the
same geographical area Revise frequency range for Band XI and a**dd
requirement for Band XXI.** 6.6.3.4 Co-existence with co-located and co-sited
base stations Revise frequency range for Band XI and a**dd requirement for
Band XXI.** 6.6.3.5 Co-existence with PHS Required for regulatory. 6.6.3.6 Co-
existence with services in adjacent frequency bands **No changes.** 6.6.3.9
Co-existence with Home BS operating in other bands Revise frequency range for
Band XI and a**dd requirement for Band XXI.** 6.6.3.x Co-existence
requirements (Other than above) **No changes.** 7.5 Blocking Revise frequency
range for Band XI and a**dd requirement for Band XXI.** 7.6 Inter-modulation
**No changes.** 7.7 Rx spurious emission Revise frequency range for Band XI
and a**dd requirement for Band XXI.** B.2 Multi-path fading propagation
conditions Add conditions for Band XXI. B.5 Multipath fading propagation
conditions Add conditions for Band XXI.
* * *
## 7.3 Required changes to TS 25.113
Required changes in TS25.113 are shown in Table 7.3-1.
Table 7.3-1: Required changes for TS25.113
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band Revise
frequency range for Band XI and a**dd requirement for Band XXI.**
* * *
## 7.4 Required changes to TS 25.133
Required changes in TS25.133 are shown in Table 7.4-1.
Table 7.4-1: Required changes for TS25.133
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.2.2.5a Measurements of Inter-RAT
E-UTRA cells Revise the requirement for Band 11 and add a new one for Band 21.
8.1.2.6.1 Identification of a new cell Revise the requirement for Band XI and
add a new one for Band XXI. 9.1 Measurement Performance for UE Revise the
requirement for Band XI and add a new one for Band XXI. A.9.1 Measurement
Performance for UE (Normative Annex for Test cases) Revise the requirement for
Band XI and add a new one for Band XXI.
* * *
## 7.5 Required changes to TS 25.141
Required changes in TS25.141 are shown in Table 7.5-1.
Table 7.5-1: Required Changes for TS25.141
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 3.4.1 Frequency band Revise frequency
range for Band XI and add a new row for **Band XXI** in the table. 3.4.2 TX-RX
frequency separation Add a new row for Band XXI in the table. 3.5.2 Channel
raster No changes. 3.5.3 Channel number Revise channel numbering for Band XI
and add new one for Band XXI. 6.5.2.1 Emission mask No changes. 6.5.2.2
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) A**dd requirement for Band XXI.**
6.5.3.7.1 Tx Spurious emissions (Category A) Required for regulatory.
6.5.3.7.3 Protection of BS receiver Revise frequency range for Band XI and
a**dd requirement for Band XXI.** 6.5.3.7.4 Co-existence with other systems in
the same geographical area Revise frequency range for Band XI and a**dd
requirement for Band XXI.** 6.5.3.7.5 Co-existence with co-located and co-
sited base stations Revise frequency range for Band XI and a**dd requirement
for Band XXI.** 6.5.3.7.6 Co-existence with PHS Required for regulatory.
6.5.3.7.7 Co-existence with services in adjacent frequency bands **No
changes.** 6.5.3.7.10 Co-existence with Home BS operating in other bands
Revise frequency range for Band XI and a**dd requirement for Band XXI.**
6.5.3.7.X Co-existence requirements(Other than above) **No changes.** 7.5
Blocking Revise frequency range for Band XI and a**dd requirement for Band
XXI.** 7.6 Inter-modulation **No changes.** 7.7 Rx spurious emission Revise
frequency range for Band XI and a**dd requirement for Band XXI.** D.2 Multi-
path fading propagation conditions Add conditions for **Band XXI.** D.5 Multi-
path fading propagation conditions Add conditions for **Band XXI.**
* * *
## 7.6 Required changes to TS 34.124
Required changes in TS34.124 are shown in Table 7.6-1.
Table 7.6-1: Required changes for TS34.124
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.4 Receiver exclusion band Revise
frequency range for Band XI and a**dd requirement for Band XXI.**
* * *
## 7.7 Required changes to TS 25.306
There is no need to change TS25.306.
## 7.8 Required changes to TS 25.307
Required changes in TS25.307 are shown in Table 7.8-1.
Table 7.8-1 Required changes for TS25.307
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 21 Band XXI independent of release
Add a new section of Band XXI
* * *
## 7.9 Required changes to TS 25.331
Required changes in TS25.331 are shown in Table 7.9-1.
Table 7.9-1 Required changes for TS25.331
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 10.3.3.21a Measurement capability
extension Define a new value of Band XXI 10.3.3.42a UE radio access capability
extension Define a new value of Band XXI 10.3.6.35c Frequency band indicator
Define a new value of Band XXI
* * *
## 7.10 Required changes to TS 25.461
Required changes in TS25.461 are shown in Table 7.10-1
Table 7.10-1 Required changes for TS25.461
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.3.7 Operating bands Revise
frequency range for Band XI/11 and add a new row for **Band XXI/21** in the
table.
* * *
## 7.11 Required changes to TS 25.466
Required changes in TS25.466 are shown in Table 7.11-1.
Table 7.11-1 Required changes for TS25.466
* * *
Clause Description Description of change Annex B Antenna operating band field
Define new bit field for Band XXI
* * *
# 8 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 8.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Required changes in TS36.101are shown in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1-1: Required Changes for TS36.101
+---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | Clause | Description | Description of change | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.5 | Frequency band (Operating | Revise frequency range for | | | bands) | Band 11 and add a new row | | | | for **Band 21** in the | | | | table. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5. 6.1 | Channel bandwidth | Revise the requirement for | | | | Band 11 and add a new one | | | | for Band 21. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5. 7.3 | Channel number (EARFCN) | Revise channel numbering | | | | for Band 11 and add new | | | | one for Band 21. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 5.7.4 | TX-RX frequency separation | Add a new row for Band 21 | | | | in the table. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.2 | Max Output Power | Required for regulatory. | | | | | | | | Add a new row for Band 21 | | | | in the table. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.2.4 | Max power with additional | Add requirements for Band | | | requirements | 21. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.2.1 | Emission Mask | Required for regulatory. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.6.3 | Tx Spurious emissions | **Required for | | | | regulatory.** | | | | | | | | **Revise the requirements | | | | for Band 11 and add new | | | | ones for Band 21.** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.3 | Reference sensitivity | **Revise the requirement | | | | for Band 11 and add a new | | | | one for Band 21.** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.6 | Blocking | Add requirement for Band | | | | 21. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.8 | Intermodulation | **No changes.** | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 7.9 | Rx spurious emission | Required for regulatory. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
## 8.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
Required changes in TS36.104 are shown in Table 8.2-1.
Table 8.2-1: Required Changes for TS36.104
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.3 Frequency bands Revise frequency
range for Band 11 and add a new row for **Band 21** in the table. 5.4.3
Channel number Revise channel numbering for Band 11 and add new one for Band
21. 6.6.3 Operating band unwanted emissions Required for regulatory. 6.6.4.1
Tx Spurious emissions(Cat. A) Required for regulatory. 6.6.4.3 Additional
spurious emissions Revise frequency range for Band 11 and add a new row for
**Band 21** in the table. 6.6.4.4 Co-location with other BS Revise frequency
range for Band 11 and add a new row for **Band 21** in the table. 6.7 Inter-
modulation **No changes.** 7.6 Blocking Revise frequency range for Band 11 and
add a new row for **Band 21** in the table. 7.7 Rx spurious emission Required
for regulatory. 7.8 Receiver Inter-modulation **No changes.**
* * *
## 8.3 Required changes to TS 36.113
Required changes in TS36.113 are shown in Table 8.3-1.
Table 8.3-1: Required changes for TS36.113
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band Revise
frequency range for Band 11 and a**dd requirement for Band 21.**
* * *
## 8.4 Required changes to TS 36.124
Required changes in TS36.124 are shown in Table 8.4-1.
Table 8.4-1: Required changes for TS36.124
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.4 Receiver exclusion band Revise
frequency range for Band 11 and a**dd requirement for Band 21.**
* * *
## 8.5 Required changes to TS 36.133
Required changes in TS36.133 are shown in Table 8.5-1.
Table 8.5-1: Required changes for TS36.133
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 4.2.2.3 Measurements of intra-
frequency E-UTRAN cells Revise the requirement for Band 11 and add a new one
for Band 21. 4.2.2.4 Measurements of inter-frequency E-UTRAN cells Revise the
requirement for Band 11 and add a new one for Band 21. 8.1.2.2 E-UTRAN intra
frequency measurements Revise the requirement for Band 11 and add a new one
for Band 21. 8.1.2.3 General Measurement Requirements Revise the requirement
for Band 11 and add a new one for Band 21. 9.1 E-UTRAN Measurements Revise the
requirement for Band 11 and add a new one for Band 21. A.9 Measurement
Performance Requirements Revise the requirement for Band 11 and add a new one
for Band 21.
* * *
## 8.6 Required changes to TS 36.141
Required changes in TS36.141 are shown in Table 8.6-1.
Table 8.6-1: Required Changes for TS36.141
* * *
Clause Description Description of change 5.5 Operating bands Revise frequency
range for Band 11 and add a new row for **Band 21** in the table. 5.7.3
Channel number Revise channel numbering for Band 11 and add new one for Band
21. 6.6.3 Operating band unwanted emissions Required for regulatory. 6.6.4.1
Tx Spurious emissions(Cat. A) Required for regulatory. 6.6.4.5.4 Additional
spurious emissions Revise frequency range for Band 11 and add a new row for
**Band 21** in the table. 6.6.4.5.5 Co-location with other BS Revise frequency
range for Band 11 and add a new row for **Band 21** in the table. 6.7 Inter-
modulation **No changes.** 7.6 Blocking Revise frequency range for Band 11 and
add a new row for **Band 21** in the table. 7.7 Rx spurious emission Required
for regulatory. 7.8 Receiver Inter-modulation **No changes.**
* * *
## 8.7 Required changes to TS 36.331
There is no need to change TS36.331.
## 8.8 New specification, TS 36.307
E-UTRA; **Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-
independent frequency band** (TS36.307) is newly specified. In TS36.307,
contents on Extended UMTS/LTE1500 WI are as shown in Table 8.8-1.
Table 8.8-1 Contents on Extended UMTS/LTE1500 WI for TS36.307
* * *
Clause Description Contents 6 Band 21 independent of release Add a new section
of Band 21
* * *
# 9 Project plan
## 9.1 Schedule and Work Task Status
Table 9.1-1 summarises the schedule and work task status for Extended UMTS/LTE
1500 WI.
Table 9.1-1: Schedule and work task status
+--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | Item# | Necessary | R | Schedule | Status | | | work | esponsibility | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 1 | Provide | ARIB^*1^ | RAN4#51bis | Completed | | | deployment | | | | | | scenarios for | | | | | | Extended | | | | | | UMTS/LTE 1500 | | | | | | MHz in Japan | | | | | | [2] | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 2 | Provide | ARIB^*1^ | RAN4#51bis | Completed | | | requirements | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-existence | | | | | | with other | | | | | | technologies | | | | | | in Japan | | | | | | [5] | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 3 | Propose | ARIB^*2^ | RAN4#51bis | Completed | | | necessary | | | | | | changes for | | | | | | the relevant | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifications | | | | | | based on the | | | | | | information | | | | | | provided in | | | | | | #2 | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 4.1 | Study and | RAN4 | RAN4#52 - | Completed | | | check | | #52bis | | | | necessary | | | | | | changes for | | | | | | the relevant | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifications | | | | | | and collect | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | information | | | | | | into a TR | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 4.2 | Generate CRs | RAN4 | RAN4#52bis - | Completed | | | to update the | | #53 | | | | appropriate | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifications | | | | | | and other | | | | | | documents | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+ | 5 | Study any | RAN2 | RAN2#67bis | Completed | | | signalling | | | | | | issues | | - #68 | | | | related to | | | | | | Extended | | | | | | UMTS/LTE 1500 | | | | +--------+---------------+---------------+---------------+-----------+
Note*1: ARIB provided RAN4 outcomes from Telec _ommunications_ Council of
Japan.
Note*2: Individual member of ARIB may provide appropriate information or
proposals based on studies at Telec _ommunications_ Council of Japan.
# 10 Open issues
###### ## Annex A (informative): UARFCN numbers
# A.1 List of UARFCN used for UTRA FDD bands
The UARFCN numbering scheme detailed in clauses 5.4.3 and 5.4.4 of TS25.101 is
summarized for information in Table A.1. The table shows the UARFCN assigned
to all UTRA FDD operating bands, starting with the lowest UARFCN and
continuing up to the highest one assigned.
Each band may have two table entries, one for the \"general\" numbers and one
for the \"additional\" ones, as specified in Table 5.2 of TS25.101. The
entries in Table A.1 are explained as follows:
**Band range:** The size of the frequency range for the UTRA FDD band
specified in Table 5.0 of TS25.101.
**Range res.:** The size of the frequency range corresponding to the UARFCN
range that has been \"reserved\" in 3GPP for possible future extensions of the
band.
**Formula offset:** The offset parameter (F~UL_Offset~ or F~DL_Offset~) in the
formula, used to calculate the UARFCN as specified in Clause 5.4.3 of
TS25.101.
**Assigned/reserved:** Indicates the significance of the UARFCN and
corresponding frequencies listed as follows:
**Start res**. Start of the UARFCN range reserved for the band.
**Min.** The lowest UARFCN assigned to the band.
**Max.** The highest UARFCN assigned to the band.
**End res.** End of the UARFCN range reserved for the band.
**N~U~, N~D~:** Uplink and downlink UARFCN.
**F~UL~, F~DL~:** Corresponding uplink and downlink frequencies.
**(Add.):** Refers to the additional UARFCN (on the 100 kHz raster) as
specified in Table 5.1A of TS25.101.
Note that bands V and VI are shown with common entries in Table A.1, since
their UARFCN ranges are completely overlapping.
Table A.1: UARFCN used for the UTRA FDD bands
|  |  | Uplink UARFCN | Downlink UARFCN |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UTRA FDD Band | Band range [MHz] | Range res. [MHz] | Formula offset FUL_Offset [MHz] | Assigned/Reserved | NU | FUL [MHz] | Formula offset FDL_Offset [MHz] | Assigned/Reserved | ND | FDL [MHz]  
II (Add.) | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1850.1 | Start res. | 0 | 1850.1 | 1850.1 | Start res. | 400 | 1930.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | 12 | **1852.5** |  | **Min.** | **412** | **1932.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **287** | **1907.5** |  | **Max.** | **687** | **1987.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 299 | 1909.9 |  | End res. | 699 | 1989.9  
XIX | 2x15 | 2x15 | 770 | Start res. | 300 | 830.0 | 735 | Start res. | 700 | 875.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **312** | **832.4** |  | **Min.** | **712** | **877.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **363** | **842.6** |  | **Max.** | **763** | **887.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 374 | 844.8 |  | End res. | 774 | 889.8  
XIX (Add.) | 2x15 | 2x15 | 755.1 | Start res. | 375 | 830.1 | 720.1 | Start res. | 775 | 875.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **387** | **832.5** |  | **Min.** | **787** | **877.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **437** | **842.5** |  | **Max.** | **837** | **887.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 449 | 844.9 |  | End res. | 849 | 889.9  
XXI | 2x15 | 2x15 | 1358 | Start res. | 450 | 1448 | 1326 | Start res. | 850 | 1496  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **462** | **1450.4** |  | **Min.** | **862** | **1498.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **512** | **1460.4** |  | **Max.** | **912** | **1508.4**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 524 | 1462.8 |  | End res. | 924 | 1510.8  
V  
and  
VI (Add.) | 2x25 (V) 2x10 (VI) | 2x45 | 670.1 | Start res. | 700 | 810.1 | 670.1 | Start res. | 925 | 855.1  
|  |  |  | **Min. (V)** | **782** | **826.5** |  | **Min. (V)** | **1007** | **871.5**  
|  |  |  | **Min. (VI)** | **812** | **832.5** |  | **Min. (VI)** | **1037** | **877.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (VI)** | **837** | **837.5** |  | **Max. (VI)** | **1062** | **882.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (V)** | **862** | **842.5** |  | **Max. (V)** | **1087** | **887.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 924 | 854.9 |  | End res. | 1149 | 899.9  
III | 2x75 | 2x75 | 1525 | Start res. | 925 | 1710.0 | 1575 | Start res. | 1150 | 1805.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **937** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **1162** | **1807.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1288** | **1782.6** |  | **Max.** | **1513** | **1877.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1299 | 1784.8 |  | End res. | 1524 | 1879.8  
IV | 2x45 | 2x70 | 1450 | Start res. | 1300 | 1710.0 | 1805 | Start res. | 1525 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **1312** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **1537** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1513** | **1752.6** |  | **Max.** | **1738** | **2152.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1649 | 1779.8 |  | End res. | 1874 | 2179.8  
IV  
(Add.) | 2x45 | 2x70 | 1380.1 | Start res. | 1650 | 1710.1 | 1735.1 | Start res. | 1875 | 2110.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **1662** | **1712.5** |  | **Min.** | **1887** | **2112.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1862** | **1752.5** |  | **Max.** | **2087** | **2152.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1999 | 1779.9 |  | End res. | 2224 | 2179.9  
VII | 2x70 | 2x70 | 2100 | Start res. | 2000 | 2500.0 | 2175 | Start res. | 2225 | 2620.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2012** | **2502.4** |  | **Min.** | **2237** | **2622.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2338** | **2567.6** |  | **Max.** | **2563** | **2687.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2349 | 2569.8 |  | End res. | 2574 | 2689.8  
VII  
(Add.) | 2x70 | 2x70 | 2030.1 | Start res. | 2350 | 2500.1 | 2105.1 | Start res. | 2575 | 2620.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2362** | **2502.5** |  | **Min.** | **2587** | **2622.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2687** | **2567.5** |  | **Max.** | **2912** | **2687.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2699 | 2569.9 |  | End res. | 2924 | 2689.9  
VIII | 2x35 | 2x35 | 340 | Start res. | 2700 | 880.0 | 340 | Start res. | 2925 | 925.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2712** | **882.4** |  | **Min.** | **2937** | **927.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2863** | **912.6** |  | **Max.** | **3088** | **957.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2874 | 914.8 |  | End res. | 3099 | 959.8  
X | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1135 | Start res. | 2875 | 1710.0 | 1490 | Start res. | 3100 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2887** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **3112** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3163** | **1767.6** |  | **Max.** | **3388** | **2167.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3174 | 1769.8 |  | End res. | 3399 | 2169.8  
X  
(Add.) | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1075.1 | Start res. | 3175 | 1710.1 | 1430.1 | Start res. | 3400 | 2110.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3187** | **1712.5** |  | **Min.** | **3412** | **2112.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3462** | **1767.5** |  | **Max.** | **3687** | **2167.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3474 | 1769.9 |  | End res. | 3699 | 2169.9  
XI _[revised]_ | 2x20 ~~25~~ | 2x20 ~~25~~ | 733 | Start res. | 3475 | 1428.0 | **736** | Start res. | 3700 | 1476.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3487** | **1430.4** |  | **Min.** | **3712** | **1478.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3562** **~~3587~~** | **1445.4** **~~1450.4~~** |  | **Max.** | **3787** **~~3812~~** | **1493.4** **~~1498.4~~**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3574 ~~3599~~ | 1447.8 ~~1452.8~~ |  | End res. | 3799 ~~3824~~ | 1495.8 ~~1500.8~~  
XII | 2x18 | 2x18 | -22 | Start res. | 3600 | 698.0 | **-37** | Start res. | 3825 | 728.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3612** | **700.4** |  | **Min.** | **3837** | **730.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3678** | **713.6** |  | **Max.** | **3903** | **743.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3689 | 715.8 |  | End res. | 3914 | 745.8  
XII (Add.) | 2x18 | 2x18 | -39.9 | Start res. | 3690 | 698.1 | **-54.9** | Start res. | 3915 | 728.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3702** | **700.5** |  | **Min.** | **3927** | **730.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3767** | **713.5** |  | **Max.** | **3992** | **743.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3779 | 715.9 |  | End res. | 4004 | 745.9  
XIII | 2x10 | 2x10 | 21 | Start res. | 3780 | 777.0 | **-55** | Start res. | 4005 | 746.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3792** | **779.4** |  | **Min.** | **4017** | **748.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3818** | **784.6** |  | **Max.** | **4043** | **753.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3829 | 786.8 |  | End res. | 4054 | 755.8  
XIII (Add.) | 2x10 | 2x10 | 11.1 | Start res. | 3830 | 777.1 | **-64.9** | Start res. | 4055 | 746.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3842** | **779.5** |  | **Min.** | **4067** | **748.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3867** | **784.5** |  | **Max.** | **4092** | **753.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3879 | 786.9 |  | End res. | 4104 | 755.9  
XIV | 2x10 | 2x10 | 12 | Start res. | 3880 | 788.0 | **-63** | Start res. | 4105 | 758.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3892** | **790.4** |  | **Min.** | **4117** | **760.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3918** | **795.6** |  | **Max.** | **4143** | **765.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3929 | 797.8 |  | End res. | 4154 | 767.8  
XIV (Add.) | 2x10 | 2x10 | 2.1 | Start res. | 3930 | 788.1 | **-72.9** | Start res. | 4155 | 758.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3942** | **790.5** |  | **Min.** | **4167** | **760.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3967** | **795.5** |  | **Max.** | **4192** | **765.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3979 | 797.9 |  | End res. | 4204 | 767.9  
V  
and  
VI | 2x25 (V) 2x10 (VI) | 2x45 | 0 | Start res. | 4050 | 810.0 | 0 | Start res. | 4275 | 855.0  
|  |  |  | **Min. (V)** | **4132** | **826.4** |  | **Min. (V)** | **4357** | **871.4**  
|  |  |  | **Min. (VI)** | **4162** | **832.4** |  | **Min. (VI)** | **4387** | **877.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (VI)** | **4188** | **837.6** |  | **Max. (VI)** | **4413** | **882.6**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (V)** | **4233** | **846.6** |  | **Max. (V)** | **4458** | **891.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 4274 | 854.8 |  | End res. | 4499 | 899.8  
IX | 2x45 | 2x75 | 0 | Start res. | 8550 | 1710.0 | 0 | Start res. | 9025 | 1805.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **8762** | **1752.4** |  | **Min.** | **9237** | **1847.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **8912** | **1782.4** |  | **Max.** | **9387** | **1877.4**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 8924 | 1784.8 |  | End res. | 9399 | 1879.8  
II | 2x60 | 2x60 | 0 | Start res. | 9250 | 1850.0 | 0 | Start res. | 9650 | 1930.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **9262** | **1852.4** |  | **Min.** | **9662** | **1932.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **9538** | **1907.6** |  | **Max.** | **9938** | **1987.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 9549 | 1909.8 |  | End res. | 9949 | 1989.8  
I | 2x60 | 2x60 | 0 | Start res. | 9600 | 1920.0 | 0 | Start res. | 10550 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | 9612 | 1922.4 |  | **Min.** | **10562** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | 9888 | 1977.6 |  | **Max.** | **10838** | **2167.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 9899 | 1979.8 |  | End res. | 10849 | 2169.8  
#