# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Reduction of operational efforts and complexity are key drivers for RAN Long
Term Evolution. One of the important aspects to this is that the system
operability is improved under multi vendor environment. It is of importance
that measurements and performance data of different vendors share the same
"language." Such alignment is easing ease network performance analyses and
problem finding, and reduces efforts in maintaining the network at a properly
working state.
It is also of interest to minimise operational effort by introducing self
configuring and self optimising mechanisms. A self optimising function shall
increase network performance and quality reacting to dynamic processes in the
network.
Especially in the early deployment phase, the efforts to set up and optimise
are significant and traditionally lead to lengthy periods of getting an
optimum and stable system setup. It is thus essential to have the necessary
set of self configuration and self optimisation mechanisms already available
when initial deployment starts.
As such, standardisation is asked to define the necessary measurements,
procedures and open interfaces to support better operability under multi
vendor environment. Such standardised functions shall also facilitate self
configuration and self optimisation under multi vendor environment. Especially
the interaction between self configuring/optimizing networks and O&M has to be
considered.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions of agreed use cases and solutions
with regards to self configuring and self optimizing networks.
The scope of the self configuring and self optimizing functionality is defined
in TS 36.300 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical Channels and
Modulation\"
[4] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Radio Access (E-UTRA); Medium Access Control (MAC)
Protocol Specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"X2 application protocol (X2AP) \".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical Layer Procedures\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CP Contention Probability
DMP Detection Miss Probability
DRX Discontinuous Reception
ICIC Inter-cell Interference Coordination
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
PRB Physical Resource Block
RACH Random Access CHannel
RAT Radio Access Technology
RRM Radio Resource Management
SC-FDMA Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access
# 4 Description of envisioned self configuring and self optimizing
functionality, Use cases
## 4.1 Coverage and capacity optimization
A typical operational task is to optimize the network according to coverage
and capacity. Planning tools support this task based on theoretical models but
for both problems measurements must be derived in the network. Call drop rates
give a first indication for areas with insufficient coverage, traffic counters
identify capacity problems.
### 4.1.1 Use Case description
The use case will have two main objectives:
**Providing optimal coverage**
This objective requires that in the area, where LTE system is offered, users
can establish and maintain connections with acceptable or default service
quality, according to operator's requirements. It implies therefore that the
coverage is continuous and users are unaware of cell borders. The coverage
must be therefore provided in both, idle and active mode for both, UL and DL.
**Providing optimal capacity**
While coverage optimization has higher priority than capacity optimization in
Rel-9, the coverage optimization algorithms must take the impact on capacity
into account. Since coverage and capacity are linked, a trade-off between the
two of them may also be a subject of optimisation.
This use case is not completed in rel-9.
## 4.2 Energy Savings
A typical critical cost for the operator is the energy expenses. Cuts on
energy expenses could be realized if the capacity offered by the network would
match the needed traffic demand at any point of time as close as possible.
### 4.2.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Energy savings based on enabling the possibility, for a cell providing
additional capacity in a deployment where capacity boosters can be
distinguished from cells providing basic coverage, to be switched off when its
capacity is no longer needed and to be re-activated on a need basis.
Expected outcome:
Cuts on operational expenses through energy savings.
### 4.2.2 Solution Description
#### 4.2.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
See TS 36.300 [2].
#### 4.2.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
See TS 36.300 [2].
#### 4.2.2.3 Impacted specifications, procedure interactions and interfaces
See TS 36.300 [2].
## 4.3 Interference Reduction
Capacity could be improved through interference reduction by switching off
those cells which are not needed for traffic at some point of time, in
particular home eNodeBs when the user is not at home.
### 4.3.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Interference reduction based on cell switch on/off.
Expected outcome:
  * Increased capacity through interference reduction.
  * Increased quality through interference reduction.
This use case is not completed in rel-9.
## 4.4 Automated Configuration of Physical Cell Identity
### 4.4.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Automatic configuration of the Physical ID of an eNB's radio cell
The proposed SON use case provides an automated configuration of a newly
introduced cell's physical ID (L1 cell identifier TS 36.300 [2]).
{width="6.6409722222222225in" height="3.061111111111111in"}
Figure 4.4.1: Deployment Illustration
The physical cell identity, or L1 identity (Phy_ID in this document), is an
essential configuration parameter of a radio cell, it corresponds to a unique
combination of one orthogonal sequence and one pseudo-random sequence, and 504
unique Phy_IDs are supported --leading to unavoidable reuse of the Phy_ID in
different cells (TS 36.211 [3]).
When a new eNodeB is brought into the field, a Phy_ID needs to be selected for
each of its supported cells, avoiding collision with respective neighbouring
cells (the use of identical Phy_ID by two cells results in interference
conditions hindering the identification and use of any of them where otherwise
both would have coverage). Traditionally, the proper Phy_ID is derived from
radio network planning and is part of the initial configuration of the node.
The Phy_ID assignment shall fulfil following conditions,
"collision-free": the Phy_ID is unique in the area that the cell covers
"confusion-free": a cell shall not have neighbouring cells with identical
Phy_ID
### 4.4.2 Solution Description
Self-configuration case applied during initial cell configuration
Functionality: selection of a Physical ID for a newly deployed radio cell
Actions:
FFS
Expected outcome:
Selection of Phy_ID without conflicts.
#### 4.4.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
(FFS)
#### 4.4.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
Output parameters from the SON function are:
Self-configuration of Phy_ID
#### 4.4.2.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
There may be an impact related to the method to be used for obtaining existing
configuration at neighbours that is FFS.
## 4.5 Mobility robustness optimisation
### 4.5.1 Use Case description
Manual setting of HO parameters in current 2G/3G systems is a time consuming
task. In many cases, it is considered too costly to update the mobility
parameters after the initial deployment.
For some cases, RRM in one eNB can detect problems and adjust the mobility
parameters, but there are also examples where RRM in one eNB can not resolve
problems:
Incorrect HO parameter settings can negatively affect user experience and
wasted network resources by causing HO ping-pongs, HO failures and radio link
failures (RLF). While HO failures that do not lead to RLFs are often
recoverable and invisible to the user, RLFs caused by incorrect HO parameter
settings have a combined impact on user experience and network resources.
Therefore, the main objective of mobility robustness optimization should be
reducing the number of HO-related radio link failures. Furthermore, non-
optimal configuration of handover parameters, even if it does not result in
RLFs, may lead to serious degradation of the service performance. Example of
such a situation is incorrect setting of the HO hysteresis, which may be the
reason for either ping-pong effect or prolonged connection to non-optimal
cell. Thus the secondary objective will be reduction of the inefficient use of
network resources due to unecessary or missed handovers.
HO-related failures can be categorized as follows:
  * Failures due to too late HO triggering
  * Failures due to too early HO triggering
  * Failures due to HO to a wrong cell
Additionally cell-reselection parameters not aligned with HO parameters may
result in unwanted handovers subsequent to connection setup, which should be
avoided by parameter adjustments done by MRO function.
### 4.5.2 Required Functionality
#### 4.5.2.1 Detection of Too Late HO
If the UE mobility is more aggressive than what the HO parameter settings
allow for, handover can be triggered when the signal strength of the source
cell is already too low -- leading to a RLF; or handover may not be triggered
at all if a RLF preempts it. Signature of Too Late HOs may be summarized by:
  * RLF in the source cell before the HO was initiated or during HO procedure,
  * UE re-establishes the connection in a cell different than the source cell.
#### 4.5.2.2 Detection of Too Early HO
Too early HO can be triggered when the UE enters unintended island of coverage
of another cell contained inside the coverage area of the serving cell. This
is a typical scenario for areas where fragmented cell coverage is inherent to
the radio propagation environment, such as dense urban areas. Signature of Too
Early HO may be summarized by:
  * RLF occurred short time after the UE successfully connected to the target cell
  * UE re-establishes the connection in the source cell
#### 4.5.2.3 Detection of HO to a Wrong Cell
If the Cell Individual Offset (CIO) (TS 36.331 [5]) parameters are set
incorrectly, the handover, albeit timed correctly, will be directed towards a
wrong cell. Signature of HO to a wrong cell may be summarized by:
  * RLF occurred short time after the UE succesfully connected to the target cell
  * UE re-establishes the connection in a cell other than the source cell or the target cell
#### 4.5.2.4 Reducing inefficient use of network resources due to unnecessary
HOs
HO procedure is resource-consuming and therefore costly to the network
operator. Moreover, its optimal settings depend on momentary radio conditions,
which makes it difficult to control manually. Sometimes, the combination of
user mobility patterns and cell coverage boundary layout can generate frequent
unnecessary HOs that consume NW resources inefficiently. Alternatively,
incorrect HO configuration (e.g. too big HO hysteresis) may result in missing
handovers that should have been executed. HO parameter optimisation function
should aim at detecting such scenarios. These scenarios sometimes can be
remedied by HO parameter optimisation.
#### 4.5.2.5 Optimization of cell reselection parameters
If cell reselection parameters are not aligned with handover parameter
settings, unwanted handovers subsequent to connection setup may occur and
should be avoided.
### 4.5.3 Evaluation scenarios and expected results
Expected results:
  * Detect and minimize occurences of Too Late HOs
  * Detect and minimize occurences of Too Early HOs
  * Detect and minimize occurences of HO to a Wrong Cell
  * Reduce inefficient use of network resources due to unnecessary HOs, e.g. "ping pong"
  * Reduce unwanted handovers subsequent to connection setup
### 4.5.4 O&M requirements for radio related functions
While algorithms for mobility robustness optimisation should be located in the
eNB SON entities, network operators should have the ability to provide their
input reflecting their knowledge about the network and their network
management policies,
In order to enable mobility robustness optimization:
  * The relevant mobility robustness parameters should be autoconfigurable by the eNB SON entities.
  * OAM should be able to configure a valid range of values for these parameters (list of parameters described in Section 4.5.5),
  * eNB should pick a value from within this configured range, using proprietery algorithms for HO parameter optimisation.
Furthermore, in order to support the solutions for detection of Too Late and
Too Early HO, it is required that parameter _T~store_UE_cntxt~_ shall be
configurable by the OAM system.
### 4.5.5 Solution Description
#### 4.5.5.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
It is proposed that certain information may be exchanged between neighboring
eNBs, to facilitate optimization of mobility robustness parameters:
  * Report of RLF failures: This report includes the following information elements:
    * Failure Cell ID: PCI of the cell in which the RLF occurred.
    * Reestablishment Cell ID: PCI and (optionally) ECGI of the cell where RL re-establishment attempt is made
    * C-RNTI: C-RNTI of the UE in the cell where RLF occurred.
> NOTE: Reporting both the PCI and ECGI helps to resolve confusion in the
> network, in case the RLF was due to PCI confusion in the first place.
##### 4.5.5.1.1 Detection of Too Late HOs
The source cell is not always aware of a too late HO because the RLF can occur
before the source cell is able to receive the HO-triggering measurement report
message (MRM) from the UE. Therefore, a report of the RLF from the target cell
in which the radio link is re-established to the source cell is necessary in
order to allow the source cell to properly identify the RLF as related to
incorrect HO parameter settings. The RLF report can be formalized as follows:
_If the UE re-establishes the radio link at eNB B after a RLF at eNB A then
eNB B shall report this RLF event to eNB A._
##### 4.5.5.1.2 Detection of Too Early HO
In the event of a too early handover from cell A to cell B, an RLF event may
get reported by cell A to cell B according to the mechanism described in
Section 4.5.5.1.1, when the UE returns to cell A after RLF. In this case, the
cell B will consider it as an indication of a too late HO. This case needs to
be prevented in order to ensure the stability of the MRO function in the
network. This following mechanism achieves this goal:
_eNB B shall return an indication of a Too Early HO event to eNB A when eNB B
receives an RLF report from eNB A and if eNB B has sent the UE Context Release
message to eNB A related to the completion of an incoming HO for the same UE
within the last T~store_UE_cntxt~ seconds._
#### 4.5.5.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
The following mobility parameters may be optmized:
  * Hysteresis,
  * Time to Trigger,
  * Cell Individual Offset
  * Cell reselection parameters
The list of parameters to be optmized is FFS, depending on the solution
adopted.
The parameters related to cell reselection are defined in TS 36.304 [4] and
those related to handover in TS 36.331 [5].
#### 4.5.5.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
TS 36.423 [7]
## 4.6 Mobility Load balancing optimisation
### 4.6.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Optimisation of cell reselection/handover parameters in order to cope with the
unequal traffic load and to minimize the number of handovers and redirections
needed to achieve the load balancing.
Self-optimisation of the intra-LTE and inter-RAT mobility parameters to the
current load in the cell and in the adjacent cells can improve the system
capacity compared to static/non-optimised cell reselection/handover
parameters. Such optimisation can also minimize human intervention in the
network management and optimization tasks.
The load balancing shall not affect the user QoS negatively beyond what a user
would experience at normal mobility without load-balancing. Service
capabilities of RATs must be taken into account, and solutions should take
into account network deployments with overlay of high-capacity and low-
capacity layers where high-capacity layer can have spotty coverage.
Load balancing can be done in following scenarios:
  * Intra-LTE load balancing
  * Inter-RAT load balancing
### 4.6.2 Required functionality
General features of the solution are as follows:
Functionality: An algorithm decides to distribute the UEs camping on or having
a connection to a cell, in order to balance the traffic load. This may be
achieved by delaying or advancing the handing over of the UEs between cells.
Actions:
  * An eNB monitors the load in the controlled cell and exchanges related information over X2 or S1 with neighbouring node(s).
  * An algorithm identifies the need to distribute the load of the cell towards either adjacent or co-located cells, including cells from other RATs, e.g. by comparing the load among the cells, the type of ongoing services, the cell configuration, etc.
  * For the intra-LTE case, an algorithm estimates if the HO parameter settings need to be modified; if so, communication between involved eNBs (or towards O&M) takes place to propose changes of the neighbours HO trigger settings to the neighbour eNB.
### 4.6.3 Evaluation criteria and expected results
Expected results:
  * According to handover mechanisms, some of the UEs at the cell border hand over to a less loaded cell;
  * In the new situation the cell load is balanced.
  * Increased capacity of the system.
  * Minimized human intervention in network management and optimization tasks.
### 4.6.4 O&M requirements for radio related functions
> (editor's note: in this section requirements on O&M respectively paramenters
> to be made configurable in a standardized way over the north bound interface
> in responsibility of SA5 shall be covered, once identified and agreed.\ \
> The text shall describe how these parameters are to be used by the
> respective node, the range, the type of the parameter and their granularity
> etc.
>
> e.g
>
> Boundary for **Qoffset~s,n~ as** specified in TS 36.304 [4] for SON
> operation.
>
> It shall be possible to set boundaries within SON algoritms are allowed to
> work (i.e. the implementation specific algorithm may take any value out of
> the allowed range within the specified boundary). The boundaries are
> enumerated values, in a maximum range of -10dB to +10dB. The envisioned
> granularity are steps of 0,2 dB. Furthermore if SON functionality is
> deactivated it shall be possible to set a distinct value for
> **Qoffset~s,n~** the node has to apply in this case.
>
> end of editors note:)
### 4.6.5 Solution description for Intra LTE load balancing
#### 4.6.5.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
It is proposed that load information is used for load balancing. Besides its
own load, an eNB must know the load in the neighbouring cells to be able to
decide on the appropriate candidate cell for LB action. The neighbour load can
be provided with:
Intra-LTE load balancing (information exchanged over X2):
  * the current radio resource usage (UL / DL GBR PRB usage, UL/DL non-GBR PRB usage, UL/DL total PRB usage), (further refinements of non-GBR load is FFS)
  * the current HW load indicator (UL/DL HW load: low, mid, high, overload),
  * the current TNL load indicator (UL/DL TNL load: low, mid, high, overload).
  * a composite available capacity indicator (UL / DL).
  * a cell capacity class indicator (UL / DL).
It is assumed the node indicating available capacity is ready to accept the
corresponding traffic, but it is not mandatory.
It is also assumed that the algorithm to calculate the available capacity
indicator is vendor-specific and runs in the eNB that provides the indicator.
#### 4.6.5.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
Intra-LTE load balancing:
  * Handover parameters: HO trigger threshold.
The parameters related to handover are defined in TS 36.331 [5]
#### 4.6.5.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
The signalling of composite available capacity impacts the X2AP protocol and
the necessary support is introduced in the Resource Status Reporting
procedures.
The negotiation of HO trigger thresholds is also defined in the X2AP protocol
by means of the Mobility Settings Change procedure.
### 4.6.6 Solution description for Inter RAT load balancing
Need for inter RAT load exchange is confirmed. Inter-RAT load balancing and
cell offload actions may be needed independently of existing or recent inter-
RAT mobility events. However, in order to avoid ping-pong inter-RAT load
balancing handovers (with associated waste of CN signalling resources and
degradation of user experience), reported load should be assumed to have
validity beyond immediate UE RRM purpose.
It is therefore proposed that the neighbouring load is provided on a low-
frequency basis using a procedure separated from existing active mode mobility
procedures.
#### 4.6.6.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
It is proposed that load information is used for inter-RAT load balancing.
Besides its own load, an eNB can request the load of the neighbouring cell(s)
belonging to the candidate RAT(s) to be able to decide on the appropriate
candidate cell / RAT for LB action.
The neighbouring cell load is provided in the format used by the reporting
RAT.
#### 4.6.6.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
#### 4.6.6.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
The need for inter-RAT parameter negotiation was not shown, and will not be
standardised in Rel-9. Inter-RAT load balancing functionality may result in
implementation dependent inter-RAT handover actions.
A dedicated procedure for inter-RAT cell load request / reporting is provided
with minimal impact using a generic SON container extension of the RIM (RAN
Information Management) mechanism.
Impacts mainly concern BSSGP specification where the cell load reporting has
been specified as a new RIM application.
In order to introduce routing of RIM messages between UTRAN and E-UTRAN,
alignment CRs concerning the following interfaces have been done.
\- RANAP
\- S1AP
\- CN interfaces using GTPv2-C.
## 4.7 RACH Optimisation
### 4.7.1 Use Case description
The RACH configuration has critical impacts to system performance:
The RACH collision probability is significantly affected by the RACH settings,
making this a critical factor for call setup delays; data resuming delays from
the UL unsynchronized state, and handover delays. It also affects the call
setup success rate and handover success rate.Since UL resource units need to
be reserved exclusively for RACH, the amount of reserved resources has impacts
on the system capacity.A poorly configured RACH may also result in low
preamble detection probability and limited coverage. Therefore, RACH parameter
optimisation provides significant benefits to the deployed network. The
setting of RACH parameters depends on a multitude of factors, e.g.:
\- the uplink inter-cell interference from the Physical Uplink Shared Channel
(PUSCH),
\- RACH load (call arrival rate, HO rate, tracking area update, traffic
pattern and population under the cell coverage as it affects the UL
synchronization states and hence the need to use random access),
\- PUSCH load,
\- the cubic metric of the preambles allocated to a cell,
\- whether the cell is in high-speed mode or not,
\- uplink (UL) and downlink (DL) imbalances.
Since these are affected by network configuration (e.g., antenna tilting,
transmission power settings and handover thresholds), any change in these
configurations would also affect the optimum RACH configuration. For example,
if the antenna tilting of a cell is changed, the coverage of cells in the
vicinity will be changed, consequently affecting the call arrival rate and
handover rate at each cell. This will affect the amount of RACHs in each cell,
including the usage per range of preambles. Then, the operator will have to
check the RACH performance/usage in each cell and detect any problems on RACH
associated with the applied changes. If required, it may further trigger some
adjustments in RACH configuration. Measurements on the RACH performance/usage
are needed to be collected at a SON entity.
An automatic RACH optimization function monitors the prevailing conditions,
e.g., a change on RACH load, uplink interference, and determines and updates
the appropriate parameters.
### 4.7.2 Objective
The primary objectives of a RACH optimization function are:
a.) Minimize access delays for all UEs in the system
  * Incoming probe must have sufficient power for the eNB to detect.
b.) Minimize UL interference due to RACH
  * Too high power causes unnecessary interference to other eNBs.
Secondary objective is furthermore:
c.) Minimize interference among RACH attempts
  * Configure neighbouring cells to minimize sequence/frequency overlaps.
  * Choose call parameters to account for mobile velocity (high speed [≥ 300kph] vs. Normal).
Consequently, the RACH optimization function will attempt to automatically set
several parameters related to the performance of RACH, for example:
  * PRACH configuration index (resource unit allocation and format) (TS 36.211 [3]);
  * RACH preamble split (among dedicated, random-high, random-low) (TS 36.331 [5]);
  * RACH backoff parameter value (TS 36.321 [6]);
  * PRACH transmission power control parameters (TS 36.213 [8]).
The exact set of parameters to be optimized by the RACH Optimization function
is outside the scope of this technical report.
### 4.7.3 Expected results
Reduction in access delay, which results into:
  * short call setup delays
  * short data resuming delays from UL unsynchronized state
  * short handover delays
  * high call setup success rate
  * high handover success rate
Optimisation on the amount of UL resource unit reserved for RACH which brings
a positive System Capacity impact.
### 4.7.4 Solution Description
#### 4.7.4.1 Performance data, Input data and definition of Measurements
##### 4.7.4.1.1 Performance Specification
The UE performs a power ramping procedure, where the UE increases its power
for the subsequent preamble transmission if the UE is not granted access due
to a preamble detection miss or contention, as described in TS 36.321 [6].
{width="6.499305555555556in" height="2.2381944444444444in"}
Figure 4.7.4.1.1-1: RACH Procedure
The desired performance of RACH may be expressed in terms of the access
probability _AP(m)_ , which is the probability that the UE has access after a
certain random access attempt number _m=_ 1,2,3....
Alternatively, the desired performance may be expressed in terms of the
_access delay_ , which is the delay from the initial random access attempt
until access is granted. Similar to above, the RACH performance may be
expressed in terms of the access delay probability _ADP_(_δ_), which is the
probability that the access delay is less than _δ_.
Various alternatives are possible, although it is noted that ADP is more
appropriate since it explicitly takes into account the delay involved in the
random access procedure as discussed in the objectives of RACH optimization
(section 4.7.2).
##### 4.7.4.1.2 Input Data
Potential input parameters to set the following RACH related parameters are as
follows:
**PRACH Configuration Index**
Plausible input information for the automatic function may be estimates of
access probability, access delay probability, and the PUSCH load.
**PRACH Transmission Power Control Parameters**
Relevant input information for the automatic function may include the access
probability and/or access delay probability estimates, and uplink inter-cell
interference. Further, since the uplink interference may change on a fast
cycle it is beneficial for the automatic RACH optimization function to be
responsive and act immediately to changes in interference.
**RACH Backoff Parameter**
Suitable input information for the automatic function may include the access
probability and momentary RACH load.
**RACH Preamble Split**
Each cell can measure the incoming handover rate. Further, at handover the
target cell also sets the \"handover failure timer T304\", which determines
for how long dedicated pre-ambles are locked and this has an impact on the
number of dedicated preambles needed.
**Root Sequence Index**
These indexes are used to choose the code sequences for the RACH attempts.
These may be useful in avoiding RACH collisions when the same time and
frequency resource gets reused in neighbouring cells, and for calculating the
interference caused in the RACH area in an eNB. For the purpose of calculating
interference, this may be also done using dedicated preambles as there is no
need of reserving additional root sequences for this purpose.
An eNB may exchange information over the X2 interface with its neighbors for
the purpose of RACH optimisation. An eNB may also communicate with the O&M in
order to perform RACH optimization.
##### 4.7.4.1.3 Definition of Measurements
**Reporting Entities**
RACH optimization functions need to estimate _AP_(_m_) or _ADP_(_m_), in order
to set RACH parameters, e.g., configuration and transmission power control
parameters. AP and ADP depend on CP and DMP. Although it may be possible to
estimate the CP by, e.g., using the number of received preambles and number of
UEs that have obtained access, it is not possible to estimate DMP using only
measurements available at the eNodeB. An undetected preamble is simply a
correlation peak below the detection threshold and is, therefore, classified
as noise at the eNodeB detector. Hence, it is needed that UEs report necessary
information needed to estimate AP and ADP.
To estimate AP, it is necessary that the UE reports the number of attempts
needed to obtain access (see, PREAMBLE_TRANSMISSION_COUNTER in TS 36.321 [6]).
Note, that the UE ramps up its power (increments
PREAMBLE_TRANSMISSION_COUNTER) also when the UE has not been granted access
due to loosing the contention resolution process. In order to derive accurate
estimates of DMP, it may be necessary to exclude random access procedures that
have been subject to contention failures (i.e., reports where the transmission
counter has been increased due to contention failure). This is indicated using
a single bit, where the UE indicates whether it has been subject to contention
during the random access procedure.
The details of the UE reporting procedure is captured in TS 36.331 [5]. The
network may poll for the UE report after a successful random access procedure
(see _UEInformationRequest_) and the UE responds with the number of preambles
sent by MAC for the last successfully completed random access procedure and
whether contention is detected by MAC for at least one of the transmitted
preambles for the last successfully completed random access procedure (see
_UEInformationResponse_).
#### 4.7.4.2 Output, influenced entities and parameters
Potential output parameters are:
  * PRACH configuration index (resource unit allocation and format);
  * RACH preamble split (among dedicated, random-high, random-low);
  * RACH backoff timer parameter;
  * PRACH transmission power control parameters;
  * Root sequence index.
#### 4.7.4.3 Impacted specifications, procedure interactions and interfaces
UE and eNB measurements are provided to the SON entity, which resides in the
eNB. Details on UE measurements are specified in TS 36.331 [5].
An eNB exchanges information over the X2 interface with its neighbors for the
purpose of RACH optimisation. The PRACH Configuration is exchanged via the X2
Setup and eNB Configuration Update procedures.
An eNB may also need to communicate with the O&M in order to perform RACH
optimization.
##### 4.7.4.3.1 Stage 2 and stage 3 specifications
##### 4.7.4.3.1.1 Stage 2 specification {#stage-2-specification .H6}
The use case is described in TS 36.300 [2].
##### 4.7.4.3.1.2 Stage 3 specification {#stage-3-specification .H6}
The necessary support is specified in TS 36.331 [5] and TS 36.423 [7].
### 4.7.5 O&M requirements
Operators may be able to configure the initial planned RACH configuration. The
related parameters may be modified based on operator's policies. The RACH
performance target may also be set via O&M.
While algorithms for RACH optimization are located in the eNB, in order to
enable RACH optimization:
  * The relevant RACH parameters should be autoconfigurable by the eNB.
  * OAM should be able to configure value ranges for these parameters,
  * eNB should be able to operate within the configured ranges using proprietary algorithms for RACH optimisation.
While the exact list of parameters is FFS because it may be more optimal to
keep certain entities within the eNB, the following are candidates for this
set:
  * **_preambleInitialReceivedTargetPower_**
  * **_powerRampingStep_**
  * **_preambleTransMax_**
```{=html}
``` \- **_ContentionResolutionTimer_**
How eNB makes use of the list of values of the above parameters to affect the
used value of these parameters will be subject to eNB implementation.
Any specified OAM mechanism shall make sure that the optimization function
residing in the eNB is not constrained by the configured parameters in a way
that performance of the SON mechanism is jeopardized or limited.
Note: Any specified OAM mechanism shall make sure that the range of values
provided are adequate for the efficient performance of the optimization
function residing in the eNB.
## 4.8 Automatic Neighbour Relation Function
This use case allows an eNB to build and maintain neighbour relationships as
described in TS 36.300 [2].
## 4.9 Inter-cell Interference Coordination
In reuse one cellular networks mutual interference between cells occurs.
Within the OFDM and SC-FDMA based LTE system interference has to be
coordinated on the basis of the physical resource blocks (PRBs). Such
interference can be reduced or avoided in uplink and downlink by a coordinated
usage of the available resources (PRBs) in the related cells which leads to
improved SIR and corresponding throughput. This coordination is realized by
restriction and preference for the resource usage in the different cells. This
can be achieved by means of ICIC related RRM mechanisms employing signalling
of e.g. HII, OI and DL TX Power indicator.
ICIC RRM might be configured by ICIC related configuration parameters like
reporting thresholds/periods and preferred/prioritized resources. Then these
have to be set by the operator for each cell. Setting and updating these
parameters automatically is the task of a SON mechanism.
### 4.9.1 Use Case description
Objective:
The objective is the self-configuration and self-optimization of control
parameters of RRM ICIC schemes for UL and DL. By means of ICIC related
Performance Measurements (PM) analysis the SON function may properly tune ICIC
configuration parameters like reporting thresholds/periods and resource
preference configuration settings in order to make the ICIC schemes effective
with respect to Operator's requirements.
This shall allow an advantageous RRM resource usage by means of preferences
with respect to the e.g. available time/frequency resources, neighbourhood
relations of the cells and QoS requirements targeted by the operator.
Expected results:
Automatic configuration or adaptation, with respect to cell topology, of
ICIC reporting thresholds/periods
resource preferences in eNBs
RSRP threshold for ICIC
Minimized human intervention in network management and optimization tasks
Optimised capacity in terms of satisfied users
This use case is not completed in rel-9.
#