# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document contains requirements for the further advancements for
E-UTRA/E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] (void)
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 25.913: \"Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E-UTRAN)\".
[4] ITU-R Circular Letter 5/LCCE/2 on IMT-Advanced
[5] 3GPP TR 25.912: \"Feasibility study for evolved Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access (UTRA) and Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TS
21.905 [2] and the following apply:
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #39 meeting, the Study Item description on \"Further
Advancements for E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced)\" was approved (RP-080137).
The justification of the Study Item was as follows;
IMT-Advanced is entering the phase of the process in ITU-R addressing the
development of the terrestrial radio interface recommendations. To announce
this stage of the process for IMT-Advanced, ITU-R has issued a Circular
Letter(CL) to invite submission of candidate Radio Interface Technologies
(RITs) or a set of RITs (SRITs) for IMT-Advanced. The key features of IMT-
Advanced delineated in the CL are:
\- a high degree of commonality of functionality worldwide while retaining the
flexibility to support a wide range of services and applications in a cost
efficient manner;
\- compatibility of services within IMT and with fixed networks;
\- capability of interworking with other radio access systems;
\- high quality mobile services;
\- user equipment suitable for worldwide use;
\- user-friendly applications, services and equipment;
\- worldwide roaming capability; and
\- enhanced peak data rates to support advanced services and applications (100
Mbit/s for high and 1 Gbit/s for low mobility were established as targets for
research) .
The base line requirements for IMT-Advanced will be concluded in ITU-R WP 5D
#2 (June 2008) and communicated in an Addendum to the Circular Letter in the
July 2008 timeframe.
In the WRC07, the following spectrum bands were proposed as additions to the
prior identified bands, and the parts of the existing and new bands are
globally or regionally identified for IMT, which is the new root term to
encompass both IMT-2000 and IMT-Advanced.
\- 450 MHz band
\- UHF band (698-960 MHz)
\- 2.3 GHz band
\- C-band(3400-4200 MHz)
In 3GPP, E-UTRA should be further evolved for the future releases in
accordance with:
\- 3GPP operator requirements for the evolution of E-UTRA
\- The need to meet/exceed the IMT-Advanced capabilities.
Considering the above, 3GPP TSG-RAN should study further advancements for
E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced) toward meeting:
\- Requirements for IMT-Advanced and provide ITU-R with proposals of RITs or
SRITs according to the defined ITU-R time schedule provided in the Circular
Letter and its Addendums.
\- 3GPP operators requirements for the evolution of E-UTRA
# 5 Objective
The objective of Further Advancements for E-UTRA is as follows;
A) Define a framework for further advancements of E-UTRA and E-UTRAN (to be
referred to as Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced EUTRAN considering:
\- The time schedule of ITU-R
\- That the work on Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN must not introduce
any delay to the completion of the Release 8 specification of E-UTRA and
E-UTRAN
\- That the general enhancements of specifications for Release 8 E-UTRA and
E-UTRAN are maintained and progressed in a focused and efficient manner.
B) Define requirements for Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN based on the
ITU-R requirements for IMT-Advanced as well as 3GPP operators own requirements
for advancing Release 8 E-UTRA AND E-UTRAN considering:
\- E-UTRA radio technology and architecture improvements
\- Support for all radio modes of operation
\- Interworking with legacy RATs (scenarios and performance requirements)
\- Backward compatibility of Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN with Release
8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN i.e.
\- an Release 8 E-UTRA terminal can work in an Advanced E-UTRAN,
\- an Advanced E-UTRA terminal can work in an Release 8 E-UTRAN and
\- non-backward compatible elements could be considered based on RAN decision
\- Newly identified frequency bands and existing frequency bands, and their
advantages and limitations, in particular, the consideration of the WRC-07
conclusions, to ensure that Advanced E-UTRA can accommodate radio channel
bandwidths commensurate with the availability in parts of the world of
wideband channels in the spectrum allocations (above 20 MHz) and at the same
time being mindful on the need to accommodate those parts of the world where
the spectrum allocations will not have availability of wideband channels
C) Identify potential solutions, technologies for the Advanced E-UTRA and
Advanced E-UTRAN. The study areas include:
\- Physical layer
\- Radio interface layer 2 and RRC
\- E-UTRAN architecture
\- RF, including Aspects of wider channel bandwidth than 20 MHz
\- Advanced system concepts
D) To develop documents that will serve as a basis for the documentation to be
submitted to ITU-R to provide the 3GPP proposals for IMT-Advanced:
1) An \"Early Proposal\" submission that would be sent to ITU-R, to be agreed
at RAN #41 (9-12 September 2008), for submission to WP 5D #3 (8-15 October
2008).
2) A \"Complete Technology\" submission that would be sent to ITU-R, to be
agreed at RAN #44 (26-29 May 2009), for submission to WP 5D #5 (planned for
10-17 June 2009).
3) A \"Final\" submission to incorporate updates, additional specific details
or feature additions, _and_ the required self-evaluation that would be sent to
ITU-R, to be agreed at RAN #45 (22-25 September 2009), for submission to WP 5D
#6 (planned for 13-20 Oct 2009).
\- 3GPP should take note, that by ITU-R convention, the formal submission
deadline for ITU-R meetings has been established as 16:00 hours UTC, seven
calendar days prior to the start of the meeting.
E) Make recommendations for future WIs
F) For reference, the Circular Letter as received from the ITU-R (and future
Addendums to the same) are annexed to this Work Item and should become an
integral part of the WI.
# 6 General requirements
The following general requirements are valid for Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced
E-UTRAN
\- Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN shall be an evolution of Release 8
E-UTRA and E-UTRAN
\- All relevant requirement in [3] are valid also for Advanced E-UTRA and
Advanced E-UTRAN
\- Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN shall meet or exceed IMT-Advanced
requirements within the ITU-R time plan
The expectancy is that Advanced E-UTRA should provide substantially higher
performance compared to what is expected to be the IMT-Advanced requirements
in ITU-R. The values provided in clauses 7 and 8 have been expressed as
preferred performance of Advanced E-UTRA. These values are recognised as being
very ambitious, especially in light of the ITU-R time plan, and the
performance evaluation results generated for LTE R8, but are adopted as long
term target for Advanced E-UTRA\"
# 7 Capability-related requirements
## 7.1 Peak Data Rate
The peak data rate is the maximum data rate to be supported from a system
requirement viewpoint (i.e. not from radio performance requirement viewpoint)
regardless of radio interface parameters such as the transmission bandwidth
and antenna configuration.
Advanced E-UTRA should support significantly increased instantaneous peak data
rates.
At a minimum, Advanced E-UTRA should support the key feature of IMT-Advanced
which is stated in the Circular Letter from the ITU-R as \"enhanced peak data
rates to support advanced services and applications (100 Mbit/s for high and 1
Gbit/s for low mobility were established as targets for research)\"
The system should target a downlink peak data rate of 1 Gbps and an uplink
peak data rate of 500 Mbps.
## **7.2 Latency**
### 7.2.1 C-plane latency
The overall C-Plane latency shall be significantly decreased compared to EPS
Rel-8. The C-Plane latency takes into account RAN and CN latencies (excluding
the transfer latency on the S1 interface) in unloaded conditions.
The target for transition time from Idle mode (with IP address allocated) to
Connected mode is less than 50 ms including the establishment of the user
plane (excluding the S1 transfer delay).
The target for the transition from a \"dormant state\" in Connected Mode (i.e.
DRX substate in Connected Mode in E‑UTRAN) is less than 10 ms (excluding the
DRX delay).
Figure 7.1: Requirements for state transitions
#### 7.2.1.1 C-plane capacity
The system should be able to support at least 300 active users without DRX in
a 5 MHz bandwidth. The same number of RRC connections with DRX as in Release 8
E-UTRA and E-UTRAN (16k) is expected.
### 7.2.2 U-Plane latency
Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN should allow for reduced U-plane latency
compared to Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN, specifically in situations where:
\- The UE does not have a valid scheduling assignment
\- The UE needs to synchronise and obtain a scheduling assignment
The U-Plane latency is defined as the minimum achievable user plane latency
with the system configurations optimized for latency
# 8 System performance requirements
## 8.1 Spectrum efficiency
In this section, the target for peak spectrum efficiency, the average spectrum
efficiency, and cell edge spectrum efficiency are defined. The target for
average spectrum efficiency and the cell edge user throughput efficiency
should be given a higher priority than the target for peak spectrum efficiency
and VoIP capacity.
The target for average spectrum efficiency and the cell edge spectrum
efficiency should be achieved simultaneously.
### 8.1.1 Peak spectrum efficiency
The peak spectrum efficiency is the highest data rate normalised by overall
cell bandwidth assuming error-free conditions, when all available radio
resources for the corresponding link direction are assigned to a single UE.
The system target to support downlink peak spectrum efficiency of 30 bps/Hz
and uplink peak spectrum efficiency of 15 bps/Hz.
Assumption of antenna configuration is 8x8 or less for DL and 4x4 or less for
UL
### 8.1.2 Average spectrum efficiency
Average spectrum efficiency is defined as the aggregate throughput of all
users (the number of correctly received bits over a certain period of time)
normalized by the overall cell bandwidth divided by the number of cells. The
average spectrum efficiency is measured in b/s/Hz/cell.
Advanced E-UTRA should target the average spectrum efficiency to be as high as
possible, given a reasonable system complexity.
The expectation at the end of the study item is that the values of all the
targets (of the different configurations) will be made available, but
currently the evaluation for the blanked out boxes in the table below, are a
lower priority.
Advanced E-UTRA should target the average spectrum efficiencies in different
environments below.
Table 8.1 Targets for average spectrum efficiency
+-------------+-----------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | Radio env. | Case 1 | Micro | Indoor | Rural/ | | | | | | | | | | Ant. Config | [bps/Hz/cell] | | | High speed | | +-------------+-----------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | UL | 1x2 | 1.2 | | | | +-------------+-----------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | | 2x4 | 2.0 | | | | +-------------+-----------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | DL | 2x2 | 2.4 | | | | +-------------+-----------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | | 4x2 | 2.6 | | | | +-------------+-----------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | | 4x4 | 3.7 | | | | +-------------+-----------------+-------+--------+------------+---+
NOTE: There is a need to define all the cases in the tables. Case 1 is defined
in Annex A. Case 1 is included to permit 3GPP to compare Advanced E-UTRA to
Release 8 E-UTRA. 3GPP should consider that the other environments would be
based on the ITU-R environments (these are currently designated as High Speed,
Base Coverage Urban, Microcellular, & Indoor). These environments are defined
in Recommendation/Reports [IMT.TECH] and [IMT.EVAL] which are expected to be
concluded in ITU-R WP 5D in early July 2008. Such definitions would ensure
consistency with developing submissions to ITU-R for IMT-Advanced and for
consistency with performing simulations, etc. Thus 3GPP would have 5
environments Case 1 plus the 4 ITU-R environments.
### 8.1.3 Cell edge user throughput
The cell edge user throughput is defined as the 5% point of CDF of the user
throughput normalized with the overall cell bandwidth.
Advanced E-UTRA should target the cell edge user throughput to be as high as
possible, given a reasonable system complexity.
A more homogeneous distribution of the user experience over the coverage area
is highly desirable and therefore a special focus should be put on improving
the cell edge performance.
The expectation at the end of the study item is that the values of all the
targets (of the different configurations) will be made available, but
currently the evaluation for the blanked out boxes in the table below, are a
lower priority.
Advanced E-UTRA should target the cell edge user throughput below in different
environments
Table 8.2 Targets for cell edge throughput
+-------------+------------------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | Radio env. | Case 1 | Micro | Indoor | Rural/ | | | | | | | | | | Ant. Config | [bps/Hz/cell/user*] | | | High speed | | +-------------+------------------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | UL | 1x2 | 0.04 | | | | +-------------+------------------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | | 2x4 | 0.07 | | | | +-------------+------------------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | DL | 2x2 | 0.07 | | | | +-------------+------------------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | | 4x2 | 0.09 | | | | +-------------+------------------------+-------+--------+------------+---+ | | 4x4 | 0.12 | | | | +-------------+------------------------+-------+--------+------------+---+
* 10 users uniform-randomly dropped in the cell
NOTE: There is a need to define all the cases in the tables. Case 1 is defined
in Annex A. Case 1 is included to permit 3GPP to compare Advanced E-UTRA to
Release 8 E-UTRA. 3GPP should consider that the other environments would be
based on the ITU-R environments (these are currently designated as High Speed,
Base Coverage Urban, Microcellular, & Indoor). These environments are defined
in Recommendation/Reports [IMT.TECH] and [IMT.EVAL] which are expected to be
concluded in ITU-R WP 5D in early July 2008. Such definitions would ensure
consistency with developing submissions to ITU-R for IMT-Advanced and for
consistency with performing simulations, etc. Thus 3GPP would have 5
environments Case 1 plus the 4 ITU-R environments.
### 8.1.4 VoIP capacity
VoIP capacity should be improved relative to that shown in the evaluation for
E-UTRA and E-UTRAN in [5] for all antenna configurations.
## 8.2 Mobility
The system shall support mobility across the cellular network for various
mobile speeds up to 350km/h (or perhaps even up to 500km/h depending on the
frequency band).
System performance shall be enhanced for 0 to 10km/h and preferably enhanced
but at least no worse than E-UTRA and E-UTRAN for higher speeds
## 8.3 Coverage
Requirements for Coverage in Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN [3] are applicable
for Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN.
## 8.4 Further Enhanced MBMS
_The targets for MBMS in Advanced E-UTRA and_ Advanced _E-UTRAN should be
better than those studied in Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN [3]_. Specifically,
the target spectrum efficiency for MBMS in Advanced E-UTRA should be better
than that in Release 8 E-UTRA.
## 8.5 Network synchronization
Requirements for Network synchronization in Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN [3]
are applicable for Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN.
# 9 Deployment-related requirements
## 9.1 Deployment scenarios
Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN will be deployed as an evolution of
Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN and on new bands. Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced
E-UTRAN shall be backwards compatible with Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN in the
sense that
\- a Release 8 E-UTRA terminal can work in an Advanced E-UTRAN,
\- an Advanced E-UTRA terminal can work in an Release 8 E-UTRAN
However, non-backward compatible element might be considered if significant
gain or benefit can be achieved.
It should be expected to have increased deployment of indoor eNB and HNB in
Advanced E-UTRAN.
In addition to the deployment scenario in Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN, the
system shall be considered in indoor scenario.
## 9.2 Spectrum flexibility
The initial identified bands in addition to the already allocated bands in
E-URA are follows:
\- 450−470 MHz band,
\- 698−862 MHz band,
\- 790−862 MHz band,
\- 2.3−2.4 GHz band,
\- 3.4−4.2 GHz band, and
\- 4.4-4.99 GHz band.
Advanced E-UTRA shall operate in spectrum allocations of different sizes
including wider spectrum allocations than those of Release 8 E-UTRA to achieve
higher performance and the target peak data rate, e.g. up to 100 MHz.
Main focus for wider bandwidth solution than 20MHz should be on consecutive
spectrum, but Aggregation of the spectrum for Advanced E-UTRA should be
supported considering reasonable UE complexity
FDD and TDD should be supported for existing paired and unpaired band,
respectively
For new identified band, duplex mode should be studied considering, e.g.
delay, spectrum efficiency, operation, BS and UE complexity and overall co-
existence aspects especially on adjacent channels
## 9.3 **Spectrum deployment**
Advanced E-UTRA is required to cope with following scenarios:
a) Co-existence in the same geographical area and co-location with
GERAN/UTRA/E-UTRA on adjacent channels.
b) Co-existence in the same geographical area and co-location between
operators on adjacent channels.
c) Co-existence on overlapping and/or adjacent spectrum at country borders.
d) Advanced E-UTRA shall be possible to operate standalone, i.e. there is no
need for any other carrier to be available.
e) All frequency bands should be allowed following release independent
frequency band principles
f) Operation of Release 8 E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRA in the same spectrum
## 9.4 Co-existence and interworking with legacy RATs
Following features already supported in previous releases are a pre-requisite
for being supported by Advanced E-UTRAN:
\- Handovers with legacy RATs
\- Network sharing
The same inter-RAT interworking capabilities with at least same performance as
in Release 8 E-UTRAN shall be supported.
Intra-RAT handover performance shall be same or better than Release 8 E-UTRAN.
HO requirements for Release 8 E-UTRAN -- Advanced E-UTRAN shall be same as
intra-Advanced E-UTRAN HO performance.
# 10 Requirements for E-UTRAN architecture and migration
Advanced E-UTRAN architecture should be based on Release 8 E-UTRAN
architecture.
New architecture should be considered in Advanced E-UTRAN if significant
benefit can be expected.
# 11 Radio Resource Management requirements
Radio resource management requirements of Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN [3] are
applicable for Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN.
# 12 Complexity requirements
Complexity requirements of Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN [3] are applicable for
Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN.
# 13 Cost-related requirements
\- Low cost of the infrastructure deployment and terminal for Advanced E-UTRA
and Advanced E-UTRAN shall be an essential element
\- Power efficiency in the infrastructure and terminal shall be an essential
element
\- Backhauling shall minimize cost per bit
_\- Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN should allow backhaul using LTE
spectrum_
_\- Further enhancements of SON and self configuration shall be an essential
element, e.g.:_
\- Special care with respect to SON shall be taken for special deployment
scenarios like network sharing
\- Special care with respect to SON shall be taken for mass deployment
scenarios like in the case of home eNBs, i.e. for In and Outbound Mobility for
home eNode B and problems caused by incorrect behaviour of home eNBs.
\- Avoiding need for drive tests
\- Impact to UE complexity and power consumption needs to be taken into
account
\- Operation and maintenance tasks shall be minimized to the maximum possible
extent. Where needed it should be based on open interfaces
_\- eNode B implementation cost efficiency and flexibility for multi-vendor
deployments should be considered, such as RF requirements in specific
scenarios or base station modularity aspects with e.g. remote radio units and
open interfaces_
_\- All the interfaces specified shall be open for multi-vendor equipment
interoperability._
# 14 Service-related requirements
Service related requirements of Release 8 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN [3] are
applicable for Advanced E-UTRA and Advanced E-UTRAN.
###### ## Annex A (informative): System performance evaluation model
# A.1 System performance evaluation model
One of the system performance evaluation models in Advanced E-UTRA (Case 1) is
the same as the model used for E-UTRA. The carrier frequency (CF), Inter-site
distance (ISD), operating bandwidth (BW), penetration loss (PLoss) and UE
speed are given in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1 -- 3GPP Case 1 model
* * *
**Simulation** **CF** **ISD** **BW** **PLoss** **Speed** **Cases** **(GHz)**
**(meters)** **(MHz)** **(dB)** **(km/h)** 1 2.0 500 10 20 3
* * *
#