# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) Secretariat on behalf of the 3GPP Technical Specification
Groups (TSGs).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is based ISO/IEC Directives. Most clauses of the ISO/IEC
document have been retained, while some clauses have been modified or deleted.
Additional material has been inserted.
Items concerning word-processor specific layout and formatting matters when
using the Microsoft Word for Windows^^ based skeleton documents and templates
are shown with shaded background. Boiler plate text (i.e. text which shall be
directly used in 3GPP specifications) is represented by _italic_ characters.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies rules for the structure and drafting of
documents intended to become a 3GPP Technical Specification or Technical
Report. These rules are intended to ensure that such documents are drafted in
as uniform a manner as is practicable, irrespective of the technical content.
The present document is based on the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 3, but is a
self-contained document that will be maintained as such.
These drafting rules complement the 3GPP Working Procedures.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ISO/IEC Directives - Part 3 (1997): \"Rules for the structure and drafting
of International Standards\".
[2] ISO/IEC Guide 2:1996: \"Standardization and related activities - General
vocabulary\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[4] ISO/IEC 9646 (all parts): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and framework\".
[5] ETSI ES 201 873 (all parts): \"Methods for Testing and Specification
(MTS); The Testing and Test Control Notation version 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3G TR 21.905 [3] and the following apply:
**informative elements:** those elements that provide additional information
intended to assist the understanding or use of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR
**instruction:** provision that conveys an action to be performed [ISO/IEC
Guide 2:1996, definition 7.3]
**normative element:** an element setting out provisions to which it is
necessary to conform in order to be able to claim compliance with the
Technical Specification
**provision:** expression in the content of a normative document, that takes
the form of a statement, an instruction, a recommendation or a requirement
[ISO/IEC Guide 2:1996, definition 7.1]
NOTE: These types of provision are distinguished by the form of wording they
employ; e.g. instructions are expressed in the imperative mood,
recommendations by the use of the auxiliary \"should\" and requirements by the
use of the auxiliary \"shall\" (see annex E).
**recommendation:** provision that conveys advice or guidance [ISO/IEC Guide
2:1996, definition 7.4]
**requirement:** provision that conveys criteria to be fulfilled [ISO/IEC
Guide 2:1996, definition 7.5]
**statement:** provision that conveys information [ISO/IEC Guide 2:1996,
definition 7.2]
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [3] and the following apply:
ICS Implementation Conformance Statement
PDF Portable Document Format
SDL Specification and Description Language
TR Technical Report
TS Technical Specification
TTCN-2 Tree and Tabular Combined Notation
TTCN-3 Testing and Test Control Notation
# 4 General principles
## 4.1 Objective
The objective of a 3GPP Technical Specification or Technical Report is to
define clear and unambiguous provisions in order to facilitate international
trade and communication. To achieve this objective, the 3GPP TS or TR shall:
\- be as complete as necessary within the limits specified by its scope;
\- be consistent, clear and accurate;
\- provide a framework for future technological development; and
\- be comprehensible to qualified persons who have not participated in its
preparation.
## 4.2 Homogeneity
Uniformity of structure, of style and of terminology shall be maintained not
only within each 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR, but also within a series of associated
3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs. The structure of associated 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs and the
numbering of their clauses shall, as far as possible, be identical. Analogous
wording shall be used to express analogous provisions; identical wording shall
be used to express identical provisions.
The same term shall be used throughout each 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR or series of
3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs to designate a given concept. The use of an alternative
term (synonym) for a concept already defined shall be avoided. As far as
possible, only one meaning shall be attributed to each term chosen.
These requirements are particularly important not only to ensure comprehension
of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR but also to derive the maximum benefit available
through automated text processing techniques.
See also clause 5.3.
## 4.3 Consistency of 3GPP TSs and 3GPP TRs
In order to achieve the aim of consistency within the complete body of 3GPP
TSs and 3GPP TRs, the text of every 3GPP TS and 3GPP TR shall be in accordance
with the relevant provisions of existing basic 3GPP TSs and 3GPP TRs. This
relates particularly to:
\- standardized terminology;
\- principles and methods of terminology;
\- quantities, units and their symbols;
\- abbreviations;
\- bibliographic references; and
\- graphical symbols.
In addition, for specific technical aspects, the relevant provisions of
general 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs dealing with the following subjects shall be
respected:
\- limits;
\- tolerancing of dimensions and uncertainty of measurement;
\- preferred numbers;
\- statistical methods;
\- environmental conditions and associated tests.
## 4.4 Equivalence of official language versions
3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs shall be in the English language only.
## 4.5 Fitness for implementation as a national, regional or international
standard
The content of a 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR shall be drawn up in such a way as to
facilitate its direct application and its adoption without change as a
national, regional or international standard.
## 4.6 Planning
In order to ensure the timely publication of a 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR or of a
series of associated 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs, the intended structure and any
interrelationships shall be established before detailed drafting begins. In
particular, consideration shall be given to the subdivision of the subject
matter (see clause 5.1). In the case of a multi-part 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR, a
list of the intended parts together with their titles shall be drawn up. The
rules given in the present document shall be applied from the very beginning
of the work and throughout all subsequent stages to avoid delay at any stage.
## 4.7 (void)
## 4.8 Use of inclusive language
3GPP TSs and TRs should not contain non-inclusive terminology.
Terms that have been deemed to fall into this category are listed in Annex K
and should be replaced by inclusive terminology.
Where a change in terminology would introduce backwards incompatibilities or
interoperability issues, a deliverable may contain such terminology.
# 5 Structure
## 5.1 Subdivision of the subject matter
### 5.1.1 General
3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs are so diverse that no universally acceptable rules can
be established for the subdivision of the subject matter.
However, as a general rule, an individual 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR shall be prepared
for each subject to be standardized, and published as a complete entity. In
specific cases and for practical reasons, for example:
\- the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR is likely to become too voluminous;
\- subsequent portions of the content are interlinked;
\- portions of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR could be referred to in regulations; or
\- portions of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR are intended to serve for certification
purposes,
the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR may be split into separate parts under the same number.
This has the advantage that each part can be changed separately when the need
arises.
In particular, the aspects of a product which will be of separate interest to
different parties (e.g. manufacturers, operators, certification bodies,
legislative bodies) shall be clearly distinguished, preferably as parts of a
3GPP TS or 3GPP TR or as separate 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs.
Such individual aspects are, for example:
\- performance requirements;
\- maintenance and service requirements; and
\- quality assessment.
The terms that shall be used to designate the divisions and subdivisions that
a 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR may have are shown in table 1.
Table 1: Names of divisions and subdivisions
* * *
Term Example of numbering
part\ 3GPP TS 21.299-1\ clause\ 1\ clause\ 1.1\ clause\ 1.1.1\ annex\ A\
clause\ A.1\ clause A.1.1
* * *
### 5.1.2 Subdivision of the subject matter within a series of parts
There are two systems in use for subdividing into parts:
a) Each part deals with a specific aspect of the subject and can stand alone.
b) There are both common and specific aspects to the subject. The common
aspects shall be given in part 1. Specific aspects (which may modify or
supplement the common aspects and therefore cannot stand alone) shall be given
in individual parts.
Where the system described in b) is used, care shall be taken that the
references from one part to another are always to the latest version. There
are two ways to achieve this:
\- If reference is made to a particular element, the reference shall be
specific (see clause 6.6.6.5.2).
\- Since the complete series of parts is normally under the control of the
same TSG, the use of non-specific references (see clause 6.6.6.5.3) is
permitted, provided that corresponding changes are implemented simultaneously
in all parts.
The use of non-specific references requires a high degree of discipline by the
TSG responsible for the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR.
Their use is not permitted between 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs of different Technical
Bodies except where the reference is intentionally non-specific, i.e. it is
accepted that it will be possible to use all future changes of the text
referred to for the purposes of the referring 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR.
Each part of a multi-part 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR shall be drafted in accordance
with the rules for an individual 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR as specified in the
present document.
### 5.1.3 Subdivision of the subject matter within an individual 3GPP TS or
3GPP TR
Table 2: Example of a typical arrangement of elements in a 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Type of element | Arrangement of | Permitted content of | | | elements in\ | element(s) in 3GPP | | | 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR | TS or 3GPP TR (note | | | (note 1) | 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Informative | **Title pages** | title, number, | | preliminary | | logo(s), copyright | | | | statement, etc | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Table of | (generated content, | | | contents** | see clause 6.1.2) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Foreword** | text (note 3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Introduction | text, figures, | | | | tables, notes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Scope** | text, figures, | | | | tables, notes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **References** | stock text followed | | | | by numbered | | | | references of | | | | documents | | | | specifically cited | | | | in the TS/TR | | | | (note 4) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Definition of\ | stock text plus | | | terms,\ | specific | | | symbols and\ | definitions\ | | | abbreviations** | (note 4) | | | | | | | | text, notes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Normative technical | **Clauses comprising | text, figures, | | (TS) | the main body of the | tables, notes, | | | document** | equations\ | | Informative | | (note 2) | | technical (TR) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Normative | Annexes | text, figures, | | supplementary (TS) | | tables, notes, | | | | equations\ | | | | (notes 2, 5) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Informative | Annexes | text, figures, | | supplementary | | tables, notes, | | | | equations\ | | | | (notes 2, 5) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Bibliography | unnumbered list of | | | | documents for | | | | further reading not | | | | specifically cited | | | | elsewhere in the | | | | TS/TR | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Index | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **Change history | table (notes 3, 6) | | | annex** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: **Bold | | | | type** = required | | | | element. These | | | | elements shall not | | | | be removed from the | | | | skeleton TS/TR. | | | | Elements in normal | | | | weight type are | | | | optional and shall | | | | be omitted from the | | | | TS/TR if not | | | | required. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Informative | | | | elements shall not | | | | contain normative | | | | content. Normative | | | | elements may | | | | additionally contain | | | | informative content. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Provided by | | | | the 3GPP Support | | | | Team. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Partly | | | | provided by the 3GPP | | | | Support Team. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The order of | | | | inclusion of annexes | | | | and the mix of | | | | normative and | | | | informative annexes | | | | is not mandated by | | | | the present | | | | document. There is | | | | no requirement that | | | | all normative | | | | annexes precede any | | | | informative annexes. | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: The change | | | | history annex shall | | | | always be the last | | | | annex of the TS/TR. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For an example of numbering of divisions and subdivisions see annex B.
A 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR may also contain notes to figures and tables (see clauses
6.6.4.8, 6.6.4.9, 6.6.5.6 and 6.6.5.7).
## 5.2 Description and numbering of divisions and subdivisions
### 5.2.1 Parts and sub-parts
The number of a part shall be indicated by arabic numerals, beginning with 1,
following the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR number and preceded by a hyphen, for example:
\- 3GPP TR 21.999-1, 3GPP TR 21.999-2.
### 5.2.1A General numbering issues
Every attempt shall be made to use continuous numbering as described in the
remainder of 5.2. However, if continuous numbering cannot be maintained, a new
element may be inserted in existing text using an appropriate alphanumeric
designation that does not disturb the existing numbering scheme. This applies
to all elements (e.g. clause, annex, figure, table, note, list).
EXAMPLE 1: It is necessary to update a 3GPP TS. A new clause needs to be
inserted between the existing clauses 8 and 9. A new clause 8A may be inserted
in preference to re-numbering the existing clauses.
EXAMPLE 2: A new figure needs to be inserted between existing figures 4 and 5.
A new figure 4A may be inserted to avoid re-numbering of all subsequent
figures.
Similarly, an existing element may be deleted and replaced with the term
\"Void.\" to minimize disruption to the numbering scheme. However, the title
of the deleted element may be retained. See clause 5.2.1B for further details.
EXAMPLE 3: During the updating of a 3GPP TS, it is decided that annex C is no
longer required. The title of annex C remains while the content simply becomes
\"Void.\". Later annexes may therefore remain unchanged.
EXAMPLE 4: It is decided to delete a note 3, so the text of note 3 becomes
\"Void.\" and there is no need to re‑number note 4.
Once a TS or TR is under change control, changing existing clause, figure,
table, annex, etc. numbers is strongly deprecated, since external documents
might reference specific clauses (figures, tables, ...) of the TS/TR.
### 5.2.1B Removal of redundant numbered elements
As described in clause 5.2.1A, it is occasionally necessary to remove text
which has become obsolete or redundant. If an entire clause, or figure, table,
or other numbered element having a title is concerned, the preferred method is
to eliminate the text of the clause and to replace the title with the word
\"Void\" in round brackets. Alternatively, if it is felt important to leave
some trace of the clause\'s subject material prior to its removal, the author
of the Change Request could leave the title of the element unchanged, and
delete just the body of the text of the clause (or figure, or table, ...),
replacing the text with the word \"Void\" in round brackets.
EXAMPLE 1: The following clause is to be removed:
> 11.2 Functional procedures associated with lunch
>
> If a DISSOCIATE message is received containing the indicator \"User out to
> lunch\", then the equipment shall start timer T100 and respond with an
> ACKNOWLEDGE message containing the indicator \"Have a nice siesta\".
The preferred method, replacing the title of the clause with \"Void\" and
deleting completely the text of the clause, yields:
> 11.2 (Void)
The alternative is to retain the title, and delete only the body text:
> 11.2 Functional procedures associated with lunch
>
> (Void)
Whichever method is used, the author of a Change Request provoking such a
change shall ensure that any reference to the clause in question from
elsewhere in the same TS or TR is eliminated by appropriate inclusion in the
same Change Request. Ideally, the author should also check for references to
that specific clause in other 3GPP TSs or TRs if he suspects there might be
any, and raise appropriate Change Requests to those TSs or TRs to modify or
eliminate those references.
### 5.2.1C Avoidance of re-use of a voided element for a new purpose
A clause which has been voided using the procedures of clause 5.2.1B above
shall not be re-used for a different purpose if at some subsequent moment it
is necessary to add another clause in the same logical position as the clause
previously voided.
That is, based on the example in clause 5.2.1B, a subsequent Change Request to
add a clause entitled \"Colour options for the on/off switch\" -- which
patently has no relationship to the original clause 11.2 -- shall not re-use
clause 11.2, but shall be added as a clause with a completely new number (e.g.
11.3 or 11.2A).
The only circumstances in which re-use of a voided clause number might be
appropriate is if the new clause were to have exactly or very nearly the same
title as the original clause (in this case, \"Functional procedures associate
with lunch\".
The same considerations apply to other numbered elements such as figures and
tables.
### 5.2.2 Clause
The clauses in each 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR or part shall be numbered with arabic
numerals, beginning with 1 for the \"Scope\" clause. The numbering should be
continuous, see also clause 5.2.1A.
Each clause shall have a title (for formatting see clause 5.2.3).
### 5.2.3 Subclause
A subclause is a numbered subdivision of a clause. A primary subclause (e.g.
subclause 5.1, 5.2, etc.) may be subdivided into secondary subclauses (e.g.
subclauses 5.1.1, 5.1.2, etc.) and this process of subdivision may be
continued as far as the sixth heading level (e.g. subclause 6.5.4.3.2.1).
It is unnecessary to use the term \"subclause\" unless using the term
\"clause\" would be ambiguous, for example, if in the context, it were not
clear if the term \"clause\" referred only to the top level clause (\"4\") or
to all the subclauses (\"4.1\", \"4.1.1\", \"4.1.2\", \"4.2\" etc) beneath the
clause. Such ambiguity can only occur where there are hanging paragraphs;
these are sometimes encountered in older 3GPP Technical Specifications and
Technical Reports produced before the outlawing of hanging paragraphs (see
clause 5.2.4).
Subclauses shall be numbered with arabic numerals, see also clause 5.2.1A.
A subclause should not be created unless there is at least one further
subclause at the same level. For example, a piece of text in clause 10 should
not be designated subclause \"10.1\" unless there is also a subclause
\"10.2\".
Each subclause shall be given a title, which shall be placed after its number.
(Sub)clause titles shall be treated as normal text i.e. no additional
capitalization; there should be no full stop at the end of a (sub)clause
title.
\- Use the **Heading** style appropriate to its level.
\- Separate the number of the heading and the text of the heading with a tab.
**\- Do not use automatic heading numbering** ; you may, however, use it as an
initial aid when outlining the structure of your document, as long as it is
eliminated before handover to the 3GPP Support Team.
### 5.2.4 Paragraph
\"Hanging paragraphs\" such as those shown in the following example shall be
avoided since reference to them is ambiguous.
EXAMPLE: In the following example, the hanging paragraphs indicated cannot be
uniquely identified as being in \"clause 5\" since strictly speaking the
paragraphs in 5.1 and 5.2 are also in clause 5. To avoid this problem it would
be necessary either to identify the unnumbered paragraphs as clause \"5.1
Xxxxxxxxxxxx\" and to renumber the existing 5.1 and 5.2 accordingly (as
shown), or to add a new clause header immediately below the header for clause
5 numbered it 5.0.
If hanging paragraphs are to be removed from a TS or TR already under change
control, the renumbering of existing clauses being deprecated (see clause
5.2.1A), the newly introduced clause shall be numbered 5.0 (using the above
example) and clauses 5.1 and 5.2 remain unchanged.
+-------------------------------+---+-------------------------------+ | Permitted | | Not permitted | +-------------------------------+---+-------------------------------+ | **5 Designation** | | **5 Designation** | | | | | | **5.1 Xxxxxxxxxxx** | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx } | | | | | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx } | | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx | | hanging paragraphs | | | | | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx } | | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx | | | | | | **5.1 Xxxxxxxxxxx** | | **5.2 Xxxxxxxxxxx** | | | | | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx | | | | | | **5.2 Xxxxxxxxxxx** | | **5.3 Xxxxxxxxxxx** | | | | | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx | | | | | | xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx | | | | | | **6 Test report** | | **6 Test report** | | | +-------------------------------+---+-------------------------------+
### 5.2.5 Lists
Lists may be introduced by a sentence, a complete grammatical proposition
followed by a colon, or by the first part of a proposition (without a colon),
completed by the items in the list.
Each item in a list shall be preceded by a dash.
EXAMPLE 1:
\- list item 1;
\- list item 2.
If necessary for identification, a lower-case letter followed by a parenthesis
may be used. If it is necessary to subdivide an item further in this type of
list, arabic numerals followed by a parenthesis shall be used (see also clause
5.2.1A).
EXAMPLE 2:
a) list item a;
b) list item b;
1) list item a1;
2) list item a2.
Respect normal rules of punctuation: if the elements of a list are cast as
phrases of a sentence which introduces the list, start each element with a
lower case letter and end it with a semicolon. End the last item in the list
with a full stop, unless the introductory sentence continues after the end of
the list, in which case use the most appropriate punctuation (semicolon,
comma, or none). If, however, each element of a list is a self-contained
sentence, begin each with a capital letter and end each with a full-stop.
Use \"and\" or \"or\" at the end (following the semicolon) of the penultimate
element of a list to indicate unambiguously whether the elements are
combinable or whether they are mutually exclusive.
\- Use the appropriate bullet styles, i.e. styles **B1** to **B5**.
\- Separate the list item identifier (e.g. bullet) and the text with a tab (if
not using automatic bullets and numbering).
\- Ensure that the formatting of the lists is consistent throughout the
deliverable.
### 5.2.6 Annex
Each annex shall start on a new page.
Note: This is one of the very few places in a TS or a TR where a manual page
break is likely to be legitimate. The skeleton model TS and TR documents
contain other page or section breaks, for example at the end of the cover
page, before the Contents page, before the Foreword and before the Scope
clauses, and these are intended to remain in the final document. Elsewhere in
3GPP TSs and TRs, page breaks are better controlled by the use of the \"keep
lines together\" and \"keep with next\" properties of paragraphs.
For the description of normative and informative annexes, see clauses 6.3.8
and 6.4.1.
Each annex shall be designated by a heading comprising the word \"Annex\"
followed by a capital letter designating its serial order, beginning with
\"A\", e.g. \"Annex A\" (see also clause 5.2.1A). The annex heading of a TS
shall be followed by the indication \"(normative):\" or \"(informative):\",
and by the title on the next line. In the case of a TR, the entire document is
informative, so the text \"(normative):\" or \"(informative):\" shall be
omitted.
EXAMPLE: Annex A (normative):\ Title of annex A
Numbers given to the clauses, clauses, tables, figures and mathematical
formulae of an annex shall be preceded by the letter designating that annex
followed by a full-stop (e.g. figure B.1, table C.4). The numbering shall
start afresh with each annex. A single annex shall be designated \"Annex A\".
Clauses in annex A shall be designated \"A.1\", \"A.2\", \"A.3\", etc. (see
also clause 5.2.1A).
For endorsement of documents from other standards organizations, see annex J.
\- Insert a manual page break before the title line of each annex. Use the
**Heading 8** style (for 3GPP TSs) or **Heading 9** style(for 3GPP TRs) for
the annex heading. Insert a line break (↵ \"shift\" + \"enter\") between the
colon and the title.
\- For all clause headings use the appropriate Heading styles, starting from
**Heading 1,** e.g. for clause A.1 use **Heading 1** , for A.1.1 use **Heading
2**. Do not insert manual page breaks before each clause of an annex.
### 5.2.7 Bibliography
A bibliography, if present, shall appear after the penultimate annex entitled
\"Bibliography\".
### 5.2.8 Index
An index, if present, shall appear as the last element. The title shall be
\"Index\".
\- Use **Heading 1** style for the title.
### 5.2.9 Change history
Shall appear as the last element (informative annex).
\- Use **Heading 1** style for the title.
## 5.3 Consistency amongst Releases
In line with the general provisions of clause 4.2 (homogeneity), it is
essential to preserve insofar as possible the structure of a TS or TR from one
Release to another.
This is particularly important when voiding clauses (or figures, notes, etc)
and when adding new clauses (figures, notes, etc). If a new clause is
introduced, it shall be added in the logically correct place and shall be
given a new clause number. It is not acceptable to re-use an existing,
redundant, clause (ie one which had previously been used but has subsequently
been voided).
Similarly, if an identical or near identical provision is introduced into two
or more Releases, the provision should use the same clause (or figure, note,
etc) number in each Release instance of the TS or TR. This may mean
introducing void padding clauses (or figures, notes, etc) in older Release
instances in order to keep the numbering aligned.
Example: The structure of the Release 10 version of a TS is\ \ ...\ 5.3 Some
provision\ 5.4 Another provision\ 5.5 A third provision\ \ and, due to extra
functionality having been added in the Release 11 instance, the structure of
the Release 11 version of the TS has become\ \ ...\ 5.3 Some provision\ 5.4
Another provision\ 5.5 A third provision\ 5.6 A new provision for Rel-11 only\
5.7 Another new Rel-11 requirement\ 5.8 Something else peculiar to Rel-11
It is now decided to retrospectively add some requirement at Release 10, which
will be mirrored in Release 11. The new clause shall have the same number in
both Releases, with void padding clauses introduced into the Release 10
instance as necessary. Thus the structure of the Release 10 TS becomes\ ...\
5.3 Some provision\ 5.4 Another provision\ 5.5 A third provision\ 5.6 Void\
5.7 Void\ 5.8 Void\ 5.9 An afterthought\ \ and that of the Release 11 TS
becomes\ \ ...\ 5.3 Some provision\ 5.4 Another provision\ 5.5 A third
provision\ 5.6 A new provision for Rel-11 only\ 5.7 Another new Rel-11
requirement\ 5.8 Something else peculiar to Rel-11\ 5.9 An afterthought
That is, the new provision takes the clause number 5.9 in each both Releases.
# 6 Drafting
## 6.1 Preliminary informative elements
### 6.1.1 Title page
The title page shall contain the title of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR.
The wording of the title shall be established by the TSG with the greatest
care. While being as concise as possible, it shall indicate, without
ambiguity, the subject matter of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR in such a way as to
distinguish it from that of other 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs, without going into
unnecessary detail. Any necessary additional particulars shall be given in the
scope.
The title shall be composed of separate elements, each as short as possible,
proceeding from the general to the particular. In general, not more than the
following three elements shall be used:
a) an introductory element \"3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group nn;\" (where nn is the full name of theTSG which produced
the TS/TR);
NOTE 1: If prime responsibility for a TS/TR moves from one TSG to another,
subsequent versions of that TS/TR will bear the name of the new TSG.
b) a main element (obligatory) indicating the principal subject treated within
that general field;
c) a complementary element (optional) indicating the particular aspect of the
principal subject or giving details that distinguish the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR
from other 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs, or other parts of the same 3GPP TS or 3GPP
TR.
d) in parentheses, \"Release yyyy\" where yyyy indicates the Release
identifier of the Release (e.g. Release 1999, Release 4).\ When modifying the
Release text, editors shall take care not to modify the _style_ of that text
from the style preset in the skeleton document. The style is used to replicate
the Release in the header of subsequent pages of the TS/TR.
See also annex D.
NOTE 2: The 3GPP Secretariat is responsible for the final preparation of the
title page.
For multi-part deliverables, all the individual titles in a series of parts
shall contain the same introductory element (if present) and main element,
while the complementary element shall be different in each case in order to
distinguish the parts from one another. The complementary element shall be
preceded in each case by the designation \"Part ...:\".
For endorsement of documents from other standards organizations, see annex J.
### 6.1.2 Table of contents
The table of contents shall be generated automatically and shall not be set
manually. The title shall be \"Contents\".
\- Use the **TT** style for the title.
\- Use the field **{TOC \o}** for the table itself.
NOTE: The 3GPP Support Team is responsible for the final layout of the table
of contents.
### 6.1.2A (void)
### 6.1.3 Foreword
The foreword shall appear in each 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR. It shall not contain
requirements, figures or tables.
It consists of a general part giving information on:
\- the designation and name of the TSG that prepared the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR;
\- information regarding the approval of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR;
and a specific part that shall give as many of the following as are
appropriate:
\- an indication of any other organization that has contributed to the
preparation of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR;
\- a statement that the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR cancels and replaces other
documents in whole or in part;
\- a statement of significant technical changes from the previous version of
the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR;
\- the relationship of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR to other 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs or
other documents.
For multi-part deliverables, the first part shall include in its foreword an
explanation of the intended structure of the series. In the foreword of each
part belonging to the series, a reference shall be made to the titles of all
other parts, if they are known.
### 6.1.3A (void)
### 6.1.4 Introduction
The introduction is an optional preliminary element used, if required, to give
specific information or commentary about the technical content of the 3GPP TS
or 3GPP TR, and about the reasons prompting its preparation. It shall not
contain requirements.
The introduction shall not be numbered unless there is a need to create
numbered subdivisions. In this case, it shall be numbered 0 with subclauses
being numbered 0.1, 0.2, etc. Any numbered figure, table or displayed formula
shall be numbered normally beginning with 1 (see also clause 5.2.1A).
### 6.1.5 Scope
This element shall be clause 1 of each 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR and define without
ambiguity the subject of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR and the aspect(s) covered,
thereby indicating the limits of applicability of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR or
particular parts of it. It shall not contain requirements.
The scope shall be succinct so that it can be used as a summary for
bibliographic purposes.
This element shall be worded as a series of statements of fact. Forms of
expression such as the following shall be used:
\"The present document
+-----------------+---+-----------------------------------------+ | _\- specifies_ | | _the functional requirements for ...\"_ | | | | | | | | _a method of ...\"_ | | | | | | | | _the characteristics of ...\"_ | +-----------------+---+-----------------------------------------+ | _\- establishes_ | | _a system for ...\"_ | | | | | | | | _general principles for ...\"_ | +-----------------+---+-----------------------------------------+
_\- gives guidelines for ...\"_
_\- gives terms and definitions ...\"_
Statements of applicability of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR shall be introduced by
the following wording:
_\"The present document is applicable to ...\"_
### 6.1.6 References
References should be given to Standards and Recommendations issued by
recognized standardization bodies. Referencing of documents other than
Standards and Recommendations are allowed under the following conditions:
\- all referenced text shall be publicly available in the English language
during the approval phases and for the expected lifetime of the 3GPP TS or
3GPP TR, via the originating body or via the 3GPP Support Team;
\- if public availability cannot be guaranteed over a period of time as stated
above, the 3GPP Support Team will endeavour to secure the rights from the
copyright holder (normally the originating body of the referenced text) to
reproduce the text; in this case:
\- agreement permitting 3GPP or its Organizational Partners to take over the
copying and distribution rights shall have been obtained, in which case it
shall be made available to 3GPP or its Organizational Partners in an agreed
electronic format;
\- all copyright and other IPR issues shall have been settled;
\- the 3GPP Support Team shall establish and maintain a list of the referenced
documents and the relevant external bodies, for document tracking and cross-
referencing purposes, and keep the necessary liaison with the originating
body;
\- if agreement with the copyright holder along the above lines cannot be
achieved, the TSG /WG responsible shall make appropriate changes to the
document and remove the reference from the 3GPP TS or TR.
The list of references shall be introduced by the wording given in the
approved 3GPP TS / TR template.
The list shall not include the following:
\- documents that are not publicly available;
\- documents which are not explicitly cited in the body of the deliverable
(such documents may be listed in a bibliography (see clause 6.4.2)).
\- Use the **EX** style; enclose the numbers in square brackets and separate
the numbering from the title with a tab (you may use sequence fields for
automatically numbering references, see clause H.4: \"Sequence numbering\").
EXAMPLE 1:
[1] 3GPP TS 21.299 (V1.1): \"Title\".
In documents intended to be formally issued as publications of the Standards
Development Organizations which comprise the Organizational Partners of 3GPP,
references shall not be made to internal working documents of 3GPP which are
not issued as such formal publications. Examples of documents which shall not
be referenced are:
\- Contributions to meetings (\"TDocs\");
\- Reports of meetings;
\- Internal Technical Reports, in particular, those of the following series:
\- 10.xx
\- 30.xxx
\- 50.xxx
\- xx.8xx
\- 25.7xx
If the use in a TS or in a TR (other than those TRs in the list above) of text
from such a document is unavoidable the text shall be reproduced in the TS or
TR itself (possibly in an annex). Such text may need to be corrected to make
it abide by the rules contained in the present TR.
The foregoing restriction does not apply to TRs not intended to be formally
published by the Organizational Partners.
For further instructions on references, see clause 6.6.6.
### 6.1.7 Terms
This is a mandatory element giving formal definitions of terms used in the
3GPP TS or 3GPP TR. The introductory wording given in the 3GPP TS / TR
template shall be used.
Rules for the drafting and presentation of terms and definitions are given in
annex C, together with special rules for terminology standards, such as
vocabularies, or nomenclatures.
\- Order the terms alphabetically, unless some logical grouping dictates
otherwise.
\- The term shall be in **bold** , and shall start with a lower case letter
(unless it is _always_ rendered with a leading capital) followed by a colon,
one space, and the definition.
\- Use the **Normal** style.
EXAMPLE:
**requirement:** a provision that conveys criteria to be fulfilled
### 6.1.8 Symbols
This is a mandatory element listing the symbols used in the 3GPP TS or 3GPP
TR.
Unless there is a need to list symbols in a specific order to reflect
technical criteria, symbols should be listed in alphabetical order in the
following sequence:
\- upper case Latin letter followed by lower case Latin letter (_A_ , _a_ ,
_B_ , _b_ , etc.);
\- letters without indices preceding letters with indices, and with letter
indices preceding numerical ones (_B_ , _b_ , _C_ , _C_ m, _C_ 2, _c_ , _d_ ,
_d_ ext, _d_ int, _d_ 1, etc.);
\- Greek letters following Latin letters (_Z_ , _z_ , _Α_ , _α_ , _Β_ , _β_ ,
... _Λ_ , _λ_ , etc.);
\- any other special symbols.
See also clause 6.6.2.
Do not number the entries in the symbols and/or abbreviations clause.
\- Use the **EW** style.
EXAMPLE:
f~l~ lower reference frequency
### 6.1.9 Abbreviations
This is a mandatory element listing the abbreviations used in the 3GPP TS or
3GPP TR.
Unless there is a need to list symbols in a specific order to reflect
technical criteria, all abbreviations should be listed in alphabetical order
in the following sequence:
\- upper case Latin letter followed by lower case Latin letter (_A_ , _a_ ,
_B_ , _b_ , etc.);
\- letters without indices preceding letters with indices, and with letter
indices preceding numerical ones (_B_ , _b_ , _C_ , _C_ m, _C_ 2, _c_ , _d_ ,
_d_ ext, _d_ int, _d_ 1, etc.);
\- Greek letters following Latin letters (_Z_ , _z_ , _Α_ , _α_ , _Β_ , _β_ ,
... _Λ_ , _λ_ , etc.);
\- any other special symbols.
This list shall contain all technical abbreviations/acronyms and their
corresponding full terms which are used within the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR. See
also clause 6.6.2.
\- Use the **EW** style.
\- Separate the abbreviation/acronym from the full term with a tab.
EXAMPLE:
dB decibel
## 6.2 (void)
### 6.2.1 (void)
### 6.2.2 (void)
## 6.3 Technical normative elements
### 6.3.1 (void)
### 6.3.2 (void)
### 6.3.3 Requirements
This element is only applicable to TSs. It shall contain the following:
a) all characteristics relevant to the aspect(s) of the product(s),
process(es) or service(s) covered by the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR, either explicitly
or by reference;
b) the required limiting values of quantifiable characteristics.
For test methods see clause 6.3.5.
A clear distinction shall be made between requirements, statements and
recommendations.
Contractual requirements concerning claims, guarantees, covering of expenses,
etc. shall not be included.
In some product 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs, it may be necessary to specify that the
product shall be accompanied by warning notices or by instructions to the user
or installer, and to specify their nature. On the other hand, requirements
concerning use or installation as such shall be included in a separate part or
a separate 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR since they are not requirements applicable to
the product itself.
3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs listing characteristics for which suppliers are required
to state values that are not specified by the 3GPP TSPP or 3G TR itself shall
specify how such values are to be measured and stated.
For endorsement of documents from other standards organizations, see annex J.
### 6.3.3a Technical analysis
This element is option and may appear in both TSs and TRs. It shall not
contain any normative requirements.
It gives technical analysis of investigations, for example, of a feasibility
study, and conclusions and recommendations. It may also contain guidance on
the use or interpretation of TSs or external normative material without in
itself being normative.
In a TS, requirements and technical analysis clauses may be freely intermixed
to provide a logical structure. The language (modal verbs) suffices to
distinguish between normative and informative material.
### 6.3.4 Sampling
This optional element specifies the conditions and methods of sampling, as
well as the method for the preservation of the sample(s). This element may
appear at the beginning of test methods.
### 6.3.5 Test methods
This optional element gives all the instructions concerning the procedure for
determining the values of characteristics, or for checking conformity to
stated requirements, and for ensuring the reproducibility of the results. If
appropriate, tests shall be identified to indicate whether they are type
tests, routine tests, sampling tests and so on.
Instructions relating to test methods may be subdivided in the following order
(where appropriate):
a) principle;
b) apparatus;
c) preparation and preservation of test samples and test pieces;
d) procedure;
e) test report.
Test methods may be presented as separate clauses, or be incorporated in
requirements, or be presented as annexes (see clause 6.3.8) or as separate
parts (see clause 5.2.1). A test method shall be prepared as a separate 3GPP
TS if it is likely to be referred to in a number of other 3GPP TSs.
The need for specification of test methods shall be evaluated on a case by
case basis.
A test specification enables verification that products designed to a standard
conform to its requirements. When writing a 3GPP TS you should consider the
need for an accompanying test specification.
Every requirement of a 3GPP TS specifying a product (equipment, system or
service) needs to be testable, and such requirements need to be clearly
distinguishable from statements of fact or of supposition.
EXAMPLE: Comparing the two sentences below:
\"On receiving a [start call]{.smallcaps} message, the terminal shall respond
by sending an [acknowledge]{.smallcaps} message within a delay of t~1~.\"
\"On receiving a [start call]{.smallcaps} primitive, the layer 3 protocol of
the terminal shall move to state [call activated]{.smallcaps} and shall start
timer t~2~[.\"]{.smallcaps}
It is clear that conformance to the first requirement can be verified by
external stimulus and observation, whereas the second puts demands on a
conceptual model which cannot be explicitly tested. Whilst requirements of the
latter sort are useful - even essential - for describing operational details,
the essential behavioural characteristics (normative provisions) are given by
requirements of the type of the former, and only these are verifiable.
### 6.3.6 Classification and designation
Void.
### 6.3.7 Marking, labelling and packaging
Void.
### 6.3.8 (void)
## 6.3a Supplementary normative elements
### 6.3a.1 Normative annexes
For reasons of convenience it may be decided to place some part of the
normative text in an annex.
Normative annexes contain provisions to which it is necessary to conform in
order to be able to claim compliance with the 3GPP TS. Their status shall be
indicated in the heading of the annex (see clause 5.2.6).
Normative annexes shall not appear in 3GPP TRs.
## 6.4 Supplementary informative elements
### 6.4.1 Informative annexes
For reasons of convenience it may be decided to place some part of the
informative text in an annex.
Informative annexes give additional information intended to assist the
understanding or use of the 3GPP TS (or 3GPP TR) and shall not contain
provisions to which it is necessary to conform in order to be able to claim
compliance with the 3GPP TS. Their presence is optional and their status shall
be indicated in the heading of the annex (see clause 5.2.6).
All annexes in 3GPP TRs are \"informative\" since 3GPP TRs cannot contain
normative provisions. Therefore, the word \"informative\" shall not appear in
the title line of annexes in 3GPP TRs.
### 6.4.2 Bibliography
The Bibliography identifies documents which are not explicitly cited in the
body of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR.
Format references as described in clause 6.2.2.
### 6.4.3 Index
\- Format the index in a section having two columns separated by 0,5 cm using
the field **{INDEX \e \"→\" \c \"2\"}**.
### 6.4.4 Change history
A history box is provided by the 3GPP Support Team as the final element in a
3GPP TS or 3GPP TR and shows the major milestones in the life of a document.
See also clause H.6.
NOTE: The 3GPP Support Team is responsible for the final preparation of the
history box.
## 6.5 Other informative elements
### 6.5.1 Notes and examples integrated in the text
Notes and examples integrated in the text of a 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR shall only
be used for giving additional information intended to assist the understanding
or use of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR. They shall not contain provisions to which
it is necessary to conform in order to be able to claim compliance with a 3G
TS.
Notes and examples should preferably be placed at the end of the clause, or
after the paragraph to which they refer.
A single note in a clause shall be preceded by \"NOTE:\", placed at the
beginning of the first line of the text of the note. When several notes occur
within the same element (e.g. subclause), they shall be designated \"NOTE
1:\", \"NOTE 2:\", \"NOTE 3:\", etc. (see also clause 5.2.1A).
The word NOTE shall appear in upper case.
\- Use the **NW** or **NO** style.
\- Separate NOTE: from the text of the note with a tab.
A single example in a clause shall be preceded by \"EXAMPLE:\", placed at the
beginning of the first line of the text of the example. When several examples
occur within the same element (e.g. clause), they shall be designated
\"EXAMPLE 1:\", \"EXAMPLE 2:\", \"EXAMPLE 3:\", etc. (see also clause 5.2.1A).
When there is a danger that it might not be clear where the example ends and
the normal text continues, then the end of the example may be designated by
\"END of EXAMPLE\".
The word EXAMPLE shall appear in upper case.
\- Use the **EX** style.
\- Separate EXAMPLE: from the text of the example with a tab.
EXAMPLE 1:
NOTE 1: Note text formatted with the **NW** style will be formatted
**without** a space after the paragraph.
NOTE 2: Note text formatted with the **NO** style will be formatted **with** a
space after the paragraph.
END of EXAMPLE 1
### 6.5.2 Footnotes to the text
Footnotes shall not be used in 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs.
## 6.6 Common rules and elements
### 6.6.1 Verbal forms for the expression of provisions
A 3GPP TS does not in itself impose any obligation upon anyone to follow it.
However, such an obligation may be imposed, for example, by legislation or by
a contract. In order to be able to claim compliance with a 3GPP TS, the user
needs to be able to identify the requirements that are obligatory. The user
also needs to be able to distinguish these requirements from other provisions
where there is a certain freedom of choice.
Clear rules for the use of verbal forms (including modal auxiliaries) are
therefore essential. Annex E gives, in the first column of each table, the
verbal form that shall be used to express each kind of provision. The
equivalent expressions given in the second column shall be used only in
exceptional cases when the form given in the first column cannot be used for
linguistic reasons.
### 6.6.2 Spelling and abbreviation of names of organizations, and style
The spelling of the names of organizations, and their abbreviations, shall be
as used by those organizations.
To facilitate understanding by all readers, the style shall be as simple and
concise as possible. This is particularly important for those readers whose
first language is not English.
The \"Shorter Oxford English Dictionary\" and the \"Concise Oxford
Dictionary\" are suggested.
Abbreviations shall be used with care, and their use shall be limited to those
cases where it is not likely to cause confusion.
An abbreviation shall be defined only if used subsequently in the 3GPP TS or
3GPP TR.
The general rule is that abbreviations consisting of the initial letters of
words be printed in lower-case letters (for example, \"a.c.\" for
\"alternating current\") and a full-stop be placed after each letter. Where,
however, an abbreviation comprises capital letters, no full-stops are
required.
### 6.6.2A Use of capital letters
Unnecessary use of capital letters should be avoided.
EXAMPLE: \"user\" is preferred to \"User\".
### 6.6.2B Pagination
Unnecessary pagination, (i.e. use of hard page breaks) should be avoided.
\- Use Format \| Paragraph \| Text Flow \| Keep Lines Together and Keep with
Next attributes instead of \"hard\" page breaks.
### 6.6.3 Use of trade names
A correct designation or description of a product shall be given rather than a
trade name (brand name).
Proprietary trade names (i.e. trade marks) for a particular product should as
far as possible be avoided, even if they are in common use.
If, exceptionally, trade names cannot be avoided, their nature shall be
indicated, e.g. by the symbol  for a registered trade mark (see example 1).
EXAMPLE 1: Instead of \"Teflon\", write \"polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)\".
If it is known that only one product is currently available that is suitable
for the successful application of the standard, the trade name of the product
may be given in the text of the standard but shall be associated with a note
as shown in example 2.
EXAMPLE 2:
NOTE: \"... [trade name of product] ... is the trade name of a product
supplied by ... [supplier] .... This information is given for the convenience
of users of the present document and does not constitute an endorsement by
3GPP of the product named. Equivalent products may be used if they can be
shown to lead to the same results.\"
If it is considered to be essential to give an example (or examples) of
commercially available products suitable for successful application of the
standard because the product characteristics are difficult to describe in
detail, trade names may be given in a note as shown in example 3.
EXAMPLE 3:
NOTE: \" ... [trade name(s) of product(s)] ... is (are) an example(s) of a
suitable product(s) available commercially. This information is given for the
convenience of users of the present document and does not constitute an
endorsement by 3GPP of this (these) product(s).\"
### 6.6.4 Figures
#### 6.6.4.1 Usage
Figures should be used wherever appropriate to present information in an
easily comprehensible form.
#### 6.6.4.2 Format
\- Use the **TH** style on the paragraph which contains the figure itself.
\- Maximum size for figures is 17 cm by 22 cm.
Where SDL, Program Code, ICS, or TTCN is included in figures it shall be
prepared in accordance with annex I.
#### 6.6.4.3 Numbering
Figures may be numbered sequentially throughout the document without regard to
the clause numbering, e.g. first figure is figure 1 and the twentieth figure
(in, say clause 7) is figure 20.
Figures may also be numbered taking account of clause numbering.
EXAMPLE 1: First figure in clause 7 is figure 7.1, fifth figure in clause 7 is
figure 7.5.
EXAMPLE 2: First figure in clause 7.3.2 is figure 7.3.2.1, fifth figure in
clause 7.3.2 is figure 7.3.2.5.
One level of subdivision only is permitted (e.g. figure 1 may be subdivided as
1 a), 1 b), 1 c), etc.). See also clause 5.2.1A. For the numbering of figures
in annexes, seeclause 5.2.6.
\- You may use sequence fields for automatically numbering figures. See clause
H.4: \"Sequence numbering\".
#### 6.6.4.4 Layout of title
The figure title shall be below the figure. An explicit figure name is
optional. See the following examples:
EXAMPLE 1:
Figure 1: Details of apparatus
EXAMPLE 2:
Figure 1
\- Use the **TF** style.
\- If applicable, the figure number is followed by a colon, a space and the
figure name
#### 6.6.4.5 Choice of letter symbols, style of lettering, and labelling
\- Use Arial font.
\- Use a font size of at least 8 points (final size), to ensure legibility.
#### 6.6.4.6 Technical drawings
Void.
#### 6.6.4.7 Diagrams
Void.
#### 6.6.4.8 Notes to figures
Notes to figures shall be treated independently from notes integrated in the
text (see clause 6.5.1). They shall be located above the title of the relevant
figure. A single note in a figure shall be preceded by \"NOTE:\". When several
notes occur in the same figure, they shall be designated \"NOTE 1:\", \"NOTE
2:\", \"NOTE 3:\", etc. (see also clause 5.2.1A). A separate numbering
sequence shall be used for each figure.
Notes to figures may contain requirements.
\- Write notes to a figure using the word processor rather than embedding them
in the figure itself.
\- Use the **NF** style.
\- Separate NOTE: from the text of the note with a tab.
#### 6.6.4.9 Footnotes to figures
Footnotes shall not be used in 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs.
### 6.6.5 Tables
#### 6.6.5.1 Usage
Tables should be used wherever appropriate to present information in an easily
comprehensible form.
A table within a table is not permitted. Subdivision of a table into
subsidiary tables is not permitted.
\- Centre tables horizontally.
\- The \"space between columns\" is 0,1 cm.
\- Maximum width for tables in portrait orientation: 17 cm and for landscape
orientation: 22 cm.
\- Set table columns widths in centimetres (not inches).
\- Use borders to separate the rows and columns of tables, as appropriate; the
precise format will depend on the structure of each table, but be consistent
throughout a deliverable (or series of related deliverables). Borders should
be ¾ pt single line.
\- Each table shall be followed by an empty \"Normal\" style paragraph
(\"Enter\" key).
#### 6.6.5.2 Numbering
Tables may be numbered sequentially throughout the document without regard to
the clause numbering, e.g. first table is table 1 and the twentieth table (in,
say clause 7) is table 20.
Tables may also be numbered taking account of clause numbering.
EXAMPLE 1: First table in clause 7 is table 7.1, fifth table in clause 7 is
table 7.5.
EXAMPLE 2: First table in clause 7.3.2 is table 7.3.2.1, fifth table in clause
7.3.2 is table 7.3.2.5.
See also clause 5.2.1A. For the numbering of tables in annexes, see clause
5.2.6.
\- You may use sequence fields for automatically numbering tables. See clause
H.4: \"Sequence numbering\".
#### 6.6.5.3 Layout of title
The title shall be above the table. An explicit table name is optional. See
the following examples:
EXAMPLE 1:
Table 1: Electrical properties
EXAMPLE 2:
Table 1
\- Use the **TH** style.
\- If applicable, the table number is followed by a colon, a space and the
table name
#### 6.6.5.4 Headings
The first word in the heading of each column shall begin with a capital
letter. The units used in a given column shall generally be indicated under
the column heading.
EXAMPLE:
* * *
Type Linear density (kg/m) Inside diameter (mm) Outside diameter (mm)
* * *
\- Use of the table headings tool (**[T]{.underline}able,
[H]{.underline}eading row repeat**) is encouraged for tables that require more
than one page.
\- Use the following styles:
\- Table Headings **TAH**
\- Text Left justified **TAL**
\- Text Centred **TAC**
\- Text Right justified **TAR**
#### 6.6.5.5 Continuation of tables
The column headings shall be repeated on all pages after the first (see clause
6.6.5.4).
#### 6.6.5.6 Notes to tables
Notes to tables shall be treated independently from notes integrated in the
text (see clause 6.5.1). They shall be located within the frame of the
relevant table. A single note in a table shall be preceded by \"NOTE:\". When
several notes occur in the same table, they shall be designated \"NOTE 1:\",
\"NOTE 2:\", \"NOTE 3:\", etc. (see also clause 5.2.1A). A separate numbering
sequence shall be used for each table.
Notes to tables may contain requirements.
\- Use the **TAN** style.
\- Include notes to a table within its borders in _one_ cell, at the bottom.
\- Merge all cells to one, as in the following example:
EXAMPLE:
* * *
Column 1 cell Column 2 cell Column 3 cell Column 4 cell NOTE: This cell is a
merged cell.
* * *
#### 6.6.5.7 Footnotes to tables
Footnotes shall not be used in 3GPP TSs or 3GPP TRs.
### 6.6.6 References
#### 6.6.6.1 General
As a general rule, references to particular pieces of text shall be used
instead of repetition of the original source material, since such repetition
involves the risk of error or inconsistency and increases the length of the
document. However, if it is considered necessary to repeat such material, its
source shall be identified precisely. If it is necessary to reproduce text
from a work other than a 3GPP TS or TR, appropriate copyright permission shall
be obtained.
References shall be made in the forms indicated in clauses 6.6.6.2 to 6.6.6.5
and shall not be made to page numbers.
#### 6.6.6.2 References to the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR as a whole in its own text
The form \"the present document ...\" shall be used.
#### 6.6.6.3 References to elements of text
Use, for example, the following forms:
\- \"in accordance with clause 3\";
\- \"according to clause 3.1\";
\- \"as specified in clause 3.1 b)\";
\- \"details as given in clause 3.1.1\";
\- \"see annex B\";
\- \"the requirements given in clause B.2\";
\- \"see the note in table 2\";
\- \'\'see example 2 in clause 6.6.3\";
\- \"see note 3 in clause 6.6.1\".
It is required to use the terms _clause_ and _annex_ where applicable.
If there is a need to refer to an unnumbered list item in another standard,
the following formulation shall be used:
\"as specified in TS 21.299 [n] in clause 3.1, second list item\".
Lower case letters are recommended (e.g. clause 1, annex A), however capital
letters are also acceptable (e.g. Clause 1, Annex A). Usage should be
consistent throughout the document.
#### 6.6.6.4 References to tables and figures
Every table and figure included in the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR shall be referred to
in the text.
Use, for example, the following forms:
\- \"given in table 2\";
\- \"(see table B.2)\";
\- \"shown in figure A.6\";
\- \"(see figure 3)\".
Lower case letters are recommended (e.g. table 1, figure 2), however capital
letters are also acceptable (e.g. Table 1, Figure 2). Usage should be
consistent throughout the document.
#### 6.6.6.5 References to other documents
##### 6.6.6.5.1 General
References to other documents may be specific or non-specific. All references,
specific and non-specific, shall be given in the \"References\" clause (see
clause 6.1.6).
##### 6.6.6.5.2 Specific references
Except as provided for in clause 6.6.6.5.3, references shall be specific
(identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.).
In the body of the text, use the following form:
\- \" ... in accordance with TS 21.299 [n] ... \".
For specific references, it is permissible to refer to a specific clause,
figure or table of the referenced document. However, great care needs to be
taken, especially when referencing documents still under development, and such
referencing of specific clauses, figures or tables is to be avoided if there
is a reasonable chance that the structure of the referenced document may
change in time.
##### 6.6.6.5.3 Non-specific references
Non-specific references may be made only if it is accepted that it will be
possible to use future changes of the document referred to for the purposes of
the referring 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR.
In the case of references to 3GPP TSs and TRs, unless otherwise indicated, a
non-specific reference refers to the TS or TR _in the same Release_ as that of
the referring TS or TR. It is implicitly to the latest version of the
referenced TS or TR in the Release in question.
For non-specific references, it is not permissible to cite particular clauses,
figures or tables, since it cannot be guaranteed that the numbering will be
unchanged in later versions of the referenced document.
In the body of the text, use the forms as given in clause 6.6.6.5.2.
#### 6.6.6.6 Numbering
References in clause 2 shall be numbered sequentially. If a reference is
removed when a specification is under change control, the entry in clause 2
shall be replaced by a [void] entry, using the same principle as for deletion
of clauses.
\- You may use sequence fields for automatically numbering references. See
clause H.4: \"Sequence numbering\".
### 6.6.7 Representation of numbers and numerical values
For decimal and thousands separator characters, one of the following options
shall be employed:
Option 1: The decimal sign shall be a comma. The thousands separator shall be
a space.
Option 2: The decimal sign shall be a full-stop (period). The thousands
separator shall be a comma.
The chosen option shall be used throughout the TS or TR. It is not permissible
to mix the two systems in a single document. If there is any ambiguity as to
which system is in use, the characters in question shall be defined as symbols
in clause 3.3 of the TS or TR. For example, unless there are other instances
nearby in the document, the string 234,557 is ambiguous (is it two hundred and
thirty four point five five seven or two hundred and thirty four thousand five
hundred and fifty seven?). The present document uses Option 1.
NOTE: In the text below, ° represents the non-breaking space character.
If a value less than 1 is written in decimal form, the decimal sign shall be
preceded by a zero.
EXAMPLE 1: 0,001 (not ,001)
Each group of three digits reading to the left or to the right of a decimal
sign shall be separated by a space from preceding digits or following digits
respectively, except for four-digit numbers designating years.
EXAMPLE 2: 23°456 / 2°345 / 2,345 / 2,345°6 / 2,345°67 but the year 1997
For clarity, the symbol × or a lower case x (rather than a point or any other
symbol) shall be used to indicate multiplication of numbers and numerical
values.
EXAMPLE 3: write 1,8°×°10-3 (not 1,8 * 10-3 or 1,8  10-3 or 1,8 . 10-3)
To express numbers of items (as opposed to numerical values of physical
quantities), the numerals one to nine shall be spelt out in full.
EXAMPLE 4: \"Carry out the test on five tubes, each 5 m long.\"
EXAMPLE 5: \"Select a further 15 tubes for the pressure test.\"
Preserve document identities as in the original titles.
EXAMPLE 6: ISO/IEC°10531-1 (not ISO/IEC 10°531-1).
EXAMPLE 7: 3GPP°TR°21.801.
Put a non-breaking space between a number and its unit - including the percent
sign (%) - even if the unit is not abbreviated:
EXAMPLE 8: 2ºpages 4ºseconds 15º%
Write a number preceded by an unary operator (sign) without an intervening
space:
EXAMPLE 9: ... a level of -3°dB ...
Put a non-breaking space both before and after binary operators (+, −, ×,
etc.):
EXAMPLE 10: a°+°b°=°c
\- Use non-breaking spaces (Ctrl + Shift + space) for the thousand separator,
before and after binary operators and preceding units.
\- Use a non-breaking hyphen (Ctrl + Shift + -) for the minus sign.
### 6.6.8 Quantities, units, symbols and signs
The units in which any values are expressed shall be indicated.
### 6.6.9 Mathematical formulae
#### 6.6.9.1 Types of equations
Equations between quantities are preferred to equations between numerical
values. Equations shall be expressed in mathematically correct form, the
variables being represented by letter symbols the meanings of which are
explained in connection with the equations, unless they appear in a \"Symbols
and abbreviations\" clause (see clause 6.3.2). Descriptive terms, acronyms or
names of quantities shall not be arranged in the form of an equation.
EXAMPLE:
$t = \sqrt{\frac{1}{(6n^{2}(N - 3n + 1))}\sum_{j = 1}^{N - 3n + 1}{(\sum_{i =
j}^{n + j - 1}{(x_{i + 2n} - 2x_{i + n} + x_{i}))^{2}}}}$
where: xj are samples of time errors data;
N is the total number of samples;
τ is the time error sampling interval;
n is the number of sampling intervals, with n = 1,2,...,integer part (N/3).
#### 6.6.9.2 Presentation
\- Use the **EQ** style.
\- Insert one tab before the equation to center it.
The equation editor sizes and styles should be respected as shown in the
following examples:
{width="4.4375in" height="2.8229166666666665in"}
{width="4.59375in" height="1.8854166666666667in"}
#### 6.6.9.3 Numbering
If it is necessary to number some or all of the formulae in a 3GPP TS or 3GPP
TR in order to facilitate cross-reference, arabic numbers in parentheses shall
be used, beginning with 1:
_x_ 2 + _y_ 2 \ Table _{ seq tab }_ : Table title
where the _italic_ part represents the sequence field code.
Bookmark each entry in a sequence (select it and use **[E]{.underline}dit
[B]{.underline}ookmark [A]{.underline}dd**), using a bookmark name of the form
shown in table H2. You can then refer to the table, figure, reference, etc.
from the text by inserting a sequence field citing the same sequence
identifier and the particular bookmark required. For example, table 1 has been
bookmarked \"tab_Seq_Num\". Thus a reference to this table from the text
reads:
... see table **{ seq tab tab_Seq_Num }** ...
where the _italic_ part represents the sequence field code.
You can force Word to recalculate and refresh the display of sequence numbers
and their references by selecting the text and pressing F9.
**Do not** use Word\'s cross-referencing tool (Insert, Cross-reference), since
it implies the use of automatic heading or caption numbering.
When drafting is complete and the TS or TR is ready to be presented to the TSG
for placing under change control, hard code all automatic number sequences
(Ctrl‑Shift‑F9) that might have been used. Thereafter, manual numbering shall
be used. This will avoid invalidating references from extermal documents to
particular clauses / tables / etc. in the document under consideration (see
clause 5.2.1A).
You may use automatic clause numbering during the drafting phase of a TS or
TR, but automatic clause numbering shall be disabled for a TS or TR under
change control.
# H.5 Supported file formats
Software tools to be used for document development within 3GPP are detailed in
table H.3
Table H.3: Permitted software tools
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Type | Tool(s) | Comments | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Text | Microsoft Word | For .doc format, file | | | | compatibility with | | | | Word 2000 shall be | | | | retained for 3GPP TSs | | | | and TRs. | | | | | | | | For .docx format, file | | | | compatibility with Word | | | | 2007 shall be retained | | | | for 3GPP TSs and TRs. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | | Word\'s built-in | Used for editing | | | equation editor, or | equations. | | | Microsoft MathType | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Graphics | Micrografx Designer | Now part of CorelDraw, | | | version 3.x or 6.0 or | but older versions can | | | 7.0 (preferred) | be found for download. | | | | | | | | Retained for legacy | | | | documents. Not to be | | | | used for new graphics. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | | Microsoft Visio | For general graphics; | | | | the rapporteur shall | | | | supply the source file. | | | | | | | | File compatibility with | | | | version Professional | | | | 2003 or 2007 shall be | | | | maintained. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | | Microsoft Word built-in | Final diagrams shall be | | | drawing tools | visible in \"normal\" | | | | view (Word 2003 and | | | | earlier) or \"draft\" | | | | view (Word 2007 and | | | | later). | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | | For Unified Modeling | Many earlier UML | | | Language (UML) | diagrams have been | | | graphics: | supplied as uneditable | | | | JPGs. For ease of | | | Eclipse Papyrus | maintenance, | | | (http://www | rapporteurs should | | | .eclipse.org/papyrus/) | provide editable source | | | | files for new UML | | | | diagrams, and authors | | | | of CRs are encouraged | | | | to recast UML diagrams | | | | originally supplied as | | | | JPGs to Papyrus in | | | | order to ease future | | | | maintenance. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | SDL, MSC | IBM Telelogic Tau | SDL diagrams and | | | (NOTE 1 and NOTE 2) | Message Sequence Charts | | | | can be copy-and-pasted | | | Msc-generator (NOTE 3) | into Word. Rapporteurs | | | | shall supply the source | | | | files. | | | | | | | | For SDLs, Microsoft | | | | Visio (see above) may | | | | be used. | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: Rapporteurs | | | | should contact their | | | | Support Team officer | | | | for access to this | | | | tool. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Retained for | | | | legacy documents. Not | | | | to be used for new | | | | documents. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Available from | | | | \ | | | | User manual at | | | | http://msc-g | | | | enerator.sourceforge.ne | | | | t/help/6.3/msc-gen.pdf | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | TTCN-2 | Any TTCN-2 tool that is | Rapporteurs may contact | | | compliant with ISO/IEC | their Support Team | | | 9646 [4] | officer for access to a | | | | tool. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | TTCN-3 | Any TTCN-3 tool that is | Rapporteurs may contact | | | compliant with ETSI ES | their Support Team | | | 201 873 [5] | officer for access to a | | | | tool. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Databases | Microsoft Access | Such databases are used | | | | principally by the | | | | Support Team for | | | | management and tracking | | | | purposes. | | | | | | | | File compatibility with | | | | Access 2000 or 2007 | | | | shall be maintained. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | General Tools | Microsoft Office | File compatibility with | | | software suite (Excel, | Office version 2000 or | | | Powerpoint, etc.) | 2007 shall be | | | | maintained if such | | | | documents form part of | | | | TSs or TRs. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
The file formats stipulated in table H.3 relating to Microsoft^©^ Office refer
strictly to the file format. It is not intended to mandate that a particular
version of MS Office or MS Office compatible software be used: any word
processor which can save files in the above format is acceptable.
Rapporteurs shall retain the source files of graphics where these exist, and
they shall be retained within the zip file of the Spec for future maintenance
of the document.
# H.6 Quick tips to working with your document
When working with your 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR remember ...
##### **... you shall do this...** {#you-shall-do-this... .H6}
\- use **bold** to **emphasize** text;
\- use _italic_ for citations, linguistic expressions or when a
word/text/expression is extracted from a specific context;
\- use non-breaking spaces (°) or hyphens (---) in order to avoid unexpected
wrap around between two words and/or numbers (e.g. 50°cm, 1°000, clause°6,
annex°A, table°1, figure°1, TR°21°801---1, etc.). These characters appear as
normal spaces ( ) or hyphens (-) when printed out;
\- use the default tab stops 0,5 cm;
\- use \"straight\" quotation marks (\". . .\") not \"curly\" or \"smart\"
(\". . .\") ones. If a second set of quotations is needed (e.g. GDMO, ASN.1,
etc.), single quotes (\'. . .\') may be used.
##### **... but you shall not do this ...** {#but-you-shall-not-do-this .H6}
\- alter existing styles or formats pre-set in the 3GPP template;
\- add new styles to the 3GPP template;
\- delete 3GPP styles;
\- use a font other than the one pre-set in the 3GPP styles;
\- put more than one space after a full stop;
\- precede comma (,), semicolon (;), colon (:), full stop (.), question mark
(?) or exclamation mark (!) by spaces;
\- use spaces in place of tabs when indentation/alignment is required; this
can cause text to be misaligned;
\- use footnotes or end-notes;
\- unnecessarily use capital letters;
\- use underlining to emphasize text (this can be confused with revision
marking; see also clause H.7.1).
\- use \"curly\" or \"smart\" (\". . .\") quotes.
# H.7 Other formatting considerations
## H.7.1 Text decoration
It is permissible to use italic and/or bold font for the purposes described in
clause H.6.
The use of underlining shall be restricted to the special case where a TS or
TR cites text from an external source but makes changes to it; those changes
are marked by underlining of newly inserted text and strikeout of text to be
deleted. See annex J.3.Underlining shall not be used in any other
circumstances due to the risk of confusion with revision marks.
Coloured text shall not be used in TSs and TRs. The text colour shall be left
as \"automatic\" which is normally rendered as black (but may vary depending
on the user\'s setup).
Other text decoration such as highlighting, blinking, shadow, embossed, etc
shall not be used.
## H.7.2 Colours within figures
It is acceptable to use colours for both graphic elements and text within
figures, since this use cannot be confused with revision marks, where the
whole figure is replaced rather than elements within the figure.
###### ## Annex I (normative): Text containing SDL, program code, ICS and TTCN
# I.1 SDL diagrams
Provide SDL diagrams in SDT binary files or, exceptionally, as CIF files when
not using SDT.
When using SDT use the .ini file supplied on the 3GPP server.
Take into account the following when inserting SDL diagrams in Word documents
\- Do not include SDL headers or footers.
# I.2 Program code
Large volumes of program code, source code or formal description language
shall be placed in a separate file.
# I.3 Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma tables
(For further study.)
# I.4 Tree and Tabular Combined Notation (TTCN-2)
Provide TTCN as a separate file.
Provide Machine Processable (MP) files.
The following text should be used for ATSs using TTCN-2. The subdivision is
recommended.
_This ATS has been produced using the Tree and Tabular Combined Notation
(TTCN-2) according to ISO/IEC 9646‑3 [\ ]._
_The ATS was developed on a separate TTCN-2 software tool and therefore the
TTCN-2 tables are not completely referenced in the table of contents. The ATS
itself contains a test suite overview part which provides additional
information and references._
**_The TTCN-2 Machine Processable form (TTCN.MP)_**
_The TTCN.MP representation corresponding to this ATS is contained in an ASCII
file (\ .MP contained in archive \.ZIP) which accompanies
the present document._
# I.5 Testing and Test Control Notation (TTCN-3)
Provide TTCN as a separate set of files.
The following text should be used for ATSs using TTCN-3. The subdivision is
recommended.
_This ATS has been produced using the Testing and Test Control Notation
(TTCN-3) according to ETSI ES 201 873-1 [\ ]._
_The ATS was developed on a separate TTCN-3 software tool and therefore the
TTCN-3 definitions are not completely referenced in the table of contents._
_The ATS is contained in a set of ASCII files (\ .TTCN contained in
archive \.ZIP) which accompanies the present document._
###### ## Annex J (normative): Endorsement of documents from other standards
organizations
# J.1 General
In the case that a 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR would become almost identical to a
document from another standards organization, the TSG may decide to prepare a
3GPP TS or 3GPP TR defining only the differences, if any, between that
document (commonly called \"endorsed document\") and the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR.
Such a 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR, commonly called \"endorsement\", shall be drafted
in accordance with the present document, with the exceptions defined below.
# J.2 Title
If the endorsed document is referred to without modifications, the title of
the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR should be as close as possible to the title of the
endorsed document, but comply with the provisions of annex D.
EXAMPLE 1:
Endorsement of ITU-T Recommendation Q.1215 (1993): \"Physical plane for
intelligent network CS-1\", gives the 3GPP TS the title:
**Intelligent Network (IN);**
**Physical plane for intelligent network Capability Set 1 (CS1)**
**[ITU-T Recommendation Q.1215 (1993)]**
If the endorsed document is referred to with textual (technical and/or
editorial) modifications, the title of the 3GPP TS or 3GPP TR shall indicate
that.
EXAMPLE 2:
Endorsement of ITU-T Recommendation G.957 (1993): \"Optical interfaces for
equipments and systems relating to the synchronous digital hierarchy\", gives
the 3GPP TS the title:
**Transmission and Multiplexing (TM);**
**Optical interfaces for equipments and**
**systems relating to the Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)**
**[ITU-T Recommendation G.957 (1993), modified]**
# J.3 Requirements
This element is mandatory and shall be entitled \"Endorsement notice\".
If the endorsed document is referred to without modifications, the following
text should be used:
_\"All elements of .... apply.\"_
If the endorsed document is referred to with modifications, the following text
should be used:
_\"The elements of .... apply , with the following modifications:\"_
The modifications shall be presented in an order following the sequence of
clauses of the endorsed document. General modifications shall precede specific
modifications.
\- The use of manual revision marks for the presentation of the modifications
is recommended. Deleted text should be struckout; inserted text should be
underlined. Neither deleted nor inserted text should be coloured.
# J.4 Annex
Designation of the serial order of an annex shall be with two letters, the
first letter always being Z (i.e. ZA, ZB, ZC, etc.), in order to avoid
confusion with any annexes of the endorsed document.
###### ## Annex K (normative): Non-inclusive terminology and alternatives
Table K.1 contains a list of non-inclusive terminology together with a non-
exhaustive list of suggested alternatives.
Table K.1: Non-inclusive terms and alternatives
* * *
Non-inclusive term Examples of alternative terms **master** (when used in
\"master / slave\" context) primary, controller, main **slave** secondary,
standby **white list** (NOTE) allow list, accept list **black list** (NOTE)
block list, drop list, forbidden list **grey list** (a term which has been
used in conjunction with white list and black list) should be replaced with
e.g. track list, inspect list (NOTE).  
**NOTE:** **i** ncluding single word and hyphenated versions.
* * *
#