# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
This specification describes the supplementary services belonging to the group
CALL OFFERING SUPPLEMENTARY SERVICES.
The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of the
description of the supplementary services are given in specification 3TS
22.004.
The group of supplementary services CALL OFFERING SUPPLEMENTARY SERVICES is
divided into four different supplementary services:
\- Call forwarding unconditional (section 1);
\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy (section 2);
\- Call forwarding on no reply (section 3);
\- Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable (section 4).
**Indication of active Call forwarding supplementary service.**
An indication that a Call forwarding service is currently active and operative
on a number will be given to the forwarding party each time an outgoing call
is made. There will be one indication for Unconditional call forwarding and
another common indication for the Conditional call forwarding services.
**Note on the use of the forwarded-to number at registration.**
If the forwarded-to number is a number in the HPLMN country, it may be entered
by the served mobile subscriber in three different formats, independent of her
actual location, according to the schemes:
1) National (significant) number.
2) National (trunk) prefix plus national (significant) number.
3) International prefix*, country code, national (significant) number.
Scheme 3) Storage of numbers in this format is mandatory for all PLMN
operators.
If the forwarded-to number is a number in a country other than the HPLMN
country, it shall be entered by the served mobile subscriber, independent of
her actual location, according to the following scheme:
\- International prefix (NOTE), country code, national (significant) number.
NOTE: The MMI for entering of international prefix is defined in 22.030.
The maximum forwarded-to number length is 28 digits.
**Principles for interaction with the Barring of Outgoing Calls supplementary
services.**
Numbers allowed to call according to the Barring of Outgoing call service
condition are allowed as forwarded-to numbers for the served mobile
subscriber.
Numbers not allowed to call according to the Barring of Outgoing call service
condition are not allowed as forwarded-to numbers for the served mobile
subscriber.
For Unconditional Call Forwarding the forwarded leg is treated as an outgoing
call from the HPLMN country.
For the Conditional Call Forwarding services the forwarded leg is treated as
an outgoing call from the LPLMN (HPLMN or VPLMN) country.
**Principles for interaction with the Barring of Incoming Calls supplementary
services.**
When Barring of all incoming calls is active for the served mobile subscriber
- no Call forwarding services are allowed for her.
When Barring of all incoming calls when roaming outside the HPLMN country is
active and operative - i.e. the served mobile subscriber is roaming outside
the HPLMN country, the Conditional Call Forwarding services are not allowed.
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 22.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station (MS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.081: Line identification supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS22.083Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary services
- Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.085Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.086: Advice of charge (AoC) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
## 0.2 Definitions and abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in TR 22.905 [1].
# 1 Call Forwarding Unconditional
## 1.1 Definition
This service permits a called mobile subscriber to have the network send all
incoming calls, or just those associated with a specific Basic service group,
addressed to the called mobile subscriber\'s directory number to another
directory number. The ability of the served mobile subscriber to originate
calls is unaffected. If this service is activated, calls are forwarded no
matter what the condition of the termination.
## 1.2 Description
### 1.2.1 Description
The served mobile subscriber can request a different forwarded-to number for
each Basic service group containing a basic service to which she has
subscribed.
### 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 1.2.3 Terminology
A served mobile subscriber is a mobile subscriber of a particular PLMN access
who is requesting that calls to her number be forwarded. This subscriber may
also be referred to as the forwarding subscriber or the called subscriber.
A forwarded-to subscriber is a subscriber to whom the call shall be forwarded.
## 1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 1.3.1 Provision
The supplementary service will be provisioned for all Basic Services
subscribed to and to which it is applicable.
The service can be offered with several subscription options. Options apply to
all Basic services subscribed to. For each subscription option, only one value
can be selected.
Subscription options Value
Calling subscriber receives No
notification the call has been forwarded Yes
MSISDN of the served subscriber can be No
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber Yes
### 1.3.2 Withdrawal
The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 1.3.3 Registration
The following information has to be registered in the network:
1) the forwarded-to number, which may be accompanied by a forwarded-to sub-
address;
2) information as to whether all calls or all calls of one (or several)
specific Basic service groups should be forwarded.
If no Basic Service code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as All
Basic Services.
Registration can take place either by the service provider or with an
appropriate control procedure by the subscriber.
Verification, where possible, of the forwarded-to number should be
accomplished before accepting the call forwarding request. This verification
is done by a simple check of the forwarded-to number to see if the number is
within the allowed number range.
When the mobile subscriber so registers call forwarding unconditional, the
network will return notification of acceptance or rejection of the request.
This notification will include the forwarded-to number to which call
forwarding unconditional is registered.
### 1.3.4 Erasure
A previous registration can be erased in either of three ways:
Firstly, the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure.
Secondly, the subscriber can register information for call forwarding
unconditional for the specific Basic service group to another directory
number, thus causing the previous registration of call forwarding
unconditional to be overridden.
Thirdly, all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the service.
### 1.3.5 Activation
The user shall be allowed to activate Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) by
e.g. using the MMI command described in 3GPP TS 22.030. This activation
request may include information of which Basic Service Group(s) it shall apply
to. If no such information is included the Activation request applies to all
Basic Service Groups.
When receiving an activation request the network shall activate CFU for the
Basic Service Groups comprised in the BS group information given by the user
against which a CFU forwarded-to-number is registered. The Activation(s) shall
be in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
When CFU is activated for Basic Service Group (Voice -- MMI service code 11;
Fax -- MMI service code 13; Data -- MMI service code 12) as defined in 3GPP TS
22.030 [3], a notification shall be sent to the user. Subsequently, when the
UE is in idle mode, an indication may be given to the user to show that CFU
for Basic Service Group Voice -- MMI service code 11 is active.
The supplementary service is also activated for a Basic service group as a
result of Registration for that Basic service group.
### 1.3.6 Deactivation
An active CFU can be deactivated in either of two ways;
\- The user may deactivate CFU by means of an appropriate control procedure
(e.g. as described in 3GPP TS 22.030). A deactivation request may contain
information of which Basic Service Group(s) it shall apply to. If no such
information is included the Deactivation request applies to all Basic Service
Groups.
When receiving a deactivation request the network shall deactivate CFU for the
Basic Service Group(s) comprised in the BS group information given by the user
against which a CFU forwarded-to-number is registered. However, the registered
information shall not be erased. The Deactivation(s) shall be in accordance
with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
Even if there is no data stored against a particular Basic Service group
comprised in a deactivation request, the request shall be accepted by the
network for the other Basic Service group(s) included in the information given
by the user.
\- The service is deactivated as a result of Erasure.
In the former case, and also in the latter if Erasure is user controlled, the
user shall receive a notification of whether her request was accepted or
rejected in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 1.3.7 Invocation
If the supplementary service is activated for a Basic service incoming calls
for the specified Basic service will be forwarded by network invocation.
### 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
When call forwarding unconditional is active and operative, incoming calls for
the specified Basic Service(s) will be forwarded without being offered to the
served mobile subscriber.
The forwarded-to subscriber will receive an indication that the call has been
forwarded with the cause. The cause, when available, will be the appropriate
forwarding condition. Depending on the value of the served subscribers
subscription option, the forwarded-to subscriber may also receive the MSISDN
of the served subscriber.
When multiple forwarding occurs the reason for forwarding and the MSISDN given
to the forwarded-to subscriber should relate to the last forwarding subscriber
in the chain.
When call forwarding unconditional is active and operative, the ability of the
served mobile subscriber to originate calls is not affected. However, an
indication that the call forwarding service is currently active and operative
on a number will be given to the forwarding party each time an outgoing call
is made.
As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that the
calling subscriber receives a notification that the call has been forwarded.
NOTE: In case the notification is implemented using intermediate tones or
announcements, the tones and/or announcements to the calling party should not
be provided [if]{.underline} the information transfer capability is set to
UDI.
### 1.3.11 Interrogation
**Data request**
The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain information
about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested this procedure the
network shall return the following information:
\- in response to a general data request the served mobile subscriber should
be given a list of all Basic service groups to which call forwarding
unconditional is registered, including information whether or not it is active
and operative, and the associated forwarded-to numbers;
\- in response to a specific request concerning one particular Basic service
group, the served mobile subscriber should be informed whether or not call
forwarding unconditional is registered, including information whether or not
it is active and operative for that Basic service group. If CFU is registered,
the associated forwarded-to number shall be given.
### 1.3.12 Charging requirements
The forwarding subscriber may be charged for the forwarded part of the call.
## 1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 1.4.2 Registration
If the system cannot accept a registration request, the served mobile
subscriber should receive a notification that call forwarding unconditional
registration was not successful. Possible causes are:
\- service not subscribed to;
\- forwarded-to number is invalid directory number;
\- use of an operator access prefix;
\- insufficient information;
\- forwarded-to number is a special service code (e.g. police);
\- forwarded-to number is the directory number of the mobile subscriber
herself;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services (e.g. incoming call
barring has been activated);
\- no basic service provisioned within the basic service group(s).
The network is not required to validate information related to the forwarded-
to number.
### 1.4.3 Erasure
If the network cannot accept a mobile subscriber\'s request for erasure, cause
will be returned to the subscriber, such as:
\- insufficient information;
\- inconsistent with registration.
If the subscriber does not completely specify which call forwarding
unconditional request is to be erased, the network will reject the erasure
request with appropriate cause.
If no Basic Service Code is inserted by the user, CF will be erased from all
Basic Services.
### 1.4.4 Activation
If there is no CFU forwarded-to-number registered against a Basic Service
group, the activation request for that Basic Service group shall be denied.
Examples of causes for a not accepted activation request:
\- service not provisioned;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services;
\- service not registered.
### 1.4.5 Deactivation
If the network cannot accept a deactivation request, an appropriate cause will
be returned to the user, e.g. Service not Active.
### 1.4.6 Invocation
Within a PLMN or different PLMNs the number of tandem forwarding connections
should be limited. The maximum number of tandem forwarding connections should
be limited to a value between 1 and 5. This is to prevent infinite looping.
If the limit of successive forwardings of a call has already been reached, an
unsuccessful call set up indication is sent backwards.
If the forwarded call cannot be completed to the forwarded-to destination,
then the network will clear the forwarded part of the call and an unsuccessful
call set up indication is sent backwards.
NOTE: Call forwarding unconditional applies only to the Basic services
subscribed to. Calls to a directory number requesting a Basic service which is
not subscribed to will never be forwarded.
## 1.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 1.6 Interactions with other supplementary services
#### 1.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 1.6.81.2 Calling line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 1.6.81.3 Connected line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 22.02.81.
#### 1.6.81.4 Connected line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 22.02.81.
#### 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
If Call forwarding unconditional is active, activation of Call forwarding on
mobile subscriber busy is rejected. The served mobile subscriber shall be
informed of this supplementary service incompatibility.
If Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active, activation of Call
forwarding unconditional will be accepted. Call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy will be quiescent during the active period of Call forwarding
unconditional. If Call forwarding unconditional is subsequently deactivated,
Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy becomes operative again (unless the
interaction with another supplementary service requests that it remains
quiescent).
If Call forwarding unconditional is active for one particular basic service,
activation of Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy for all basic services
is rejected. The served mobile subscriber shall be informed of this
supplementary service incompatibility.
If Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active for one particular
basic service, activation of Call forwarding unconditional for all basic
services will be accepted. Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy will be
quiescent during the active period of Call forwarding unconditional. If Call
forwarding unconditional is subsequently deactivated, Call forwarding on
mobile subscriber busy becomes operative again (unless the interaction with
another supplementary service requests that it remains quiescent).
#### 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Same as interaction between Call forwarding unconditional and Call forwarding
on mobile subscriber busy.
#### 1.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Same as interaction between Call forwarding unconditional and Call forwarding
on mobile subscriber busy.
#### 1.6.83.1 Call waiting
See 3GPP TS 22.083.
#### 1.6.84.1 Multi party
See 3GPP TS 22.084.
#### 1.6.85.1 Closed user group
See 3GPP TS 22.085.
#### 1.6.86.1 Advice of charge
See 3GPP TS 22.086.
#### 1.6.88.1 Barring of all outgoing calls
Served mobile subscriber:
\- If barring of all outgoing calls is active, the registration and/or
activation of call forwarding unconditional is denied. The mobile subscriber
requesting for this call forwarding service shall be informed of this
supplementary service incompatibility.
\- If Call forwarding unconditional is active, activation of Barring of all
outgoing calls is denied. The mobile subscriber shall be informed of this
supplementary service incompatibility.
#### 1.6.88.2 Barring of outgoing international calls
Served mobile subscriber:
\- If barring of outgoing international calls is active, the registration of
an international forwarded-to number (from the home PLMN country) for call
forwarding unconditional, as well as the activation of call forwarding
unconditional to such a forwarded-to number, is denied. The mobile subscriber
shall be informed of this supplementary service incompatibility.
\- If Call forwarding unconditional is active to an international forwarded-to
number (from the HPLMN country), activation of Barring of outgoing
international calls is denied. The mobile subscriber shall be informed of this
supplementary service incompatibility.
#### 1.6.88.4 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to
the home PLMN country
Same as interaction between Call forwarding unconditional and Barring of
outgoing international calls.
#### 1.6.88.6 Barring of all incoming calls
Calling subscriber: No interaction
Served mobile subscriber:
\- If barring of all incoming calls is active, the registration and/or
activation of call forwarding unconditional is denied. The mobile subscriber
shall be informed of this supplementary service incompatibility.
\- If Call forwarding unconditional is active, activation of Barring of all
incoming calls is denied. The mobile subscriber shall be informed of this
supplementary service incompatibility.
Forwarded-to subscriber: Calls forwarded to a subscriber having Barring of all
incoming calls active, will be denied as any other incoming call to that
subscriber.
#### 1.6.88.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country
Served mobile subscriber:
\- If Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming Outside the HPLMN Country is
active, registration and/or activation of Call Forwarding Unconditional is
permitted and Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming Outside the HPLMN Country
becomes quiescent.
\- If Call Forwarding Unconditional is active, activation of Barring of
Incoming Calls when Roaming Outside the HPLMN Country is not permitted. The
mobile subscriber shall be informed of this supplementary service
incompatibility.
Forwarded to subscriber: Calls forwarded to a subscriber having Barring of
incoming calls when roaming outside the HPLMN country active and operative,
will be denied as any other incoming call to that subscriber.
## 1.7 Interworking considerations
If the forwarded-to number is not a PLMN- or ISDN-number, then an interworking
situation is said to exist.
If a forwarded call meets an interworking situation, then an interworking
indication should be sent to the calling party. When interworking with non-
PLMN or non-ISDN networks, tones and announcements will be required.
NOTE1: The number of times a call has been forwarded once it has exited the
PLMN or ISDN may not be limited.
NOTE2: Tones and/or announcements should not be provided to the calling party
if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
# 2 Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Busy
## 2.1 Definition
This service permits a called mobile subscriber to have the network send all
incoming calls, or just those associated with a specific Basic service group,
addressed to the called mobile subscriber\'s directory number and which meet
mobile subscriber busy to another directory number. The ability of the served
mobile subscriber to originate calls is unaffected. If this service is
activated, a call is forwarded only if the call meets mobile subscriber busy.
## 2.2 Description
### 2.2.1 Description
The served mobile subscriber can request a different forwarded-to number for
each Basic service group containing a basic service to which she has
subscribed.
### 2.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 2.2.3 Terminology
A served mobile subscriber is a mobile subscriber of a particular PLMN access
who is requesting that calls to her number be forwarded. This subscriber may
also be referred to as the forwarding subscriber or the called subscriber.
A forwarded-to subscriber is a subscriber to whom the call shall be forwarded.
## 2.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 2.3.1 Provision
The supplementary service will be provisioned for all Basic Services
subscribed to and to which it is applicable.
The service can be offered with several subscription options. Options apply to
all Basic services subscribed to. For each subscription option, only one value
can be selected.
Subscription options are summarized below:
[Subscription options]{.underline} [Value]{.underline}
Forwarding subscriber receives - No
notification that the call has been forwarded - Yes
Calling subscriber receives - No
notification that the call has been forwarded - Yes
MSISDN of the served subscriber can be - No
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber - Yes
In case of User Determined User Busy (UDUB) a notification towards the
forwarding subscriber will not be given.
### 2.3.2 Withdrawal
The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 2.3.3 Registration
The following information has to be registered in the network:
1) the forwarded-to number, which may be accompanied by a forwarded-to sub-
address;
2) information as to whether all calls or all calls of one (or several)
specific Basic service group(s) should be forwarded.
If no Basic Service Code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as All
Basic Services.
Registration can take place either by the service provider or with an
appropriate control procedure by the subscriber. Verification, where possible,
of the forwarded-to number should be accomplished before accepting the call
forwarding request. This verification is done by a simple check of the
forwarded-to number to see if the number is within the allowed number range.
When the mobile subscriber so registers call forwarding on mobile subscriber
busy, the network will return notification of acceptance or rejection of the
request. This notification will include the forwarded-to number to which call
forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is registered.
### 2.3.4 Erasure
A previous registration can be erased in either of three ways:
Firstly, the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure.
Secondly, the subscriber can register information for call forwarding on
mobile subscriber busy for the specific Basic service group to another
directory number, thus causing the previous registration of call forwarding on
mobile subscriber busy to be overridden.
Thirdly, all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the service.
### 2.3.5 Activation
The user shall be allowed to activate Call Forwarding on Busy (CFB) by e.g.
using the MMI command described in 3GPP TS 22.030. This activation request may
include information of which Basic Service Group(s) it shall apply to. If no
such information is included, the Activation request applies to all Basic
Service Groups.
When receiving an activation request the network shall activate CFB for the
Basic Service Groups comprised in the BS group information given by the user
against which a CFB forwarded-to-number is registered. The Activation(s) shall
be in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
The user shall receive a notification that CFB has been activated.
The supplementary service is also activated for a Basic service group as a
result of registration for that Basic service group.
### 2.3.6 Deactivation
An active CFB can be deactivated in either of two ways:
\- The user may deactivate CFB by means of an appropriate control procedure
(e.g. as described in 3GPP TS 22.030). A deactivation request may contain
information of which Basic Service Group(s) it shall apply to. If no such
information is included, the Deactivation request applies to all Basic Service
Groups.
When receiving a deactivation request the network shall deactivate CFB for the
Basic Service Groups comprised in the BS group information given by the user
against which a CFB forwarded-to-number is registered. However, the registered
information shall not be erased. The Deactivation(s) shall be in accordance
with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
Even if there is no data stored against a particular Basic Service group
comprised in a deactivation request, the request shall be accepted by the
network for the other Basic Service group(s) included in the information given
by the user.
\- The service is deactivated as a result of Erasure.
In the former case, and also in the latter if Erasure is user controlled, the
user shall receive a notification of whether her request was accepted or
rejected in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 2.3.7 Invocation
If the supplementary service is activated for a Basic service incoming calls
for the specified Basic service that meet mobile subscriber busy will be
forwarded by network invocation.
### 2.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
When call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active and operative,
incoming calls for the specified Basic Service(s) that meet mobile subscriber
busy with the condition UDUB (User Determined User Busy) will be forwarded.
Incoming calls for the specified basic service(s) that meet mobile subscriber
busy with the condition NDUB (Network Determined User Busy) will be forwarded
without being offered to the served mobile subscriber.
When an incoming call is forwarded on mobile subscriber busy with the
condition NDUB the served mobile subscriber can, as a subscription option,
receive notification.
The forwarded-to subscriber will receive an indication that the call has been
forwarded with the cause. The cause, when available, will be the appropriate
forwarding condition. Depending on the value of the served subscribers
subscription option, the forwarded-to subscriber may also receive the MSISDN
of the served subscriber.
When multiple forwarding occurs the reason for forwarding and the MSISDN given
to the forwarded-to subscriber should relate to the last forwarding subscriber
in the chain.
When call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active and operative, the
ability of the served mobile subscriber to originate calls is not affected.
However, an indication that the call forwarding service is currently active
and operative on a number will be given to the forwarding party each time an
outgoing call is made.
As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that the
calling subscriber receives a notification that the call has been forwarded.
NOTE: In case the notification is implemented using intermediate tones or
announcements, the tones and/or announcements to the calling party should not
be provided if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
### 2.3.11 Interrogation
**Data request**
The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain information
about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested this procedure the
network shall return the following information:
\- in response to a general data request the served mobile subscriber should
be given a list of all Basic service groups to which call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy is registered, including information whether it is active and
if so, whether it is operative or quiescent, and the associated forwarded-to
numbers;
\- in response to a specific request concerning one particular Basic service
group, the served mobile subscriber should be informed whether or not call
forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is registered, including information
whether it is active and if so, whether it is operative or quiescent for that
Basic service group. If CFB is registered, the associated forwarded-to number
shall be given.
### 2.3.12 Charging requirements
The forwarding subscriber may be charged for the forwarded part of the call.
## 2.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 2.4.2 Registration
If the system cannot accept a registration request, the served mobile
subscriber should receive a notification that call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy registration was not successful. Possible causes are:
\- service not subscribed to;
\- forwarded-to number is invalid directory number;
\- use of an operator access prefix;
\- insufficient information;
\- forwarded-to number is a special service code (e.g. police);
\- forwarded-to number is the directory number of the mobile subscriber
herself;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services (e.g. incoming call
barring has been activated);
\- no basic service provisioned within the basic service groups.
The network is not required to validate information related to the forwarded-
to number.
### 2.4.3 Erasure
If the network cannot accept a mobile subscriber\'s request for erasure, cause
will be returned to the subscriber, such as:
\- insufficient information;
\- inconsistent with registration.
If the subscriber does not completely specify which call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy request is to be erased, the network will reject the erasure
request with appropriate cause.
If no Basic Service Code is inserted by the user, CF will be erased from all
Basic Services.
### 2.4.4 Activation
If there is no CFB forwarded-to-number registered against a Basic Service
group, the activation request for that Basic Service group shall be denied.
Examples of causes for a not accepted activation request:
\- service not provisioned;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services;
\- service not registered.
### 2.4.5 Deactivation
If the network cannot accept a deactivation request, an appropriate cause will
be returned to the user, e.g. Service not Active.
### 2.4.6 Invocation
Within a PLMN or different PLMNs the number of tandem forwarding connections
should be limited. The maximum number of tandem forwarding connections should
be limited to a value between 1 and 5. This is to prevent infinite looping.
If the limit of successive forwardings of a call has already been reached, an
unsuccessful call set up indication is sent backwards.
If the forwarded call cannot be completed to the forwarded-to destination,
then the network will clear the forwarded part of the call and an unsuccessful
call set up indication is sent backwards.
NOTE: Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy applies only to the Basic
services subscribed to. Calls to a directory number requesting a Basic service
which is not subscribed to will never be forwarded.
## 2.5 Alternate Procedures
None identified.
## 2.6 Interactions with other supplementary services
#### 2.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 2.6.81.2 Calling line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 2.6.81.3 Connected line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 2.6.81.4 Connected line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 2.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
See section 1.6.82.2.
#### 2.6.83.1 Call waiting
See 3GPP TS 22.083.
#### 2.6.84.1 Multi party
See 3GPP TS 22.084.
#### 2.6.85.1 Closed user group
See 3GPP TS 22.085.
#### 2.6.86.1 Advice of charge
See 3GPP TS 22.086.
#### 2.6.88.1 Barring of all outgoing calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding unconditional and barring of
all outgoing calls.
#### 2.6.88.2 Barring of outgoing international calls
Served mobile subscriber:
\- If barring of outgoing international calls is active, the registration of
an international forwarded-to number (from the visited PLMN country) for call
forwarding on mobile subscriber busy, as well as the activation of call
forwarding on mobile subscriber busy to such a forwarded-to number, is denied.
The mobile subscriber shall be informed of this supplementary service
incompatibility.
\- If Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active to an international
forwarded-to number (from the local PLMN country), activation of Barring of
outgoing international calls is denied. The mobile subscriber shall be
informed of this supplementary service incompatibility.
\- If Barring of outgoing international calls and Call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy are simultaneously active (i.e. the forwarded-to number is a
local number seen from the local PLMN country), Call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy will be made quiescent by the network as soon as the mobile
subscriber updates in another PLMN country.
\- If barring of outgoing international calls is subsequently deactivated, or
if the mobile subscriber updates in a PLMN where the forwarded-to number is
not considered as an international number, call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy is automatically made operative (unless the interaction with
another supplementary service requests that it remains quiescent).
#### 2.6.88.4 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to
the home PLMN country
Served mobile subscriber:
\- If Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country is active, the registration of an international forwarded-to
number (from the local PLMN country) except to the HPLMN country, as well as
the activation of call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy to such a
forwarded-to number, is denied. The mobile subscriber shall be informed of
this supplementary service incompatibility.
\- If Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active to an international
forwarded-to number (from the local PLMN country) except to the HPLMN country,
activation of Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to
the home PLMN country is denied. The mobile subscriber shall be informed of
this supplementary service incompatibility.
\- If Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country and Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy are
simultaneously active (i.e. the forwarded-to number is a local number seen
from the local PLMN country or a number in the HPLMN country), Call forwarding
on mobile subscriber busy will be made quiescent as soon as the mobile
subscriber is updated in another PLMN country if the forwarded-to number is
not a number in the HPLMN country.
\- If Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country is subsequently deactivated, or if the mobile subscriber
updates in a PLMN where the forwarded-to number is not barred, Call forwarding
on mobile subscriber busy is automatically made operative (unless the
interaction with another supplementary service requests that it remains
quiescent).
#### 2.6.88.6 Barring of all incoming calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding unconditional and barring of
all incoming calls.
#### 2.6.88.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country
Served mobile subscriber:
\- If Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country is
active and operative (i.e. the mobile subscriber is roaming outside the home
PLMN country) then the registration and/or activation of Call forwarding on
mobile subscriber busy is denied. The mobile subscriber shall be informed of
this supplementary service incompatibility.
\- If Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country is
active and quiescent (i.e. the mobile subscriber is in the home PLMN country),
then the registration and/or activation of Call forwarding on mobile
subscriber busy is not denied.
\- If Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
becomes operative after Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy has been
registered and/or activated, Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is made
quiescent.
\- If Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
subsequently becomes quiescent, Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is
automatically made operative (unless the interaction with another
supplementary service requests that it remains quiescent).
\- If Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active and operative and
the mobile subscriber is roaming outside the home PLMN country, activation of
Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the HPLMN country is denied.
The mobile subscriber shall be informed of this supplementary service
incompatibility.
\- If call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy is active and quiescent and
the mobile subscriber is roaming in the home PLMN country, activation of
Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the HPLMN country is not
denied.
Forwarded to subscriber: Calls forwarded to a subscriber having Barring of
incoming calls when roaming outside the HPLMN country active and operative,
will be denied as any other incoming call to that subscriber.
## 2.7 Interworking considerations
If the forwarded-to number is not a PLMN- or ISDN-number, then an interworking
situation is said to exist.
If a forwarded call meets an interworking situation, then an interworking
indication should be sent to the calling party. When interworking with non-
PLMN or non-ISDN networks, tones and announcements will be required.
NOTE1: The number of times a call has been forwarded once it has exited the
PLMN or ISDN may not be limited.
NOTE2: Tones and/or announcements should not be provided to the calling party
if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
# 3 Call Forwarding on No Reply
## 3.1 Definition
This service permits a called mobile subscriber to have the network send all
incoming calls, or just those associated with a specific Basic service group,
addressed to the called mobile subscriber\'s directory number and which meet
no reply to another directory number. The ability of the served mobile
subscriber to originate calls is unaffected. If this service is activated, a
call is forwarded only if the call meets no reply.
## 3.2 Description
### 3.2.1 Description
The served mobile subscriber can request a different forwarded-to number for
each Basic service group containing a basic service to which she has
subscribed.
### 3.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 3.2.3 Terminology
A served mobile subscriber is a mobile subscriber of a particular PLMN access
who is requesting that calls to her number be forwarded. This subscriber may
also be referred to as the forwarding subscriber or the called subscriber.
A forwarded-to subscriber is a subscriber to whom the call shall be forwarded.
## 3.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 3.3.1 Provision
The supplementary service will be provisioned for all Basic Services
subscribed to and to which it is applicable.
The service can be offered with several subscription options. Options apply to
all Basic services subscribed to. For each subscription option, only one value
can be selected.
Subscription options are summarized below:
[Subscription options]{.underline} [Value]{.underline}
Forwarding subscriber receives - No
notification that the call has been forwarded - Yes
Calling subscriber receives - No
notification that the call has been forwarded - Yes
MSISDN of the served subscriber can be - No
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber - Yes
### 3.3.2 Withdrawal
The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 3.3.3 Registration
The following information has to be registered in the network:
1) the forwarded-to number, which may be accompanied by a forwarded-to sub-
address;
2) information as to whether all calls or all calls of one (or several)
specific Basic service group(s) should be forwarded;
If no Basic Service Code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as All
Basic Services.
3) the duration of the no reply condition timer.
Registration can take place either by the service provider or with an
appropriate control procedure by the subscriber. If the duration of the no
reply condition timer is not registered by the mobile subscriber then the
previous value set by the mobile subscriber applies. If no previous value
exists, a default value set by the service provider applies. The value is in
between 5 and 30 seconds, in steps of 5 seconds.
Verification, where possible, of the forwarded-to number should be
accomplished before accepting the call forwarding request. This verification
is done by a simple check of the forwarded-to number to see if the number is
within the allowed number range.
When the mobile subscriber so registers call forwarding on no reply, the
network will return notification of acceptance or rejection of the request.
This notification will include the forwarded-to number to which call
forwarding on no reply is registered and the duration of the no reply
condition timer.
### 3.3.4 Erasure
A previous registration can be erased in either of three ways:
Firstly, the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure.
Secondly, the subscriber can register information for call forwarding on no
reply for the specific Basic service group to another directory number, thus
causing the previous registration of call forwarding on no reply to be
overridden.
Thirdly, all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the service.
### 3.3.5 Activation
The user shall be allowed to activate Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy) by
e.g. using the MMI command described in 3GPP TS 22.030. This activation
request may include information of which Basic Service Group(s) it shall apply
to. If no such information is included, the Activation request applies to all
Basic Service Groups.
When receiving an activation request the network shall activate CFNRy for the
Basic Service Groups comprised in the BS group information given by the user
against which a CFNRy forwarded-to-number is registered. The Activation(s)
shall be in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
The user shall receive a notification that CFNRy has been activated.
The supplementary service is also activated for a Basic service group as a
result of Registration for that Basic service group.
### 3.3.6 Deactivation
An active CFNRy can be deactivated in either of two ways:
\- The user may deactivate CFNRy by means of an appropriate control procedure
(e.g. as described in 3GPP TS 22.030). A deactivation request may contain
information of which Basic Service Group(s) it shall apply to. If no such
information is included the Deactivation request applies to all Basic Service
Groups.
When receiving a deactivation request the network shall deactivate CFNRy for
the Basic Service Groups comprised in the BS group information given by the
user against which a CFNRy forwarded-to-number is registered. However, the
registered information shall not be erased. The Deactivation(s) shall be in
accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
Even if there is no data stored against a particular Basic Service group
comprised in a deactivation request, the request shall be accepted by the
network for the other Basic Service groups included in the information given
by the user.
\- The service is deactivated as a result of Erasure.
In the former case, and also in the latter if Erasure is user controlled, the
user shall receive a notification of whether her request was accepted or
rejected in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 3.3.7 Invocation
If the supplementary service is activated for a Basic service incoming calls
for the specified Basic service that are not answered within the period
defined by the no reply condition timer, will be forwarded by network
invocation.
### 3.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
When call forwarding on no reply is active and operative, incoming calls for
the specified Basic Service(s) that are not answered within the period defined
by the no reply condition timer, will be forwarded without being offered to
the served mobile subscriber.
When an incoming call is forwarded on no reply the served mobile subscriber
can, as a subscription option, receive notification (but will not be able to
answer the incoming call).
The forwarded-to subscriber will receive an indication that the call has been
forwarded with the cause. The cause, when available, will be the appropriate
forwarding condition. Depending on the value of the served subscribers
subscription option, the forwarded-to subscriber may also receive the MSISDN
of the served subscriber.
When multiple forwarding occurs the reason for forwarding and the MSISDN given
to the forwarded-to subscriber should relate to the last forwarding subscriber
in the chain.
When call forwarding on no reply is active and operative, the ability of the
served mobile subscriber to originate calls is not affected. However, an
indication that the call forwarding service is currently active and operative
on a number will be given to the forwarding party each time an outgoing call
is made.
As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that the
calling subscriber receives a notification that the call has been forwarded.
NOTE: In case the notification is implemented using intermediate tones or
announcements, the tones and/or announcements to the calling party should not
be provided if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
### 3.3.11 Interrogation
**Data request**
The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain information
about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested this procedure the
network shall return the following information:
\- in response to a general data request the served mobile subscriber should
be given a list of all Basic service groups to which call forwarding on no
reply is registered, including information whether it is active and if so,
whether it is operative or quiescent, the associated forwarded-to numbers and
the duration of the no reply timer;
\- in response to a specific request concerning one particular Basic service
group, the served mobile subscriber should be informed whether or not call
forwarding on no reply is registered, including information whether it is
active and if so, whether it is operative or quiescent for that Basic service
group. If CFNRy is registered, the associated forwarded-to number and the
duration of the no reply timer shall be given.
### 3.3.12 Charging requirements
The forwarding subscriber may be charged for the forwarded part of the call.
## 3.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 3.4.2 Registration
If the system cannot accept a registration request, the served mobile
subscriber should receive a notification that call forwarding on no reply
registration was not successful. Possible causes are:
\- service not subscribed to;
\- forwarded-to number is invalid directory number;
\- use of an operator access prefix;
\- insufficient information;
\- forwarded-to number is a special service code (e.g. police);
\- forwarded-to number is the directory number of the mobile subscriber
herself;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services (e.g. incoming call
barring has been activated);
\- no basic service provisioned within the basic service group(s).
The network is not required to validate information related to the forwarded-
to number.
### 3.4.3 Erasure
If the network cannot accept a mobile subscriber\'s request for erasure, cause
will be returned to the subscriber, such as:
\- insufficient information;
\- inconsistent with registration.
If the subscriber does not completely specify which call forwarding on no
reply request is to be erased, the network will reject the erasure request
with appropriate cause.
If no Basic Service Code is inserted by the user, CF will be erased from all
Basic Services.
### 3.4.4 Activation
If there is no CFNRy forwarded-to-number registered against a Basic Service
group, the activation request for that Basic Service group shall be denied.
[However, if there is CFNRy forwarded-to-numbers stored against other Basic
Service groups contained in the same activation request, these will be
activated.]
Examples of causes for a not accepted activation request:
\- service not provisioned;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services;
\- service not registered.
### 3.4.5 Deactivation
If the network cannot accept a deactivation request, an appropriate cause will
be returned to the user, e.g. Service not Active.
### 3.4.6 Invocation
Within a PLMN or different PLMNs the number of tandem forwarding connections
should be limited. The maximum number of tandem forwarding connections should
be limited to a value between 1 and 5. This is to prevent infinite looping.
If the limit of successive forwardings of a call is reached and an attempt is
made to forward the call an additional time, then the forwarded call shall be
treated as in the following paragraph.
If the forwarded call cannot be completed to the forwarded-to destination,
then the network will clear the call towards the calling user with an
indication that the call cannot be completed. This indication shall not
include information that the call has been forwarded.
NOTE 1: The alerting of the forwarding user shall have ceased on invocation of
the CFNRy Service.
NOTE 2: The alerting of the calling subscriber should, if possible, not cease
on invocation of CFNRy.
NOTE 3: Call forwarding on no reply applies only to the Basic services
subscribed to. Calls to a directory number requesting a Basic service which is
not subscribed to will never be forwarded.
## 3.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 3.6 Interactions with other supplementary services
#### 3.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 3.6.81.2 Calling line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 3.6.81.3 Connected line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 3.6.81.4 Connected line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 22.081.
#### 3.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
See section 1.6.82.3.
#### 3.6.83.1 Call waiting
See 3GPP TS 22.083.
#### 3.6.84.1 Multi party
See 3GPP TS 22.084.
#### 3.6.85.1 Closed user group
See 3GPP TS 22.085.
#### 3.6.86.1 Advice of charge
See 3GPP TS 22.086.
#### 3.6.88.1 Barring of all outgoing calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding unconditional and barring of
all outgoing calls.
#### 3.6.88.2 Barring of outgoing international calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
barring of outgoing international calls.
#### 3.6.88.4 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to
the home PLMN country
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the home PLMN
country.
#### 3.6.88.6 Barring of all incoming calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding unconditional and barring of
all incoming calls.
#### 3.6.88.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country.
## 3.7 Interworking considerations
If the forwarded-to number is not a PLMN- or ISDN-number, then an interworking
situation is said to exist.
If a forwarded call meets an interworking situation, then an interworking
indication should be sent to the calling party. When interworking with non-
PLMN or non-ISDN networks, tones and announcements will be required.
NOTE1: The number of times a call has been forwarded once it has exited the
PLMN or ISDN may not be limited.
NOTE2: Tones and/or announcements should not be provided to the calling party
if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
# 4 Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not Reachable
## 4.1 Definition
This service permits a called mobile subscriber to have the network send all
incoming calls, or just those associated with a specific Basic service group,
addressed to the called mobile subscriber\'s directory number, but which is
not reachable, to another directory number. The ability of the served mobile
subscriber to originate calls is principally unaffected, but practically it is
affected if the mobile subscriber is de-registered, if there is radio
congestion or if the mobile subscriber for example is being out of radio
coverage. If this service is activated, a call is forwarded only if the mobile
subscriber is not reachable.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 Description
The served mobile subscriber can request a different forwarded-to number for
each Basic service group containing a basic service to which he has
subscribed.
### 4.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 4.2.3 Terminology
A served mobile subscriber is a mobile subscriber of a particular PLMN access
who is requesting that calls to his number be forwarded. This subscriber may
also be referred to as the forwarding subscriber or the called subscriber. A
forwarded-to subscriber is a subscriber to whom the call shall be forwarded.
## 4.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 4.3.1 Provision
The supplementary service will be provisioned for all Basic Services
subscribed to and to which it is applicable.
The service can be offered with several subscription options. Options apply to
all Basic service subscribed to. For each subscription option only one value
can be selected.
[Subscription options]{.underline} [Value]{.underline}
Calling subscriber receives - No
notification that the call has been forwarded - Yes
MSISDN of the served subscriber can be - No
presented to the forwarded-to subscriber - Yes
### 4.3.2 Withdrawal
The service will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 4.3.3 Registration
The following information has to be registered in the network:
1) the forwarded-to number, which may be accompanied by a forwarded-to sub-
address;
2) information as to whether all calls or all calls of one (or several)
specific Basic service group(s) should be forwarded.
If no Basic Service Code is inserted by the user this is interpreted as All
Basic Services.
Registration can take place either by the service provider or with an
appropriate control procedure by the subscriber.
Verification, where possible, of the forwarded-to number should be
accomplished before accepting the call forwarding request. This verification
is done by a simple check of the forwarded to number to see if the number is
within the allowed number range.
When the mobile subscriber so registers call forwarding on mobile subscriber
not reachable the network will return notification of acceptance or rejection
of the request. This notification will include the forwarded-to number to
which call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable is registered.
### 4.3.4 Erasure
A previous registration can be erased in either of three ways:
Firstly, the subscriber can specifically erase a previous registration with an
appropriate control procedure.
Secondly, the subscriber can register information for call forwarding on
mobile subscriber not reachable for the specific Basic service group to
another directory number, thus causing the previous registration of call
forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable to be overridden.
Thirdly, all information is erased as a result of withdrawal of the service.
### 4.3.5 Activation
The user shall be allowed to activate Call Forwarding on mobile not Reachable
(CFNRc) by e.g. using the MMI command described in 3GPP TS 22.030. This
activation request may include information of which Basic Service Group(s) it
shall apply to. If no such information is included the Activation applies to
all Basic Service Groups against which CFNRc data (forwarded-to-number) is
registered.
When receiving an activation request the network shall activate CFNRc for the
Basic Service Groups comprised in the BS group information given by the user
and against which a CFNRc forwarded-to-number is registered. The Activation(s)
shall be in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
The user shall receive a notification that CFNRc has been activated.
The supplementary service is also activated for a Basic service group as a
result of registration for that Basic service group.
### 4.3.6 Deactivation
An active CFNRc can be deactivated in either of two ways:
\- The user may deactivate CFNRc by means of an appropriate control procedure
(e.g. as described in 3GPP TS 22.030). An explicit deactivation request may
contain information of which Basic Service Group(s) it shall apply to. If no
such information is included the Deactivation applies to all Basic Service
Groups.
When receiving a deactivation request the network shall deactivate CFNRc for
the Basic Service Groups comprised in the BS group information given by the
user and against which a CFNRc forwarded-to-number is registered. However, the
registered information shall not be erased. The Deactivation(s) shall be in
accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
Even if there is no data stored against a particular Basic Service group
comprised in deactivation request, the request shall be accepted by the
network for the other Basic Service groups included in the information given
by the user.
\- The service is deactivated as a result of Erasure.
In the former case, and also in the latter if Erasure is user controlled, the
user shall receive a notification of whether her request was accepted or
rejected in accordance with the rules set out in 3GPP TS 22.004.
### 4.3.7 Invocation
If the supplementary service is activated for a Basic service incoming calls
for the specified Basic service when the mobile subscriber is not reachable,
will be forwarded by network invocation.
### 4.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
When call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable is active and
operative, all incoming calls for the specified Basic Service(s) when the
mobile subscriber is not reachable, will be forwarded without being offered to
the served mobile subscriber.
The forwarded-to subscriber will receive an indication that the call has been
forwarded with the cause. The cause, when available, will be the appropriate
forwarding condition. Depending on the value of the served subscribers
subscription option, the forwarded-to subscriber may also receive the MSISDN
of the served subscriber.
When multiple forwarding occurs the reason for forwarding and the MSISDN given
to the forwarded-to subscriber should relate to the last forwarding subscriber
in the chain.
When call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable is active and
operative, the ability of the served mobile subscriber to originate calls is
principally not affected, but practically it is affected if the mobile
subscriber is de-registered, on radio congestion or on no paging response.
However, an indication that the call forwarding service is currently active
and operative on a number will be given to the forwarding party each time an
outgoing call is made.
As a subscription option, the served mobile subscriber can request that the
calling subscriber receives a notification that the call has been forwarded.
NOTE: In case the notification is implemented using intermediate tones or
announcements, the tones and/or announcements to the calling party should not
be provided if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
### 4.3.11 Interrogation
**Data request**
The data request procedure enables the mobile subscriber to obtain information
about the data stored in the PLMN. After having requested this procedure the
network shall return the following information:
\- in response to a general data request the served mobile subscriber should
be given a list of all Basic service groups to which call forwarding on mobile
subscriber not reachable is registered, including information whether it is
active and if so, whether it is operative or quiescent, and the associated
forwarded-to numbers;
\- in response to a specific request concerning one particular Basic service
group, the served mobile subscriber should be informed whether or not call
forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable is registered, including
information whether it is active and if so, whether it is operative or
quiescent for that Basic service group. If CFNRc is registered, the associated
forwarded-to number shall be given.
### 4.3.12 Charging requirements
The forwarding subscriber may be charged for the forwarded part of the call.
## 4.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 4.4.2 Registration
If the system cannot accept a registration request, the served mobile
subscriber should receive a notification that call forwarding on mobile
subscriber not reachable registration was not successful. Possible causes are:
\- service not subscribed to;
\- forwarded-to number is invalid directory number;
\- use of an operator access prefix;
\- insufficient information;
\- forwarded-to number is a special service code (e.g. police);
\- forwarded-to number is the directory number of the mobile subscriber
herself;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services (e.g. incoming call
barring has been activated);
\- no basic service provisioned within the basic service group(s).
The network is not required to validate information related to the forwarded-
to number.
### 4.4.3 Erasure
If the network cannot accept a mobile subscriber\'s request for erasure, cause
will be returned to the subscriber, such as:
\- insufficient information;
\- inconsistent with registration.
If the subscriber does not completely specify which call forwarding on mobile
subscriber not reachable request is to be erased, the network will reject the
erasure request with appropriate cause.
If no Basic Service Code is inserted by the user, CF will be erased from all
Basic Services.
### 4.4.4 Activation
If there is no CFNRc forwarded-to-number registered against a Basic Service
group, the activation request for that Basic Service group shall be denied.
Examples of causes for a not accepted activation request:
\- service not provisioned;
\- conflicting situation with other supplementary services;
\- service not registered.
### 4.4.5 Deactivation
If the network cannot accept a deactivation request, an appropriate cause will
be returned to the user, e.g. Service not Active.
### 4.4.6 Invocation
Within a PLMN or different PLMNs the number of tandem forwarding connections
should be limited. The maximum number of tandem forwarding connections should
be limited to a value between 1 and 5. This is to prevent infinite looping.
If the limit of successive forwardings of a call has already been reached, an
unsuccessful call set up indication is sent backwards.
If the forwarded call cannot be completed to the forwarded-to destination,
then the network will clear the forwarded part of the call and an unsuccessful
call set up indication is sent backwards.
NOTE: Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable applies only to the
Basic services subscribed to. Calls to a directory number requesting a Basic
service which is not subscribed to will never be forwarded.
## 4.5 Alternate procedures
None identified.
## 4.6 Interactions with other supplementary services
#### 4.6.81.1 Calling line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 02.081.
#### 4.6.81.2 Calling line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 02.081.
#### 4.6.81.3 Connected line identification presentation
See 3GPP TS 02.081.
#### 4.6.81.4 Connected line identification restriction
See 3GPP TS 02.081.
#### 4.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
See section 1.6.82.4.
#### 4.6.83.1 Call waiting
See 3GPP TS 22.083.
#### 4.6.84.1 Multi party
See 3GPP TS 22.084.
#### 4.6.85.1 Closed user group
See 3GPP TS 22.085.
#### 4.6.86.1 Advice of charge
See 3GPP TS 22.086.
#### 4.6.88.1 Barring of all outgoing calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding unconditional and barring of
all outgoing calls.
#### 4.6.88.2 Barring of outgoing international calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
barring of outgoing international calls.
#### 4.6.88.4 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to
the home PLMN country
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the home PLMN
country.
#### 4.6.88.6 Barring of all incoming calls
Same as the interaction between call forwarding unconditional and barring of
all incoming calls.
#### 4.6.88.7 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN
country
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy and
barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country.
## 4.7 Interworking considerations
If the forwarded-to number is not a PLMN- or ISDN-number, then an interworking
situation is said to exist.
If a forwarded call meets an interworking situation, then an interworking
indication should be sent to the calling party.
When interworking with non-PLMN or non-ISDN networks, tones and announcements
will be required.
NOTE 1: The number of times a call has been forwarded once it has exited the
PLMN or ISDN may not be limited.
NOTE 2: Tones and/or announcements should not be provided to the calling party
if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
#