# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the service requirements associated with series
of value-added features for short message service (SMS). Specifically, the
objective of this document is to specify potential new value-added services
for SMS in 3GPP that need to be standardized.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[3] ITU-T E.164 (1997): \"The International Public Telecommunications
Numbering Plan\".
[4] IETF STD 0011 (RFC 2822): \"Internet Message Format\", URL:
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2822.txt.
[5] 3GPP TS 23.204: \" Support of Short Message Service (SMS) over Generic
3GPP Internet Protocol (IP) Access. Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TR 22.942: \"Study on Value Added Services (VAS) for Short Message
Service (SMS)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[1] and the following apply:
**Short Message Forwarding:** The service permits the network to send all
incoming short messages addressed to the called mobile subscriber\'s directory
number to another directory number.
**Short Message Filtering:** The service permits the network to filter certain
short messages on behalf of a called/calling party based on the called/calling
party's preferences.
**Short Message Receipt:** The service permits the network to send one or more
receipts to inform a calling party the status of sent message.
**Short Message Network Storage:** The service permits the network to help the
subscriber store messages that the subscriber has sent or received.
**SMS VPN service: Enables the exchange of SMS messages between VPN (Virtual
Private Network) members by using a short number, usually similar to the
receiver fixed extension number, instead of using the full mobile number of
the recipient.**
**SMS Auto Reply:** **The SMS Auto Reply service enables the subscriber to
activate an automatic SMS reply in response to incoming SMS messages, both
from in network subscribers as well as from foreign networks subscribers
(incoming MT messages from foreign networks).**
**SMS Personal Signature** : The service **allows the end user to personalize
its outgoing messages either with a personal remark or a business title. The
service enables a user to pre-define a text that will automatically be added
to all outgoing SMS messages.**
**SMS Deferred Delivery** : The SMS deferred delivery service provides a
subscriber the capability to control the actual delivery time of messages
created by him. User using this capability can send a message and configure it
to be delivered at a later time.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply in
addition to [1]:
SMS-SC Short Message Service - Service Centre
SM Short Message
VAS-SMS Value-added Services for SMS
# 4 Requirements
## 4.1 High Level Requirements
The VAS-SMS shall be implemented without influencing the existing SMS service.
The VAS-SMS shall be implemented without depending on the terminal's
capability.
Users shall be able to register, activate, deactivate, withdraw and
reconfigure VAS-SMS via the UE, or web portals.
The VAS-SMS shall be designed and implemented in a way to provide users who
joined the services one coherent and identical user experience, regardless of
the SM flow and SM scenario (e.g. messages to and from applications, MO-MT in
an in network and MT from Foreign Network).
## 4.2 Overall Service Requirements
### 4.2.1 Management of Service Information
#### 4.2.1.1 Capabilities provided to the user
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request from an application to
query/change the choice of services for a subscriber.
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request from an application to
query/change the subscriber's preferences for a certain service, for example:
i) To add or delete or modify a subscriber's filtering conditions by which
VAS-SMS can refuse some of the subscriber's incoming messages.
ii) To modify a subscriber's signature that will be appended to an SM sent
from the subscriber.
**iii)** To modify a subscriber's forwarding address that substitutes for the
subscriber's original receiving address.
#### 4.2.1.2 Capabilities provided to the network
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request to query/change the
subscriber's information, for example:
i) To get the detail information about the subscriber's service.
ii) To add or delete a subscriber's service information.
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request to query the handling results
of the subscription service.
#### 4.2.1.3 Capabilities provided to authorized third party
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request from an application to modify
the contents that will be appended to an SM, for example:
i) to load or unload a particular content provided by the third party
ii) to associate a content with a particular subscriber or a type of
subscribers
iii) to define the trigger for inclusion or change of such content
Note: The management of VAS4SMS service is out of scope of 3GPP
standardisation.
### 4.2.2 Short Message processing
The VAS-SMS should be able to deal with the content of an SM, for example:
i) To insert content (as agreed with the subscriber, or as agreed with a third
party and authorized by the subscriber) into the original SM and form a new SM
(e.g. append the signature to the SM, append the content as provided by the
third party, ...).
ii) To compile an SM by containing operator's information (e.g. construct a
delivery report).
**iii)** To use certain words in an SM as the filtering criteria.
The VAS-SMS should be able to convert the format of an SM into other formats
(e.g. email, WAP message, etc).
### 4.2.3 Short Message Forwarding
It shall be supported that users can set certain conditions (e.g., different
time periods) for message forwarding. There are no significant delays to any
part of the service.
With the advent of SM forwarding there is also the issue of how to handle the
situation when a user by mistake sets forwarding to wrong number (a number
that is in use). Ideally a recipient should be capable of stopping the
delivery of such SM to its own address. As a minimum the recipient's operator
should be capable of identifying forwarded SM and stop delivery. Infinite
forwarding loops needs to be prevented.
SM Forwarding service should support forwarding to numbers of both the
operator as well as other operators.
It shall be possible to Notify a recipient upon activation of the service and
only upon his approval activate the service for the user.
There may be no relation between SM Forwarding service and Voice Call
Forwarding service.
### 4.2.4 Short Message Forwarding multiple subscriptions
It may be supported that an operator can set a group of subscriptions for
which SM are forwarded to the active/last activated subscription of that
group, under the condition that the delivery address of the SM is associated
to a subscription of that group and that address is not registered on the
network.
### 4.2.5 Short Message filtering
It shall be supported that users can set certain conditions for message
filtering.
### 4.2.6 Short Message receipt
It shall be supported that the callee can configure the content of an
additional receipt SM for different callers, so the standard Status Report may
be accompanied by a newly generated SM with the content provided by the
operator.
### 4.2.7 Short Message Network Storage
It should be possible for the operator to support Short Message Network
Storage to allow users to store the messages in the network.
It should be possible for users to store the messages in the network based on
their personal settings (e.g. store all sent & received messages, store the
messages from/to particular users, store the messages sent & received in a
specified period of time etc).
It should be possible for users to store and manage the messages for their
preference (e.g. users can set different folders to store different sort of
messages, therefore it is convenient to inquire the stored messages based on
message sort or key words).
It should be possible for the operator to ensure all relevant information of
the messages stored in the network are consistent with that displayed to
users, e.g. content of the messages, sender/recipient, sending/receiving time,
etc.
It shall be supported that user can pre-set certain conditions for storage.
The storage condition includes all sent messages, all received messages,
messages sent to or received from one or more special phone numbers and so on.
It should be possible for the operator to prevent storage of configuration SM,
notifications (e.g. voice mail, SM delivery notifications).
It shall be supported that users can transfer the messages stored in the
message depository to any other mobile phone.
It shall be supported that users can inquire the messages stored in the
message depository according to certain query conditions (e.g., short message
receiver, short message sender, key words etc.).
It shall be supported that users can manage the stored messages via a website,
and it shall be possible for the user to set access right for other users (
e.g. read only , read and download etc), in this way, other users are able to
inquire his stored messages through a link to the website after valid
authentication.
In case of multiple delivery attempts SM will be copied only once regardless
of the number of delivery attempts.
It shall be possible to combine concatenated SM to single Message in the
Network store or alternatively indicate in the message that it is part of
concatenated SM.
The Short Message Network Storage service shall prevent duplicate storage
message as a result of failure in transmission of the original SM.
Messages should be stored in the Network Storage regardless of the user
availability and as soon as the original SM is being processed in the SMSC.
### 4.2.8 Short Message to multiple destinations
It shall be able to support inclusion of multiple recipients in a message when
a user sends a single message to multiple individuals.
It should be possible for all recipients of the message to be aware of other
recipients.
It should be possible for a recipient to choose to whom the reply message is
sent, i.e. to the original sender and to other recipients of the original
message.
It shall be supported that a user can include multiple destination addresses
in a message. The recipient except those addresses displaying information is
blocked shall receive information on all recipients of the message.
It shall be supported that each recipient of the message can send a message
back to all recipients of the original message.
### 4.2.9 Short Message Virtual Private Network (VPN)
Sending messages to local numbers based on the dialling plan should be
supported. There shall be no significant delays to any part of the service.
### 4.2.10 Short Message Auto Reply
It shall be possible that users can activate the SM Auto Reply Service to be
active for different time periods. In addition it shall be possible to
configure the system to reply only once to each sender in a predefined period
of time.
It shall be possible for users to configure and manage their Automatic Reply
messages, e.g. edit and delete the content of the message.
It shall be possible for users to set different Automatic Reply messages to
different senders.
### 4.2.11 Short Message Personal Signature
The SM Personal Signature Service shall support certain conditions configured
by users or control system wide (e.g., append personal signature depending on
the original short message length, append personal signature to certain
destinations). There shall be no significant delays to any part of the
service.
### 4.2.12 Short Message Deferred Delivery
The SM Deferred delivery shall support the following delivery time options:
\- Relative timing -- The text will include information as for the of how many
more days, hours, minutes shall pass before the message shall be delivered.
\- Absolute timing - The text will include information indicating of the
specific Date and Time for the message to be delivered
The SM Deferred Delivery Service shall support all type of languages
The SM Deferred Delivery Service shall support concatenated messages
There shall be no significant delays to any part of the service.
### 4.2.13 Management and control of network based repository
VAS-SMS should be able to provide following capabilities to support network
based repository:
\- The VAS-SMS should allow configuring in such a way that certain sent or
received messages of a particular user can be stored persistently in a network
based repository.
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from SMS-SC to persistently
store a sent message in a network based repository at the time of sending.
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from an application to
upload certain messages into a network based repository for persistent
storage.
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from an application to
retrieve/delete certain messages stored in a network based repository
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from an application to view
the list of messages and related attributes (e.g. sender, recipient,
date/time, etc) in a network based repository
### 4.2.14 Addressing
The VAS-SMS should support different addressing formats to identify the sender
and recipient; it should support both MSISDN[3] and e-mail addressing
schemes[4].
A short number should be supported. This number should be unique within VPN
where it is used.
The VAS-SMS should support an alpha-numeric addressing format (similar to
specified in [2]).
The VAS-SMS should be able to submit one message to multiple recipients.
The VAS-SMS should be able to support the request to hide the sender's or
other recipients' addresses.
# 5 Requirements for service priority and Interaction
The different rules of VAS-SMS priority and interaction are provided by
operator. For example, the priority order maybe as following:
\- SM Filtering
\- SM Network Storage
\- SM Forwarding
\- etc.
The VAS-SMS should be classified by priority and triggered according to
priority order.
The VAS-SMS should provide the capability to configure certain priority.
Caller SMS receipt has higher priority than Callee SMS Receipt service.
# 6 Quality of Service
The quality of basic SMS service should not be affected by introducing the
VAS-SMS.
The following key performance for quality of VAS-SMS shall be kept consistent
with basic SMS. For example:
\- SMS delivery successful rate
\- authentication successful rate
\- end to end data loss rate
\- end to end data delay
\- charging successful rate
\- reliability of network and service
# 7 Charging aspects for VAS-SMS
The VAS-SMS shall provide accounting rules for accurate accounting. It shall
be able to support following charging aspects.
\- Charging Model
The VAS-SMS charging includes basic communication fee and special service fee.
Basic communication fee is paid for usage of network resource. CDR is
generated by SMSC. Special service fee is paid for usage of the VAS-SMS. CDR
is generated by the VAS-SMS system. Charging models of special service fee
shall include but not limit to the following items:
i) charging per VAS-SMS
ii) monthly basis
Per each service category, different charging models and rates should be
configurable for the special service fee.
\- Charging principle
The following principles shall be supported according to different service
categories:
i) VAS-SMS triggered by sending party -- basic communication fee and special
service fee are paid by the sending party.
ii) VAS-SMS services triggered by recipient -- basic communication fee is paid
by the sending party, whilst special service fee is paid by the recipient.
**iii) Charging only happens after** the status report has been received by
the SMSC.
\- Charging Scheme
The VAS-SMS shall support a standardized interface to transfer CDRs and other
charging related information between the VAS-SMS and the billing system for
prepaid and post-paid billing solutions.
# 8 Security
Security of the VAS-SMS services shall be consistent with basic SMS service.
The user shall be able to use and access the VAS-SMS services in a secure
manner.
VAS-SMS should support Lawful Interception as required by Regional
Regulations.
# 9 Interworking
Interworking with existing messaging technologies and messaging services
should be supported.
The VAS-SMS should be able to send the content of an SM to a reachable
address, for example:
i) To send an email to email severs after converting the SM into an email.
ii) To send a WAP message to a WAP Push Gateway after converting the SM into a
WAP message.
**iii)** To send an SM to a subscriber by sending an SM to SMSC.
iv) To send an SM via IMS. Refer to [5].
**v)** To send a delivery report .
# 10 Roaming
General roaming requirements should be compliant with roaming function of SMS.
The user should be able to experience the consistent VAS-SMS services whether
in home network or roaming.
#