# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Void
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] OMA-RD-DRM \" OMA DRM Requirements\" (Open Mobile Alliance) [Available at
http://www.openmobilealliance.org/release_program/index.html]
# 3 Void
# 4 Digital Rights Management Model
The text in this specification has been removed. DRM specifications are
elaborated in the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) according to an agreement between
3GPP and OMA.
For DRM Service and System Aspects OMA-RD-DRM is referenced [1].
# 5 to10 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#