# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Traditionally a single integrated device with integrated radio access means
formed the User Equipment (UE) for access to mobile communication services.
Now, however, many subscribers possess more than one device for running mobile
communication services, which may be connected to form a Personal Network
(PN). The devices differ in their capabilities and these capabilities qualify
the devices more or less for specific end-to-end applications or particular
media like audio, video and pictures. A part of the devices offers own network
access means for accessing the PLMN via UTRA, WLAN, or other access
technologies. The other devices are Terminal Equipments without radio access
capabilities.
Personal Network Management (PNM) allows the users to manage their devices and
PN\'s. This TS specifies requirements for allowing the users to manage their
devices. The considered management functions of Personal Network Management
comprise the setup and configuration of Personal Networks, the personalization
for the termination of services within the Personal Network as well as the
enabling of secure connections between the Personal Network Elements. This
includes the management of Personal Area Networks with their local device
connections and their available radio access means.
Two different scenarios are distinguished for Personal Network Management:
1 Personal UE Networks: This addresses the management of multiple UEs
belonging to a single PN-User. It contains the UE Redirecting application that
provides for redirect terminating services to selected UEs and PN Access
Control that provide for privacy and enable restricted access to a PN.
2 PNE Networks: This extends the scope of considered managed objects from UEs
to physically separated UE components and to attached MEs. It does not only
extend the PN UE Redirecting application and PN Access Control by PAN-specific
aspects but addresses the PAN Management with interactions of TEs and MEs.
Note: Functional requirements for PNE Networks are for further studies.
These two scenarios are handled separately within the TS as the requirements
of Personal UE Networks and PNE Networks are focussed on different types of
services. Personal UE Networks aim at an easy-to-use UE management whereas PNE
Networks enable complex scenarios of local networks with alternative network
access means.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the service requirements for the Personal
Network Management (PNM). Aspects of data synchronisation and management of
user data are out of scope.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Service aspects; Services and service capabilities\".
[4] 3GPP TR 22.944: \"Report on service requirements for UE functionality
split\".
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 23.101: \"General Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
(UMTS) architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem\"..
[10] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.279: \"Combining Circuit Switched (CS) and IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS) services\".
[12] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [12] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[12].
**Personal Network:** A Personal Network (PN), in the context of Personal
Network Management, consists of more than one Personal Network Element under
the control of one PN-User providing access to the serving PLMNs. There shall
be at least one Personal Network Element with a USIM subscription in a PN.
Authentication of the user for each PLMN access is based on the USIM(s) of the
PN. The Personal Network Elements are managed in a way that the user perceives
a continuous secure connection regardless of their relative locations. The
Personal Network Elements belonging to the PN-User's PN maybe registered to
different PLMNs at a time. The PN-User controls the PN using facilities
provided by the Personal Network Management (PNM).
**Personal Network Element:** A Personal Network Element (PNE) is the basic
component making up a PN-User's Personal Network. A Personal Network Element
is handled as a single entity in PNM but physically it may be either a single
device or a group of devices. The Personal Network Element may be a TE, MT, ME
or even a complete UE.
**Personal Area Network:** A Personal Area Network (PAN) is a local network of
the PN-User. In the context of Personal Network Management, the PAN consists
of at least one UE and may additionally comprise a number of MEs/MTs, with own
radio access means that allow them to directly access the PLMN of the UE. The
UE and locally connected additional MEs/MTs are the PNEs of the PAN.
Alternatively the UE components, i.e TEs and MT, may be handled as separate
PNEs. The UE contains the single active USIM of the PAN.
**PNE Identifier** : The PNE Identifier uniquely identifies each PNE of a PN
within the PN. The PNE Identifier of MTs and MEs is the IMEI. Other PNEs have
PNM-specific identifiers that are allocated for enabling PNM functions.
**PN-User:** For the purpose of Personal Network Management the PN-User is the
person who owns the Personal Network Elements with respective subscriptions at
one service provider.
**Registration:** In the context of Personal Network Management registration
is the procedure by which a particular entity is either added to the Personal
Network or to the Personal Area Network. Entities are physically separated
devices or groups of devices. The entity stays registered till deregistration
of the entity is performed. The status of registration to a Personal Network
or Personal Area Network is not affected by the status of
registration/attachment to the PLMN.
**Configuration:** In the context of Personal Network Management Configuration
contains the procedure by which a PN-User can configure the PN settings for
the PN UE and the PN Access Control applications.
**Interrogation:** In the context of Personal Network Management Interrogation
is the procedure by which a PN-User can interrogate the PN settings which are
configured by the PN-User before.
For further definitions see [12].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations given in
TR 21.905 [12] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in TR 21.905 [12].
PNM Personal Network Management
PN Personal Network
PAN Personal Area Network
PNE Personal Network Element
# 4 Personal UE networks
## 4.1 General description
Personal UE Network features enable the management of multiple UEs belonging
to a single PN-User. In particular, customer needs who own more than one
terminal and subscription are addressed, e.g. ordinary handset for telephony,
car phone, PDA for emails when on the move, data card with laptop for work
when in semi-stationary mode. Although those devices are mainly held for a
particular usage, many are able to support more than one sort of services,
e.g. telephony is supported by all but the data card. Personal UE Networks are
not aware of the presence of other PNEs belonging to a user.
Functionality enabled by Personal UE Networks comprises PN UE redirection and
PN Access Control.
Registration, configuration and interrogation procedures for PNM are supported
via IMS capable PN UEs, via a web client or by administrative procedures.
## 4.2 PN UE Redirecting application
Customers may not carry always their full set of \"gadgets\", but still want
to be reachable. Currently management of all the terminals for the PN-User by
setting forwarding options, switch on and off terminals, providing partners
with multiple addresses is not very customer friendly.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.8944444444444444in"}
Fig 1: UEs managed by PN e.g. UE Redirecting application
### 4.2.1 Requirements for PN UE redirecting application
\- PNM shall be provided to a subscription upon customers request via
administrative procedures.
\- PNM shall be withdrawn upon customer request or for administrative reasons
via administrative procedures.
\- The PN-Users shall be able to register and deregister UEs to their PN.
\- Successful registration shall add the UE as new Personal Network Element to
the Personal Network. The information on the UE and the public user identities
belonging to the UE shall be written to the service profile in the network. A
deregistration procedure shall be performed to remove a registered UE from the
Personal Network.
\- Each UE shall only be registered in one PN and the network shall reject the
registration request of a UE that is already registered in another PN.
\- The PN-Users shall be able to \"activate\" a certain UE of their PN as the
default UE for terminating services addressed to any of the UEs belonging to
the PN. Activation shall be possible
\- On a global level for all services supported by the UE capabilities and
subscription
\- On a per service basis for selected services supported by the UE
capabilities and subscription
\- On a per service component basis for the different media of a supported
service (in line with [9])
\- The PN-Users shall be able to configure priorities of a UEs list with
priority for terminating a specific service.
\- Note: the priority may be based on parameters such as time, device
capability and PN-User choice.
\- The PN-User shall be able to interrogate the PNM network database for the
current PN-User settings of their own PN.
\- The registration and configuration procedures shall include a validation
and update of identities and capabilities associated with the UE. For this
reason, registration and activation of a UE shall only be done for UEs that
are currently attached/registered to the network. The UE shall send a
registration/activation request to the network. Registration and activation
may be also provided via administrative procedures.
\- The UE or the network shall deny activation as default UE for terminating a
particular service or service component, in case the UE does not provide the
capability or the subscription to terminate the service.
\- Deactivation and deregistration should not always require the involvement
of the UE affected by the setting. However the network shall only process
deactivation and deregistration requests from UEs belonging to the same PN.
\- A UE performing activations shall have the capability to perform the
deactivations for these settings.
\- For terminating services without an activated UE, the services shall not be
redirected but shall be terminated by the addressed target UE. Information
shall be offered to the PN-User when the only active device for terminating a
service is deactivated.
\- In case more than one device is activated for a terminating service, e.g.
IMS devices with the same Public User Identity, the service should be directed
to all devices that are currently reachable for the network (PS attached or
IMS registered). It shall be possible to make the PN-User aware on charging
implications caused by activation of more than one UE for directing of the
same service.
\- If activations are configured for one or more media types of a service then
the overall service directing setting shall be overwritten for directing these
service components.
\- A new activation overrides the previous activation status when successful.
\- Deregistration of active UEs shall comprise the global deactivation of the
UEs.
\- It shall be possible to allow two sets of activation settings. One set is
always present and contains the default configuration. On a temporary basis, a
second set of activation settings is configured. The temporary activations
shall provide a means for saving and restoring current activation settings.
While temporary activations are switched on, these settings shall override the
non-temporary configuration.
\- The network shall assume that the non-temporary settings are still valid
after fallback from temporary to non-temporary activation settings. For this
reason, it shall be possible for the UE to access and change temporary as well
as non-temporary settings.
\- If capabilities or subscriptions of an active UE change and activated
services are no longer supported by the UE, e.g. TEs providing these
capabilities are removed, then the UE shall deactivate the affected services
and offer appropriate information to the user and the PN service.
\- It shall be possible for a UE to offer capability lists to the PNM service,
where the capability list contains the capabilities that the UE is capable of
terminating or is interested in receiving updates regarding them.
\- It shall be possible for UEs of the PN to update PN configuration after an
attachment/registration of the UE to the network.
\- PNM settings may comprise current UE capabilities and redirection settings
of a PN. The PNM service shall update the PNM settings to the UEs, selectively
based on their respective capability lists, when other UE capabilities of the
PN change.
\- Means shall be provided to enable redirection to a particular UE for
dealing with situations where UEs share the same Public User Identity.
\- Terminating services shall only be redirected if the redirection does not
cause systematic misbehaviour of user devices or the network (e.g. SMS is one
service where redirection shall not be applied if any over-the-air management
of the target UE would be prevented.)
\- The PNM service shall interwork with CS-Domain call forwarding [8] and IMS
session redirecting [9] in a way that no collisions of contradicting
redirections occur in the network and the redirection of data remains
transparent for the user. The considered interworking scenarios shall include
the redirection of IP Multimedia sessions caused by any of the listed events
or conditions [9].
\- The UE Redirecting application shall be applicable to terminating services
in the CS-domain and IMS subsystem.
\- Originating services shall not be affected by the default settings.
\- The services that are made available for redirection shall be consistent
with existing service identifiers, e.g. IMS communication service identifier
[10], or service grouping, e.g. basic service groups [1].
\- Redirection of terminating services and service media shall be done for
only public user identities and addresses belonging to a UE of the PN.
\- The PN-User shall be able to exclude specific public user identities and
addresses of the PN from data redirection.
Note: In the above requirements, registration means the registration of UE and
of its public identities to the PN. The registration procedures of the UE to
the PLMN remain unaffected.
### 4.2.2 Usability requirements forPN UE redirection application
The following PNM procedures shall be at least available via one of the UEs
belonging to the actual PN of the PN-User and shall be realized in a user
friendly and secure manner:
\- Registration of a UE
\- Deregistration of a UE
\- Activation of a UE for a specific service or service component
\- Global activation of a UE for all services, as far as supported
\- Setting up of capability lists as requested by a user
\- Interrogation of PNM database
### 4.2.3 Security for PN UE redirection application
\- Registration of UEs to a PN shall require the consent of the subscriber by
appropriate means, e.g. an \'\'invite\" function, preventing
intended/unintended access by unauthorized UEs.
### 4.2.4 Charging for PN UE redirection application
\- All charges for terminating services shall be levied to the \"active\" UEs,
even when originally addressed to another UE belonging to the PN.
\- It shall be possible to raise registration/deregistration and
activation/deactivation fees.
### 4.2.5 Interaction with supplementary services
\- For terminating services invocation of Supplementary Services applicable to
the active UE shall take precedence over invocation of Supplementary Service
applicable to the called UE.
\- There is no impact on the registration, erasure, activation, deactivation
of Supplementary Services.
## 4.3 PN access control
\- Private networks may consist of UEs which are only privately accessed, that
is each UE may be accessed only by other UEs of the PN. The PN-User may
additionally modify the access levels of each UE of the PN to be public or
private.
\- In order to allow external UEs or Guest UEs to access these UEs, the PNM
provides access control procedures. The PNM shall provide registration and
authentication mechanisms for guest device access.
Note 1: Authentication refers to verifying the registration status of a
certain guest UE by the PNM.
Note 2: It is assumed that guest UE access to a UE in a PN is routed via the
PLMN Network. In particular control of access to a UE via local interfaces is
outside the scope of this specification.
### 4.3.1 Requirements for PN access control
\- The PN-User may register up to \ UEs to be private to the PN, whereby
public access to these devices may be restricted.
\- The PN-User is able to register up to \ UE public identities not owned
by him as registered callers that are allowed to initiate sessions with the
private UEs of the PN, and these UEs containing these registered public
identities are referred to as Guest UEs.
\- The PN-User may nominate a UE as the default UE for access control. This UE
shall have the access rights to register/deregister private UEs and guest UEs.
\- The registration of Guest UE may be performed by the default UE for access
control and enabled dynamically (querying during session initiation procedures
using public identity of caller) or statically (using PN specific database) by
PNM procedures.
\- In case the user has another UE in the PN as the default UE for
redirection, then the querying shall be directed to the default UE for
redirection.
### 4.3.2 Usability requirements for PN access control
\- Registration of a Guest UE
\- Deregistration of a Guest UE
\- PN access level settings for a particular UE of the PN to be public /
private
\- PN Access control settings are stored at PNM database, for a particular
Guest UE e.g unlimited access of PN by close friends, limited access by
acquaintances.
Note: In the above requirements, public identity may be substituted in place
of UE. Example, either a public identity or a UE may be registered into a PN.
### 4.3.3 Security for PN access control
\- PN access control settings refer to the PN-User providing different access
control settings of his PN for different Guest UEs / Public Identity.
### 4.3.4 Charging for PN access control
Note: Currently no additional charging issues have been identified, but this
topic may be studied further.
# 5 PNE networks
For further study.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use cases
Note: Some uses cases cover functionality of PNE networks. Functional
requirements for PNE Networks are for further studies.
# A.1 Use case: Connection between PNEs of a PN
PNM allows the communication between a PNE and PNEs of other UEs/PANs
belonging to the same PN. For this purpose it shall be possible to establish a
secure link between the PNEs of a PN. This is enabled by establishing secure
links among locally connected devices of a PAN. In the example in figure 4 the
PNEs have established a secure link. Through this secure link, a user is able
to gain access from the ME in UE1 to the TE in UE2 at home and monitor the
heating or burglar alarm system while away from home, therefore enabling the
ME to be the active PNE for termination of the alarm service remotely. Figure
5 explains the secure PNE-PNE communications.
The TE in UE2 has an own PNE Identifier that allows the ME in UE1 to identify
and to directly communicate with the TE.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.283333333333333in"}
Figure 4: Use case for connection between the devices of a PN
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="3.4069444444444446in"}
Figure 5: Connection between the PNEs
# A.2 Use case of UE-PN connection
Personal UE Networks security requirements state that registration of a PNE to
a PN requires the consent of the owner of the USIM associated with the PLMN.
The description here concerns access of a Personal Network by a PNE external
to that Personal Network. In the case of user A wishing to allow PNE B to
register into his PN as a Guest UE, the user controls access to his PN, in
other words PNM protects the privacy of A's PN. For example in figure 6, PNE B
(ME) may only be allowed to access TE A1 and this is controlled by the user,
and enabled by procedures. PNE B may access A's PN by appropriate means, e.g.
an \"invite function\".
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="2.957638888888889in"}
Figure 6: Use case for UE-PN connection
# A.2a PN Access control: Parental control
Alice has subscribed to PNM private network service. She has two UEs with her
in the PN -- UE 1a and UE 1b. She decides to give UE 1b to her son Bob. Bob is
still a young kid and Alice worries about him getting calls from strangers. So
she registers her UE (UE 1a) as default UE for access control. She then
creates an access list that contains a list of registered callers (Guest UEs).
Any calls from the registered callers (e.g. UE 3) or Guests are allowed to go
through to the private UE (Bob\'s UE) directly. In case of unregistered
callers (e.g. UE 2), the PN AS rejects the call directly or the PN Server
queries Alice (UE 1a) whether the call can be continued. Alice can respond by
allowing or disallowing (cancelling) the call. In addition, she may register
the unregistered caller dynamically (on the fly) during session initiation
procedures itself.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="4.409027777777778in"}
Figure 16: Use case for PN Access Control
# A.3 Use case of PN-User access a PLMN from their PNEs
Figure 7 shows a use case where a user terminates a video service with a PNEs,
which is part of a PAN of the PN-User. In this use case the user has multiple
PNEs. It is assumed that the required PNE can communicate with the PNE
containing the USIM through PAN internal communication means when they are in
close proximity. After authentication of the PNEs by the PLMN through the PNE
holding the (U)SIM, the user can access the video service. The PNM has the
capability to manage the UE components as a user's PAN. It shall have a
binding table between the PNE holding the (U)SIMand the other PAN PNEs which
includes their identities and addresses.
Figure 8 shows a use case where a user utilizes a video service through PNEs
that have their own network access means and thus a direct access means to a
PNM. PNEs attached to a UE don't have their own USIM and may or may not have
their own access means. The PNE holding the (U)SIM can authenticate these
other PNEs to the PLMN when these PNEsare in close proximity to the UE. After
authentication of the PNEs, the user can access the video service directly via
the attached PNEs, with no help from the PNE holding the (U)SIM. Again, the
PNM of a PLMN has the capability to manage more than one PNE under a PAN. As
long as the PNEs are connected to the PNE holding the U(SIM) it shall be
possible to keep the data communication channels through established access
network means of the MEs themselves. If an PNE disassociates from the PNE
holding the U(SIM), the data communication channels of the PAN PNE should be
terminated immediately.
Figure 9 shows a use case where a user receives a video service through PNEs
which are directly connected to another access system (i.e, External IP
network with a commercial relationship with the PNM service provider). When
many packets (e.g. for a higher resolution or frame rate) are sent to a user
for Video Service, the user may want to receive them directly through a more
suitable PNE and access system. If the specific PNE has its own network
connection, not via UE, the user can request the PNM to get a new data path
via its own network connection e.g. Internet. In this case, the specific PNE
must be authenticated and authorized by using the PNE holding the (USIM)
(i.e., a single USIM authority is shared by all the PNEs of the PAN) and the
session is controlled by UE. The user can receive the video service through
the PNE after the PNM establishes a new data path via the external IP network
for Video Service. If the user wants to disconnect the new data path, which is
already connected to a PNE, he/she can also request the release of new data
path through PNM. The new data path of the PNE will be terminated immediately.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="2.0597222222222222in"}
* * *
Figure 7: Single network connection through PNE holding the (U)SIM of PAN
Figure 8: Multiple network connections through 3GPP access systems
* * *
Figure 9: Multiple network connections through other access system
Note: If the access system is a non-3GPP network, there must be a commercial
relationship between the HPLMN and the non-3GPP access system.
# A.4 Use case for connection between guest UE and PN
The Guest UE is registered into the PN after authentication mechanisms. This
use case describes an example where the Guest UE belongs to a different
service provider. Once registered into the PN, the Guest UE is allowed to
access the PN, based on access control procedures set by the PN user for the
particular Guest UE. For example, in fig 10 given below, the Guest UE is
allowed to access the video service that the PN of the PNE holding the (U)SIM
offers. That is the Guest UE is chosen for the termination of the specific
service of video that the PN offers, The PNM facilitates this by secure
authentication, registration and routing of the Guest UE.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.4715277777777778in"}
Figure 10: Guest UE registered in PN
# A.5 Use case on UE redirection of terminating services
A user owns two phones, a PDA, and a notebook. All devices have radio access
means to the 3GPP System. Phones and PDA support UTRAN. The notebook allows
access via WLAN. The user has subscribed the PNM PN UE redirection and
registered all devices in the Personal Network.
In a possible scenario the user is on an airport and must wait for a delayed
plane. The user carries the notebook and one of the phones with her/him. The
other two devices are left at home. Usually the user does not use the notebook
for accessing 3GPP services. However, an Interworked WLAN access network may
exist at the airport. Via the WLAN hotspot the user is able to establish a
connection to the PLMN. To shorten the waiting time the user wants to utilize
the WLAN hotspot for enjoying subscribed 3GPP multimedia services via the
notebook. The services are configured for the termination at PDA and phones.
The user needs a convenient solution to enable a temporary termination of the
services with the notebook in order to benefit from the available advanced
multimedia processing capabilities of the notebook and the high speed data
access. Depending on the services the user would have to reconfigure either
the services or the devices. In case of device reconfiguration a forwarding
function would have to be set up at the phones and the PDA for directing
services to the notebook. This is not only inconvenient but currently not
feasible for the user as a part of the devices is left at home. Furthermore
different redirecting settings would be required for CS and IMS. In praxis the
complicated manual handling would hamper the flexible use of the available
devices. Instead the user wants to switch on the notebook and press a button
to activate the notebook for the service termination either temporarily or
permanently. Depending on the user preferences the user interface may also
offer to activate a specific subscribed service, like a multimedia news
service. Beside of the minimized manual interaction the handling would be more
natural. When the user wants to do something with a particular device the user
does not expect the necessity to configure other entities. After finishing the
usage of the multimedia services the user presses the deactivation button to
stop a temporary activation. In non-temporary cases the activations are
changed by activating one or more other devices at a later point in time. For
instance, back at home the user may prefer to use the PDA for receiving the
multimedia news. After switch-on the user simply presses the activation
software button on the PDA to either receive the news exclusively or
simultaneously on the PDA.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.4208333333333334in"}
Figure 11: Activation of UE 2 for directing service termination to UE 2
# A.6 Use case on PNE redirection of terminating services
An advanced user does not only possess a number of different devices with 3GPP
access for various purposes like a multimedia phone with advanced camera and
music capabilities, a car phone with car specific features, or a smart phone
with messaging and internet. The advanced user is interested in local
connectivity between these devices and with other owned devices like a PDA and
notebook. For instance, a user may be on a business tour with the car. The car
has an in-built car phone. The user wants to utilize the 3GPP access of the
car phone in order to terminate network services with the notebook. For this
purpose the user sets up a local network between notebook and car phone. In
this scenario the car phone provides the MT capabilities and the notebook acts
as TE of the UE. With the PN UE redirection the user would only be able to
redirect terminating services to the car UE. The TE device would not be known
and visible to the PLMN routing. The user would have to configure the local
network to achieve the proper forwarding and processing within the local
network. Instead of complicated manual settings the user wants a simple
natural method as provided by the PN UE Redirecting application. The user
starts the notebook. Automatically the car phone is detected and a local
connection with the car phone is established. Afterwards the user presses a
software button for terminating all or selected services on the notebook. This
should work independently of the radio access means available for the access
to the 3GPP system. For example the notebook may have own radio access means.
After activation of the notebook for service termination the radio access
means do not matter. Independent of the radio access technology and possibly
simultaneous connections to the 3GPP system the chosen services are always
directed to the notebook.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.053472222222222in"}
Figure 12: Activating a particular device of a UE or PAN for service
termination
# A.7 Use case: Selective update based on capability lists
Alice has a home PAN or UE where her video device (sink) has been registered
as a PNE at the PNM. Alice is traveling to her office, and has registered her
UE to the PN. For all video services she has chosen her video device as the
terminating device, where it can be recorded for future viewing. She has also
requested the PN service to update her on PN settings based on the service she
is interested in (video devices, audio devices, printing devices, other
services). For some reason, her video device (TE) becomes unavailable (Eg:
power goes down or switched off by somebody else or network down.etc). The
home PAN or UE deactivates this video device (TE) and makes the PN service
aware of this deactivation. The PN service then lets Alice know of this event
based on the capability list she has chosen.
As an effect, Alice after receiving this update may change her video
terminating settings to her own UE.
# A.8 Use case: Combination of two PANs
Figure 13 and Figure 14 describe the PNM functionality on combination of two
PANs. When PAN1 and PAN2 are physically close to each other, the user may hope
to combine them into one PAN and designate UE1 as the new PAN's UE. The PNM
needs to deactivate UE2 and update relative registration information (binding
tables and addresses) of UE1 and PNEs in PAN2. The PNEs in PAN2 (ME2 and TE2)
may keep or change the original network positions, i.e. the connection to UE2
or UE1 (described as case 1 and case 2). After the combination UE2 and ME2
need to be authorized through UE1 to get access for any new service, and then
they can access those services directly.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.7895833333333333in"}
Figure 13: Combination of two PANs (case 1)
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.7895833333333333in"}
Figure 14: Combination of two PANs (case 2)
# A.9 Use case: Separation of PAN
Figure 15 describes the PNM functionality on separation of PAN. It's very
likely to happen that some devices in a PAN move far away and almost out of
control, or even they are not so far away but the user wants to separate them
into two PANs. In this use case the user want to separate ME2, TE2 and ME3
from the PAN and to form a new PAN (PAN2). The PNM shall designate a UE for
PAN2, i.e. activate a ME (ME3) who contains a USIM. The PN shall update
registration information of ME3 (UE2), ME2, TE2 and UE1 due to the changes of
network positions. And the PNEs in PAN2 including UE2 need to get authorized
through the USIM on UE2 for new services provided by PLMN.
{width="5.605555555555555in" height="3.1756944444444444in"}
Figure 15: Separation of PAN
#