# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In today\'s world there are many different types of messaging services
available both in the wired and wireless worlds. Some messaging services are
supported in both environments; others are only to be found in one. The
expectations of the services differ in that some are designed to be used in
what is perceived as \'real\' time, whereas others are designed as a
\'mailbox\' service where the message is stored ready for collection or
delivery at a later stage.
The 3GPP Technical Report TR22.940 identifies the issues and needs surrounding
messaging solutions related to the 3GPP IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) taking
into consideration use cases that illustrate the needs of both service
providers and users. This Technical Specification takes the Technical Report
into account when defining the requirements for the support of IMS Messaging.
IMS Messaging services incorporates one or more of the following messaging
types Immediate messaging and Session based messaging. With Immediate
messaging the sender expects immediate message delivery in what is perceived
as real time. With Session based messaging a communications association is
established between two or more users before communication can take place. In
the simplest form Session based messaging maybe a direct communication between
two users. This specification defines the requirements for both the Immediate
message type and the Session based message type.
The specification provides the ability to develop interoperable messaging
services that use Immediate and/or Session based message types.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage one description of the IMS Messaging
services. Stage one is an overall service description and defines service
requirements, primarily from the subscriber\'s and service providers\' points
of view, and does not deal with the details of the human interface itself.
The present TS includes information applicable to network operators, service
providers and terminal, switch and database manufacturers.
The present TS contains the requirements for IMS Messaging services, which are
sufficient to provide a complete service. The messaging types identified in
this document are: immediate messaging and session based messaging.
It is highly desirable that technical solutions for IMS Messaging services
should be sufficiently flexible to allow for possible enhancements. Additional
functionalities not documented in this 3GPP TS may implement requirements
which are considered outside the scope of this 3GPP TS. Such additional
functionality shall not compromise conformance to the core requirements of the
service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] 3GPP TS 22.250: 3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Stage 1, IMS Group Management
[3] RFC 2486: \"The Network Access Identifier\"
[4] 3GPP TS 21.133; 3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security Threats
and Requirements
[5] 3GPP TS 26.140; 3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Multimedia Messaging Service
(MMS); Media formats and codecs
[6] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"End-to-end transparent streaming Service (PSS);
Protocols and Codecs\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.228; 3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service requirements for the
Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia core network subsystem; Stage 1
[8] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)";
[9] 3GPP TS 26.245: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); Timed text format".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Immediate messaging** : A type of IMS Messaging service by which the sender
expects immediate message delivery in (near) real time fashion
**IMS Messaging services:** A group of services, supported by capabilities of
the 3GPP IP Multimedia Subsystem 3GPP TS 22.228 [7], that allows an IMS user
to send and receive messages to other users. IMS messaging services comprise
of one or more types: Immediate messaging and Session based messaging.
**Session based messaging** : A type of IMS Messaging service by which the
sender expects immediate message delivery in (near) real time fashion . In
addition the sender(s) and the receiver(s) have to join to a messaging session
e.g. chat room, before message exchange can take place
## 3.2 Abbreviations
IP Internet Protocol
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
# 4 Informative description of messaging services in the IMS
As 3GPP has developed the concept of IMS it is thought useful to consider how
a SIP based IP network can be utilised to provide messaging capabilities. One
of the chief characteristics of SIP is its ability to rapidly and efficiently
create real-time sessions between groups of users. It therefore appears that
SIP based messaging would be a potential candidate to provide the equivalent
of "Chat Room" and "Instant Messaging" (IM) type services found on the
Internet today. Typical characteristics instant messaging are instant delivery
of the messages to the targeted recipient(s) and interaction with presence
information where users are able to see who is on-line as well as their
status.
A chat room is a \"place\" where multiple persons can join, follow and
contribute to the ongoing discussion and leave the \"room\" at any time. Chat
rooms are more permanent in nature when compared to IM exchanges and may be
created by users or service providers. Additionally, chat rooms can be further
divided to the private and public chat rooms. Normally, users who are
participating in chat room will receive all the messages that are sent by the
other participants. Similarly, the users are also able to send private
messages to the chat room or even privately to some participant.
Unfortunately, the most popular internet based instant messaging services are
usually based upon closed and proprietary protocols which has made it
impossible for different service providers to allow interoperable messaging
between their respective users. Additionally, internet based services do not
take into consideration the wireless environment and the needs of operators to
provide services that are commercially viable by for example, providing
support for charging. This technical specification will further elaborate the
essential messaging characteristic of these services and state how they may be
enhanced, e.g. operators may be able to create and then advertise chat rooms
containing specific content where users who join the room may be charged an
\'entrance\' fee,
Figure 1. Example IMS Messaging service: Chat room
# 5 Informative description of messaging types
Messaging can be divided to two different main classes based on the
expectation of the sender. The sender either expects the message to be
delivered immediately or he does not care so much whether the message is
delivered immediately or later.
The immediate case can be further divided to two different sub-classes based
on the actions required form the user before he can engage in a communication.
The user can both send and receive messages without any prior actions or he
may be required to join to a messaging session before the message exchange can
take place.
The messaging types considered in this specification are
\- **Immediate messaging** :
> Typically, sender is aware of the availability of the recipient(s) (possibly
> through the use of the Presence service) before sending this type of message
> as, if the recipient is not available, the message may be discarded or
> deferred. An immediate message may be deferred by the recipient\'s network
> based on the message filtering settings defined by the recipient or by the
> recipient\'s IMS service provider.
\- **Session based messaging** :
> The sender and recipient expect near real time message delivery. Typically,
> recipients of the session based messaging that are not joined to a group or
> are not available will not receive the messages. Typically, a sender may
> send a message to all participants in the messaging session without
> addressing them individually.
# 6 Immediate messaging requirements
## 6.1 General requirements
Network operators have different network configuration and commercial
requirements. IMS Messaging shall be supported in a manner that meets the
operator\'s IMS requirements. Thus, an identified set of functionalities and
formats shall be standardized to ensure interoperability across networks and
terminals to support IMS Messaging.
The following general requirements shall be supported by Immediate messaging.
a) It shall be possible for the UE and the network to differentiate between
immediate messages from other messaging types.
b) Within the capabilities of networks and terminals, the user shall have a
consistent experience regardless of the access network e.g. 3GPP systems,
fixed networks, the Internet.
c) Immediate messaging shall support a minimum set of functionality for
message delivery, management and filtering to ensure interoperability between
different terminals and networks.
d) Immediate messaging shall be able to support the ability of the
recipient\'s network to take into account the recipient\'s terminal
capabilities. In addition, the originating network/terminal may also be able
to take into account recipient\'s terminal capabilities. Specifically the
recipient\'s terminal capabilities that may be taken into account at a minimum
include:
1) Display capabilities (including screen size, number of colours, number of
lines of text, etc);
2) Media content types supported (Audio, Video etc);
3) Media content formats supported (JPEG, GIF, etc);
4) Media Storage capacity;
5) Encryption/Security mechanisms supported
> The capabilities of the user\'s terminal may be reflected in the message
> filtering and corresponding actions as identified in clause 6.7.
e) Immediate messaging should be able to take into account the availability
and changes of the state of availability of the terminal. Immediate messaging
shall be able to make use of the Presence Service, if provided by the network.
f) It shall be possible to store in the ISIM a number of sets of configuration
information to allow access to Immediate messaging services. One of these sets
of configuration information is preset by the issuer of the ISIM. Such preset
configuration information set shall only be configurable by issuer of the
ISIM. The preset configuration information is selected unless otherwise
specified by the user. It shall be possible to retain the configuration
information when the UICC is used in different terminals.
g) It shall be possible to send and receive immediate messages without prior
establishing a messaging session.
h) It shall be possible for the network operator providing the Immediate
messaging service to choose, wherever possible, the most suitable transport
mechanism for carrying messages (e.g. signalling network, dedicated PDP
context, other access technologies and so on...) both for UE originated and UE
terminated messages.
i) It shall be possible for the network operator providing the Immediate
messaging service to choose, wherever possible, the parameters used (i.e. QoS)
both for UE originated and UE terminated messages.
## 6.2 Message content requirements
Following requirements are specific to content delivered with immediate
messaging.
> a) Content size shall not be limited by technology.
>
> b) It shall be possible to carry different media including text, images,
> video and audio within a single message. Media types shall be MIME encoded.
>
> c) Immediate messaging shall provide a minimum set of supported formats to
> ensure full interoperability between different terminals and networks (e.g.
> JPEG for pictures, AMR for speech, H.263 for video). The minimum set of
> supported formats shall be common to all IMS Messaging types. The minimum
> set of supported formats should be aligned with formats used in other 3GPP-
> defined services 3GPP TS 26.140 [5], 3GPP TS 26.234 [6].
>
> d) Content formats shall be defined so that interworking with 3GPP and
> Internet messaging solutions is facilitated.
e) It shall be possible to compose message of either a single medium (e.g.
voice) or multi-media (e.g. voice and video). The IMS Messaging service shall
be able to support a request for media sequencing.
## 6.3 Management requirements
The following management requirements shall be supported.
a) The IMS service provider shall be able to enable/disable message delivery
and submission.
b) Immediate messaging shall be able to support a request from the user to
enable/disable message delivery.
c) Immediate messaging shall be able to support the user to manage his user
service profile related to Immediate messaging (e.g. customize his messaging
environment within the capabilities of the terminal, network and messaging
application). This could be unconditional or conditional e.g. depending on
roaming conditions or operator restrictions.
d) Immediate messaging shall allow an IMS service provider to configure
Immediate messaging environment e.g. in such a way that submitted and/or
incoming Immediate messages of a particular user are stored in a network based
repository.
## 6.4 Message delivery requirements
Following requirements define the message delivery.
a) Message delivery shall be immediate i.e. messages are transported by the
IMS system to the recipient\'s terminal (without notifications) subject to
message filtering settings defined by the recipient or by the recipient\'s IMS
service provider.
b) Messages shall not be stored by the network. If supported by the
recipient\'s network as an application option messages may be stored in the
recipients network.
c) It shall be possible for the sender to receive delivery acknowledgements
(success/failure) for sent messages.
## 6.5 Storage requirements
The following storage requirements shall be supported.
a) It shall be possible for a sender to request to persistently store a sent
Immediate message in a network based repository at the time of sending if the
IMS service provider provides such application level service.
b) Immediate messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to
retrieve messages that are stored in a network based repository.
c) Immediate messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to
delete messages that are stored in a network based repository.
d) Immediate messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to
forward one or more messages that are stored in a network based repository to
another destination.
e) Immediate messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to view
the list of messages and message related attributes, such as sender,
recipient, subject and date/time, in a network based repository.
f) Immediate messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to
upload one or more Immediate messages into a network based repository for
persistent storage.
## 6.6 User privacy requirements
Following requirements define user privacy.
> a) It shall be possible for the recipient to see the public ID of the sender
> of the message unless the sender has requested to hide it.
>
> b) It shall be possible for the sender of the message to request to hide its
> public ID from the recipient (anonymous sender).\ The sender\'s public ID
> shall not be delivered to the recipient. The capability of public ID hiding
> is an IMS service provider and legislation issue and it may or may not be
> available. If the service is not available the message shall not be
> delivered to the recipient.
## 6.7 Message Filtering
It shall be possible for a subscriber to set up, modify, and delete filters in
the network of the subscriber\'s IMS service provider, in order to control the
treatment of a message by the network when an immediate message is received
when the subscriber is either unavailable or when the subscriber does not
currently want to receive messages. The filters shall also support the ability
of the subscriber to specify the maximum size and type of message content etc
that they are or are not willing to accept. The filters shall also support the
ability of the subscriber to block (and unblock) messages from specific
senders or anonymous senders.
Following specific requirements define the message filtering capabilities of
the recipient.
> a) It shall be possible to define specific message treatment based on
> following criteria
1) sender address (including anonymous senders);
> 2) message size;
3) message class (e.g. advertisement, private....);
4) message priority;
5) message content type (e.g. video, audio....);
6) message content format (e.g. mpeg, jpeg....);
7) message type (e.g. immediate message);
8) message subject;
9) availability of the recipient; and
10) additional criteria maybe possible but are outside the scope of this
document..
b) It shall be possible to specify the following message treatments in a
filter:
1) Block the delivery of the message content.
2) Store the message content and notify recipient.
3) Store the message content for a specific time or until the recipient
requests delivery.
4) Store and push the message content to recipient when available.
5) Redirect the message to another address.
6) Additional treatments maybe possible but are outside the scope of this
document.
The IMS service provider shall also be able to set and control the filter
settings either on behalf of the subscriber or based on policy.
# 7 Session based messaging requirements
## 7.1 General requirements
Network operators have different network configuration and commercial
requirements. IMS Messaging shall be supported in a manner that meets the
operator\'s IMS requirements. Thus, an identified set of functionalities and
formats shall be standardized to ensure interoperability across networks and
terminals to support IMS Messaging.
The following general requirements shall be supported.
a) There shall be a mechanism to differentiate session based messages from
other messaging types.
b) Within the capabilities of networks and terminals, the user shall have a
consistent experience regardless of the access network e.g. 3GPP systems,
fixed networks, the Internet.
c) Session based messaging shall support a minimum set of functionality to
ensure interoperability between different terminals and networks.
d) Session based messaging shall be able to take into account the capabilities
of the terminals participating in the messaging session. Specifically the
terminal capabilities that may be taken into account at a minimum include:
1) Display capabilities (including screen size, number of colours, number of
lines of text, etc);
2) Media content types supported (Audio, Video etc);
3) Media content formats supported (JPEG, GIF, etc);
4) Media Storage capacity;
5) Encryption/Security mechanisms supported
> The capabilities of the user\'s terminal may be reflected in the message
> filtering and corresponding actions as identified in clause 7.7.
e) It shall be possible to store in the ISIM a number of sets of configuration
information to allow access to IMS Messaging services. One of these sets of
configuration information is preset by the issuer of the ISIM. Such preset
configuration information set shall only be configurable by issuer of the
ISIM. The preset configuration information is selected unless otherwise
specified by the user. It shall be possible to retain the configuration
information when the UICC is used in different terminals.
f) It shall be possible for the subscribers to join to a session e.g. chat
room.
g) It shall be possible for the subscribers to leave a session e.g. chat room.
h) It shall be possible to send a message to all the participants of a
messaging session without specifying the individual participant\'s addresses
or using a message delivery list.
i) It shall be possible to invite new participants to the existing messaging
session.
1) The invitations shall be semi permanent i.e. it is not required that
invitee will act immediately.
2) It shall be possible to cancel the invitation by the inviter.
3) It shall be possible for the inviter to define the validity period of the
invitation.
4) It shall be possible for the invitee to see the originator of the
invitation unless the inviter has required hiding his public ID.
5) It shall be possible for the inviter to define the messaging session to
which the invitation is made.
6) It shall be possible for the invitee to identify the messaging session to
which he was invited.
j) It shall be possible for the recipient of the message to identify from
which messaging session the message came from (for both public and private
messages).
k) It shall be possible for the recipient to identify the sender (unless the
sender has required hiding its public ID) of the message in addition to the
messaging session from which the message came from.
l) It shall be possible for the sender to send a private message for a
selected recipient.
m) It shall be possible for the recipient to determine if the message was send
as a private message within a messaging session.
n) It shall be possible for the subscriber to request the message session
properties e.g. list of active members.
o) It shall be possible for the subscriber to automatically receive updates
containing the changes in message session properties e.g. change in the list
of active members.
p) It shall be possible to utilize IMS Group Management 3GPP TS 22.250 [2] as
appropriate.
q) It shall be possible for a subscriber in an IMS Messaging session to
request and to receive an indication of when user is entering a message ("Is
typing"). This request may apply to a specific user or users in the same
session. Subject to privacy requirements, the corresponding indications will
identify the persons who are entering a message.
r) It shall be possible for the network operator providing the IMS Messaging
service to choose, wherever possible, the most suitable transport mechanism
for carrying messages (e.g. signalling network, dedicated PDP context, other
access technologies and so on...)
s) It shall be possible for the network operator providing the IMS Messaging
service to choose, wherever possible, the parameters used (i.e. QoS)
t) The operator shall be able to enforce the use of the preferred transport
mechanism and parameters both for UE originated and UE terminated messages.
## 7.2 Message content requirements
Following requirements are specific to content delivered with session based
messaging.
> a) Content size shall not be limited by technology.
>
> b) It shall be possible to carry different media including text, images,
> video and audio. Media types shall be MIME encoded.
>
> c) Session based messaging shall provide a minimum set of supported formats
> to ensure full interoperability between different terminals and networks
> (e.g. JPEG for pictures, AMR for speech, H.263 for video). The minimum set
> of supported formats shall be common to all IMS Messaging types. The minimum
> set of supported formats should be aligned with formats used in other 3GPP-
> defined services 3GPP TS 26.140 [5], 3GPP TS 26.234 [6].
>
> d) Content formats shall be defined so that they enable interworking with
> 3GPP and Internet messaging solutions.
>
> e) It shall be possible to compose message of either a single medium (e.g.
> voice) or multi-media (e.g. voice and video). The IMS Messaging service
> shall be able to support a request for media sequencing.
## 7.3 Management requirements
The following management requirements shall be supported.
a) IMS Messaging shall be able to support a request from the IMS service
provider to enable/disable message delivery and submission.
b) IMS Messaging shall be able to support a request from the user to
enable/disable message delivery and submission.
c) IMS Messaging shall be able to support the user to manage his user service
profile related to IMS Messaging (e.g. customize his messaging environment
within the capabilities of the terminal, network and messaging application).
This could be unconditional or conditional e.g. depending on roaming
conditions or operator restrictions.
d) It shall be possible for IMS service provider to configure messaging
session environment e.g. in such a way that all incoming IMS Messages are
stored in a network based repository.
e) It shall be possible for an authorized user or an IMS service provider
enable session based messaging (e.g. create chat room) and thus become an
administrator of messaging session.
f) It shall be possible for the administrator of a messaging session to
control who is allowed to participate in the messaging session.
g) It shall be possible for the IMS service provider or administrator of a
messaging session to disable messaging session (e.g. close a chat room).
> h) It shall be possible for the administrator of the messaging session (to
> set properties related to the messaging session (e.g. the chat room name,
> topic, maximum number of active users).
## 7.4 Message delivery requirements
Following requirements define the message delivery.
a) Message delivery shall be immediate i.e. messages are transported by the
IMS system to the recipient\'s terminal (without notifications) subject to
message filtering settings defined by the recipient or by the recipient\'s IMS
service provider.
b) It shall be possible for the sender to receive delivery acknowledgements
(success/failure) for sent messages.
## 7.5 Storage requirements
Session Based Messaging shall support global storage of sessions (accessible
to all participants) and personal storage (accessible to the user who
requested the storage). For personal storage, all storage operations listed
below are applicable. In the case of global storage, users will be able to
list and retrieve messages, not delete messages or turn storage on or off.
The following storage requirements shall be supported.
a) It shall be possible for a participant to request to persistently store a
sent Session Based Message or all messages associated with a session in a
network based repository if the IMS service provider provides such application
level service.
b) IMS Messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to retrieve
one or more messages stored in a network based repository.
c) IMS Messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to delete one
or more messages or sessions that are stored in a network based repository.
d) IMS Messaging shall be able to support a request from a user to view the
list of messages and message related attributes, such as sender, recipient,
subject and date/time, in a network based repository.
## 7.6 User privacy requirements
Following requirements define user privacy.
> a) It shall be possible for the recipient to see the public ID of the sender
> of the message unless the sender has requested to hide it.
>
> b) It shall be possible for the sender of the message to request to hide its
> public ID from the recipient (anonymous sender).\ The sender\'s public ID
> shall not be delivered to the recipient. The capability of public ID hiding
> is an IMS service provider and legislation issue and it may or may not be
> available. If the service is not available the message shall not be
> delivered to the recipient.
>
> c) It shall be possible for the sender to use nickname when sending
> messages.\ In case of nickname the recipient shall only be able to see the
> nickname but not the real address from which the message came from. It shall
> be possible to use nicknames for public and private messages. It shall be
> possible for the recipient to reply to the message sent with a nickname.
>
> d) It shall be possible for a member of an IMS Messaging session to disable
> the reporting of the indication that they are entering a message ("Is
> Typing") on a per session basis. Further granularity levels for this
> requirement is for further study.
## 7.7 Message Filtering
It shall be possible for a subscriber to set up, modify, and delete filters in
the network of the subscriber\'s IMS service provider, in order to control the
treatment of a message by the network when a message is received. The filters
shall also support the ability of the subscriber to specify the maximum size
and type of message content etc that they are or are not willing to accept.
The filters shall also support the ability of the subscriber to block (and
unblock) messages from specific senders or anonymous senders.
Following specific requirements define the message filtering capabilities of
the recipient.
> a) It shall be possible to define specific message treatment based on
> following criteria
1) sender address (including anonymous senders);
> 2) message size;
3) message class (e.g. advertisement, private....);
4) message priority;
5) message content type (e.g. video, audio....);
6) message content format (e.g. mpeg, jpeg....);
7) message type (e.g. immediate message);
8) message subject; and
9) additional criteria maybe possible but are outside the scope of this
document.
b) It shall be possible to specify the following message treatments in a
filter:
1) Block the delivery of the message content.
2) Store the message content and notify recipient,
3) Store the message content for a specific time or until the recipient
requests delivery.
4) Store and push the message content to recipient when available.
5) Redirect the message to another address.
6) Additional treatments maybe possible but are outside the scope of this
document.
The IMS service provider shall also be able to set and control the filter
settings either on behalf of the subscriber or based on policy.
# 8 Addressing requirements
It shall be possible to use a single address to identify the recipient. The
single address shall be either a SIP URL, a network address identifier (NAI as
defined in RFC2486 [3]) or a MSISDN.
IMS Messaging shall be based on existing IMS address resolution and routing
mechanisms.
# 9 Security
The user shall be able to use IMS Messaging and access messages in a secure
manner. It shall be possible for the contents of messages to be read only by
the intended recipient(s). A recipient shall be informed of the reliability of
the identity of the sender in case the sender has authorised his identity to
be transmitted.
The integrity of messages during transit shall be assured to extent of the
network capabilities.
IMS Messaging shall be intrinsically resistant to attempts of malicious or
fraudulent use.
The \"Security Threats and Requirements\" specified in 3GPP TS 21.133 [4]
shall not be compromised.
# 10 Charging
Charging for IMS Messaging shall be based on existing IMS charging mechanisms
as appropriate.
IMS Messaging shall be able to support various charging models, including:
a) sender only pays;
b) both sender and recipient pay their respective charges for message
delivery; and
c) recipient pays.
IMS Messaging shall be able to support different charging approaches:
a) volume based charging;
b) QoS based charging;
c) service based charging;
d) number of messages sent and/or received; and
e) offline charging or/and online charging.
IMS Messaging shall be able to support various charging mechanisms. The
following charging characteristics may be considered:
a) message content type and length;\ Message content type should be declared
using a standardised declaration [the note may need to be moved to a different
section e.g. message filtering].
b) roaming conditions;
c) prepaid subscriptions;
d) time when the message is sent;
e) time when the message is delivered;\ [FFS, "delivered" could indicate
message stored, message read, message received by the terminal and so on...]
f) message origin and destination;
g) access network employed; and
h) the charging information shall describe the amount of data sent and
received to and from the external data network [Note: this is introduced to
take into account the network(s) transited by message].
# 11 Interworking
## 11.1 General
It should be possible for the IMS Messaging subscriber to send/receive
messages to/ from subscribers of 3GPP defined messaging services (SMS, EMS,
MMS). Optionally, it should be possible to send/receive messages to/from users
of fixed Internet messaging service (e.g. SMTP and SIMPLE based services).
## 11.2 Requirements for SMS-Immediate Messaging service-level interworking
These requirements shall be considered for SMS-Immediate Messaging service-
level interworking:
\- it shall be possible for a user to send an Immediate Message or an SMS
message to another user without having to know which messaging client the
receiving user has;
\- The user experience shall be consistent with the SMS and Immediate
Messaging service level expectations to as large an extent as possible. If the
recipient is not available and deferred messaging is offered then the message
shall be kept until delivery is possible or the message expires;
\- When interworking from an SMS message to an Immediate Message, the network
should deliver all content types in an SMS message to equivalent IMS content
types where they exist;
\- When interworking from an Immediate Message to an SMS message, the network
should deliver all content types in an Immediate Message to equivalent SMS
content types where they exist;
\- When interworking from an Immediate Message to an SMS message and a form of
anonymity has been requested by the sending party and the operator of the
interworking function cannot identify the sending party, subject to operator
policy, interworking shall be suppressed for that message. Subject to operator
policy and / or the ability to identify the sending party, the sending party
may be informed that the message could not be delivered.
\- When interworking from an Immediate Message to an SMS message, it shall be
possible for the sender of the Immediate message to request to hide its public
ID from the recipient (e.g. be an anonymous sender). In this case the
sender\'s public ID may not be delivered to the recipient subject to operator
policy.
\- Based on operator policy, it shall be possible for e.g., an SMS system or
data download message such as an over the air configuration message, to be
prevented from being interworked at a service level to an Immediate Message,
but to instead by transported as an SMS message via IMS, CS or PS;
\- If a user is registered to receive SMS service, then the SMS message should
be delivered as an SMS message via IMS, CS or PS transport instead of via
service-level interworking, subject to operator and user preferences;
\- If a user is registered to receive Immediate Messaging service, then the
Immediate Message should be delivered that way instead of via service-level
interworking, subject to operator and user preferences;
\- If an SMS user requests an SMS status report, then an SMS status report
should be generated when the message is delivered using Immediate Messaging;
\- If an IMS user requests a notification that the message was delivered to
the recipient, an SMS status report should be generated when the message is
delivered to the SMS user's client;
\- It shall be possible to generate the appropriate charging-related
information and provide the appropriate online charging mechanism (if it is
applied for the SMS and/or Immediate Messaging services) for the interworking
services.
#