# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 181 001 [4].
It was transferred to the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in May
2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
TISPAN NGN bases the provision of real-time communication services on the 3GPP
specified IMS. This is a flexible tool that can provide a wide range of
service interactions between terminals and networks. Videotelephony provides a
specific use of the generic capabilities of the IMS. The present document
provides requirements to investigate the capabilities of the IMS to provide
Videotelephony, and may be used for a \"gap analysis\" of the features and
capabilities provided by the IMS.
The specific services and interactions described in the present document are
based on other service specifications. The IMS is an inherently multimedia
service control platform, and should be able to provide all of these services.
The interactions between the user and the terminal and the terminal and the
network are not provided.
The services and capabilities provided by a TISPAN NGN are described in TS 181
005 [2].
The requirements for services, described in the present document, also take
account of the interactions required between interconnected networks - both
between NGN and the interconnection of NGN with legacy networks.
The aim of the present document is to assist network operators and service
providers to deploy NGN multimedia services.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the requirements for a videotelephony service
which may be supported by a TISPAN NGN. These requirements form the basis for
the definition of network capabilities.
The present document provides interoperability service requirements for
interconnection between existing networks and a TISPAN NGN, and between TISPAN
NGN.
The present document only provides requirements for IP multimedia based
networks. Services provided by a TISPAN NGN to support legacy terminals and
interfaces (PSTN/ISDN emulation) are defined in existing PSTN/ISDN documents.
Requirements for PSTN/ISDN emulation are out of scope of the present document
and are described in other documents.
The applicability of PSTN/ISDN simulation services to the videotelephony
service requirements are defined in the present document.
The requirements in the present document are described from the user point of
view. The requirements do not take into account capabilities of existing
protocols defined for the IMS. The evolution or modifications to these
protocols are beyond the scope of the present document.
NOTE: The present document uses the term \"NGN\" only in the context of
TISPAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ETSI TS 181 002: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Multimedia Telephony with
PSTN/ISDN simulation services\".
[2] ETSI TS 181 005: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Services and Capabilities
Requirements\".
[3] ETSI TR 180 000: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN Terminology\".
[4] ETSI TS 181 001 (V1.1.1): \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Videotelephony over
NGN; Stage 1 service description\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in TR 180 000 [3] apply:
  * originating party;
  * terminating party.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACR Anonymous Communication Rejection
AoC Advice of Charge
CB Communication session Barring
CCBS Communication Completion on Busy Subscriber
CDIV Communication DIVersion
CIF Common Intermediate Format
CONF CONFerence
CW Communication Waiting
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD communication HOLD
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Intergrated Services Digital Network
MCID Malicious Communication IDentification
MWI Message Waiting Indication
NGN Next Generation Network
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
PCM Pulse Coded Modulation
PIP PIcture and Picture
PSTN Public Swithched Telephone Network
QCIF Quarter Common Intermediate Format
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
SMS Short Message Service
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
# 4 Service description
Videotelephony is a real time conversational service using video media and
audio or other types of media. The service is assumed to be applicable only to
dedicated terminal equipment with video capabilities. The videotelephony
service may be considered as a specific instance of an IP multimedia service,
or as part of the Multimedia Telephony with PSTN/ISDN Simulation Services.
# 5 Procedures
## 5.1 General service requirements
The videotelephony service shall conform to the requirements in TS 181 005
[2], clause 5.2.1. In particular, the following capabilities described in TS
181 005 [2] shall be applicable to this service:
  * Handling of an incoming session (by the terminating entity).
  * Presentation of session originator identity.
  * Negotiation of an incoming session.
  * Accepting or rejecting an incoming session.
  * Handling of an ongoing session.
  * User modification of media in an ongoing session.
  * Presentation of identity of connected-to party of a session.
  * Ending a session.
  * Capability Negotiation.
  * Redirecting of IP Multimedia sessions.
  * Regulatory service requirements.
  * Lawful Intercept requirements.
  * Emergency service requirements.
NOTE: Emergency Service support for video may be limited.
  * Malicious Communication Identity service requirements (MCID).
  * Anonymous Communications Rejection service requirements (ACR).
## 5.2 Registration, provisioning, activation, invocation and withdrawal
The requirements for Registration/Log-out, provisioning, activation,
invocation and withdrawal shall be as described in TS 181 005 [2].
## 5.3 Charging and accounting
The requirements for charging and accounting shall be as described in TS 181
005 [2].
# 6 Quality of service requirements
## 6.1 General
The quality of service requirements shall be as described in TS 181 005 [2].
The following parameters may also be taken into account: Overall Delay, Delay
Variation, Differential Delay between sound and image, Sound Quality, Image
Quality, Echo Cancellation, Sensitivity to Packet Loss, etc.
## 6.2 Video quality
Four profiles are defined in table 1. Other enhancement or additional
functions may be added.
Table 1: Video quality profile
* * *
Profile Description A Basic Videotelephony: PCM or equivalent telephony audio,
QCIF or CIF video with limited movements capability. B Enhanced
Videotelephony: wideband audio, CIF video. The service should be usable for
sign language and lip-reading and should provide adequate representation of
the fluid movements of a person displayed in head and shoulders view. Facial
expressions shall be clearly recognized. C Television Broadcasting quality. D
High Definition Television quality.
* * *
## 6.3 Audio quality
Videotelephony does not place any additional requirements for audio quality.
# 7 Interworking considerations
## 7.1 General
An NGN shall support the interoperability of the videotelephony service with
non NGN network services and vice versa. This includes interworking the audio
component to the PSTN/ISDN and vice versa. The video component shall only be
interworked if video is supported in the non NGN network.
The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service capability.
## 7.2 Interworking with emulation services
An NGN shall support the interoperability of the Multimedia Telephony with
PSTN/ISDN Simulation Services with the services provided by the NGN PSTN/ISDN
Emulation subsystems where both are deployed. The scope of this interworking
may result in the same limited service capability as interworking with an
existing PSTN/ISDN network.
# 8 Interactions with PSTN/ISDN simulation services
## 8.1 General
A network operator may choose to offer the PSTN/ISDN simulation services as
described in TS 181 002 [1] in conjunction with this videotelephony service as
part of an NGN deployment scenario. The following clauses detail the use of
PSTN/ISDN simulation services with this videotelephony service for this
scenario.
## 8.2 Mandatory services
### 8.2.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.2.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.2.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.2.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.2.5 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.2.6 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
## 8.3 Recommended Services
### 8.3.1 Communication DIVersion (CDIV)
In addition to the principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation
service defined in TS 181 002 [1] the following shall also apply:
User A requests a communication with user B, who has activated Communication
Diversion towards user C. If either user A or C requests a video component to
be added to the communication, the request will only be successful if it is a
permitted option of all parties (i.e. the service option of user B shall be
taken into account for a diverted communication).
### 8.3.2 Communication Waiting (CW)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.3.3 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.3.4 Communication Baring (CB)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.3.5 Communication Completion on Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.3.6 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
## 8.4 Optional services
### 8.4.1 CONFerence (CONF)
In addition to the principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation
service defined in TS 181 002 [1] the following shall also apply.
A videotelephony service shall allow a conference service. If a
correspondent\'s terminal doesn\'t allow videotelephony service, this
conference shall be an audio conference for this correspondent and a video +
audio conference for the other correspondents.
A user shall be able to create a videoconference at any time during a
communication.
### 8.4.2 Advice of Charge (AoC)
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
### 8.4.3 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
In addition to the principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation
service defined in TS 181 002 [1] the following shall also apply:
When the transferring user A, transfers a communication from user B to user C,
which may be:
  * just requested;
  * in progress of being established; or
  * already established.
The resulting communication between user B to user C shall retain the media
components common to the original communications. If there are no common
components, the ECT will be refused.
### 8.4.4 Reverse charging
The principles of the corresponding PSTN/ISDN simulation service defined in TS
181 002 [1] shall apply.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Guidelines
## A.1 Terminal requirements
The Videotelephony service needs to have a friendly user interface allowing an
easy use in a family context.
The user shall be able to see the local video and far-end video.
NOTE: LS shall be send to HF and AT concerning terminal requirements before
deleting this annex from the present document.
### A.1.1 Service options
The following applications may also be supported:
  * visual guideline to assist the user to use the videotelephony service;
  * transmission of other data such as documents, texts (Instant Messaging, chat, SMS), pictures, music, etc.;
  * far-end camera control;
  * conference;
  * camera with adjustable shooting and zoom (additional cameras and microphones);
  * when an external and an internal audio sources are used, the audio signal must be a mix of both and the user should manage it.
### A.1.2 Communication set-up
A dedicated information shall indicate to the user the communication status,
in particular:
  * video-audio mode: both users can see each other;
  * mute mode: the user audio signal is not transmitted to the other party;
  * video privacy mode: the user video signal is not transmitted to the other party.
The dedicated information can be a visual and/or an audible information.
NOTE: Out of communications, the presence of a camera device can disturb the
user. It should be may to hide it physically.
The detailed procedure of the communication establishment depends on the type
of terminal used.
Basically the procedure shall be consistent with the existing procedure for a
NGN terminal communication and shall be as simple as possible in order to
achieve good acceptance:
  * the originating party is aware of being connected;
  * the originating party indicates the Destination Identification;
  * the originating party receives an acknowledgement that the network is able to process the communication;
  * the destination party receives an indication of the arrival of an incoming videotelephony communication;
  * the originating party receives an indication that the communication has been offered;
  * the destination party chooses to be heard or/and to be seen by the originating party (audio mode or/and video mode);
  * the destination party answers the communication;
  * the bidirectional communication is established (opening of the RTP ports).
Two options shall be possible for the communication establishment:
  * the communication is first established in audio mode and then switches to in video mode;
  * or either the communication is established directly in video-audio mode.
#### A.1.2.1 Communication setup in audio mode
In this mode, the communication shall be established first in audio mode and
then only will change to video mode upon request of the participants.
#### A.1.2.2 Communication setup in mute mode
In this mode, the communication shall be established first in video mode and
then only will change to video-audio mode upon request of the participants.
#### A.1.2.3 Communication setup in video-audio mode
In this mode, the communication shall be established directly in video
associated with audio: the originating party sees and hears the destination
party right from the start of the communication as well as that the
destination party sees and hears the originating party right from the start.
Speech and image shall be connected simultaneously and synchronized.
Independently of communication, it should always be possible to display the
local image (PIP: PIcture and Picture function).
If the received communication do not support video mode (for example if the
communication is received from a legacy terminal), the originating party shall
be informed by dedicated information his correspondent receives the call in
audio mode.
### A.1.3 Communication release
The procedure for terminating a communication shall be the same as for legacy
telephony.
A request to terminate the videotelephony communication can be generated by
either of the users. If one user terminates the communication, the other shall
be given a dedicated indication.
The audio and video connections shall be simultaneously closed when the user
hangs up or the network releases the connections.
## A.2 Change of communication mode
### A.2.1 Mute
Each party shall be able to mute the video and/or audio stream at any time
(before or during the communication).
### A.2.2 Frozen
Each party shall be able to freeze the picture the terminal is sending to the
remote. The remote terminal must display the frozen picture without blinks or
impairments, even when the frozen picture is displayed on interlaced monitors
such as TV screens.
The frozen image shall not be inversed (i.e. not a mirror image, in order to
read a document for example).
### A.2.3 Audio/video
The user should be able to switch easily between audio and video
communication, either off-line (pre-configuration) or during the
communication.
During the modification request, the appropriate media should be selected to
allow the right service with full transparency for user. During modification
request the previous service should stay active without stopping the
communication and the new service selected should be negotiated in background.
Contrary to switch video to audio mode, for switching audio to video mode both
parties shall accept the video mode. The switch should not result in a new
communication service but the addition or deletion of media components to the
existing communication.
### A.2.4 External source
The user should be able to change the video source during the call or off-line
(before calling) in order to share audio/video with his correspondent.
As soon as the user changes the video source, a dedicated information may warn
the user that he has changes the source.
### A.2.5 Synchronization
The videotelephony service shall be able to perform synchronization between
audio and video to an effect that there is no or acceptable human perceivable
lack of lip-synchronization.
### A.2.6 Other
The user can choose a screen on his terminal. If no screen is chosen, a
default screen is displayed.
## A.3 Use cases
Videotelephony scenarios include:
  * face-to-face conversation with both audio and video;
  * communication of speech and hearing impaired persons using sign language;
  * remote video surveillance (e.g. home security; remote baby-monitoring);
  * transfer of moving scenes or documents with drawings and text;
  * share of documents to work in real time;
  * face-to-face conversation with simultaneous transfer of picture data such as images, documents and files of other kinds;
  * remote consultation;
  * remote diagnosis in telemedicine;
  * participation in a videoconferencing.
#