# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies potential requirements to facilitate
improvements in M2M communication and the more efficient use of radio and
network resources.
Special consideration is given to the following areas for optimisation:
\- Charging mechanisms
\- Addressing
\- Types of communication
\- Fixed location, low mobility and low activity terminals
\- Handling of large numbers of subscriptions and subscriber data within the
network
\- Handling issues of large number of M2M subscriptions for the user of M2M
services
\- Impact of optimisations for security resulting from improvement for M2M
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Numbering, addressing and identification, stage 1\"
[2] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\"
[3] 3GPP TS 22.259: \"Service Requirements for Personal Network Management
(PNM), stage 1\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
H2H Human to Human (Communication) the type of communication 3G networks are
currently designed and optimised for.
M2M User Legal entity, i.e. company or person that uses M2M terminals, usually
the contractual partner for the operator
M2M Terminal A UE specifically adapted to the requirements of M2M
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
M2M Machine to Machine (Communication)
# 4 General
## 4.1 Overview
It appears that there is market potential for M2M beyond the current \"premium
M2M market segment\" i.e. the market segments that are currently using M2M.
In particular it is possible to identify potential applications for mass M2M
service, e.g. consumer products manufacturers could keep in touch with their
products after they are shipped -- car manufacturers could serve as an example
for that.
Another example is in the home environment where remote maintenance of heating
and air condition, alarm systems and other applications can also be
identified.
In addition to identified applications, it can be expected that if there was
an easy to use M2M service offering other applications for M2M would be
forthcoming.
At present structures that have been optimally designed for H2H may be
suboptimal for M2M and therefore structures designed for M2M need to be
investigated.
## 4.2 Definition of M2M within the context of this study
Machine to Machine (M2M) Communication is seen as a form of data communication
between entities that do not necessarily need human interaction. It is
different to current communication models as it involves:
\- new or different market scenarios
\- lower costs and effort
\- a potentially very large number of communicating terminals with
\- to a large extent little traffic per terminal
This new type of M2M communication may in future become more relevant as
\- M2M in GSM/UMTS is a future growth sector in particular in mature markets,
and the ubiquitous coverage of mobile networks is one main enabler
\- Potential enhancements of 3GPP standards may be a stimulator; as such
business could be addressed more cost efficiently.
## 4.3 Goals of this study
The study shall investigate on the improvements how standards can be enhanced
to provide network operators with lower operational costs when offering M2M
services.
It shall lower the M2M users' effort associated with handling large M2M
groups.
The study shall look at the trade-off between the effort and the benefits
associated with the improvements
## 4.4 Use Cases
M2M bears enormous application diversity, hence it is difficult to devise
comprehensive use cases. Areas in which M2M right now is used:
+----------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Security | Alarm systems | | | | | | Backup for landline | | | | | | Access control | | | | | | Car/driver security | +----------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Tracking & Tracing | Fleet Management | | | | | | Order Management | | | | | | Pay as you drive | | | | | | Asset Tracking | | | | | | Navigation | | | | | | Traffic information | | | | | | Road tolling | | | | | | Traffic optimisation/steering | +----------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Payment | Point of sales | | | | | | Vending machines | | | | | | Loyalty concepts | | | | | | Gaming machines | +----------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Health | Monitoring vital signs | | | | | | Supporting the aged or handicapped | | | | | | Web Access Telemedicine points | | | | | | Remote diagnostics | +----------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Remote Maintenance/Control | PLCs | | | | | | Sensors | | | | | | Lighting | | | | | | Pumps | | | | | | Valves | | | | | | Elevator control | | | | | | Vending machine control | | | | | | Vehicle diagnostics | +----------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Metering | Power | | | | | | Gas | | | | | | Water | | | | | | Heating | | | | | | Grid control | | | | | | Industrial metering | +----------------------------+------------------------------------+
In the following a few already existing use cases covering the most important
user requirements and the areas of improvement are outlined.
**Use Case 1: Pay as you drive (PAYD)**
This use case already exists in Italy and also the UK. The idea is not to
charge the car driver a fixed premium for the car insurances but to base the
premium on the usage of the car instead. For this reason the car is equipped
with a M2M terminal, a GPS device and various other sensors that transmit the
data to the insurance company. The terminal including the UICC is mounted on
the car at a location where tampering with is difficult for the purpose to
avoid theft of the UICC or deactivation of the terminal for fraud purposes.
For the same reason the insurance company holds the contract with the network
operator.
**Use Case 2: Tracking and Tracing**
This scenario is already well known in the area of car rental companies where
at least the top class cars are equipped with tracking devices to obtain the
car's position e.g. in case of theft. Another use case already in place is
tagging very expensive tools and equipment e.g. containers or tools in the
building industry or oil industry.
It has to be noted that this is currently applied only to expensive goods
where the relation of costs associated with tagging and the handling overhead
for the user compared to the value of the product justify this business case
for the equipment owner. A user of this type of M2M is facing two major
problems, the first problem being the tamper/theft proof terminal including
the UICC. Currently this done by constructive measures e.g. by locking the
entire M2M module and in some cases even mounting at difficult to reach
places. As a matter of fact this makes the whole M2M application very
difficult to handle and thus expensive for the M2M user. The second problem
comes from the need of the M2M users to have, depending on the lifetime of
their products, a reliable, long term functional and viable M2M application.
One aspect of this is the possibility for the M2M user to change the
subscription for whatever reason. This is practically impossible with the
current solution, esp. when there are substantial numbers of M2M terminals out
in the field. This is why there are only few real applications where the
products always, frequently, return to the company where, besides others, also
maintenance of the M2M equipment - such as checking whether the M2M has been
tampered with or swapping UICCs - can be done.
All M2M applications where the product does not return frequently or never
cannot be covered if the above mentioned problems are not resolved, thus
leaving a large percentage of the market uncovered.
**Use Case 3: Metering**
A Metering device is usually untouched after installation for at least the
next 8 years. Again, the UICC needs to be protected against theft and removal
for the purpose cutting the connection to the utility e.g. for fraudulent
purposes.
Changing the utility (and probably the operator) causes unprecedented
obstacles. This use case requires no mobility as it is being mounted somewhere
but requires high flexibility in allocating the M2M terminal in case of
utility change and/or mobile network operator change. The most complex case is
that the utility customer changes his utility eg from one power supplier to
another. This power supplier, however, happens to have a contract with a
network operator different than the customer's initial supplier. To resolve
that either complex accounting mechanisms need to be put in place or the
utility needs to send out a service person. Both ways are very costly and also
prone to misallocations.
# 5 Study Areas
## 5.1 Types of Communication
There are several different communication models under which M2M will take
place, each with different relevance and importance for the M2M market.
In the first step M2M can be restricted to a \"many M2M terminals to one
server\" communication model (N to 1) which is the mode of operation in nearly
all M2M applications running already today. A number of terminals
communicating with the same server are considered a group, and a M2M user can
run many of these groups. The N to 1 communication model can be further
restricted in that way that the group of M2M terminals belonging to one M2M
user can communicate with one destination server only whose address is
supplied by the network. This would greatly reduce the effects of misuse of
stolen M2M terminals which are usually unattended to a very large extent. In
other words, the network decides on the destination address the M2M data is
being sent to.
For the first step, it is also considered sufficient that M2M communication is
initiated by the M2M terminals only as most of the M2M scenarios run well with
a pull type of communication.
When the market evolves and the need for other types of communications such as
M2M terminal to M2M terminal emerges it shall be possible to introduce this
later on.
It is understood that current M2M scenarios are mostly based on SMS. This,
however, was driven by historical constraints, at that time when the first M2M
applications were set up, nothing else, besides CS data was available.
When considering the communication requirements for various types and classes
of machine it becomes obvious that no single Teleservice or Bearer Service
will satisfy all their individual needs up to now. Also there are multi-
function machines that may need to communicate with different
servers/terminals, at different data rates, for different tasks. For example,
a network of 'printer/fax/scanner' machines might communicate externally via a
master machine/server with a gateway terminal (containing a SIM/USIM/ISIM).
Existing master 2G/3G capable terminals might request a CS bearer to send a
fax, SMS to report a fault, or GPRS/HSUPA to transfer a large graphics file to
a manufacturer.
GPRS and UMTS PS should be the preferred way for transferring data as this
would simplify terminals and networks (No CS impacts), and thus reduce costs.
This also facilitates simple writing of M2M applications by the M2M users
without having to deal with specialised and proprietary SMS interworking, by
simply providing e.g. an IP protocol stack. This will open up new market
segments as M2M application can use an IP packet service.
_[Communication scenarios:\ ]{.underline}_ It is assumed that two kinds of
machines are deployed within this scenario:
\- Wireless modulesM2M terminals, connected via a RAN, included in the
\"machines in the field (e.g. vending machines)\" and
\- Central servers, located behind the GGSN. These servers may be located as
follows:
\- within the operator (MNO) domain, giving the possibility for tight coupling
to servers within MNO domain.
\- connected externally similar to a PDN connection (Packed Data Network as in
GPRS standardisation), i.e. with a dedicated connection from GGSN (APN) to the
server(s) of the machine operator and thus also routing and access control
possibility at GGSN.
\- within general Internet, accessible via PDN (and ISP), i.e. without
dedicated connection to the server(s) of the machine operator, but transport
over the public Internet.
_Scenario 1: [ ]{.underline}_ Many wireless modules communicating with one
central server
> This scenario applies when one machine operator has many machines at various
> locations and wants to communicate with these machines in an intermittent
> way. One Wireless module communicates with one server only. The machines
> shall be distinguishable from each other, i.e. outgoing messages (as seen by
> the central server) are not \"broadcast\", and incoming messages are bound
> to the particular machine the message was sent from.
_Scenario 2: [ ]{.underline}_ Many wireless modules communicating with many
servers
> A machine operator may deploy many servers for local diversity or load
> distribution. This is an extension of scenario 1. The MNO may provide access
> control to separate the different machine operators' realms.
_Scenario 3: [ ]{.underline}_ Many wireless modules communicating with each
other
> This scenario is not seen within the scope of 3GPP's work on M2M as the
> relevant applications only seem to involve module-to-server communication.
> (FFS)
Further study should determine the relevant communication scenarios. It may be
beneficial to limit the scope of M2M communication for the sake of reduced
complexity and increased security, but, on the other hand, care should be
taken not to exclude relevant scenarios.
## 5.2 Handling large numbers of terminals
### 5.2.1 Considerations on handling large numbers of terminals for the
Network Operator
Subscription and subscriber management seem to contribute to the inability to
provide attractive offerings. For example, requiring the operator to deal with
each and every M2M terminal individually - instead of handling the M2M user
owning \"N\" terminals in one step - is considered at least suboptimal. Also,
M2M terminals may remain stationary in many applications, thereby reducing the
network load and possibly allowing optimisations.
In order to save network signalling overhead for mobiles that are non-
stationary and need not to be reachable i.e. use mobile originated traffic
only the suppression of location update traffic should be studied.
Furthermore mobility could be de-activated for certain kinds of terminals e.g.
mobiles that are stationary.
### 5.2.2 Considerations on handling large numbers of terminals for the M2M
User
The following user requirements can be deduced from the use cases:
\- Tamper Save/Theft proof terminal including a UICC
\- Possibility to change subscription out in the field e.g. after contract
expiry without human intervention
\- Possibility to allocate the terminals at initial power up to a network
operator without human intervention
### 5.2.3 Subscription Handling
One of the perceived obstacles to M2M market growth is the difficulty for the
M2M operator to change the subscription. Currently, such a change would
involve physical maintenance work on all machines in the field, which is seen
prohibitive. Therefore, alternatives to realise a dynamic provisioning of
USIM/ISIM parameters to a large number of M2M terminals within a short
timeframe should be investigated (e.g. UICC OTA update of the MNO data, and
transfer of the access right between MNOs). Depending on the business cases
deployed in future, the machine operator may have the advantage that he can
more easily change the MNO. This may be seen as a disadvantage for the MNO,
but on the other hand the MNO may also have the benefit that new customers may
switch more easily to his service. In general it is expected that the market
for M2M communication may grow faster if the machine operators have more
chances to select their favourite operator knowing that they are not tied to
this operator forever.
### 5.2.4 Machine Network Management (MNM)
Many of the ideas being developed for Personal Network Management (PNM) (TS
22.259 [3]) and Network Composition (NC) might also be applied to machine
network management (MNM) communications. Like humans, machines may also need
to communicate in different ways at different times, between themselves and
with remote peers. Standardising MNM procedures, and aligning them with PNM,
NC and similar specifications, could lead to improve efficiency through
optimised communication and better bearer/bandwidth usage, especially for
networked machines belonging to a single or partner entity. In addition to
industrial and office machines, example networks would include CCTV
surveillance cameras, vending machines, gaming and internet access terminals
in a shopping mall, or on a train, or perhaps a home network comprising
phones, PCs, PDAs, TV set-top box, alarms, domestic appliances, etc.
Depending on the communication task, machines might communicate, via non 3GPP
access technology, to the master machine (containing a SIM/USIM/ISIM) or
obtain authorisation from the master machine to communicate directly e.g.
using the 3G or fixed NGN network, with an external entity.
Benefits include:
\- Reduced number of subscriptions
\- Reduced number of network authentication
\- Subscription independent machine replacement/upgrades
\- Easier subscription upgrade and portability
\- Communication task prioritisation
\- Data aggregation and multiplexing e.g. over HSDPA/HSUPA
\- Better QoS e.g. optimum location of master machine/terminal
\- Continuation of high-speed data link to sub-optimal locations using M2M
single or multi-hop Bluetooth/WiFi /cable
\- Efficient network management
\- Ad-hoc and potentially self repairing network
\- Optimised routing
\- Consolidated charging and billing
Drawbacks include:
\- Non-3GPP entities having access to the 3GPP network
\- A potentially reduced security of the 3GPP network if the security level of
the slave-master machine communication is lower than the usual 3GPP security.
## 5.3 Considerations on Charging
The communication behaviour of large numbers of terminals also aggravates the
efforts for charging in the network. When the traffic volume may vary by
several orders of magnitude, e.g. ranging from few bytes once a year to a few
kilobytes every minute the traditional charging record generation effectively
stops the widespread use of M2M. Especially charging, as it is designed today,
in creating detailed charging records, causes unnecessary overhead in creating
at least 10 - 100 times longer CDRs than the payload for every few bytes
transaction.
Charging record generation as it is done today was designed for the highly
regulated H2H market. It should not be applied for M2M. It is considered
sufficient to apply per group counters counting the traffic to and from the
servers at the network boundary. Detailed tracking of traffic behaviour per
terminal should be handled at the M2M user's server(s) if required.
What is additionally required is to take care of M2M terminals usually tied to
one location. To enable the operator to provide suitable service offerings for
these types of terminals some per group counter should be established counting
mobility related network load, i.e. counting the location update traffic. It
has to be noted that location update traffic caused by restructuring of the
network needs to be taken into account by the network operator.
### 5.3.1 Use of Machine Class Subscription Identifiers
In order to differentiate machine to machine communications for optimised
mobility management, call routing, security and charging purposes,
consideration should be given to the use of machine type subscription
identifiers. It is envisaged that several types of M2M communication
subscriptions/tariffs could be offered by network operators, based perhaps on
different classes of machine e.g. always on high security alarm systems and
surveillance camera networks, single point of sale card readers, fixed
location machines. The subscription information, including the machine class/
terminal type identifier would be distributed to the responsible network
elements handling the M2M communication.
### 5.3.2 Fixed Location, low mobility and low activity terminals
Many alarm systems and other fixed geographic location terminals generate very
low volumes of chargeable traffic. To be able to offer attractive tariffs in
these business sectors, there is a need to reduce or eliminate completely some
of these signalling overheads. Even in the case of fixed location machines
that generate large volumes of chargeable traffic, it is still desirable to
minimise signalling due, in particular, to unnecessary periodic location
updates. For static terminals, depending on terminal type, it should be
possible to selectively extend the periodic time to 255 (deci-hours), or to
instruct individual terminals not to make periodic location updates.
Alternatively, to make use of off peak traffic periods, low activity terminals
might be instructed to perform a location update at some future date and time
e.g. 1^st^ February at 02:45:30, rather than at set periodic intervals.
Terminals intended for M2M communications should not need to support
unnecessary functionality and should be provisioned accordingly. This might
include a dedicated M2M APN but not any unnecessary services like voice mail
or customer care messages that cannot be used by the machine or a maintenance
engineer.
Ideally, for any given terminal type, it should be possible to optimise
mobility management, re-authentication, subscription maintenance and other
operational costs. There are several ways that this might be done but in most
cases there is a need to differentiate between mobile UEs, fixed location and
low activity terminals. By identifying the subscription and terminal type,
e.g. machine to machine subscription, low activity, fixed geographic location
terminal, in the subscriber information held in the HLR/HSS, and distributed
to the MSC-VLR and SGSN, mobility management and other costs may be reduced.
In addition to reducing the signalling overhead and operational costs,
minimising MM and GMM signalling also helps to reduce cell congestion.
Further consideration should also be given to the purging of low usage
terminals subscription information from the VLR/SGSN, especially for MO only
terminals e.g. domestic alarms. In this case the HLR/HSS would be expected to
retain a record of the last reported location and timestamp, received from the
VLR/SGSN, when the temporary subscriber information was purged.
## 5.4 Considerations on Security
### 5.4.1 Denial of Service
The expected large number of terminals and the automated nature of traffic
seem to be more prone to Denial of Service Attacks (DoS). These attacks can be
either caused deliberately or by bad M2M application design.
A DoS attack is always possible in mobile networks, irrespective of the kind
of service offered. The easiest way would be jamming of the radio interface,
but more sophisticated attacks are also possible, e.g. with an overload of
bogus authentication or mobility management messages. Thus the aim of M2M
security is not to open additional channels for DoS attacks. The same applies
for degradation of service which may be seen as a weaker form of DoS.
As often, attacks depend a lot on particular properties of a system, a
detailed discussion of DoS attacks must be done after selection of a
particular architecture for M2M.
### 5.4.2 Adaptation of Level of Security
In order for the overall risk to remain manageable, there needs to be a finely
tuned balance between security provisions on the user side and those in the
network: it may be possible to adapt security on the user side for M2M
communication to a certain extent, but this would then have to be compensated
for by access restrictions on the M2M user enforced in the network. Some of
these access restrictions could be realised by dynamically configurable packet
filters.
It may be considered whether additional security measure at the application
layer may allow to somewhat adapt security at the link or network layer.
However, it is questionable whether a requirement on the M2M operator to
introduce and manage additional security at the application layer would lead
to the cost saving required for a M2M mass market. A re-use and enhancement,
where necessary, of the widespread GERAN/UTRAN technology also for security
for M2M communication seems the more promising approach.
### 5.4.3 Security for unattended M2M devices
In contrast to the traditional ME, which is carefully held and protected by a
person, the M2M terminals will be placed in more or less accessible locations,
and may be tampered with by unauthorised persons. Furthermore, theft or
fraudulent modification of an M2M terminal may not be detected and reported as
quickly as this is the case for personally owned and held ME. Fraud targets
could both be the M2M user (e.g.: fraudster suppresses payment messages) or
the PLMN operator (fraudster uses M2M device or its UICC for theft of
service). Therefore, requirements for device-based security measures need to
be studied. The related work 3GPP TR 33.905 \"Recommendations for Trusted Open
Platforms\" may be relevant for M2M.
One major challenge is to secure the UICC in such a way that it is not trivial
to tamper with or steal. On the other hand making the UICC completely theft
proof challenges the flexibility for the M2M administrator/end-user to change
subscription if that is desired. To get this contradictory issue solved might
be a key factor to open up e.g. Telematics business for mobile industry
players.
Furthermore, the M2M ME and the system attached to it (or surrounding it, e.g.
a vending machine) often represent a single functional entity. Therefore, the
interface between the M2M ME and its surroundings are security-relevant. It
must be decided whether this interface is in scope or out of scope of 3GPP
standardisation. Regardless of the decision, interface security must be
addressed to fulfill the M2M user\'s security requirements
## 5.5 Considerations on Addressing
### 5.5.1 Addressing in the CS and PS domain
There are several possibilities which kind of connectivity is needed for M2M
terminals -- originating, terminating, CS, PS (GPRS), IMS etc. This requires
different identities.
\- IMSI: Required to access a 3GPP network, provides the possibility to
perform a CS or GPRS attach and such to send short messages.
\- IMSI + MSISDN: provides the possibility to originate and terminate CS calls
as well as to receive short messages.
\- IMSI + IP address: provides IP connectivity after PDP Context Activation
\- IMSI + IMPI + IMPU: provides possibility to originate and terminate IP
multimedia sessions via the IMS.
### 5.5.2 Addressing based on IMSIs
IMSI based addressing provides only limited connectivity in the current
systems but could serve as first step to remotely activate a UE, i.e. to
initiate a PDP context activation on network request.
According to TS 23.003[1] the maximum length of a IMSI is 15 digits,
consisting of the Mobile Country Code (MCC) with 2 digits, the Mobile Network
Code (MNC) with 2 to 3 digits and the Mobile Subscriber Identification Number
(MSIN) with up to 10 or 9 digits respectively. In theory this would provide
the possibility for addressing up to 10 billion different terminals within one
mobile network.
However in practice this may collide with existing IMSIs of the operators. So
it seems likely to be necessary for operators to apply a separate MNC for M2M
communication which enables the use of nearly all possible numbers.
### 5.5.3 Addressing based on MSISDNs
According to TS 23.003 [1] and the ITU-T Recommendation E.164 [2] the maximum
length of a MSISDN is 15 digits, consisting of the Country Code (CC), National
Destination Code (NDC) and Subscriber Number (SN). Although the length of the
CC and NDC may differ in various countries the majority of the SNs is around
10 digits long. Again, this would provide the possibility for addressing up to
10 billion different terminals.
Due to existing numbering plans the real number is much more limited. A
possible way to use nearly the full possible range is to apply a separate NDC
for M2M communication.
On protocol level within mobile networks even longer MSISDNs -- up to 20
digits in national or international format - are supported.
### 5.5.4 Addressing based on IP address or IMPU
After establishment of IP connectivity the use of private or public IPv4 or
IPv6 addresses is possible, the registration to the IMS enables addressing via
SIP URIs or tel URIs. This provides a nearly unlimited number of addresses.
### 5.5.5 Conclusions concerning addressing
The limiting factor in addressing is the IMSI: Dependent on the length of the
MNC only 9 or 10 digits are available for use within one network identified by
one MNC. Furthermore it is the pre-requisite to access the 3GPP system via the
CS or PS system. The use of additional MNCs may be restricted by regulatory
authorities.
For this reason alternative addressing solutions based on IP addresses should
be studied.
Depending on the assumptions made in the section on charging (ie. to base
charging on per group counters ) the need to individually identify a M2M
terminal seems not to be given from the network's point of view. It is assumed
that the M2M user, in any case, will have some identification of M2M terminals
on application layer. Hence, it should be studied whether authenticating the
terminal by just identifying the group it belongs to brings any benefit in
facilitating M2M. But it should be studied whether problems may arise when a
terminal does not have a unique identity in GPRS: on the one hand, the current
mobility management procedures may need to be updated (which may be a serious
impact, ffs), on the other hand, it may be desirable to be able to identify a
rogue or misbehaving terminal and take it out of service, rather than
disabling the entire group. But then it may be possible to use a unique
identity of a terminal in GPRS and use a group identity only for charging
purposes, i.e. CDRs would be generated only for the group.
For example, many machines could communicate via a master machine/terminal
containing a SIM/USIM. As with Personal Network Management (PNM), Machine
Network Management (MNM) this would allow a single subscription (MSISDN/Public
Address) to serve many devices with Private Addresses. The benefits of such a
system are described in section 5.1.2.
Backwards compatible extension of the IMSI address range might also be
considered. Special MNC/MCC/MSIN, which are transparent to legacy systems,
could trigger a further validation check of the M2M address part of the IMSI.
# 6 Possible Requirements
Based on the use cases in clause 4 and considerations in clause 5 following
possible requirements can be identified:
\- De-activation of mobility signalling for stationary terminals
\- Optimised mobility signalling for low mobility and low activity terminals
\- Possibility to instruct individual/group of terminal types e.g. static, low
mobility, low activity terminals, not to perform any periodic location
updates, and optionally location updates due to movement between LA/RAs.
\- Possibility to instruct individual/groups of terminal types to perform a
location update at a specific date and time
\- Purging of subscriber data from VLR/SGSN for low activity / MO only
terminals
\- Tamper Save/Theft proof terminal including a UICC
\- Possibility to change subscription out in the field e.g. after contract
expiry without human intervention
\- Possibility to allocate the terminals at initial power up to a network
operator without human intervention
\- Re-use of PNM mechanisms for M2M communication
\- Possibility to define groups and to have group counters to count the
traffic to and from the servers at the network boundary
\- Per group counters to count location update traffic
\- Add a terminal type identifier to the subscription information to
facilitate mobility management and charging
\- Overcoming the limitations of the IMSI range by alternative addressing
solutions
\- To simplify terminals and networks and thus reduce costs the CS should not
be impacted and preferably PS should be used.
#