# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study of the service experience and suggested
service requirements for IP Multimedia System (IMS) Centralized Services
(ICS). ICS enables the delivery of IMS based services to users regardless of
the attached access network type; e.g. CS domain access or IP Based Access
Networks. Service continuity between access networks is also considered. User
and service provider perspectives are considered along with service scenarios
as the basis for identifying service requirements. Based on the previous
considerations, service requirements are identified and conclusions are drawn.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.173: \"IMS Multimedia telephony service and supplementary
services; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment
(UE)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**IMS Centralized Services:** the provision of communication services wherein
services and service control are based on IMS mechanisms and enablers, and
support is provided for a diversity of access networks (including circuit
switched and IP based, wireless and wireline), and for service continuity
between access networks.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ICS IMS Centralized Services
VCC Voice Call Continuity
# 4 Background information
It has been recognized that the direction of the industry is towards IMS, and
a need exists for the consistent provision of services across a diversity of
access networks. Additionally, the ability to deploy all services from a
single consolidated core network is attractive to service providers. Therefore
to address these considerations, specification of IMS Centralized Services
(ICS) is under consideration. With this approach services and service control
are based on IMS mechanisms and enablers within the IMS.
IMS Centralized Services is an approach to the provision of communication
services wherein services and service control are based on IMS mechanisms and
enablers, and support is provided for a diversity of access networks
(including circuit switched and IP based, wireless and wireline). Service
continuity between domains (CS, PS) is also provided.
In this context service consistency means that the subscriber's service
experience is the same regardless of the domain(CS, PS). Service continuity
means that the subscriber's services are maintained seamlessly and
transparently when transitioning across domains while in an active session.
ICS enables service consistency and service continuity. Service continuity
availability depends on the capability of the UE.
A high level conceptual overview of ICS is provided in the following figure.
{width="3.8319444444444444in" height="2.7506944444444446in"}
Figure 1. IMS Centralized Services Concept
Key attractions for enabling IMS Centralized Services include the ability to
provide a consistent user experience regardless of the domain (CS, PS), and
consistency with the industry trend to shift to IP based services.
Additionally, a major attraction for service providers is the possibility for
reducing core network complexity, maintenance and operation by offering all
services from a single consolidated core network.
The key issue for ICS is how IMS-based services are enabled over the CS
infrastructure.
# 5 Basis for requirements
While identifying requirements for IMS Centralized Services it is useful to
consider the user's perspective, the service provider's perspective, and
service scenarios.
## 5.1 User perspective
From the User's perspective, IMS Centralized Services provides an enhanced,
more ubiquitous user experience from a single UE than otherwise provided.
Connectivity is provided over a greater diversity of access networks than
previously available, the service set available behaves consistently and can
grow with the evolution of IMS. Services may be constrained due to the
limitations of the differing access networks used however. Additionally, the
provision of service continuity between networks is appealing to subscribers.
## 5.2 Service provider perspective
Service providers may find IMS Centralized Services attractive because this
approach is consistent with the direction of the industry to move towards IP
based services. Service providers deploying IMS Centralized Services may be
viewed as IMS service providers. Their core networks are therefore IMS
oriented (e.g. not CS oriented). With this focus, service providers would
prioritize approaches that optimize IMS core network performance and common
IMS service architecture consistency. From the perspective of Service
Providers, ICS users are IMS subscribers. The services provided are therefore
IMS services, and IMS Centralized Services is essentially viewed as enabling
the provision of IMS services to subscribers in the CS domain.
Additionally, a key attraction of ICS for service providers is that it
supports the development of a single consolidated core network with one
service environment rather than several service environments. Requirements
considerations from this perspective include consideration of infrastructure
impacts (e.g. minimal impacts to the existing CS and IMS infrastructure).
## 5.3 Access network scenarios
IMS Centralized Services will be supported across different types of UEs
attached through different types of access networks. UEs may or may not be VCC
capable.
An overview of UE / Access Network scenarios is provided in the following
figure.
{width="5.75in" height="4.316666666666666in"}
Figure 2. Access Network Scenarios
Scenario A: The network is an IP CAN capable of transporting bi-directional
speech media. Here both media transport and session control signalling is
carried over the IP CAN. In this scenario IP based services are being provided
over a fully supportive IP capable network. For IMS centralized services there
are no issues associated with enabling ICS under this scenario, and thus it is
not further elaborated upon within the scope of this study.
Scenario B: The UE is served through the CS domain. In this scenario, both the
media transport and session control signalling is carried through the CS
domain.
Scenario C: Both CS domain and a non bi-directional speech media capable IP
CAN are available in the network: Here media transport is carried through the
CS domain and session and media control signalling is carried over CS domain
or over the non bi-directional speech media capable IP CAN. Note that PS
domain may be VoIP capable in this scenario as well.
In addition to considering the provision of IMS Centralized Services across
different access networks, service continuity between domains is also
considered.
# 6 Service requirements
## 6.1 General
IMS Centralized Services brings value to service providers by providing a
consolidated core network (reducing CAPEX and OPEX costs), and to subscribers
by providing a consistent service experience.
To achieve these objectives, the core network enabling mechanisms for the
provision of services should be consistently applied for subscribers
regardless of domain type. Additionally, impacts to the core network should be
minimal.
It is considered that:
\- ICS users are IMS subscribers.
\- The ICS user shall receive both registered and unregistered services in a
consistent manner when the user is accessing IMS regardless of CS or PS
domain.
\- IMS mechanisms, including service enabling mechanisms and mechanisms for
differentiating registered and unregistered services, shall be consistently
applied regardless of CS or PS domain.
Note: the requirements for consistent usage of core network enabling
mechanisms and minimal core network impacts may be at odds with one another.
For example, if applying SIP IMS Registration methods for subscribers using CS
domain is too complex, then it may be warranted to pursue alternative methods
of providing similar or less functionality. Tradeoffs between complexity and
functionality may need to be considered. The inclusion of these requirements
in the requirements study should not be interpreted as constraints in studying
possible architectural solutions.
The system shall be capable to provide ICS to the UE when it uses CS domain
for both media transport and session signalling (i.e. scenario B).
The system shall be capable to provide ICS to the UE when it uses PS domain
for session signalling and CS domain for media transport and session
signalling (i.e. scenario C).
## 6.2 UE support
Support of UEs enhanced with ICS capability as well as UEs without ICS
capability shall be possible.In the CS domain the UEs should be able to
continue to use the minimum set of services in a consistent manner.
Note: The minimum set of services is ffs.
Example 1: A 2G UE which is within the coverage of a GSM network should be
able to use voice telephony which is consistent to TS11 and to use
supplementary service invocation codes [5] to administrate its supplementary
services.
Example 2: A 3G UE with IMS client, UTRAN and GERAN CS and PS capabilities in
CS domain will also only be able to use voice telephony and supplementary
service invocation codes [5] for administration of supplementary services. It
is not expected that this UE can use IMS features like HTTP administration of
services in the absence of a PS access. This may result in the case that some
IMS service settings which are not defined for CS can not be changed when
attached to a CS only, but this has no impact on the user experience as these
service features are not available in the CS. If GPRS is available some IMS
features may be available.
## 6.3 Roaming support
An ICS user shall receive full ICS support from the HPLMN while roaming in the
VPLMN, subject to the constraints of the VPLMN (e.g. roaming agreements,
operator policies).
The home operator shall be able to control if the UE shall act as an UE
enhanced with ICS capability or without ICS capability while roaming.
If the roaming partner does not or cannot support ICS (due to architectural or
technical limitations or commercial reasons), then any ICS service offering
may be limited or may not be possible to those roaming subscribers. The
decision on services to be provided shall be made during the initial network
attach to CS domain in the VPLMN, e.g. by exchanging network capability
between VPLMN and HPLMN in a backward compatible manner. In such cases, either
a) The subscriber does not receive IMS Centralized services. The roaming
subscriber shall be able to originate and terminate basic services e.g. bi-
directional speech calls.
b) The subscriber receives a subset of IMS Centralized services.
c) The subscriber is rejected from roaming in those networks.
## 6.4 Service consistency
ICS shall be available from any access network, domain and UE. A reduced set
of services may be offered subject to constraints of the UE, access network
and domain.
Emergency calls and priority services (if provided by the operator) shall be
provided in a consistent manner regardless of domain
Subscribers shall have a consistent user experience regardless of the domain
used, subject to the constraints of the UE and access network.
## 6.5 Service continuity
ICS shall support service continuity between different 3GPP access networks,
subject to the constraints of the UE and access networks.
The service continuity shall include:
\- Basic services
\- Non mid call services
\- Mid call services
## 6.6 Emergency call
IMS Centralized Services includes providing subscribers with seamless
transparent bi-directional speech service across access networks. Subscriber's
expectations for emergency call support will be the same as for bi-directional
speech, so emergency call support needs to be provided under the same
conditions as bi-directional speech. Therefore it is required that support for
emergency call for ICS users is provided.
## 6.7 Priority service
Global wide disasters (e.g. hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes, floods, etc.)
have heightened awareness of the importance of the need for availability of
Priority communication services. Support for Priority Service for ICS users is
required.
## 6.8 IMS services
ICS users receive IMS Services. IMS service control is always performed by the
home IMS network except for emergency calls. However the services themselves
may be provided by the home IMS network, the visited IMS network or a 3rd
party provider.
The set of IMS services supported by ICS should include at least the
following, subject to the constraints of the UE and access networks:
\- IMS Multimedia Telephony services and supplementary services defined within
[3] and [4].
Note: Other IMS hosted services supported by an operator or 3rd party may be
supported.
## 6.9 Infrastructure impacts
IMS Centralized Services should have minimal impacts to the existing CS and
IMS infrastructure.
# 7 Conclusions
New requirements for the 3GPP system on IMS Centralised Services have been
identified in Clause 6 of this Technical Report. It is therefore recommended
that the content of this clause is used as a basis for introducing ICS
requirements into the 3GPP Technical Specifications in Rel-8. Additionally,
the content of other clauses may be considered within specification work for
ICS as appropriate.
This report recommends that the ICS related requirements are captured in a
single place. A new chapter in TS 22.101 entitled IMS Centralized Services can
be one alternative.
#