# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Privacy in 3GPP is about the appropriate handling of privacy related
information between the user and service provider and between users in
accordance with the preferences of the user and regulatory policies.
Building and maintaining trust between users of 3GPP services and the network
operator requires the careful consideration and deployment of capabilities
that safeguard confidential information about the user. Privacy is therefore
seen not only as a value added service but also as a risk-reduction mechanism
in terms of service deployment.
From a 3GPP perspective, a generic way to handle privacy related information
is desirable in order to provide as far as possible a common set of rules that
can be used by any service that requires the protection of personal data or
information about a user.
Privacy is protected by regulation usually in the form of directives enforced
by regional or national authorities. Where specific legal requirements exist,
these need to be considered by each application to assure compliance.
# 1 Scope
The present document aims to investigate and summarise the existing service
requirements on privacy for 3GPP services. In order to ensure that these
services and future 3GPP services will have a consistent set of rules that
control the availability and usage of confidential information, it is the
intention to identify a common way to handle privacy related information in
the network.
Generic privacy requirements for the mobile industry are also being defined in
[3] by the Open Mobile Alliance and it is the intention of this document to
present the existing requirements and any alternatives to achieving the
required functionality within 3GPP networks.
The scope of this study is to:
\- Identify privacy related information that is used in the 3GPP system;
\- Identify the existing 3GPP services that handle privacy related
information;
\- Identify the various stakeholders that handle, control or consume personal
data, and to define their relationships;
\- Document the definitions of the various functions, stakeholders and
functions involved in a privacy capability;
\- Identify the work being done by other organizations and the additional work
to be done by 3GPP.
The types of data subject to privacy rules within the scope of this study
include
\- Privacy related information specific to an individual user;
\- Privacy related information relating to entities such as corporations;
\- Network data such as serving cell and broadcast area, e.g. data that
relates to the user\'s location or presence in the network, and which could be
used by applications to track the user.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 41.101: \"Technical Specifications and Technical Reports for a
GERAN-based 3GPP system\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] Open Mobile Alliance: \"OMA Draft Privacy Requirements\", OMA-
RD_Privacy-V1_0_0-20031104-A
[4] 3GPP TS 22.071 Location Services (LCS); Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.141: \"Presence service; Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"Service requirements for 3GPP Generic User Profile
(GUP); Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.174: \"Push service; Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.106: \"Lawful interception requirements\".
[10] DIRECTIVE 95/46/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 24
October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data
http://europa.eu.int/smartapi/cgi/sga_doc?smartapi!celexapi!prod!CELEXnumdoc&lg=EN&numdoc=31995L0046&model=guichett
[11] 3GPP TS 22.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Stage 1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[2] and the following apply.
**Personal Data:** Any information relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person (\"data subject\") (an identifiable person is one who can be
identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an
identification number or to one or more factors specific to his physical,
physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity).
NOTE: This definition is taken from Directive 95/46/EC [10]. **Within the
scope of the present document a \'data subject\' is equivalent to a user.**
Only personal data collected and / or processed by a PLMN operator or service
provider is within the scope of the present document.
**Privacy:** The appropriate handling of information that is deemed
confidential between the user and service provider
**Privacy Settings:** Information relating to Personal Data of a user. Privacy
Settings describe the rights and limitations of access to and processing of
Personal Data.
**Trust:** Relationship between two entities that may be relied upon to ensure
privacy
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BAOC Barring of All Outgoing Calls
BOIC Barring of Outgoing International Calls
BOIC-exHC Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the
Home PLMN Country
BIC Baseline Implementation Capabilities
BIC-Roam Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming outside the home PLMN country
CLIP Calling Line Identification Presentation
CLIR Calling Line Identification Restriction
CS Circuit Switched
GUP Generic User Profile
HLR Home Location Register
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
LCS Location Services
MSISDN Mobile Station ISDN number
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
OSA Open Services Access
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PPR
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SMS Short Message Service
UE User Equipment
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
Additional definitions and abbreviations can be found in TR 21.905 [2].
# 4 Privacy models
## 4.1 Informative models
In the present document privacy is mainly considered as _privacy of user
information_ , i.e. privacy is considered as a requirement from an individual
user. It should be noted, that privacy requirements may also arise from other
parties involved in telecommunication. E.g. a PLMN operator could have the
privacy requirement to hide its network topology from other operators, or a
company (being a 3GPP subscriber for users, which are its employees) could
have certain requirements for confidentiality of messaging among these
employees, but privacy requirements from these parties are not covered the
present document.
Already in its most general form one may observe that, from a user\'s
perspective, there exist several flavors of privacy:
**\- Protection of personal data\**(I do not want my personal data being
accessible to unauthorized parties)
**\- Non-disclosure of identity\**(e.g. I do not want to reveal my phone-
number to my communication partner, or I want to remain anonymous towards a
service provider)
**\- Protection against tracking\**(e.g. I do not want to be tracked,
geographically or on my behavior)
**\- Protection from unsolicited communication\**(e.g. I want not to be
bothered by spam-mail)
**\- Access to undesirable information / kids-protection\**(e.g. I want to
block access of my kids to adult or gambling content)
From a Generalized Privacy capability point of view only _protection of
personal data_ and _non-disclosure of identity_ seem to be within the scope of
our work.
_Privacy from unsolicited communication_ and _Access to undesirable
information / Kids-protection_ is considered as filtering of communication
(incoming and outgoing) of the information being exchanged (e.g. originator,
target, service, keyword search ...). Filtering should be done on service
level as separate service or enhancement to other services and is - generally
- considered out of scope of our work. (exception: basic Call Barrings as in
GSM, see below)
_Tracking_ of a user is considered as collecting figures about that user and
deduce information about the user. This can be a feature of a service (e.g.
fleet management needs to track the location of a truck) or an unwanted misuse
of data, for which the service provider can be made liable. In any case
_Protection against tracking_ seems to be out of scope of standardization.
## 4.2 Roles involved in Privacy
In the present document the following involved parties are considered:
**\- The user:\** In general it is assumed, that the user is provided with a
3GPP subscription.
Note 1: For the scope of this document it is considered irrelevant whether the
user is also the subscriber or the subscriber is e.g. a company, which holds
several 3GPP subscriptions for users, which are its employees.
Note 2: Within the context of some 3GPP services the notion of a \"user\"
sometimes needs to be extended to service specific entities (e.g.
\"presentity\" for the Presence Service)
**_\- The home operator_** :\ The PLMN operator, with whom the user has the
subscription.
**_\- A \"visited\" operator_** :\ An operator of a PLMN, which is not the
home operator. A visited operator may e.g. be the operator of a 3GPP network,
in which the user currently is roaming.
**_\- The service provider_** :\ Privacy of user information may be specific
to a particular service. A service is provided by a service provider which may
be a 3GPP operator \-- home or visited -- (e.g. location services) or a third
party service provider.
Amongst these parties trust relationships exist:
**_\- User -- home operator_** \ One of the most esteemed assets an operator
has is the trust in protection of privacy, which is maintained by his
customers. If a user communicates via the 3GPP system he considers this
communication more \"private\" than communicating e.g. over the Internet.
**_\- User -- service provider_**
_\- Service provider is the home operator, or the home operator acts on behalf
of a (third party) service provider_ :\ If a service or access to the service
is offered by the home operator, then the same trust relationship exists as in
the previous case.\ It should be noted that the term \"offered by the home
operator\" only means that the user has the impression that the operator is
responsible for that service. This impression could e.g. be implied by the
fact that the user needs no separate contract with the service provider or
that the service is advertised by the operator. In this case usually some kind
of Service level agreement exists between operator and service provider.
_\- Service provider is a third party_ :\ This is the case where the service
provider is a third party (e.g. the user has a separate contract with the
service provider, or a service is downloaded to the terminal from a website).
A Service level agreement does not exist.\ While this case essentially is out
of scope of 3GPP, some implications exist, if the third party service has some
information exchange with the 3GPP system (e.g. the 3GPP identity of the user
via CLIP/CLIR).
**_\- Home operator - third party service provider_** \ Depending on the trust
relationship between the home operator and a third party service provider data
about the user (e.g. location, presence, billing method, user preferences) may
be exchanged between these parties.\ A Service level agreement exists between
operator and service provider.
**_\- Home operator - visited operator_** \ Essentially, this trust
relationship is manifested in the existence of a roaming agreement between the
two parties. However, still this could require that enforcement of some user
data privacy (e.g. for LCS in 3GPP Release 6) is performed in the home network
and not on in the visited network.
## 4.3 Privacy related information
The present document is concerned with two types of privacy related
information of a user:
\- Personal Data
\- Privacy Settings
### 4.3.1 Personal Data
Personal Data is any information, relating to an individual user, that is
collected and / or processed by a PLMN operator or service provider. It is
this information that is the subject of privacy protection, described in the
present document.
Personal data is either:
\- Related to a specific service or service capability - e.g. location
information, presence information, accessibility to push services, service
personalisation of third party provided services ... ; or
\- Non-service-specific information about the user - e.g. personal address,
language, public identities (MSISDNs, SIP URLs) ...
#### 4.3.1.1 Access to and processing of Personal Data
The following kinds of access to and processing of Personal Data are within
the scope of the present document:
\- Read access to a user\'s Personal Data
\- Modify a user\'s Personal Data
Out of scope of the present document are:
\- Creation of a user\'s Personal Data
\- Removal of a user\'s Personal Data
These actions are considered to be specific to individual service provisioning
and are administrative tasks of the operator/service provider.
#### 4.3.1.2 Types and granularity of Personal Data
Personal Data may consist of several types of information (e.g. location
information, presence information) and may exist at several levels of
granularity of information. E.g. a personal datum \"personal address\"
(coarser granularity) may consist of \"street\", \"number\", \"town\", \"zip-
code\", and \"country\" (finer granularity).
Note: The 3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP) 3GPP TS 22.240 [7] defines two
levels of granularity of Personal Data: (a) GUP components (coarser
granularity) and (b) GUP data elements (finer granularity).
### 4.3.2 Privacy Settings and access rules
Privacy Settings describe the rights and limitations of access to and
processing of Personal Data. A user may have preferences for his privacy
settings which should be taken into account by the operator / service
provider.
Privacy settings may be expressed in terms of \"access rules\". Access rules
can be used by any service that requires the protection of personal data or
information about a user.
Access rules define who may access which personal data with what kind of
processing rights.
\- Who (accessor to Personal Data)\ Defines individual accessors or groups of
accessors to Personal Data. The kind of identity used may be service specific.
E.g. for the presence service these may be individual watchers or groups of
watchers. For the push service this could be a list of service identities,
that are allowed to push data to the user\'s terminal.
\- Which Personal Data\ An access rule always refers to an identifiable
personal datum. Again, the kind of personal datum (type, granularity level)
may or may not be service specific.
\- What kind of processing rights.\ An access rule may grant the right to
access the Personal Data
\- not at all, or it may grant
\- the right to read, or
\- to modify the Personal Data.
The applicability of access rules may depend on additional parameters, e.g.
time of day.
Note: There may exist additional -- service specific -- access rules (the
presence service may e.g. display different presence information to different
watchers), however these are out of scope of the present document.
# 5 Privacy Requirements
## 5.1 Existing Service Specific Requirements
### 5.1.1 LCS
Privacy requirements for LCS are contained in TS 22.071 [4]
_\- Protection of personal data_ \ It shall be possible for a Target UE
Subscriber to subscribe to various types of privacy classes. The default
treatment in the absence of the information to the contrary in the Target UE
subscription profile shall be to assume that access is restricted to all LCS
clients (unless using privacy overriding, or otherwise overridden by local
regulatory requirements).
> The classes that can be included are as follows.
\- Universal Class: location services may be provided to all LCS Clients;
\- Call/session-related Class: location services may be provided to any or
particular value added LCS clients that currently has a temporary association
with the Target UE, i.e. call or session
\- Call/session-unrelated Class; location services may be provided to a
particular, identified value added LCS Client or service
\- PLMN Operator Class -- location services may be provided by particular
types of LCS clients supported within the HPLMN or VPLMN.
> Privacy Attributes consist of:
\- Codeword: an additional level of security that may be set by a Target UE
user to determine which Requestors are allowed to request location
information;
\- Privacy Exception List: determines which LCS Clients, services and classes
of LCS Clients may position a Target UE;
\- Service Type Privacy: determines whether the service type allows the LCS
Clients to get the position of a Target UE;
\- Privacy Override Indicator: determines applicability of the Privacy
Exception List.
> Means shall be provided for the UE subscriber to control privacy for value
> added services. (These means are not standardized).
>
> The privacy check shall be performed in the Home Environment of the target
> UE subscriber. This makes it possible for operators to ensure the privacy of
> their own subscribers i.e. the privacy settings that are used for privacy
> checks are always up to date and as specified by the Home Environment of the
> target UE subscriber.
>
> It shall be possible for privacy check to take into account Home Environment
> specific information such as time of day, subscriber location.
>
> It shall be possible for location services to support conditional
> positioning. Under these conditions, an application that is granted
> conditional positioning authorization must notify and obtain positioning
> authorization from the user of the target UE prior to performing the
> positioning process. Thus the user of the target UE shall be able to accept
> or reject the positioning attempt.
>
> Specific local, national, and regional privacy regulations must be complied
> with, and location information must always be available to the network
> service provider.
### 5.1.2 Presence
Privacy requirements for the Presence Service are contained in TS 22.141 [5].
Note that for Presence the \"user\" needs to be extended to the entities
described there, namely a principal, a presentity or a watcher.
\- Protection of personal data
\- Principal:\ A principal of a presentity shall, at any time, be able to
control to whom, for how long and what (all or part of) presence information
of the presentity is provided, and a principal of a watcher shall, at any
time, be able to control to whom, for how long and what (all or part of)
watcher information of the watcher is provided. The principal of the
presentity can deny access to anonymous watchers.
\- Privacy override:\ Specific local, national, and regional privacy
regulations shall be complied with. In particular, an operator shall, at any
time, be able to override principal\'s privacy if required to do so.
\- Access rules:\ Access rules shall define:
a) a watcher or groups of watchers allowed access to the presentity\'s
presence information. For example: watchers x and y are allowed, or only
watchers in group z are allowed, or all watchers and groups are allowed.
b) the validity of the access authorization granted for a given watcher or
groups of watchers. The access to the presentity\'s presence information can
be restricted for a certain period (i.e. duration or number of requests), or
during specific periods of the day.
c) the attributes of the presentity\'s presence information that can be made
available to a given watcher or groups of watchers.
d) the ability to provide different presence information (i.e. both number of
attributes and values of attributes) based on the watcher, and principal\'s
preferences (e.g. its availability). For example: watcher x receives
\'Online/Instant Messaging/im:a\@there.com\', while group y receives
\'Offline/Instant Messaging/im:a\@there.com\'.
\- Non-disclosure of identity
\- It shall be possible for watcher to request presence information
anonymously (i.e. the watcher\'s identifier will not be revealed to the
presentity).\ The access control mechanisms as listed above shall be able to
cope with anonymous watchers.
Note: The mechanism to indicate the anonymity request of watchers (the
initiator of a SIP dialogue can ask to remain anonymous to the receiver) is
part of IMS-requirements when the watcher is an IMS subscriber.
### 5.1.3 OSA
Privacy requirements for OSA are contained in TS 22.127 [6].
\- Non-disclosure of identity
> It shall be possible for the subscriber to hide his/her true identity from
> the OSA Applications and replace it with an alias. The alias shall be unique
> identification that has a one-to-one relationship with the true identity
> (e.g. MSISDN) of the subscriber and may be permanent or temporary (e.g.
> session based).
Note: In particular, subscriber anonymity is important in OSA charging
functions
### 5.1.4 GUP
Privacy requirements for GUP are contained in TS 22.240 [7]
\- Protection of personal data
> It shall be possible for the user to define privacy requirements for
> components of the 3GPP Generic User Profile to determine access rights
>
> Authorization of the requested action (create, read, modify or delete) on
> the user profile data depends on the following information:
\- identification of the requesting application
\- identification of the requesting subscriber (if delivered in the request)
\- identification of the targeted user
\- identification of the targeted user profile data
> The targeted user profile data will be controlled as per the whole user
> profile and/or per different GUP components and/or per different GUP data
> elements.
### 5.1.5 Push Services
Privacy requirements for the Push Service are contained in TS 22.174 [8].
\- Protection from unsolicited communication
> The Push Recipient shall be able to define access rules, in order to control
> how her privacy requirements shall be handled by the Push function.
>
> It shall be possible for the Push Recipient to define the following access
> rules:
\- The Push Recipient shall be able to allow push data from individual push
initiators or groups of Push Initiators to transmit push data to the Push
recipient
\- It shall be possible for the Push Recipient to uniquely identify a Push
initiator and the addressed User Agent prior to accepting or declining a
request to receive push data from that Push Initiator.
\- The Push Recipient shall be able to automatically decline push data from
individual push initiators or groups of Push Initiators to transmit push data
to the Push recipient.
\- At any time it shall be possible for the Push Recipient to stop receipt of
push data from a Push Initiator. This may include any push data from this Push
Initiator or only push data addressed to a particular User Agent of the Push
Recipient.
\- The Push Recipient shall be able to allow individual push initiators or
groups of Push Initiators to transmit push data without user interaction at
the Push Recipient\'s side.
> It shall be possible for the Push Recipient to define these access rules
> based on:
\- The identity of the Push Initiator,
\- The addressed User Agent.
> In addition it shall be possible for the Push Recipient to specify the
> validity of these access rules
\- Only for the next request of the Push Initiator, or
\- For a pre-defined period e.g. next hour, or
\- Unlimited, i.e. till modification or removal of the access rule.
Note: A set of default access rules may be defined by the operator.
### 5.1.6 Messaging
There is no explicit statement on privacy in TS 22.140 [11].
### 5.1.7 Call control and services in general
\- Non-disclosure of identity
TS 22.081: \"Line Identification Supplementary Services\" (Supplementary
Services for CS voice and data):
\- CLIP/CLIR is the (implementation of) the requirement that a user at the
originating side of a call wants to hide his identity (MSISDN) from the called
party. This may be overridden by certain authorities (police, legal
interception);
\- COLP/COLR allows the user at the destination side to hide his identity.
In TS 22.228 equivalent requirements are expressed for IMS
_\- Protection from unsolicited communication_ \ TS 22.088 [12]: \"Call
Barring (CB) supplementary services\"\ (BAOC, BOIC, BOIC‑exHC, BIC, BIC‑Roam)
applicable to CS and SMS\ In TS 22.228 [13] equivalent requirements are
expressed for IMS
## 5.2 General requirements
The following general (i.e. non-service-specific) requirements are identified:
**_\- The user shall be allowed access to her Privacy Data in order for
instance to review, or modify information\_** This requirement allows the user
to monitor and control her Personal Data within the limitations set by the
operator and / or service provider.
**_\- The user shall be allowed to express preferences for her privacy
settings on a per service basis.\_** This requirement allows the user to
modify her privacy settings within the limitations set by the operator and /
or service provider. User preferences shall include specific personal data
items, who may or may not access those data items and the permitted kind of
access.
\- A generic privacy capability\ It shall be possible to use a common set of
access rules that can be used by any service that requires the protection of
personal data or information about a user.
_\- Enforcement of privacy through the terminal_ \ Terminals shall ensure that
existing trust relationships and privacy controls, already established by
network operators, are not bypassed.
**_\- Enforcement of privacy through Home Network\_** This is the requirement
that the means for enforcing privacy are located in the home network. Such a
requirement exists e.g. in LCS Release 6.
**_\- Requirement for control of access to the user\'s personal data by third
parties or by third parties on behalf of the user\_** This is the requirement,
that a third party (e.g. a service provider, a different subscriber) may
access certain data about a user. This may be done
\- Upon request of the user (e.g. a user wants to employ an -- eessentially
untrusted -- cityguide service, which needs to be authorized by the user to
obtain the user\'s location from the network);
\- Without explicit request of the user (e.g. Push services).
\- Roaming support
> Enforcement of user privacy shall be supported for services which are
> provided by the visited network for the roaming user.
>
> Like on the Internet, there is a fundamental legal problem related to how
> service providers deal with the laws of the various locations of its users.
> For roaming users, the privacy policies applied should relate to the
> regional/local directives of the users home PLMN. See also Annex A.
\- call/session related authorisation
\- The user shall be able to invoke defined access rules for a service in
order to control how the user-specific/personal data is made available to
those services
> **_Override (lawful intercept)\_** Mandatory obligations, enforced by for
> instance national laws, for overriding privacy settings shall be complied
> with, e.g. lawful interception [9].
\- Backward compatibility with existing standardized Privacy concepts
\- Privacy settings are most effective if related to a user, not a piece of
equipment. Therefore, it should be possible for the privacy settings of a user
to be maintained when a user switches terminals.
\- If some privacy settings for services offered by the Network Operator are
resident within the terminal, then they should be consistent with equivalent
privacy settings stored within the operator\'s network, e.g. the HLR flag, the
privacy exception list, any settings in the PPR etc...
# 6 Work on privacy in other organizations
Privacy is important in 3GPP mobile communication networks, but privacy is of
equal importance in many other telecommunication and service environments.
There is work ongoing in the Liberty Alliance Project and in the Open Mobile
Alliance (OMA), which is directly aimed at improving support for privacy, or
which is very much related to privacy.
The OMA Privacy Requirements [3] mainly contains (a non-exhaustive list of)
requirements that are mandated by legislation, and those that are not
necessarily covered by legislation but are nevertheless considered industry
best practices. Both the market/social expectations and legislative mandates
are captured by use cases.
The present document tries to capture 3GPP requirements on privacy that are
not contained in the OMA Privacy Requirements [3] and to minimize the overlap
between the two documents.
NOTE: For ease of reading, some differences in terminology between the two
documents should be noted, e.g. The OMA Privacy Requirements [3] calls the
user a \"data subject\", while the operator / service provider is referred to
as \"controller\" or \"processor\".
# 7 Security
**_Access to and use of privacy information shall be supported in a secure
manner.\_** This is the requirement for third parties wishing to access the
data to be authorized to do so.
# 8 Charging
Not applicable.
# 9 Regulatory framework
Relevant regulatory framework issues are covered in OMA Privacy Requirements,
OMA-REQ-Privacy [3]. No additional requirements to those defined in the OMA
Requirements Document have been identified.
# 10 Recommendations
It is seen as essential that 3GPP, Liberty and OMA are involved and
coordinated in the development of privacy features and support for privacy in
telecommunciation networks. The first step anyhow is to establish the service
requirements that apply in different environments. Quite often the service
requirements that are identified regarding privacy are related to
corresponding regulatory requirements.
3GPP should seek to liase with Liberty and OMA and communicate service
requirements on privacy that apply in 3GPP networks. As shown elsewhere in
this document, there are many service requirements on privacy already
documented in 3GPP\'s Specifications and many of these privacy requirements
are quite relevant also for other organisations and similar services in other
networks and environments.
The following steps of standardization are envisaged:
[Step 1]{.underline}
> 3GPP to identify service requriements that apply in 3GPP networks.
>
> OMA to identify service requirements that apply in OMA.
>
> Liberty to identify service requirements that apply in Liberty.
[Step 2]{.underline}
> Specify and agree applicable functional requirements that are needed to
> fulfil the privacy service requirements in the corresponding standardization
> body together with OMA and Liberty. This work requires communication and
> coordination between the standardization bodies so that double work and
> potentially conflicting specifications can be avoided.
[Step 3]{.underline}
> Develop, specify and agree solutions on privacy (e.g. universal privacy
> classification and data formats) to resolve the service and functional
> requirements on privacy together with OMA and Liberty. Also this work
> requires communication and coordination between the standardization bodies
> so that double work and potentially conflicting specifications can be
> avoided.
Step 4
> Specify and update service specific functions and architectural solutions
> (privacy related parts in service specific documents in 3GPP, OMA and
> Liberty) in accordance with the commonly agreed privacy requirements.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Roaming and Multi-jurisdiction support
The application of privacy by both the home and visited network, when a user
is roaming in an area covered by a different jurisdiction to the users home
requires careful consideration.
Typical use cases include, for instance a mobile user from the US who roams to
Europe and buys goods using his mobile device. It should be assumed that the
privacy policy applied should be that of the users home PLMN.
Editors note: Requirements on operators/service providers who serve users in
multiple jurisdictions should be FFS.
#