# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the requirements for IP-Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) Convergent Multimedia Conferencing (CMMC) service in IMS. Specifically,
the objective of this study item is to:
a) Identify features of IMS multimedia conferencing, and describe potential
service requirements for IMS multimedia conferencing.
b) Identify the IMS requirements for multimedia conferencing services:
1) the conference framework
2) data sharing session establishment/termination/management in a conference
3) media control for audio, video and data
4) floor control for audio, video and data
5) conference policy
c) Identify possible routes to standardization by:
1) Adopting existing and emerging standards, e.g. OMA, IETF, W3C.
2) Modifying and enhancing existing and emerging standards.
3) Developing of new standards.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1\".
> [3] 3GPP TS 24.147:\"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
> (CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
>
> [4] IETF RFC 4376: \"Requirements for Floor Control Protocols\".
>
> [5] IETF RFC 4353: \"A Framework for Conferencing with the Session
> Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
>
> [6] IETF RFC 4245: \"High-Level Requirements for Tightly Coupled SIP
> Conferencing\"
[7] W3C Working Draft (November 2006): \"Voice Browser Call Control: CCXML
Version 1.0\".
[8] 3GPP TR 24.880: \"Media Server Control using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TR 22.115: \"Charging and billing\".
[10] ETSI TS 183 005: \"TISPAN; Release 1; PSTN/ISDN Simulation Services:
Conference (CONF); Protocol Specification\".
[11] OMA Push to Talk over Cellular 2 Requirements;\
http://member.openmobilealliance.org/ftp/Public_documents/POC/Permanent_documents/OMA-
RD-PoC-V2_0-20061219-C.zip.
[12] OMA Push to talk over Cellular (PoC) -- Architecture;\
http://member.openmobilealliance.org/ftp/Public_documents/POC/Permanent_documents/OMA-
AD-PoC-V2_1-20060601-D.zip.
[13] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[14] IETF Working Draft draft-ietf-xcon-framework-07: \"A Framework and Data
Model for Centralized Conferencing\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.228: \" IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.218: \" IP Multimedia (IM) session handling; IM call model;
Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.
**CMMC Service Subscriber:** A subscriber that has been provisioned with a
CMMC service.
**Conference:** An IP multimedia session with two or more participants. Each
conference has a "conference focus". A conference can be uniquely identified
by a user. An example for a conference could be a multimedia game, in which
the conference focus is located in a game server.
**Conference Focus:** The conference focus is an entity which has abilities to
host conferences including their creation, maintenance, and manipulation of
the media. A conference focus implements the conference policy (e.g. rules for
talk burst control, assign priorities and participant's rights).
> Note: Definition of Conference Focus taken from TS 22.228 [2] and is not in
> conflict with the IETF definition in RFC4353 [5].
**Floor:** An individual temporary access or manipulation permission for a
specific shared resource (or group of resources) RFC 4376 [4].
**Floor Chair:** A floor chair is a human or automated entity, who is
authorized to manage access to one floor and can grant, deny or revoke access.
The floor chair does not have to be a participant in the conference instance.
**Floor Control:** Floor control is a means to manage joint or exclusive
access to shared resources in a conferencing environment RFC 4376 [4].
**Floor Owner:** Floor owner is a conference participant who is granted the
floor and is allowed to send media.
**Host:** The conference host is a specific conference participant who manages
and controls the conference, e.g. adding and removing participants, adding and
removing media in the conference, terminating the conference etc. There is
only one host in a conference.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply in
addition to TR 21.905[1]:
CMMC Convergent Multi-Media Conference
# 4 Requirements and objectives
The objective of this study item is to study requirements, terminal
requirements and potential new capabilities in 3GPP that need to be
standardized for the CMMC service, especially additional features for roaming
and interoperability support.
# 5 General description of IP-Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) convergent multimedia
conferencing service
## 5.1 General
This section gives general description of CMMC service, identifying the
features of CMMC service.
The IP-Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Convergent Multimedia Conferencing service
enables a multi-party conversation with multimedia including audio, video,
message and various data and application. Such a conversation can be
associated with a conference focus to manage and control the on-going
sessions.
Conferencing in 3GPP is expected to be under the control of the operator who
will take responsibility for the overall management of the conference and the
definition/configuration of their policies. To facilitate this, a focal point
is required. Two types of conferencing are described in RFC4353 [5], loosely
(distributed) and tightly coupled, only one of which fulfils this operator
need.
A loosely coupled conference is one where no coordinated signalling
relationship between participants exists. Typically multicast is used to
distribute conference membership and no focal point exists.
A tightly coupled conference is one in which a focal point exists. This focus
maintains dialogue with each participant, provides a centralised manager and
can be addressed by a conference URI.
CMMC is only concerned with the tightly coupled conferencing model which
offers suitable levels of operator oversight and control.
## 5.2 Basic CMMC
### 5.2.1 Conference types
#### 5.2.1.1 Ad-hoc conference and scheduled conference
An ad-hoc conference is a conference that is created on demand by a conference
participant TS 24.147 [3].
A scheduled conference is one that is created to take place at a pre-
determined time by a CMMC service subscriber or by a third party.
### 5.2.2 Conference roles
#### 5.2.2.1 Conference host
The conference host is a specific conference participant who manages and
controls the conference, e.g. adding and removing participants, adding and
removing media in the conference, terminating the conference etc. There is
only one host in a conference.
The host of ad-hoc conference is the conference creator by default. In a
scheduled conference, one of the participants can be authorized to be the host
at the time of conference reservation or during the conference.
#### 5.2.2.2 Conference participant
A user that joins or is added to the conference is a conference participant.
#### 5.2.2.3 Floor chair
The floor chair is a person or another entity that has floor control for a
floor (e.g. grants, denies, or revokes a floor). The floor chair does not have
to be a participant in a conference, RFC 4376 [4]. The floor chair is able to
grant permission to a conference participant to send media on behalf of
another conference participant.
Different media or media combination (e.g. audio & video) may have different
floors. Each floor may have a different chair.
### 5.2.3 Media in conference
The participants in CMMC can communicate with each other with multiple types
of media including audio, video, message, various data such as file,
whiteboard etc.
### 5.2.4 Operations in conference
#### 5.2.4.1 Creating conference
The ad-hoc conference is created on demand by the initiator. The scheduled
conference is created by the conferencing service automatically at the
scheduled time.
#### 5.2.4.2 Starting conference
The ad-hoc conference is started at the same time it is created. The scheduled
conference is started when the first participant joins the conference.
#### 5.2.4.3 Joining conference
A user can join a conference by requesting to join (e.g. dialing in) the
conference or by accepting the invitation from an other participant or the
conference focus.
#### 5.2.4.4 Leaving conference
A participant can leave a conference at any time during the conference. The
host can also remove a participant causing the participant to leave the
conference.
#### 5.2.4.5 Terminating conference
A conference may be terminated upon:
\- A request from a participant in the conference
\- Other predefined conditions (e.g. timeout)
#### 5.2.4.6 Hosting Conference
The conference host is responsible for managing and controlling the
conference. The host can add and remove participants, mute/unmute
participants, add and remove media, set and change the conference policy etc.
#### 5.2.4.7 Adding and removing media
The conference can be started with a particular set of media types, for
example voice only and during the conference, other types of media such as
video, message and data can be added to the conference. Media types can be
removed from the conference. Adding and removing media types in a conference
is based on the conference policy.
A particular media type may be added or removed for the entire conference or
for a specific list of the participants.
#### 5.2.4.8 Floor control
The conference has shared resources such as the right to talk, input access to
a limited-bandwidth video channel, or a pointer or input focus in a shared
application. Floor control is a means to manage joint or exclusive access to
shared resources in a conferencing environment, RFC 4376 [4]. Floor control
enables applications or users to gain safe and mutually exclusive or non-
exclusive input access to the shared object or resource.
### 5.2.5 Conference state
Conference state is information provided to all or part of the participants
before and during a conference which includes Conference Status and
Participants Status.
Conference Status may contain the information with respect to topics, agenda,
permitted media types, currently used media types, conference mode (e.g.
whether the ongoing conference is a hosted conference or a non-hosted
conference, etc.) allow or not allow file transfer, mute/un mute status, etc.
Participants Status may contain information of conference roles, floor right,
management right, user device capability (e.g. media types supported by
participant's devices.) and the process announcement of participants
joining/leaving a conference.
## 5.3 Advanced CMMC
### 5.3.1 Data conference
While attending audio and video conference, the participants can share various
data and applications including whiteboard, files, applications, documents and
web pages.
#### 5.3.1.1 Whiteboard
The whiteboard is a shared resource for participants in the conference, on
which participants can draw text and graphics.
5.3.1.1.1 Document presentation
A participant in the conference can present to other participants his document
such as commercially available textprocessing and presentation documents. The
document is presented as a background on a whiteboard to all participants.
Only one instance of a whiteboard at a time is allowed in a conference.
A participant can request the host to be allowed to create the whiteboard.
Once a whiteboard has been created a floor chair for that whiteboard is
assigned, which may be the conference host or the creator. Only the conference
host orf the creator can close a whiteboard.
There can be multiple pages in a whiteboard, and the floor chair for that
whiteboard can add or delete pages, and set a page as the current page for
operation. The operation on the whiteboard is floor-controlled, and a
participant needs to apply the floor before he can operate on it. The result
of all the operations on the whiteboard is synchronized to all the
participants.
#### 5.3.1.2 File transmission
During the conference, the participants can deliver or exchange files. A
participant can send out a file to some or all participants in the conference,
when permitted, based on conference policy. The sender gets the feedback of
whether the receivers have received the files successfully.
#### 5.3.1.3 Application/desktop sharing
A participant in the conference can share with other participants an
application running on his terminal when permitted based on conference policy.
The owner of the application can authorize another participant to control the
application remotely. The shared application can be presented to all the
participants.
#### 5.3.1.4 Synchronized web page browsing
The participants in the conference can browse the web pages on the Internet
synchronously. A participant, who has the floor for synchronized web page
browsing, is the controller. There is only one controller and when he
specifies a new link for synchronized browsing the new web page is presented
to other participants through their web-browsers in a new window. A
participant shall be able to refuse to accept synchronized browsing.
Means by which the web browser is invoked are outside of scope of 3GPP
standardisation.
### 5.3.2 Sidebar conferences
A sidebar appears to the users as a \"conference within the conference\". It
is a conversation amongst a subset of the participants to which the remaining
participants are not privy (RFC 4353 [5]). The sidebar has the same
conferencing capabilities (e.g. sidebar identifier, hosts, floor controls) as
the general conference. The maximum number of participants is restricted
according to the configuration of the conference policy.
### 5.3.3 Voting
A participant who is authorized by conference policy can initiate a poll among
the participants. One or more topics can be polled at a time. Several options
are presented for each topic, and the participants can select one or more
options for each topic in a list. Presentation of the options can utilize the
media used in the conference. The voting can be public or anonymous. For
public voting the participants can see who voted for which option. The votes
are collected and the initiator can publish the results to all participants.
The initiator of the voting can set parameters for the voting such as:
\- Allowed participants
\- An expiry time for the voting
\- public or anonymous mode
### 5.3.4 Conference agenda
The conference host can create a conference agenda. A conference agenda is
composed of a set of consecutive topics. Each topic is associated with
starting time, ending time and the on-going state (e.g. finished). The
conference agenda and the on-going state are published and updated to all the
participants during conferencing by the host. With conference agenda, the
participants know about conference schedule and the on-going state.
# 6 Proposed requirements for IP-Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) convergent
multimedia conferencing service
This section specifies potential requirements for CMMC service.
## 6.1 Conference control
### 6.1.1 Creating a conference
#### 6.1.1.1 Creating an ad-hoc conference
A user shall be able to request the creation of an ad-hoc conference.
It shall be possible for a user to specify the participants when creating an
ad-hoc conference.
The user shall be able to give a name to a conference. When a participant is
invited to the conference this name is displayed to the invitee.
Upon conference creation the user shall be able to set properties of the ad-
hoc conference in any of the following ways: default, based on his user
profile, and explicitly.
#### 6.1.1.2 Creating a scheduled conference
It shall be possible for a user to request the creation of a scheduled
conference with specified properties including additional information on the
conference (e.g. the conference subject), starting time, ending time,
participants, media types, conference policy, etc.
The user shall be able to give a name to a conference. When a participant is
invited to the conference this name is displayed to the invitee.
Upon conference creation the user shall be able to set properties of the
scheduled conference in any of the following ways: default, based on his user
profile, and explicitly.
The participants of the scheduled conference can be selected individually or
by choosing a pre-arranged group.
#### 6.1.1.3 Conference identifier
The conference identifier is an identifier associated with a conference
session that uniquely distinguishes a particular conference from all other
conferences in the same network, including those that currently exist and
those that do not. The conference identifier is allocated to the conference
when the conference is initiated. The conference identifier can be applied for
charging, for a user to identify a conference when joining a conference, etc.
### 6.1.2 Starting a conference
The Conference Host shall be able to control when to start the conference.
### 6.1.3 Terminating a conference
It shall be possible for the Conference Focus, based on the conference policy,
to terminate the conference upon:
\- A request from a participant in the conference
\- Other predefined conditions.
### 6.1.4 Adding participants
In a Scheduled Conference, a user shall be able to request to be added to a
conference, and become a conference participant.
The Conference Focus shall be able to invite a user to a conference, and if
the user accepts the invitation, he becomes a conference participant.
Conference participants shall be able to invite a user or a list of users to
join the conference, based on the conference policy. If any users accept the
invitation, they will become conference participants.
The Conference Focus shall be able to query a user if he wants to receive
certain types of media in this conference when he is invited to the
conference.
### 6.1.5 Removing participants
A participant shall be able to request to leave the conference.
Conference participants shall be able to remove a participant or a list of
participants from the conference based on the conference policy.
6.1.6 Sidebar creation
A user shall be able to request the creation of a Sidebar within the existing
Ad-hoc conference or Scheduled conference.
It shall be possible for a user to configure the subset of the participants in
the existing conference when creating a sidebar.
It shall be possible to configure whether or not the termination of the
original conference terminates the Sidebar.
The communication behaviour (e.g., sidebar creation, media data transfer)
shall only be limited within the sidebar the specified subset of participants.
It shall be possible for a participant in a Sidebar to configure whether or
not to receive media from the original conference.
Since the sidebar conference has the same conferencing capabilities as the
general conference, the sidebar shall be uniquely identified, and the user
shall be able to give the sidebar a name and set properties of the sidebar as
that in the conference creation.
## 6.2 Media control and processing
### 6.2.1 Adding and removing media
Based on the conference policy it shall be possible for
\- a participant to request to add or remove media types to be available for
use to all participants or to a specific group of the participants.
\- the Conference Focus to add media types during a conference on behalf of a
conference participant.
The Conference Focus shall be able to query a participant if he wants to
receive certain types of media in this conference.
It shall be possible for a participant to reject media types in a conference,
in which case these media shall not be presented to the participant.
### 6.2.2 Media mixing
Media Mixing denotes the process of combining several real-time media streams
(e.g. audio, video) from the participants, generating one or more output media
streams to the participants.
It shall be possible for the Conference Focus, based on the media mixing
policy, to determine the proper media mixing mode.
### 6.2.3 Floor control
It shall be possible to apply floor control to media types such as: audio,
video, whiteboard and shared applications etc.
It should be possible to apply individual floor control to individual media
types or a combination of media types (e.g., audio & aideo), different media
or media combinations may have different floors.
Each instance of a media type or media combination has one floor control.
Multiple instances of a media may share the same floor control.It should be
possible to apply floor control to a single media type for multiple
participants (e.g. grant, deny, or revoke the floors simultaneously to more
than one participants).
For floor controlled media types at least the following requirements shall be
fulfilled:
> \- A participant shall be able to request a one or more floors
> simultaneously.
>
> \- A participant shall be able to request multiple floors associated with to
> more than one or more media types.
>
> \- A floor owner shall be able to release a floor before or after sending
> media.
>
> \- The floor chair shall be able to revoke a floor from a floor owner.
>
> \- The floor chair shall be able to grant a floor to a participant.
>
> \- The floor chair shall be able to grant or revoke floors of a media type
> or combination of media types simultaneously to a set of participants.
>
> \- The floor chair shall be able to reject a participant\'s floor request.
>
> \- It shall be possible for a participant to request a floor control
> operation (e.g., floor request/release) on behalf of another participant
> (third-party floor control).
>
> \- It shall be possible for a participant to authorize another participant
> to request the floor on his behalf.
>
> \- It shall be possible to inform conference participants about a
> participant\'s floor request.
>
> \- It shall be possible to notify conference participants about the change
> of the floor owner.
It shall be possible to support queuing for floor control during a conference.
When queuing for floor request is applied in a conference, it shall be able to
support the capabilities described as per below:
> \- It shall be possible to inform conference participants that a floor
> request has been queued.
>
> \- It shall be possible to permit a conference participant who has requested
> the floor to obtain the information of his state in the floor request queue.
>
> \- It shall be possible to grant more than one priority level in access to
> the floor, e.g. a participant with higher priority may be allowed to pre-
> empt a participant with lower priority.
>
> \- The floor chair shall be able to adjust (e.g. cancel, reorder etc.) a
> previously queued floor request.
## 6.3 Conference state
### 6.3.1 Conference state information
It should be possible to provide Conference State information to all
participants during a conference.
Conference State information may include:
> 1\. Conference Status
>
> This may contain the information with respect to topics, conference mode
> (e.g. whether file transfer, muting/unmuting the conference, sending of
> particular media types, etc are allowed or not).
>
> 2\. Participants Status
>
> Participants Status is dynamic information on the current status of every
> participant in the conference.
>
> This may contain information of conference roles, floors, participant's
> queuing state, participant's device capability (e.g. media types supported
> by the participant's device.).
The interval of updating conference state information shall be subject to
conference policy (e.g. periodically or when changes occur in the conference).
It shall be possible to specify the extent of conference state information to
be provided to the participants in the conference policy.
### 6.3.2 Conference state subscription
It shall be possible for a participant to subscribe to receive conference
state information. A participant who has subscribed to receive Conference
State information is a conference state subscriber.
As a subscription option it shall be possible to set the minimum interval
between receiving conference state information.
Participants shall be able to unsubscribe from receiving Conference State
information.
### 6.3.3 Conference state notification
A conference state subscriber shall be able to receive conference state
information during an ongoing conference.
It shall be possible to notify conference state subscribers about the
conference state periodically or upon changes of conference state based on the
conference policy.
It shall be possible to adjust the frequency of conference state notification
based on conference policy. Conference State Notification shall be terminated
when the conference is terminated.
## 6.4 Conference policy
### 6.4.1 General
The conference policy contains the rules on how the Conference Focus operates
in a conference. The conference policies applied to CMMC service shall be able
to include conference control policy, media mixing policy, floor control
policy, participant privacy policy and conference state notification policy.
It shall be possible to store conference policies for later re-use.
### 6.4.2 Conference control policy
Conference control policy is defined before a conference by the host or
conference service provider and shall be enforced during a conference.
A conference control policy contains at least the following attributes:
\- for creating a conference
\- Allow or block a user to create a conference.
\- for terminating a conference
\- The way to terminate a conference:
> \- by conference host or an authorized participant
>
> \- due to time out of a scheduled conference
>
> \- after the conference is not active (i.e. no participant in the
> conference) for a defined period
\- for adding participants
\- Allow or block a user to be added to a conference.
\- Allow or block a participant to invite a user to join the conference
\- for removing participants
\- Allow or block a participant to remove another participant.
### 6.4.3 Floor control policy
The IP-Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Convergent Multimedia Conferencing service
shall support individual Floor Control policies per conference.
Floor Control policy provides a regulation (e.g. round robin) which grants the
permission to individual conference participants to access a shared resource
(e.g. to send media) in a conference. The creator of a conference shall be
able to choose and decide the possible policies used in the conference.
It shall be possible to define which types of media in the conference are
floor controlled, and which ones are not floor controlled.
### 6.4.4 Media mixing policy
If multiple media mixing modes are available it shall be possible to specify
one or more preferred modes.
### 6.4.5 Participants privacy policy
The CMMC service should provide some degree of privacy protection for
participants. The privacy protection level of CMMC service should not be lower
than that provided by the network.
It shall be possible for a participant to select the identity that is shown to
other participants i.e. a nickname or the identity provided by IMS. If a
participant requests to use a nickname then the CMMC service should ensure
this nickname is unique in the conference.
It shall be possible for the CMMC service to choose a random nickname for a
participant.
It shall be possible for a participant to request that his identity is
excluded from the Conference state information.
The CMMC service shall allow authorized users (e.g. legal authorities) to
override anonymity settings of other participants. To an authorized conference
participant all available identities of specified participants shall be
provided.
### 6.4.6 Conference state notification policy
The CMMC service shall be able to control the content and frequency of
Conference State Notification information delivered to participants based on
participants preferences and network policy (e.g. for the purpose of reducing
network traffic).
## 6.5 Conference management
### 6.5.1 General
The CMMC service shall allow management of conference resources in order to
meet the requirements of conference participants.
There shall be means for participants to realize manipulation of conference
management:
> \- Generate and manage conference subscriber defined pre-arranged group
> lists.
>
> \- Choose proper means to respond to the invitation to join a conference,
> i.e. automatically or manually accept or reject the invitation based on
> conference policy and terminal capabilities.
Conference service providers shall have the following minimum set of
capabilities for conference management:
> \- Generate and manage pre-arranged group lists.
### 6.5.2 Conference reservation
A CMMC subscriber shall be able to reserve a conference with pre-defined
parameters (e.g. pre-arranged group lists, starting time, maximum number of
participants, etc). The CMMC service should support reserving conference
resources according to the preferred configuration of users.
### 6.5.3 Conference announcement
Conference announcement may be used to provide conference related information
before the conference starts or during the conference.
The conference announcement provides necessary information for users to join
the conference, including the conference access URI, conference ID and PIN
code. General information such as conference starting time, conference topic,
agenda and conference type etc, may also be included in conference
announcement.
It shall be possible to support multiple media formats in conference
announcement in accordance to CMMC service provider's policy. The mechanism
(e.g. email) to distribute conference announcement information to a specified
set of 3GPP subscribers is out of scope of this TR.
### 6.5.4 Conference recording
It should be possible for CMMC to record the conference. Audio and video
parts, including whiteboard screen are recorded, transmitted files, web links
and voting results are stored for later retrieval. Conference participants
shall always be informed, prior to the start of a conference, or when joining
an ongoing conference, that the conference will be or is being recorded.
It should be possible for CMMC to replay conference during the conference. It
should be possible fast forward, skip or rewind the recorded parts of a
conference. These operations should be available to authorized participants
during the conference and authorized CMMC service subscriber after the
conference.
The recording, storage and disclosure of conference material e.g. conference
proceedings and media shall, in relation to data protection, user privacy and
confidentiality, be in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements.
### 6.5.5 Conference roles assignment and replacement
The CMMC service should support means of role assignment in conference
establishment as well as role replacement during conference. A conference
participant can assume multiple roles at a time. The roles in a conference
are:
> \- conference host,
>
> \- floor chair (per media),
>
> \- conference participant
Management requirements for a conference host:
> \- The conference host shall be able to reject or approve the participant's
> application to be the conference host or floor chair.
Management requirements for a conference host or a floor chair:
> \- When the conference host or the floor chair is to leave the conference,
> it should be possible for him to select one of the participants as his
> successor and handover the conference control or floor control to the
> successor. In this case, the successor changes his conference role to
> conference host or floor chair.
## 6.6 Interaction with other services
### 6.6.1 General
3GPP and OMA are defining several service enablers and standard services
including presence service, group management service, messaging services and
IMS Multimedia Telephony service. It shall be possible to take into account
service enablers and standard services when creating CMMC service.
### 6.6.2 Interaction with presence service
The CMMC service shall be able to utilize capabilities of a Presence Service
enabler if appropriate (e.g. to provide participant status information).
Presence Service status information will normally be restricted to the
conference participant states, these may include, for example, \'Entered
Conference', 'Exited Conference', 'Focus', 'Floor -- (media type)'. If
authorised and subscribed to the Presence Service, participants may also be
able to view additional, non-conference related, information for another
participant who has joined or left the conference. Similarly, conference
participant states will not normally be made available to non-participants.
Registered participants who have left the conference and non-participants, who
are authorised and subscribed to the Presence Service, may be notified when a
participant joins or leaves a conference e.g. 'In a meeting / conference' or
'Free'.
Note: the use or publication of CMMC related presence information outside of
CMMC may be restricted.
### 6.6.3 Interaction with group management service
The CMMC service shall be able to reuse the functionality of current Group
Management Service where appropriate.
### 6.6.4 Interaction with messaging service
The CMMC service shall be able to reuse the functionality of current Messaging
Services where appropriate.
### 6.6.5 Interaction with IMS multimedia telephony service and its
supplementary services
CMMC shall be able to reuse the capability and functionality of IMS Multimedia
Telephony Service [13] defined by 3GPP to connect a CMMC participant with the
CMMC focus.
Whilst a user is participating in a CMMC conference via MMTel all
supplementary services apply with the following exception:
\- CONF: a Multimedia Telephony communication with a CMMC focus can not be
included into a MMTel CONF conference
If Communication Barring (CB) is invoked for a user, the user is prohibited to
join or be added to a CMMC conference.
### 6.6.6 Interaction with calendar applications
It shall be possible to schedule conferences both in advance and on a
recurring basis, conference start and stop times should be configurable by a
CMMC user. To support this, it is desirable that the CMMC solution will be
required to interwork with calendar applications. For this it is recommended
to utilize draft-ietf-xcon-framework-07 [14].
## 6.7 Service provisioning
It shall be possible for the CMMC service provider to set up and update CMMC
communication feature configuration remotely in the terminal device.
It shall be possible for the CMMC service provider to provide means (e.g. a
user-interface from the CMMC subscriber's terminal or via a web page) for the
CMMC subscribers to configure and update their CMMC settings.
Note: It is expected that Service Provisioning can be provided by using
existing functionality.
# 7 Proposed terminal requirements
The terminal shall be able to support the capabilities provisioned by CMMC
which includes:
> \- Implement the roles of a conference, i.e. host, floor chair and
> participant.
>
> \- Support the operations and services in basic CMMC, i.e.
> create/start/join/leave/terminate/host a conference, obtain conference state
> information.
>
> \- Support the reception of information from the Conference Focus.
>
> \- May have the capabilities to allow user to manage conference policies.
>
> \- Media process capability.
Dependent on terminal capabilities, it shall be possible to:
> \- Support multiple media types provided during the conference.
>
> \- Support the operations and services in advanced CMMC, e.g. white board,
> file transmission, application sharing, synchronise web page browsing,
> voting etc.
>
> \- Support interaction with IMS Multimedia Telephony Service.
# 8 Quality of service
General QoS requirements as specified for IMS services in 3GPP TS 22.228 [2]
apply.
# 9 Charging
The CMMC service should support offline and online charging. The CMMC service
shall be able to support various charging mechanisms (e.g. reverse, prepaid
and reply charging etc.) defined by 3GPP contained within TS22.115 [9].
Charging models that shall be supported by CMMC includes (non-exhaustive list)
the following items.
Subscription based charging which includes:
> \- Participant status relative to CMMC subscription.
>
> \- Identity of each conference in which the user participates.
>
> \- Maximum number of participants who joined the conference within a defined
> period (as configured in Conference Focus).
Traffic based charging which includes:
> \- Duration of a session.
>
> \- Duration of a conference.
>
> \- Amount of messages containing user content delivered in a conference.
>
> \- Media types used in a conference.
>
> \- Number of sessions proceed, i.e. successful and failed attempts.
>
> \- Number of participants.
>
> \- Volume of data transmitted.
>
> \- Number and type of media exchanged.
>
> \- Duration of media transmit time.
>
> \- Roles of participants.
>
> \- QoS based on sessions and individual media components.
Editor's note: Roaming case is FFS
Storage based charging which includes:
> \- Storage space required for a recorded conference.
>
> \- Conference storage duration, i.e. how long the conference content is
> retained before permanent deletion.
>
> \- Conference replay times, i.e. the number of times the stored conference
> is replayed.
Different charging options shall be permissible for CMMC service, and it shall
be possible to charge to the individual participants.
# 10 Security
## 10.1 General security requirements
Access authorization to the conference shall be provided, i.e. the conferences
will be governed by a set of authorization rules defined in the conference
policy to ensure that unauthorized access to the conference is not allowed.
## 10.2 PIN security feature
The CMMC service providers should be able to offer a security feature which
requires invited participants to enter a PIN number before joining the
conference call. If the CMMC service providers offer it, users can use this
feature when creating a meeting with the conference service option that
restricts the meeting to specific participants. When the user creates a
conference, it can be secured by an automatically allocated PIN. This PIN may
be displayed to the participants during the conference.
# 11 Interworking
The CMMC should support conveyance of services (e.g. voice calls and
multimedia services) between users using different domains or networks (e.g.
IMS users and users in CS domain/PSTN networks) as specified in TS 22.228 [2].
# 12 Roaming
Roaming scenarios in CMMC service shall be compliant with that of IMS.
# 13 Considerations on re-use of existing conferencing capabilities
## 13.1 Re-use of 3GPP conferencing capabilities
As the architecture for the 3GPP conference service is specified in TS 23.228
[15] and TS 23.218 [16], the current TS 24.147 [3] specifies the usage of
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), SIP Events, the Session Description
Protocol (SDP) and the Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) to realize 3GPP
conference service based on the protocols specified by the IETF defined
conference service.
TS 24.147 [3] covers conference services requirements specified in TS 22.228
[2], which include the following aspects:
> \- Conference roles
>
> \- Operations in conference:
>
> \- Conference creation,
>
> \- Termination of the conference
>
> \- Joining a conference,
>
> \- Leaving a conference,
>
> \- Modification of the conference (e.g. add/remove media, manipulation of
> data streams, add/remove participants)
>
> \- Receipt of information from the conference focus (e.g. participants in
> conference, participants joining or leaving the conference)
>
> \- Floor control for conferencing
However, the functionality for conference policy control which is essential
for a complete IMS conferencing service is not specified in TS 24.147 [3].
## 13.2 Re-use of OMA conferencing capabilities
Currently the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) is working on the specification of
several enablers that will support Multimedia Conferencing functions.
The following OMA enablers seem to be relevant (note, that documents can be
found in the Publicly Available Documents section of OMA at
http://www.openmobilealliance.org/tech/publicmaterial.html ):
> \- Converged IP Messaging (CPM)
>
> \- Push-to-Talk over Cellular (PoC version 1 and version 2)
>
> \- Instant Messaging (IM)
>
> \- Presence
>
> \- XML Document Management (XDM)
PoC and IM are based on the architecture model which is inherited from IETF
conferencing framework. The architecture model and technical specifications
are currently limited to near real time medias as the (radio) access
technology is (was) not ready yet to support full-duplex traffic. In addition
OMA has defined horizontal applications to support multiparty applications
namely Presence and XDM.
### 13.2.1 Converged IP Messaging (CPM)
CPM enabler V1.0 is targeted to provide a converged messaging capability
focussing on the user experiences provided with the following services:
> \- Text messaging enabled services. SMS, IMPS, SIMPLE IM, Email, MMS
>
> \- Voice-enabled services: PoC, VoIP
>
> \- Video-enabled service: Video-o-IP
Converged IP Messaging (CPM) is a messaging framework which accommodates
different user experiences such as deferred and immediate messaging, session-
based messaging, and half duplex / full duplex conferencing. It aims at
consolidating common functionalities of existing messaging services and new
features introduced by the convergence of communications brought by SIP-based
technologies.
Requirements are currently specified in the OMA REQ group and are currently
undergoing approval. Work on the architecture of CPM has started.
### 13.2.2 Push-to-Talk over Cellular (PoC version 1 and version 2)
While PoC v1 defines SIP based half-duplex group communication for voice only
PoC v2 is extending the Release Version 1.0 PoC service with:
\- Other media types than voice. Examples of other medias are: Video, images,
text and files.
\- Enhanced PoC Group handling, for example creation of PoC Group Sessions
based on dynamic data such as presence state of the individual PoC Group
members.
\- Enhanced PoC Session handling, for example moderator controlled PoC
Sessions.
\- Others.
PoC v2 contains full-blown conferencing capabilities, which are described (see
in particular section 6.1.8.11 \"Moderated PoC Groups\") in the Requirements
document OMA-RD-PoC-V2_0.
While the conferencing capabilities of PoC v.2 seem to overlap to a great
extent with the potential requirements proposed in the current TR the reader
should be reminded, that PoC only supports half-duplex real time media and
thus voice- or video signal mixing is not supported.
PoC v.2 is currently at the stage of a Candidate OMA enabler. Documents
(requirements- and architecture specifications) can be found at
Requirements document: OMA Push to Talk over Cellular 2 Requirements [11],
Architecture document: OMA Push to talk over Cellular (PoC) -- Architecture
[12].
### 13.2.3 Comparison of proposed CMMC functionality with OMA PoC v2
The following table gives an overview of the proposed CMMC functionalities and
equivalent OMA PoC v2 functionalities
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CMMC functionality | PoC v2 functionality | Comment | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Conference Types: | Ad-hoc PoC Group | | | | Session, | | | Ad-Hoc- and | **Pre-arranged PoC | | | Scheduled Conference | Group Session** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Conference Roles: | Participant, PoC | In PoC v2 the | | | Chair, PoC Session | concept of a Host is | | Participant, Chair, | Owner | more fine-grained | | Host | | than in CMMC. 'PoC | | | | Session Owner' and | | | | 'PoC Group | | | | Administrator' are | | | | defined in OMA PoC. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Media in Conference | In addition to voice | PoC v2 does support | | | Media Types | all media types | | | supported could be | required by CMMC | | | still images, | | | | live-streamed video, | | | | file transfer and | | | | text, but not | | | | limited to the | | | | above-mentioned list | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Operations in | The same functions | | | Conference | exist in PoC v2 | | | | | | | Creating, Starting, | | | | Joining, Leaving, | | | | Terminating, Hosting | | | | a conference,\ | | | | Adding and removing | | | | Media,\ | | | | Floor Control | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Conference State | Automatic | | | | Notification of | | | Conference Status, | Limited | | | Participants Status | Participating | | | | Information | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Conference Record | PoC Box | | | and Replay | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Data Conference | File transmission, | Application/Desktop | | | video- and still | sharing with remote | | Whiteboard, File | image sharing is | control by other | | Transmission, | supported in PoC 2 | participants, | | Application/Desktop | | synchronized Web | | Sharing, | | Page Browsing do not | | Synchronized Web | | exist in PoC v2 | | Page Browsing | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sidebar Conferences | partly covered by | Does not exist in | | | 1-1 mode within a | PoC v2. in the form | | | 1-many PoC session | requested by CMMC | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Voting | PoC voting service | The PoC voting | | | | service is a | | | | potential PoC v2.1 | | | | feature and is not | | | | incorporated in PoC | | | | v 2.0 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Conference Agenda | partly covered by | Does not exist in | | | Enhanced PoC Session | PoC v2. in the form | | | Establishment | requested by CMMC | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 13.3 Re-use of W3C conferencing capabilities
CCXML [7] is a W3C XML scripting language for conferencing and call control
functionality. The language uses an event-driven algorithm where user-defined
actions are triggered when events are fired. One advantage of CCXML is that it
can be used both on Application Server and also MRFC to control conferencing.
CCXML provides constructs for conference management and media control using
VoiceXML for a conference.
3GGP TR 24.880 [8] proposes a delegation model where CCXML can be invoked
using SIP in IMS networks. For example:
\- INVITE
sip:control\@mrf.example.com;ccxml=http://server.example.com/conference.ccxml
\- SIP/2.0 This allows application servers to use CCXML as an interface to
MRFC in IMS network.
A drawback of CCXML is that it currently supports voice only conferencing.
# 14 Conclusion
The architecture and protocol of CMMC shall be consistent with what has been
specified for IMS conferencing in 3GPP TS 22.147 [3] and TISPAN ETSI TS 183
005 [10].
As related activity is ongoing in OMA duplicate work should be avoided.\ OMA
should be consulted whether their ongoing work would cover the proposed
functionality for CMMC as well.
#