# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
28.671: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**28.672: Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)**
28.673: Telecommunication management; Home Node B (HNB) Subsystem (HNS)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Home Node B Subsystem (HNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) IRP (that can be communicated between an IRPAgent and an
IRPManager for telecommunication network management purposes, including
management of converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP IS is needed,
such as the Basic CM IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]) or the Bulk CM IRP IS (3GPP
TS 32.612 [8]). However, which IS that is applicable is outside the scope of
the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.467: \" Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network
(UTRAN); UTRAN Architecture for 3G HNB\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRMs) Integration Reference Point (IRP):Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] TR-196, "_Femto Access Point Device Data Model"_ , Broadband Forum, 2009,
http://broadband-forum.org/technical/download/TR-196.pdf.
[10] 3GPP TS 28.702: \"Telecommunication management; Core Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects"
[12] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[14] IETF RFC 4293: \"SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Internet
Protocol using SMIv2\".
[15] IETF RFC3873: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Management
Information Base (MIB)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.583: "Home Node B (HNB) Operations, Administration,
Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure flows for Type 1 Interface HNB
to HNB Management System (HMS)"
[17] 3GPP TS 23.002: "Technical Specification Group Services and Systems
Aspects; Network architecture"
[18] 3GPP TS 22.220: "Service requirements for Home Node B (HNB) and Home
eNode B (HeNB)"
[19] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description;Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 23.401 \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[22] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions and
abbreviations apply. For definitions and abbreviations not found here, please
refer to 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [5].
**Association:** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Home Node B Management System (HMS):** See TS 32.583 [16].
**HNB GW:** See TS 25.467 [4].
**Home Node B Subsystem (HNS):** See TS 23.002 [17].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DN Distinguished Name
GW Gateway
HNB Home Node B
HNS Home Node B Subsystem
IOCs Information Object Classes
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 28.622 [6], IOC, ManagementNode ManagementNode 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC,
Subnetwork Subnetwork 3GPP TS 28.622 [6], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 28.622 [6],
IOC, VsDataContainer VsDataContainer 3GPP TS 28.702 [10], IOC, IupsLink
IupsLink 3GPP TS 28.702 [10], IOC, IucsLink IucsLink 3GPP TS 28.702 [10], IOC,
IubcLink IubcLink
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="2.498611111111111in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
Figure 4.2.1-1 Containment/Naming
{width="6.6875in" height="1.7472222222222222in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 4.2.1-2: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
Each IOC instance is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [11] that expresses its containment
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between classes.
{width="6.6875in" height="1.5395833333333333in"}
> Figure 4.2.2-1 Inheritance Hierarchy
NOTE: IuhSignLinkTp is a special definition for the signalling of the EP-Iuh,
and these two IOC inherit from EP‑RP.
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 HNBGWFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents HNB GW functionality. For more information about the HNB
GW, see 3GPP TS 25.467[4].
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable hnbGwId M M - - M iPConfigInfo M M - - M maxNbrHNBRegistered M M
- - M maxPacketCapability M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this class,
without exceptions or additions._
### 4.3.2 IuhSignLinkTp
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents a signaling link on the Iuh interface and inherits from
EP-RP.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable is writable isInvariant
isNotifyable sctpAssocLocalAddr M M - - M sctpAssocRemoteAddr M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this class,
without exceptions or additions._
### 4.3.3 EP_Iuh
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents an end point of the Iuh interface. It inherits from EP-RP.
For more information Iu-h interface, see 3GPP TS 25.467[4].
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable farEndNEIPAddr O M CM - M
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition Condition for farEndNEIPAddr's write qualifier The EP_Iuh
object belongs to the different Domain Manager as the NE pointed by the
farEndNeIpAddr attribute.
* * *
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this class,
without exceptions or additions_.
### 4.3.4 HMSFunction
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents HMS functionality. For more information about HMS, see
3GPP TS 32.583 [16].
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.4.3 Notifications
There are no Notifications defined.
### 4.3.5 HNB
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This class represents HNB functionality. For more information about the HNB,
see 3GPP TS 25.467 [4]. For definition of HNB, see 3GPP TS 22.220 [18].
The Home NodeB, represented by the \> HNB, has registered itself
with one node represented by HMSFunction.
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M -- - - -
* * *
#### 4.3.5.3 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are not valid for this class.
The set of notifications defined in the following table is valid._
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[19])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])
* * *
### 4.3.6 HNBProfile
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
The HNBProfile is a representation of information that a) identifies a
specific set of HNB devices and b) the related configuration parameters (and
their values) that are required to be configured in those identified HNB
devices during HNB registration procedure.
It contains userLabel, an attribute inherited from ManagedFunction. This is a
user friendly label assigned by operator. Examples can be "VIP configuration",
"Gold Tier configuration", "device vendor XYZ software version 3.4", "camel",
etc
#### Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable configuration M M - - M criterion O M - - M
* * *
### 4.3.7 LocalGWFunction
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This class represents local Gateway functionality. For more information about
the local gateway, see 3GPP TS 23.060 [20] and 3GPP TS 23.401[21].
The Local Gateway, represented by the \> LocalGWFunction, has
registered itself with one node represented by HMSFunction.
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable iPAddr M - - - - collocationFlag M - - - - servedNode M - - - -
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are not valid for this class.
The set of notifications defined in the following table is valid._
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[19])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])
* * *
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute Properties
The following table defines the attributes that are present in several
Information Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > Attribute Name | > Documentation and | Properties | | | > Allowed Values | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | type: String | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | multiplicity: 1 | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | isUnique: True | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | defaultValue: None | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | isNullable: False | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | format of allowed | | | | values to be | | | | conformant with TS | | | | 32.300[11] | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hnbGwId | Unique HNB GW ID. | type: see [9] | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.467 | | | | [4] specifies that | multiplicity: see | | | HNB GW acts as a RNC | [9] | | | to the existing core | | | | network using | isOrdered: see [9] | | | existing Iu | | | | interface. | isUnique: see [9] | | | | | | | See \"RNC-ID\" in | defaultValue: see | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 23.002 | [9] isNullable: | | | [12] and 3GPP TS | see [9] | | | 25.413 [13] | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iPConfigInfo | The IP address, | type: see [9] | | | subnetwork mask, | | | | default gateway for | multiplicity: see | | | HNB GW (Ref. IETF | [9] | | | RFC 4293 [14]). | | | | | isOrdered: see [9] | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | isUnique: see [9] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxNbrHNBRegistered | Maximum number of | type: see [9] | | | registered HNB means | | | | maximum number of | multiplicity: see | | | HNB allowed to be | [9] | | | registered. | | | | | isOrdered: see [9] | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | isUnique: see [9] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxPacketCapability | The HNB GW's ability | type: see [9] | | | of forwarding | | | | packets, such as | multiplicity: see | | | maximum number of | [9] | | | forwarded packets | | | | per second. | isOrdered: see [9] | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: see [9] | | | [9] | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sCTPAssocLocalAddr | The local port and | type: see [9] | | | IP address of SCTP | | | | association (See | multiplicity: see | | | RFC3873 [15]). | [9] | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isOrdered: see [9] | | | [9] | | | | | isUnique: see [9] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sCTPAssocRemoteAddr | The remote port and | type: see [9] | | | IP address of SCTP | | | | association (See | multiplicity: see | | | RFC3873 [15]). | [9] | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isOrdered: see [9] | | | [9] | | | | | isUnique: see [9] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndEntity | The value of this | type: see [9] | | | attribute shall be | | | | the Distinguished | multiplicity: see | | | Name of the far end | [9] | | | network entity to | | | | which the reference | isOrdered: see [9] | | | point is related. | | | | | isUnique: see [9] | | | As an example, with | | | | EP_Iucs, if the | defaultValue: see | | | instance of EP_Iucs | [9] isNullable: | | | is contained by one | see [9] | | | RncFunction | | | | instance, the | | | | farEndEntity is the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the | | | | MscServerFunction | | | | instance to which | | | | this Iucs reference | | | | point is related. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndNeIpAddr | The IP address(s) of | type: see [9] | | | the far end network | | | | entity to which the | multiplicity: see | | | reference point is | [9] | | | related.This is an | | | | IPv4 or an IPv6 | isOrdered: see [9] | | | address. | | | | | isUnique: see [9] | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | configuration | It is a location of | type: see [9] | | | a data set. The data | | | | set is a set of HNB | multiplicity: see | | | attributes (with | [9] | | | values) needed to be | | | | loaded into the HNB. | isOrdered: see [9] | | | | | | | The data set does | isUnique: see [9] | | | not contain all | | | | configuration data | defaultValue: see | | | needed for a device | [9] isNullable: | | | to operate. Some | see [9] | | | configuration | | | | parameters are | | | | autonomously and | | | | dynamically | | | | calculated by the | | | | serving HMS. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | criterion | It is a criterion | type: see [9] | | | that determines if a | | | | HNB should or should | multiplicity: see | | | not be loaded with a | [9] | | | particular | | | | configuration. | isOrdered: see [9] | | | | | | | The syntax and | isUnique: see [9] | | | semantics of | | | | criterion is | defaultValue: see | | | vendor-specific. | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | | | Example 1: | | | | | | | | > The syntax and | | | | > semantics can be | | | | > "If the HNB ID | | | | > range is between | | | | > ABC and DEF then | | | | > APPLY the related | | | | > configuration ". | | | | | | | | Example 2: | | | | | | | | > The syntax is a | | | | > list of strings | | | | > where each string | | | | > is an "attribute | | | | > == value" pair. An | | | | > attribute | | | | > represents a | | | | > TR‑196 parameter. | | | | > Its value is the | | | | > corresponding | | | | > attribute value. | | | | > | | | | > The semantics is | | | | > "if all pairs | | | | > found in criterion | | | | > are also found in | | | | > the home devices, | | | | > then the | | | | > determination is | | | | > positive in that | | | | > the home device | | | | > should be loaded | | | | > with information | | | | > of the data set | | | | > identified by | | | | > configuration; | | | | > else not". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iPAddr | The IP address(s) | type: see [9] | | | assigned for the | | | | Local Gateway. | multiplicity: see | | | | [9] | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | isOrdered: see [9] | | | | | | | | isUnique: see [9] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | collocationFlag | This attribute | type: see [9] | | | indicates whether | | | | the local gateway is | multiplicity: see | | | collocated with the | [9] | | | HNB or HeNB that it | | | | serves (see | isOrdered: see [9] | | | ServedNode relation | | | | in 6.2.1 UML class | isUnique: see [9] | | | diagram) or not. | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | allowedValues: see | [9] isNullable: | | | [9] | see [9] | | | | | | | ee clause | | | | 6.nfiguration | | | | not | | | | ific0000000000000000 | | | | 00000000000000000000 | | | | 00000000000000000000 | | | | 00000000000000000000 | | | | 00000000000000000000 | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | servedNode | This attribute | type: see [9] | | | contains the DN of a | | | | HNB or HeNB that is | multiplicity: see | | | being served (see | [9] | | | ServedNode relation | | | | in 6.2.1 UML class | isOrdered: see [9] | | | diagram). | | | | | isUnique: see [9] | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [9] | defaultValue: see | | | | [9] isNullable: | | | | see [9] | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
### 4.5 Common notifications {#common-notifications .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications {#alarm-notifications .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in [19], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [22], would capture the DN of an
instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[19])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [19])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications {#configuration-notifications .Style-
Heading-3h3-+-After:--0-pt}
None.
#