# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the result of the Multi-SDO JWG on Model Alignment
which 3GPP TSG SA WG5 (SA5) has developed jointly with TMF and NGMN, and which
does not fully follow the 3GPP templates and drafting rules.
Therefore 3GPP SA5 has desired to keep the present document as similar as
possible to the original in ([9]), for comparison with the corresponding TMF
version.
Thus 3GPP SA5 has done only the strictly necessary changes from the 3GPP
drafting rules perspective in order to publish the present document as a 3GPP
Technical Report. One of these type of changes is due to the fact that it is
not allowed to use \"shall\" in an informative TR. However, in order to
preserve the original intention of \"must\" and \"shall\" in the original JWG
document and distinguish it from other places where \"should\" has been used
(in case it is decided in the future to transform the TR into a TS), the use
of \"shall\" is marked in italics font as \"_shall_ \".
The JWG on Model Alignment work has chosen UML to capture behaviour of
systems/entities under management.
UML provides a rich set of concepts, notations and model elements to model
distributive systems. Usage of all UML notations and model elements is not
necessary for the purpose of JWG Model Alignment work. This paper documents
the necessary and sufficient set of UML notations and model elements,
including the ones built by the UML extension mechanism \>, for
use by JWG Model Alignment work. Collectively, this set of notations and model
elements is called the FMC (developed by the Converged Management of
Fixed/Mobile Networks project) Model Repertoire.
JWG Model Alignment specifications _shall_ employ the UML notation and model
elements of this repertoire. In the course of the JWG Model Alignment work,
JWG Model Alignment group may modify (add, delete, modify) UML notation and
model elements of this repertoire when necessary.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] OMG Unified Modelling Language (OMG UML), Infrastructure, Version 2.4.
[2] OMG Unified Modelling Language (OMG UML), Superstructure, Version 2.4.
[3] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"3^rd^ Generation Partnership Projects; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Telecommunication management;
Configuration Management (CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Network architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network
Information Model (FNIM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) Federated Network
Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model (UIM)\".
[7] Recommendation ITU-T X.680: \"OSI networking and system aspects - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1)\".
[8] Recommendation ITU-T X.501: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - The Directory: Models\".
[9] S5eMA20139 Model Repertoire 5.3 (JWG output)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of this document, the following definitions and abbreviations
apply. For definitions and abbreviations not found here, see also Fixed Mobile
Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [5], Fixed Mobile
Convergence (FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella
Information Model [6].
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**distinguished name:** See 3GPP TS 32.300 [3].
**lower camel case:** practice of writing compound words in which the words
are joined without spaces
NOTE: Initial letter of all except the first word _shall_ be capitalized.
EXAMPLE: \'managedNodeIdentity\' and \'minorDetails\' are the LCC for
\"managed node identity\" and \"minor details\" respectively.
**naming attribute:** class attribute that holds the class instance identifier
NOTE: See attribute id of _Top__ [6]. See examples of naming attribute in 3GPP
TS 32.300 [3].
**upper camel case:** lower camel case except that the first letter is
capitalised
EXAMPLE: \'ManagedNodeIdentity\' and \'MinorDetails\' are the UCC for
\"managed node identity\" and \"minor details\" respectively.
**well known abbreviation:** acan be used as the modelled element name or as a
component of a modelled element name
NOTE: The abbreviation, when used in such manner, _shall_ be documented in the
same document where the modelled element is defined.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Conditional Mandatory
CO Conditional Optional
DN Distinguished Name
FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence
FNIM Federated Network Information Model
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
JWG (3GPP/TM Forum) Joint Working Group
LCC Lower Camel Case
M Mandatory
NA Not Applicable
NRM Network Resource Model
O Optional
OMG Object Management Group
UCC Upper Camel Case
UIM Umbrella Information Model
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
WKA Well Known Abbreviation
# 4 Requirements
The UML notations and model elements captured in this repertoire _shall_ be
used to model behaviours of the systems/entities specified by the JWG Resource
Model Alignment work such as the Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [6] of the
FNIM discussed in Converged Management of Fixed/Mobile Network project.
# 5 Information Model Elements and Notations
## 5.1 General
Note that the graphical notation in this document is only used to represent
particular model elements. Although the graphical notation is a correct
representation of the model element, it may not be a valid representation of a
UML class diagram.
The examples used in this document are for illustration purposes only and may
or may not exist in specifications.
UML properties not described in this document _shall_ not be used in
specifications based on this repertoire.
## 5.2 Basic model elements
UML has defined a number of basic model elements. This sub-clause lists the
subset selected for use in specifications based on this repertoire. The
semantics of these selected basic model elements are defined in [1].
For each basic model element listed, there are three parts. The first part
contains its description. The second part contains its graphical notation
examples and the third part contains the rule, if any, recommended for
labelling or naming it.
The graphical notation has the following characteristics:
1\. Section 7.2.7 of [2] specifies \"A class is often shown with three
compartments. The middle compartment holds a list of attributes while the
bottom compartment holds a list of operations\" and \"Additional compartments
may be supplied to show other details\". This repertoire only allows the use
of the name (top) compartment and attribute (middle) compartment. The
operation (bottom) compartment may be present but is always empty, as shown in
the figure below.
{width="0.9944444444444445in" height="0.5548611111111111in"}
2\. Classes may or may not have attributes. The graphical notation of a class
may show an empty attribute (middle) compartment even if the class has
attributes, as shown in figure below.
{width="1.007638888888889in" height="0.47638888888888886in"}
3\. The visibility symbol _shall_ not appear along with the class attribute,
as shown below.
{width="1.1409722222222223in" height="0.7701388888888889in"}
4\. The use of the decoration, i.e. the symbol in the name (top) compartment,
is optional.
### 5.2.1 Attribute
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
It is a typed element representing a property of a class. See section 10.2.5
Property of [1].
An element that is typed implies that the element can only refer to a
constrained set of values.
See section 10.1.4 Type of [1] for more information on type.
See clauses 5.3.4 and 5.4.3 for predefined data types and user-defined data
types that can apply type information to an element.
The following table captures the properties of this modelled element.
Table 1: Attribute properties
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Property name | Description | Legal values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | documentation | Contains a textual | Any | | | description of the | | | | attribute.\ | | | | Should refer (to | | | | enable traceability) | | | | to the specific | | | | requirement. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isOrdered | For a multi-valued | True, False | | | multiplicity; this | (default) | | | specifies if the | | | | values of this | | | | attribute instance | | | | are sequentially | | | | ordered. See section | | | | 7.3.44 and its table | | | | 7.1 of [2]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isUnique | For a multi-valued | True (default), | | | multiplicity, this | False | | | specifies if the | | | | values of this | | | | attribute instance | | | | are unique (i.e. no | | | | duplicate attribute | | | | values). See section | | | | 7.3.44 and its Table | | | | 7.1 of [2]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isReadable | Specifies that this | True (default), | | | attribute can be | False | | | read by the manager. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isWritable | Specifies that this | True, False | | | attribute can be | (default) | | | written by the | | | | manager under the | | | | conditions specified | | | | in Annex B. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | type | Refers to a | NA | | | predefined (see | | | | clause 5.4.3) or | | | | user defined data | | | | type (see clause | | | | 5.3.4. See also | | | | section 7.3.44 of | | | | [2], inherited | | | | from | | | | StructuralFeature. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isInvariant | Attribute value is | True, False | | | set at object | (default) | | | creation time and | | | | cannot be changed | | | | under the conditions | | | | specified in annex | | | | B. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | allowedValues | Identifies the | Dependent on type | | | values the attribute | | | | can have. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isNotifyable | Identifies if a | True (default), | | | notification _shall_ | False | | | be sent in case of a | | | | value change.^1,2^ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | defaultValue | Identifies a value | No value (default) | | | at specification | or a value that is | | | time that is used at | dependent on | | | object creation time | allowedValues | | | under conditions | | | | defined in annex B. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | multiplicity | Defines the number | See clause 5.2.8 | | | of values the | Default is 1 | | | attribute can | | | | simultaneously have. | | | | See section 7.3.44 | | | | of [2]; inherited | | | | from | | | | StructuralFeature. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isNullable | Identifies if an | True, False | | | attribute can carry | (default) | | | no information. The | | | | implied meaning of | | | | carrying \"no | | | | information\" is | | | | context sensitive | | | | and is not defined | | | | in this Model | | | | Repertoire. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | supportQualifier | Identifies the | M, O (default), CM, | | | required support of | CO, C | | | the attribute. See | | | | also clause 7. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Whether a | | | | client/manager can | | | | receive the | | | | notification depends | | | | on a) if the | | | | client/manager has | | | | subscribed or | | | | registered for | | | | reception of such | | | | notification and b) | | | | if a notification | | | | mechanism is | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the | | | | attribute is a | | | | role-attribute and | | | | its property | | | | passedById is | | | | \'False\', then | | | | changes in the | | | | navigable | | | | association target | | | | end instance alone | | | | _shall_ not trigger | | | | a notification. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Example
This example shows three attributes, i.e. a, b and c, listed in the attribute
(the second) compartment of the class Xyz.
{width="1.1409722222222223in" height="0.7701388888888889in"}
Figure 1: Attribute notation
#### 5.2.1.3 Name style
An attribute name _shall_ use the LCC style.
Well Known Abbreviation (WKA) is treated as a word if used in a name. However,
WKA _shall_ be used as is (its letter case cannot be changed) except when it
is the first word of a name; and if so, its first letter _shall_ be in lower
case.
### 5.2.2 Association relationship
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
It shows a relationship between two classes and describes the reasons for the
relationship and the rules that might govern that relationship.
It has ends. Its end, the association end(s), specifies the role that the
object at one end of a relationship performs. Each end of a relationship has
properties that specify the role (see clause 5.2.9), multiplicity (see clause
5.2.8), visibility and navigability (see the arrow symbol used in figure 3)
and may have constraints. Note that visibility _shall_ not be used in models
based on this Repertoire (see bullet 3 of 5.1).
See section 7.3.3 Association of [2].
Three examples below show a binary association between two model elements. The
association can include the possibility of relating a model element to itself.
The first example (figure 2) shows a bi-directional navigable association in
that each model element has a pointer to the other. The second example (figure
3) shows a unidirectional association (shown with an open arrow at the target
model element end) in that only the source model element has a pointer to the
target model element and not vice-versa. The third example (figure 4) shows a
bi-directional non-navigable association in that each model element does not
have a pointer to the other; i.e. such associations are just for illustration
purposes.
#### 5.2.2.2 Example
An association _shall_ have an indication of cardinality (see clause 5.2.8).
It _shall_ , except the case of non-navigable association, have an indication
of the role name (see clause 5.2.9). The model element involved in an
association is said to be \"playing a role\" in that association. The role has
a name such as +aClass in the first example below. Note that the \"+\"
character in front of the role name, indicating the visibility, is ignored.
{width="4.402777777777778in" height="0.46805555555555556in"}
Figure 2: Bidirectional association relationship notation
{width="4.436111111111111in" height="0.3541666666666667in"}
Figure 3: Unidirectional association relationship notation
{width="4.313194444444444in" height="0.40555555555555556in"}
Figure 4: Non-navigable association relationship notation
Note that some tools do not use arrows in the UML graphical representation for
bidirectional associations. Therefore, absence of arrows is not, but absence
of role names is, an indication of a non-navigable association.
#### 5.2.2.3 Name style
An Association can have a name. Use of Association name is optional. Its name
style is LCC style.
A role name _shall_ use the LCC style.
### 5.2.3 Aggregation association relationship
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
It shows a class as a part of or subordinate to another class.
An aggregation is a special type of association in which objects are assembled
or configured together to create a more complex object. Aggregation protects
the integrity of an assembly of objects by defining a single point of control
called aggregate, in the object that represents the assembly.
See section .3.2 AggregationKind (from Kernel) of [2].
#### 5.2.3.2 Example
A hollow diamond attached to the end of a relationship is used to indicate an
aggregation. The diamond is attached to the class that is the aggregate. The
aggregation association _shall_ have an indication of cardinality at each end
of the relationship (see clause 5.2.8).
{width="4.017361111111111in" height="0.3638888888888889in"}
Figure 5: Aggregation association relationship notation
#### 5.2.3.3 Name style
An Association can have a name. Use of Association name is optional. Its name
style is LCC.
### 5.2.4 Composite aggregation association relationship
#### 5.2.4.1 Description
A composite aggregation association is a strong form of aggregation that
requires a part instance be included in at most one composite at a time. If a
composite is deleted, all of its parts are deleted as well.
A composite aggregation _shall_ contain a description of its use.
See section 7.3.3 Association (from Kernel) of [2].
#### 5.2.4.2 Example
A filled diamond attached to the end of a relationship is used to indicate a
composite aggregation. The diamond is attached to the class that is the
composite. The composition association _shall_ have an indication of
cardinality at each end of the relationship (see clause 5.2.8).
{width="4.715277777777778in" height="0.4791666666666667in"}
Figure 6: Composite aggregation association relationship notation
#### 5.2.4.3 Name style
An Association can have a name. Use of Association name is optional. Its name
style is LCC.
### 5.2.5 Generalization relationship
#### 5.2.5.1 Description
It indicates a relationship in which one class (the child) inherits from
another class (the parent).
See clause 7.3.20 Generalization of [2].
#### 5.2.5.2 Example
This example shows a generalization relationship between a more general model
element (the **IRPAgent**) and a more specific model element (the
IRPAgentVendorA) that is fully consistent with the first element and that adds
additional information.
{width="4.975694444444445in" height="0.44513888888888886in"}
Figure 7: Generalization relationship notation
#### 5.2.5.3 Name style
It has no name so there is no name style.
### 5.2.6 Dependency relationship
#### 5.2.6.1 Description
\"A dependency is a relationship that signifies that a single or a set of
model elements requires other model elements for their specification or
implementation. This means that the complete semantics of the depending
elements is either semantically or structurally dependent on the definition of
the supplier element(s)...\", an extract from section 7.3.12 Dependency of
[2].
#### 5.2.6.2 Example
This example shows that the BClass instances have a semantic relationship with
the AClass instances. It indicates a situation in which a change to the target
element (the AClass in the example) will require a change to the source
element (the BClass in the example) in the dependency.
{width="3.7194444444444446in" height="0.48819444444444443in"}
Figure 8: Dependency relationship notation
#### 5.2.6.3 Name style
An Association can have a name. Use of Association name is optional. Its name
style is LCC.
### 5.2.7 Comment
#### 5.2.7.1 Description
A comment is a textual annotation that can be attached to a set of elements.
See section 7.3.9 Comment (from Kernel) from [2].
#### 5.2.7.2 Example
This example shows a comment, as a rectangle with a \"bent corner\" in the
upper right corner. It contains text. It appears on a particular diagram and
may be attached to zero or more modelling elements by dashed lines.
{width="4.423611111111111in" height="1.0298611111111111in"}
Figure 9: Comment notation
#### 5.2.7.3 Name style
It has no name so there is no name style.
### 5.2.8 Multiplicity, a.k.a. cardinality in relationships
#### 5.2.8.1 Description
\"A multiplicity is a definition of an inclusive interval of non-negative
integers beginning with a lower bound and ending with a (possibly infinite)
upper bound. A multiplicity element embeds this information to specify the
allowable cardinalities for an instantiation of this element...\", an extract
from section 7.3.32 MultiplicityElement of [2].
Table 2: Multiplicity-string definitions
* * *
Multiplicity Explanation 1 Attribute has one attribute value. _m_ Attribute
has _m_ attribute values. 0..1 Attribute has zero or one attribute value. 0..*
Attribute has zero or more attribute values. * Attribute has zero or more
attribute values. 1..* Attribute has at least one attribute value. _m..n_
Attribute has at least _m_ but no more than _n_ attribute values.
* * *
The use of \"0..n\" is not recommended although it has the same meaning as
\"0..*\" and \"*\".
The use of a standalone symbol zero (0) is not allowed.
#### 5.2.8.2 Example
This example shows a multiplicity attached to the end of an association path.
The meaning of this multiplicity is one to many. One Network instance is
associated with zero, one or more SubNetwork instances. Other valid examples
can show the \"many to many\" relationship.
{width="5.1402777777777775in" height="0.4479166666666667in"}
Figure 10: Cardinality notation
The cardinality zero is not used to indicate the IOC\'s so-called \"transient
state\" characteristic. For example, it is not used to indicate that the
instance is not yet created but it is in the process of being created. The
cardinality zero will not be used to indicate this characteristic since such
characteristic is considered inherent in all IOCs. All IOCs defined are
considered to have such inherent \"transient state\" characteristics.
Note that the use of \"0..*\", \"0..n\" or \'*\' means \"zero to many\". The
use of \"0..*\" is recommended. The following table shows some valid examples
of multiplicity.
Table 3: Multiplicity-string examples
* * *
Multiplicity Explanation 1 Attribute has exactly one attribute value. 5
Attribute has exactly 5 attribute values. 0..1 Attribute has zero or one
attribute value. 0..* Attribute has zero or more attribute values. 1..*
Attribute has at least one attribute value. 4..12 Attribute has at least 4 but
no more than 12 attribute values.
* * *
#### 5.2.8.3 Name style
It has no name so there is no name style.
### 5.2.9 Role
#### 5.2.9.1 Description
It indicates navigation, from one class to another class, involved in an
association relationship. A role is named. The direction of navigation is to
the class attached to the end of the association relationship with (or near)
the role name.
The use of role name in the graphical representation is mandatory for
bidirectional and unidirectional association relationship notations (see
figures 2 and 3). Role name _shall_ not be used in non-navigable association
relationship notation (see figure 4).
A role at the navigable end of a relationship becomes (or is mapped into) an
attribute (called role-attribute) in the source class of the relationship.
Therefore roles have the same behaviour (or properties) as attributes. See
table 1.
The role-attribute _shall_ have all properties defined for attributes in
clause 5.2.1 and in addition the following property:
Table 3A: passedById property
+---------------+-------------------------+-----------------------+ | Property name | Description | Legal values | +---------------+-------------------------+-----------------------+ | passedById | If True, the | True (default), False | | | role-attribute | | | | (navigable association | | | | source end) contains a | | | | DN of the navigable | | | | association target end | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | If False, the | | | | role-attribute contains | | | | (a copy of) the whole | | | | target end instance | | | | (e.g. X). If X has a | | | | role-attribute whose | | | | \"passedById==False\", | | | | then the subject | | | | role-attribute contains | | | | (a copy of) X\'s target | | | | end instance as well. | | | | | | | | The above rule is | | | | applied repeatedly for | | | | all occurrences of | | | | \"passedById==False\". | | | | This application can | | | | result in a collection | | | | of instances where no | | | | ordering can be implied | | | | and no instances are | | | | duplicated. | | | | | | | | Use of | | | | \"passedById==False\" | | | | supports the efficient | | | | access of target end | | | | instances from a source | | | | end instance. The | | | | mechanism by which such | | | | access is achieved is | | | | operation model design | | | | specific (e.g. not | | | | related to resource | | | | model design). | | +---------------+-------------------------+-----------------------+
#### 5.2.9.2 Example
This example shows that a Person (say instance John) is associated with a
Company (say whose DN is \"Company=XYZ\"). We navigate the association by
using the opposite association-end such that John\'s Person.theCompany would
hold the DN, i.e. \"Company=XYZ\".
{width="4.972222222222222in" height="0.5208333333333334in"}
Figure 11: Role notation
#### 5.2.9.3 Name style
A role has a name. Use noun for the name. The name style follows the attribute
name style; see clause 5.2.1.3.
### 5.2.10 Xor constraint
#### 5.2.10.1 Description
\"A Constraint represents additional semantic information attached to the
constrained elements. A constraint is an assertion that indicates a
restriction that _shall_ be satisfied by a correct design of the system. The
constrained elements are those elements required to evaluate the constraint
specification...\", an extract from section 7.3.10 Constraint (from Kernel) of
[2].
For a constraint that applies to two elements such as two associations, the
constraint _shall_ be shown as a dashed line between the elements labeled by
the constraint string (in braces). The constraint string, in this case, is
xor.
#### 5.2.10.2 Example
The figure below shows a ServerObjectClass instance that has relation(s) to
multiple instances of a class from the choice of
ClientObjectCLass_Alternative1, ClientObjectClass_Alternative2 or
ClinetObjectCLass_Alternative3.
{width="4.375in" height="1.59375in"}
Figure 12: {xor} notation
#### 5.2.10.3 Name style
It has no name so there is no name style.
## 5.3 Stereotype
Clause 5.1 listed the UML defined basic model elements. UML defined a
stereotype concept allowing the specification of simple or complex user-
defined model elements.
This clause lists all allowable stereotypes for this repertoire.
For each stereotype model element listed, there are three parts. The first
part contains its description. The second part contains its graphical notation
examples and the third part contains the rule, if any, recommended for
labelling or naming it.
### 5.3.1 \>
#### 5.3.1.1 Description
It is a form or template representing a number of
\>. It encapsulates attributes, links, methods (or
operations), and interactions that are present in the represented
\>.
The semantics of a \> is that all behaviour of the
\> is present in the represented \>.
Since this class is simply a representation of other classes, this class
cannot define its own behaviour other than those already defined by the
represented \>.
A particular \> can be represented by zero, one or
more \>. For example, the ManagedElement
\> can have MonitoredEntity \> and
ManagedEntity \>.
The attributes of the \> are accessible by the source entity
that has an association with the \>.
#### 5.3.1.2 Example
This shows a \> named MonitoredEntity. It represents (or its
constraints is that it represents) all NRM \> (e.g.
GgsnFunction \>) whose instances are being monitored
for alarm conditions. It is mandatory to use a Note to capture the constraint.
{width="4.144444444444445in" height="0.5395833333333333in"}
Figure 13: \> notation
See annex A for more examples that use \>.
#### 5.3.1.3 Name style
For \> name, use the same style as \>
(see clause 5.3.2).
### 5.3.2 \>
#### 5.3.2.1 Description
The \> is identical to UML _class_ except that it
does not include/define methods or operations.
A UML _class_ represents a capability or concept within the system being
modelled. Classes have data structure and behaviour and relationships to other
elements.
This class can inherit from zero, one or multiple classes (multiple
inheritances).
See more on UML _class_ in section 10.2.1 of [1].
#### 5.3.2.2 Example
This example shows an AbcFunction \>.
{width="1.7756944444444445in" height="0.5229166666666667in"}
Figure 14: \> notation
The following table captures the properties of this modelled element.
**_Table 4: \ > properties_**
* * *
Property name Description Legal values
documentation Contains a textual description of this modelled element.\ Any
Should refer (to enable traceability) to a specific requirement.
isAbstract Indicates if the class can be instantiated or is just used for
inheritance. True, False (default)
isNotifyable Identifies the list of the supported notifications. List of names
of notification
supportQualifier Identifies the required support of the class. See also
section 7. M, O (default), CM, CO, C
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Name style
The name _shall_ use UCC style. The name _shall_ end with an underscore if it
is an abstract class in the UIM. The name _shall_ not end with an underscore
if it is a concrete class.
WKA is treated as a word if used in a name. However, WKA _shall_ be used as is
(its letter case cannot be changed) except when it is the first word of the
name; and if so, its first letter _shall_ be in upper case.
Embedded underscore is not allowed except the name is for an Association class
(see clause 5.4.1).
### 5.3.3 \>
#### 5.3.3.1 Description
The \> is modelled by a composition association where both ends are
non-navigable. The source class is the composition and the target class is the
component. The target instance is uniquely identifiable, within the namespace
of the source entity, among all other targeted instances of the same target
class and among other targeted instances of other classes that have the same
\> composition with the source.
The source class and target class _shall_ each has its own naming attribute.
The composition aggregation association relationship is used as the act of
name containment providing a semantic of a whole-part relationship between the
domain and the named elements that are contained, even if only by name. From
the management perspective access to the part is through the whole.
Multiplicity _shall_ be indicated at both ends of the relationship.
A target instance can not have multiple \> with multiple sources,
i.e. a target instance can not participate in or belong to multiple
namespaces.
#### 5.3.3.2 Example
This shows that all instances of Class4 are uniquely identifiable within a
Class3 instance\'s namespace.
{width="5.259722222222222in" height="0.4375in"}
Figure 15: \> notation
#### 5.3.3.3 Name style
It has no name so there is no name style.
### 5.3.4 \>
#### 5.3.4.1 Description
It represents the general notion of being a data type (i.e. a type whose
instances are identified only by their values) whose definition is defined by
user (e.g. specification authors).
This repertoire uses two kinds of data types: predefined data types and user-
defined data types. The former is defined in clause 5.4.3. The latter is
defined by the specifications authors using this \> model element.
The user-defined data types support the modelling of structured data types
(see \> notations in clause 5.3.4.2). When user-defined or
predefined data type is used to apply type information to a class attribute
(see clause 5.2.1), the data type name is shown along with the class
attribute. See user example of \> in clause 5.3.4.2.
#### 5.3.4.2 Example
The following examples are two user-defined data types. The left-most is named
PlmnId that consists of Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network Code
(MNC), whose types are the predefined data types in clause 5.4.3. The right-
most is named Xyz that consists of two predefined data types (i.e. String,
Integer and one user-defined data type PlmnId.
{width="2.2041666666666666in" height="0.8729166666666667in"}
Figure 16: \> notations
The following example shows a ZClass using two user-defined data types and two
predefined data types.
{width="1.53125in" height="1.1416666666666666in"}
Figure 17: Usage example of \>
#### 5.3.4.3 Name style
For \> name, use the same style as \>
(see clause 5.3.2).
For \> attribute, use the same style as Attribute (see clause
5.2.1).
### 5.3.5 \>
#### 5.3.5.1 Description
An enumeration is a data type. It contains sets of named literals that
represent the values of the enumeration. An enumeration has a name.
See section 10.3.2 Enumeration of [1].
#### 5.3.5.2 Example
This example shows an enumeration model element whose name is Account and it
has four enumeration literals. The upper compartment contains the keyword
\> and the name of the enumeration. The lower compartment
contains a list of enumeration literals.
Note that the symbol to the right of \> Account in the figure
below is a feature specific to a particular modelling tool. It is recommended
that modelling tool features should be used when appropriate.
{width="1.4548611111111112in" height="1.1680555555555556in"}
Figure 18: \> notation
#### 5.3.5.3 Name style
For \> name, use the same style as \>
(see clause 5.3.2).
For \> attribute (the enumeration literal), use the following
rules:
  * Enumeration literal is composed of one or more words of upper case > characters. Words are separated by the underscore character.
### 5.3.6 \>
#### 5.3.6.1 Description
The «choice» stereotype represents one of a set of classes (when used as an
information model element) or one of a set of data types (when used as an
operations model element).
This stereotype property, e.g. one out of a set of possible alternatives, is
identical to the {xor} constraint (see clause 5.2.10).
#### 5.3.6.2 Example
Sometimes the specific kind of class cannot be determined at model
specification time. In order to support such scenario, the specification is
done by listing all possible classes.
The following diagram lists 3 possible classes. It also shows a «choice,
InformationObjectClass» named SubstituteObjectClass. This scenario indicates
that only one of the three «InformationObjectClass» named
Alternative1ObjectClass, Alternative2ObjectClass, Alternative3ObjectClass
_shall_ be realised.
The «choice» stereotype represents one of a set of classes when used as an
information model element.
{width="3.4375in" height="1.7152777777777777in"}
Figure 19: Information model element example using «choice» notation
Sometimes the specific kind of data type cannot be determined at model
specification time. In order to support such scenario, the specification is
done by listing all possible data types.
The following diagram lists 2 possible data types. It also shows a «choice»
named ProbableCause. This scenario indicates that only one of the two
«dataType» named IntegerProbableCause, StringProbableCause _shall_ be
realised.
The «choice» stereotype represents one of a set of data types when used as an
operations model element.
{width="2.5444444444444443in" height="1.3in"}
Figure 20: Operations model element example using «choice» notation
Sometimes models distinguish between sink/source/bidirectional termination
points. A generic class which comprises these three specific classes can be
modelled using the «choice» stereotype.
{width="2.8097222222222222in" height="2.0in"}
Figure 21: Sink/source/bidirectional termination points example using «choice»
notation
#### 5.3.6.3 Name style
For \> name, use the same style as \> (see
clause 5.3.2).
## 5.4 Others
### 5.4.1 Association class
#### 5.4.1.1 Description
An association class is an association that also has class properties (or a
class that has association properties).\ Even though it is drawn as an
association and a class, it is really just a single model element.
See section 7.3.4 AssociationClass of [2].
Association classes are appropriate for use when an «InformationObjectClass»
needs to maintain associations to several other instances of
«InformationObjectClass» and there are relationships between the members of
the associations within the scope of the \"containing\"
«InformationObjectClass». For example, a namespace maintains a set of
bindings, a binding ties a name to an identifier. A NameBinding
«InformationObjectClass» can be modelled as an Association Class that provides
the binding semantics to the relationship between an identifier and some other
«InformationObjectClass» such as Object in the figure. This is depicted in the
following figure.
#### 5.4.1.2 Example
{width="5.721527777777778in" height="1.5520833333333333in"}
Figure 22: Association class notation
#### 5.4.1.3 Name style
The name _shall_ use the same style as in \> (see
clause 5.3.2.3).
### 5.4.2 Abstract class
#### 5.4.2.1 Description
It specifies a special kind of \> as the general
model element involved in a generalization relationship (see clause 5.2.5). An
abstract class cannot be instantiated.
This modelled element has the same properties as class. See clause 5.3.2.
#### 5.4.2.2 Example
This shows that _Class5__ is an abstract class. It is the base class for
SpecialisedClass5.
{width="4.073611111111111in" height="0.34375in"}
Figure 23: Abstract class notation
#### 5.4.2.3 Name style
For abstract class name, use the same style as \>
(see clause 5.3.2). The name _shall_ be in italics.
In the UIM and UOM its last character _shall_ be an underscore.
### 5.4.3 Predefined data types
#### 5.4.3.1 Description
It represents the general notion of being a data type (i.e. a type whose
instances are identified only by their values) whose definition is defined by
this specification and not by the user (e.g. specification authors).
This repertoire uses two kinds of data types: predefined data types and user-
defined data types. The latter are defined in clauses 5.3.4 and 5.3.5.
Table 5 lists the UML data types selected for use as predefined data type.
**Table 5: UML defined data types**
* * *
Name Description and reference Boolean See Boolean type of [7]. Integer See
Integer type of [7]. String See PrintableString type of [7].
* * *
Table 6 lists data types that are defined by this repertoire.
**Table 6: Non-UML defined data types**
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Name | Description and reference | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | AttributeValuePair | This data type defines an attribute | | | name and the attribute\'s value. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | BitString | This data type is defined by Bit string | | | of clause 3 and clause G.2.5 of [7]. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | DateTime | This data type is defined by | | | GeneralizedTime of [7]. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | DN | This data type defines the DN (see | | | Distinguished Name of [8]) of an | | | object contains a sequence of one or | | | more name components. Each initial | | | sub-sequence (note 1) of the object | | | name is also the name of an object. The | | | sequence of objects so identified, | | | starting with the one identified by | | | only the first name component and | | | ending with the object being named, is | | | such that each is the immediate | | | superior (note 2) of that which follows | | | it in the sequence. | | | | | | NOTE 1: Suppose an object\'s DN is | | | composed of a sequence of 4 name | | | components, i.e. 1^st^, 2^nd^, 3^rd^ | | | and 4^th^ components. The \"initial | | | sub-sequence\" is composed of the | | | 1^st^, 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ components. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Suppose object A is | | | name-contained (see clause 5.3.3) by | | | object B, object B is said to be the | | | immediate superior of object A. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | External | This data type is defined by another | | | organization. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | OperationStatusAtomic | This enumeration defines the status | | | values of an atomic operation. | | | | | | - SUCCESSFUL: The operation has been | | | > successfully completed as a | | | > whole; | | | | | | - NOT_SUCCESSFUL: The operation has | | | > not been successfully completed | | | > as a whole; i.e. the states of | | | > the involved object instances are | | | > the same as before the operation | | | > (roll back is necessary). | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | OperationStatusBestEffort | This enumeration defines the status | | | values of a best effort operation. | | | | | | - SUCCESSFUL: The operation has been | | | > completed successfully as a | | | > whole; | | | | | | - PARTIALLY_SUCCESSFUL: The | | | > operation has been completed | | | > partially successfully. Further | | | > definition what this means for a | | | > specific operation is to be | | | > specified by the interface | | | > specification author; | | | | | | - NOT_SUCCESSFULThe operation has | | | > not been completed at all, i.e. | | | > the state of the involved object | | | > instances is unchanged. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Real | This data type is defined by Real type | | | of [7]. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
#### 5.4.3.2 Example
{width="1.2694444444444444in" height="0.9381944444444444in"}
NOTE: Use of this is optional. Uses of other means, to specify Predefined data
types, are allowed.
Figure 24: Predefined data types usage
#### 5.4.3.3 Name style
It _shall_ use the UCC style.
# 6 Operations Model Elements and Notations
## 6.1 General
Note that the graphical notation in this document is only used to represent
particular model elements. Although the graphical notation is a correct
representation of the model element, it may not be a valid representation of a
UML class diagram.
The examples used in this document are for illustration purposes only and may
or may not exist in specifications.
UML properties not described in this document _shall_ not be used in
specifications based on this repertoire.
## 6.2 Basic model elements
UML has defined a number of basic model elements. This sub-clause lists the
subset selected for use in specifications based on this repertoire. The
semantics of these selected basic model elements are defined in [1].
For each basic model element listed, there are three parts. The first part
contains its description. The second part contains its graphical notation
examples and the third part contains the rule, if any, recommended for
labelling or naming it.
The graphical notation has the following characteristics:
1\. Section 7.2.7 of [2] specifies \"A class is often shown with three
compartments. The middle compartment holds a list of attributes while the
bottom compartment holds a list of operations\". This repertoire only allows
the use of the name (top) compartment and operations (third) compartment. The
attribute (middle) compartment may be present as shown in the figure below.
{width="1.2291666666666667in" height="0.7909722222222222in"}
2\. Interfaces are identified by the stereotype «interface».
3\. The use of the decoration, i.e. the symbol in the name (top) compartment
({width="0.19791666666666666in" height="0.23958333333333334in"}), is optional.
4\. Each Interface _shall_ have at least one operation.
5\. Section 13.3.24 Signal [2] \"A signal is a specification of send request
instances communicated between objects. The receiving object handles the
received request instances as specified by its receptions. The data carried by
a send request (which was passed to it by the send invocation occurrence that
caused that request) are represented as attributes of the signal. A signal is
defined independently of the classifiers handling the signal occurrence.\"
A signal triggers a reaction in the receiver in an asynchronous way and
without a reply. The sender of a signal will not block waiting for a reply but
continue execution immediately. A signal is depicted by a classifier symbol
with the keyword «signal».
{width="1.0409722222222222in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
A class can be shown with four compartments. The fourth compartment holds a
list of signals (send requests).
{width="1.2291666666666667in" height="0.8958333333333334in"}
### 6.2.1 Interface
#### 6.2.1.1 Description
_\"An interface is a kind of classifier that represents a declaration of a set
of coherent public features and obligations. An interface specifies a
contract; any instance of a classifier that realizes the interface shall
fulfil that contract. The obligations that may be associated with an interface
are in the form of various kinds of constraints (such as pre- and post-
conditions) or protocol specifications, which may impose ordering restrictions
on interactions through the interface._
_Since interfaces are declarations, they are not instantiable. Instead, an
interface specification is implemented by an instance of an instantiable
classifier, which means that the instantiable classifier presents a public
facade that conforms to the interface specification. Note that a given
classifier may implement more than one interface and that an interface may be
implemented by a number of different classifiers (see \"InterfaceRealization
(from Interfaces)\" on page 89).\"_ \- see section 7.3.24 \"Interface\" of
[2].
Table 7 captures the properties of an interface.
**_Table 7: «Interface» properties_**
* * *
Property name Description Legal values
documentation Contains a textual description of the Interface.\ Any Should
refer (to enable traceability) to a specific requirement.
isAbstract Indicates if the Interface can be instantiated or is just used for
inheritance. True, False (default)
supportQualifier Identifies the required support of the Interface including a
condition - if applicable. See also section 7. M, O (default), CM, CO, C
* * *
#### 6.2.1.2 Example
This example shows a Xyz «Interface».
Editor note: Use lower case \'I\' in diagram and everywhere \>
{width="0.96875in" height="0.7805555555555556in"}
Figure 25: «Interface» notation
#### 6.2.1.3 Name style
The name _shall_ use UCC style.
### 6.2.2 Operation
#### 6.2.2.1 Description
\"_An operation is a behavioural feature of a classifier that specifies the
name, type, parameters, and constraints for invoking an associated behaviour._
\" - see section 7.3.37 \"Operation\" of [2].
Operations are grouped in interface classes.
These operation properties apply for synchronous and asynchronous mode of
operations.
Operations return either an exception or return output parameters including a
status. The \"status\" output parameter is used to inform about the outcome of
an operation that does not have an exception.
Table 8 captures the properties of an operation.
Table 8: Operation properties
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Property name | Description | Legal values | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | documentation | Contains a textual | Any | | | description of the | | | | operation.\ | | | | Should refer (to | | | | enable traceability) | | | | to the specific | | | | requirement. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isAtomic | This property | True, False | | | identifies if the | (default) | | | operation is best | | | | effort or is | | | | successful/not | | | | successful as a | | | | whole. | | | | | | | | If true, then: | | | | | | | | - Successful: The | | | | > operation has | | | | > been | | | | > successfully | | | | > completed as a | | | | > whole; | | | | | | | | - Not successful: | | | | > The operation | | | | > has not been | | | | > successfully | | | | > completed as a | | | | > whole, i.e. | | | | > the states of | | | | > the involved | | | | > object | | | | > instances are | | | | > the same as | | | | > before the | | | | > operation | | | | > (roll back is | | | | > necessary). | | | | | | | | If false, then: | | | | | | | | - Successful: The | | | | > operation has | | | | > been completed | | | | > successfully | | | | > as a whole; | | | | | | | | - Partially | | | | > successful: | | | | > The operation | | | | > has been | | | | > completed | | | | > partially | | | | > successfully. | | | | > Further | | | | > definition | | | | > what this | | | | > means for a | | | | > specific | | | | > operation is | | | | > to be | | | | > specified by | | | | > the interface | | | | > specification | | | | > author; | | | | | | | | - Not successful: | | | | > The operation | | | | > has not been | | | | > completed at | | | | > all, i.e. the | | | | > state of the | | | | > involved | | | | > object | | | | > instances is | | | | > unchanged. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | precondition(s) | This property | Any | | | defines the | | | | conditions that have | | | | to be true before | | | | the operation can be | | | | started (i.e. if not | | | | true, the operation | | | | will not be started | | | | at all and a general | | | | \"precondition not | | | | met\" error will be | | | | returned). | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | postcondition(s) | This property | Any | | | defines the state of | | | | the system after the | | | | operation has been | | | | executed (if | | | | successful, or if | | | | not successful, or | | | | if partially | | | | successful). | | | | | | | | Note that partially | | | | successful | | | | postcondition(s) can | | | | only be defined in | | | | case of non-atomic | | | | operations. | | | | | | | | Note that when an | | | | exception is raised, | | | | it should not be | | | | assumed that the | | | | postcondition(s) are | | | | satisfied. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bulkTransferPattern | This property allows | NONE (default),\ | | | the selection of the | ITERATOR,\ | | | bulk data transfer | FILE | | | implementation | | | | style. This is | | | | applicable when at | | | | least one of the | | | | parameter\'s | | | | isBulkPotential | | | | property is set to | | | | true. | | | | | | | | Possible values: | | | | | | | | - NONE (default): | | | | > The operation | | | | > does not | | | | > require any | | | | > bulk transfer | | | | > pattern. | | | | | | | | - FILE: The | | | | > operation uses | | | | > a file | | | | > transfer | | | | > pattern for | | | | > bulk | | | | > attributes. | | | | | | | | - ITERATOR: The | | | | > operation uses | | | | > an iterator | | | | > transfer | | | | > pattern for | | | | > bulk | | | | > attributes. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | emitsEvents | This property | True, False | | | indicates the | (default) | | | capability of the | | | | server to emit event | | | | notifications about | | | | the progress of the | | | | bulk operation (i.e. | | | | bulkTransferPattern | | | | value is FILE or | | | | ITERATOR).. If true, | | | | the server can emit | | | | progress events. The | | | | events that can be | | | | emitted are listed | | | | under the | | | | emittedEvents | | | | property. | | | | | | | | When | | | | bulkTransferPattern | | | | value is NONE, this | | | | emitsEvents value is | | | | False. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | emittedEvents | This property is | List of events | | | only applicable if | defined in the | | | emitsEvents is true. | model. | | | | | | | This property lists | | | | the events that can | | | | be emitted by the | | | | operation. It is a | | | | list of event names, | | | | separated by commas. | | | | The named events | | | | have to be valid | | | | events already | | | | defined in the | | | | model. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isOneWay | This property | True, False | | | indicates that the | (default) | | | operation has no | | | | output parameter. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operationExceptions | This property | See clause 6.2.2.4 | | | identifies the | for exceptions | | | allowed exceptions | | | | together with a | | | | failure reason. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | supportQualifier | This property | M, O (default), CM, | | | identifies the | CO, C | | | required support of | | | | the operation. See | | | | also clause 7. | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.2.2.2 Example
This example shows three operations, i.e. a, b and c, listed in the operation
(third) compartment of the interface Xyz.
{width="0.9895833333333334in" height="1.1868055555555554in"}
Figure 26: Operations within an interface
Graphic symbols are optional.
#### 6.2.2.3 Name style
An operation name _shall_ use the LCC style.
#### 6.2.2.4 Exceptions
This Repertoire defines a list of pre-defined exceptions. To increase
interoperability, the specifications authors _shall_ use these exceptions
whenever possible. Additional exceptions are only allowed if none of these
pre-defined exceptions fit. Any additional exceptions are preferably formed by
inheritance of pre-defined exception(s).
These pre-defined exceptions may be appended by a string which describes the
failure reason.
Table 9 lists the pre-defined exceptions that _shall_ be supported by an
operation.
Table 9: Mandatory pre-defined Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Exception | Description | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | CommunicationLoss | This exception _shall_ be raised if the server | | | is unable to communicate with its supporting | | | process or the NE for the handling of the | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Failure | This exception _shall_ be raised due to a | | | failure not covered by the other mandatory | | | pre-defined Exceptions. | | | | | | In case of an atomic operation it _shall_ be | | | used to indicate a failure of at least one of | | | its sub-parts. | | | | | | The failure reason should provide some | | | indications of the reason and location of the | | | failure. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | InternalError | This exception _shall_ be raised if the request | | | has resulted in a server internal error. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | InvalidInput | This exception _shall_ be raised if the | | | operation contains an input parameter that is | | | invalid (e.g. syntactically incorrect, or | | | identifies an object of the wrong type, or is | | | out of range). | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | NotImplemented | This exception _shall_ be raised if the server | | | does not support this operation. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | UnableToComply | This exception _shall_ be raised if the server | | | cannot satisfy the request. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
Table 10 lists the pre-defined exceptions that may be supported by an
operation.
Table 10: Optional pre-defined Exceptions
* * *
Exception Description AccessDenied This exception _shall_ be raised if the
client is not permitted to perform the operation. CapacityExceeded This
exception _shall_ be raised if the request will result in resources (e.g.
Termination Points or Measurement Jobs) being created or activated beyond the
capacity supported by the NE or server. FilterNotSupported This exception
_shall_ be raised if a filter definition is not supported by the server. The
failure reason _shall_ indicate the more precise reason. NotInValidState This
exception _shall_ be raised if the state of the identified object is such that
the server cannot perform the operation. ObjectExisting This exception _shall_
be raised if an object instance cannot be created because an object with the
same identity/name already exists. ObjectInUse This exception _shall_ be
raised if the object identified in the request is currently in use.
ObjectNotExisting This exception _shall_ be raised if the object identified in
the request does not exist. UnableToNotify This exception _shall_ be raised if
the server is unable to connect to the Notification Service.
* * *
### 6.2.3 Parameter
#### 6.2.3.1 Description
\"_A parameter is a specification of an argument used to pass information into
or out of an invocation of a behavioural feature._ \" - see section 7.3.42
\"Parameter\" of [2].
Table 11 captures the properties of a parameter.
Table 11: Parameter properties
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Property name | Description | Legal values | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | documentation | Contains a textual | Any | | | description of the | | | | parameter.\ | | | | Should refer (to | | | | enable traceability) | | | | to the specific | | | | requirement. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | type | Refers to a predefined | Refers to clauses | | | (see clause 5.4.3) or | 5.4.3) and 5.3.4). | | | user defined data type | | | | (see clause 5.3.4). | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | isOrdered | For a multi-valued | True, False (default) | | | multiplicity; this | | | | specifies if the | | | | values of this | | | | parameter instance are | | | | sequentially ordered. | | | | See section 7.3.44 and | | | | its table 7.1 of | | | | [2]. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | isUnique | For a multi-valued | True (default), False | | | multiplicity, this | | | | specifies if the | | | | values of this | | | | parameter instance are | | | | unique (i.e. no | | | | duplicate attribute | | | | values). See section | | | | 7.3.44 and its table | | | | 7.1 of [2]. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | allowedValues | This property | Dependent on type | | | identifies the values | | | | the parameter can | | | | have. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | defaultValue | This property | No value (default) or | | | identifies a value at | a value that is | | | specification time | dependent on | | | that is to be used for | allowedValues | | | the input parameter if | | | | no value is provided | | | | at run-time. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | multiplicity | This property defines | See clause 5.2.8. | | | the number of values | Default is 1. | | | the parameter can | | | | simultaneously have. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | isBulkPotential | This property | True, False (default) | | | indicates that this | | | | parameter can | | | | potentially carry a | | | | very large amount of | | | | data which will | | | | require a bulk data | | | | transfer pattern | | | | implementation. The | | | | selection of the bulk | | | | data transfer is | | | | defined using the | | | | operation\'s | | | | bulkTransferPattern | | | | property. | | | | | | | | If true, the bulk | | | | transfer pattern | | | | _shall_ be selected. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | direction | This property defines | In, InOut, Out | | | the direction of the | | | | parameter. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | supportQualifier | This property | M, O (default), CM, | | | identifies the | CO, C | | | required support of | | | | the parameter. See | | | | also clause 7. | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
#### 6.2.3.2 Example
This example shows three operations and their related parameters.
{width="5.522222222222222in" height="1.1868055555555554in"}
Figure 27: Parameters within Operations
Graphic symbols are optional.
#### 6.2.3.3 Name style
A parameter name _shall_ use the LCC style.
# 7 Qualifiers
This clause defines the qualifiers applicable for model elements specified in
this document, e.g. the IOC (see clause 5.3.2), the Attribute (see clause
5.2.1). The qualifications are M, O, CM, CO, C and \'SS\'. Their meanings are
specified in this section. This type of qualifier is called Support Qualifier
(see supportQualifier of IOC in Table 3 and supportQualifier of attribute in
table 1 of clause 5.2.1).
This clause also defines the qualifiers applicable to various properties of a
model element, e.g. see the IOC properties excepting \'supportQualifier\' in
Table 3 and attributes properties excepting supportQualifier in table 1 of
clause 5.2.1. The qualifications are M, O, CM, CO, C and \'-\'. Their meanings
are specified in this section. This type of qualifier is simply called
Qualifier.
Definition of M (Mandatory) qualification:
  * The capability (e.g. the Attribute named abc of an IOC named Xyz; > the write property of Attribute named abc of an IOC named Xyz; the > IOC named Xyz) _shall_ be supported.
Definition of O (Optional) qualification:
  * The capability may or may not be supported.
Definition of CM (Conditional-Mandatory) qualification:
  * The capability _shall_ be supported under certain conditions, > specifically:
\- When qualified as CM, the capability _shall_ have a corresponding
constraint defined in the specification. If the specified constraint is met
then the capability _shall_ be supported.
Definition of CO (Conditional-Optional) qualification:
  * The capability may be supported under certain conditions, > specifically:
\- When qualified as CO, the capability _shall_ have a corresponding
constraint defined in the specification. If the specified constraint is met
then the capability may be supported.
Definition of C (Conditional) qualification:
  * Used for items that has multiple constraints. Each constraint is > worded as a condition for one kind of support such as mandatory > support, optional support or \"no support\". All constraints > _shall_ be related to the same kind of support. Specifically:
\- Each item with C qualification _shall_ have the corresponding multiple
constraints defined in the specification. If all specified constraints are met
and are related to mandatory, then the item _shall_ be supported. If all the
specified constraints are met and are related to optional, then the item may
be supported. If all the specified constraints are met and are related to \"no
support\", then the item _shall_ not be supported.
NOTE: This qualifier should only be used when absolutely necessary, as it is
more complex to implement.
Definition of SS (SS Conditional) qualification:
  * The capability _shall_ be supported by at least one but not all > solutions.
Definition of \'-\' (no support) qualification:
  * The capability _shall_ not be supported.
# 8 UML Diagram Requirements
Classes and their relationships _shall_ be presented in class diagrams.
It is recommended to create:
  * An overview class diagram containing all classes related to a > specific management area (Class Diagram).
\- The class name compartment should contain the location of the class
definition (e.g. \"Qualified Name\").
\- The class attributes should show the \"Signature\". (see section 7.3.45 of
[2] for the signature definition).
  * A separate inheritance class diagram in case the overview diagram > would be overloaded when showing the inheritance structure > (Inheritance Class Diagram).
  * A class diagram containing the user defined data types (Type > Definitions Diagram).
  * Additional class diagrams to show specific parts of the > specification in detail.
  * State diagrams for complex state attributes.
###### ### Annex A: Examples of using \>
# A.0 \"Normative or Informative\" status of this annex
The JWG specified annex A in [9] as \"Informative\". If SA5 in the future
decides to transform the present document into a TS, then this \"Informative\"
status should be preserved.
# A.1 First Example
This shows a \> named YyyFunction. It represents all IOCs listed
in the Note under the UML diagram. All the listed IOCs, in the context of this
example, inherit from ManagedFunction IOC.
The use of \> eliminates the need to draw multiple UML
\> boxes, i.e. those whose names are listed in the
Note, in the UML diagram.
{width="5.454861111111111in" height="0.78125in"}
Figure A.1: \> Notation Example A.1
# A.2 Second Example
This shows a \> named YyyFunction. It represents all IOCs listed
in the attached (or associated).
NOTE: All the listed IOCs, in the context of this example, have link (internal
and external) relations.
This shows a \> InternalYyyFunction. It represents all IOCs
listed in the attached (or associated) Note.
This shows a \> Link_a_z and ExternalLink_a_z. They represent
all IOCs listed in the attached (or associated) Note.
{width="5.2652777777777775in" height="1.5722222222222222in"}
Figure A.2: \> Notation Example A.2
###### ### Annex B: Attribute properties
# B.0 \"Normative or Informative\" status of this annex
The JWG specified annex B in [9] as \"Normative\". If SA5 in the future
decides to transform the present document into a TS, then this \"Normative\"
status should be preserved.
# B.1 Attribute properties
Table B.1
* * *
isInvariant write defaultValue manager _shall_ provide a value when manager
requests object creation Meaning
    Not valid.
   May be set by the manager only during object creation time; if no value
is provided by the manager, the default value is used.
   _Shall_ be set by the manager during object creation time.
  May be set by the manager only during object creation time; if no value is
provided by the manager, the agent _shall_ provide a value.
   Not valid.
  Valid but not useful.
  Not valid.
 _Shall_ be set by the agent during object creation time.
                                                                                                            Not valid.
                                                                                                             May be set by the manager anytime; if no value is provided by the manager at object creation time, it is set to the default value.
                                                                                                             *Shall* be set by the manager at object creation time and may be changed anytime.
                                                                                                              May be set by the manager at object creation time and may be changed anytime.
                                                                                                             Not valid.
                                                                                                              *Shall* be set by the agent to the default value at object creation time;\
                                                                                                               may be changed by the agent anytime.
                                                                                                              Not valid.
                                                                                                               May be set by the agent at object creation time and may be changed by the agent anytime.
* * *
###### ### Annex C: Design patterns
# C.0 \"Normative or Informative\" status of this annex
The JWG specified annex C in [9] as \"Normative\". If SA5 in the future
decides to transform the present document into a TS, then this \"Normative\"
status should be preserved.
# C.1 Intervening Class and Association Class
## C.1.1 Concept and Definition
Classes may be related via simple direct associations or via associations with
related association classes.
However, in situations where the relationships between a number of classes is
complex and especially where the relationships between instances of those
classes are themselves interrelated there may be a need to encapsulate the
complexity of the relationships within a class that sits between the classes
that are to be related. The term \"intervening class\" is used here to name
the pattern that describes this approach. The name \"intervening class\" is
used as the additional class \"intervenes\" in the relationships between other
classes.
The \"intervening class\" differs from the association class as the
intervening class does break the association between the classes where as the
association class does not but instead sits to one side. This can be seen in
the following figure. A direct association between class A and C appears the
same at A and C regardless of the presence or absence of an association class
where as in the case of the \"intervening class\" there are associations
between A and the \"intervening class\" B and C and the \"intervening class\"
B.
Figure C.1: Various association forms
The \"intervening class\" is essentially no different to any other class in
that it may encapsulate attributes, complex behaviour, etc.
Figure C.2 shows an instance view of both an association class form and an
\"intervening class\" form for a complex interrelationship.
{width="6.021527777777778in" height="4.261111111111111in"}
Figure C.2: Instance view of \"intervening class\"
The case depicted above does not show interrelationships between the
relationships. A practical case from modeling of the relationships between
Termination Points in a fixed network does show this relationship
interrelationship challenge. In this case the complexity of relationship is
between instances of the same class, the Termination Point (TP). The
complexity is encapsulated in a SubNetworkConnection (SNC) class.
Figure C.3: SNC intervening in TP-TP relationship
The SNC also encapsulates the complex behaviour of switching and path
selection as depicted below.
{width="5.325in" height="2.6979166666666665in"}
Figure C.4: Complex relationship interrelationships
## C.1.2 Usage in the non-transport domain
The choice of association class pattern or intervening class pattern is on a
case-by-case basis.
The transport domain boundary is highlighted in figure C.5.
Figure C.5: Highlighting the boundary between transport and non-transport
domains
## C.1.3 Usage in the transport domain
The following guidelines _shall_ be applied to the models of the \"transport
domain\".
When considering interrelationships between classes the following guidelines
should be applied:
  * If considering all current and recognised potential future cases it > is expected that the relationship between two specific classes > will be 0..1:0..1 then a simple association should be used.
\- This may benefit from an association class to convey rules and parameters
about the association behaviour in complex cases.
  * If there is recognised potential for cases currently or in future > where there is a 0..*:0..* between two specific classes then > intervening classes should be used to encapsulate the groupings > etc. so as to convert it to 0..1:n..*.
\- Note that the 0..1:n..* association may benefit from an association class
to convey rules and parameters about the association behaviour in complex
cases but in the instance form this can probably be ignored or folded into the
intervening class.
  * In general it seems appropriate to use an association class when the > properties on the relationship instance cannot be obviously or > reasonably folded into one of the classes at either end of the > association and when there is no interdependency between > association instances between a set of instances of the classes.
An example of usage of intervening class is the case of the TP-TP
(TerminationPoint) relationship (0..*:0..*) where the SNC
(SubNetworkConnection) is added as the intervening class between multiple TPs,
i.e. TP-SNC. Note that TP-SNC actually becomes 0..2:n..* due to directionality
encapsulation.
Considering the case of the adjacency relationship between PTPs it is known
that although the current common cases are 1:1 there are some current and many
potential future case of 0..*:0..* and hence a model that has an intervening
class, i.e. the TopologicalLink, should be used.
For a degenerate instance cases of 0..*:0..* that happens to be 0..1:0..1 the
intervening class pattern should still be used:
  * Using the 0..1:0..1 direct association in this degenerate case > brings unnecessary variety to the model and hence to the behaviour > of the application (the 0..1:n..* model covers the 0..1:0..1 case > with one single code form clearly).
  * An instance of the 0..1:0..1 model may need to be migrated to > 0..1:n..* as a result of some change in the network forcing an > unnecessary administrative action to transition the model form > where as in the 0..1:n..* form requires no essential change.
# C.2 Use of \"ExternalXyz\" class
This clause will be completed for the next release.
###### ### Annex D: Stereotypes for naming purposes
# D.0 \"Normative or Informative\" status of this annex
The JWG specified annex D in [9] as \"Informative\". If SA5 in the future
decides to transform the present document into a TS, then this \"Informative\"
status should be preserved.
# D.1 Stereotypes for naming purposes
The following diagram illustrates the various stereotypes for naming purposes.
The \> with solid-diamond (see 5.3.3) identifies:
  * The naming class (close to the solid diamond) and a named class;
  * The naming scheme is DN;
  * The container (close to the solid diamond) and the content.
The \> with other types of associations (and excluding those labelled
\"Not Allowed\") identifies:
  * The naming class (close to the hollow diamond or the source with > regard to arrow direction) and a named class (the target);
  * The naming scheme is DN.
The \> with dependency (dotted arrowed line) identifies:
  * The naming class (target with regard to arrow direction) and a named > class (the source);
  * The naming scheme is DN.
Referring to the figure, RMA Phase 1 allows the form Class7\>Class8.
The forms \"in red\" are not allowed.
The rest of the forms are \"under investigation in Phase 2\" since they all
require an agreed standard mechanism on handling (named) instances whose
related naming instance have been destroyed. They also lack use case support,
thus far.
{width="3.5in" height="4.6375in"}
Figure D.1: Various forms of naming stereotypes
###### ### Annex E: Operations Model Elements under discussion
# E.0 \"Normative or Informative\" status of this annex
The JWG specified annex E in [9] as \"Informative\". If SA5 in the future
decides to transform the present document into a TS, then this \"Informative\"
status should be preserved.
# E.1 Operations Model Elements under discussion
This annex lists model element definitions subject to further discussions and
agreement.
**Item #1**
##### Description {#description-22 .H6}
\"_An operation is a behavioural feature of a classifier that specifies the
name, type, parameters, and constraints for invoking an associated behaviour._
\" - see section 7.3.37 \"Operation\" of [2].
Operations are grouped in interface classes.
Table E.1 captures the properties of an operation.
Table E.1: Operation properties
* * *
Property name Description Legal values isIdempotent This property defines if
the operation is idempotent or not; i.e. the operation can be repeated
providing the same result every time (assuming that the state of the
underlying network does not change). True, False (default)
* * *
**Item #2**
##### Exceptions {#exceptions-1 .H6}
This Repertoire defines a list of pre-defined exceptions. To increase
interoperability, the specifications authors _shall_ use these exceptions
whenever possible. Additional exceptions are only allowed if none of these
pre-defined exceptions fit. Any additional exceptions are preferably formed by
inheritance of pre-defined exception(s).The following table lists the pre-
defined exceptions.
Table E.2: Pre-defined Exceptions
* * *
Exception Description AlreadyInPostCondition This exception can be used by
operations which are not defined as idempotent. It is used to indicate that
the server is already in the post-condition InventoryOutOfSync This exception
_shall_ be raised when the operation fails because the inventory data bases
from the target and client are out of sync
* * *
**Item #3**
##### Parameter {#parameter-1 .H6}
##### Description {#description-23 .H6}
\"_A parameter is a specification of an argument used to pass information into
or out of an invocation of a behavioural feature._ \" - see section 7.3.42
\"Parameter\" of [2].
Table E.3 captures the properties of a parameter.
Table E.3: Parameter properties
+---------------+-------------------------+-----------------------+ | Property name | Description | Legal values | +---------------+-------------------------+-----------------------+ | passedById | This property is only | True, False (default) | | | applicable when the | | | | type of the parameter | | | | is an class. | | | | | | | | It identifies whether | | | | the parameter contains | | | | a pointer to the object | | | | instance (passedById = | | | | true) or contains the | | | | entire information of | | | | the object instance | | | | (passedById = false). | | +---------------+-------------------------+-----------------------+
#