# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a reference to an independent security
assessment of the Tuak algorithm set carried out by the University of
Waterloo, Canada.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 35. 231: \"Specification of the Tuak algorithm set: A second
example algorithm set for the 3GPP authentication and key generation functions
f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*; Document 1: Algorithm specification \".
[2] \"Security Assessment of TUAK Algorithm Set\"; Guang Gong, Kalikinkar
Mandal, Yin Tan, TengWu; Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
University of Waterloo, Canada (available at
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/35_series/35.935/SAGE_report/Secassesment.zip)
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 35.231 apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 35.231 [1].
# 4 Security assessment of the Tuak algorithm set
The security assessment of the Tuak algorithm set [1] can be found here: [2].
#