# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This TS defines the stage one description of the General Packet Radio Service
(GPRS). Stage one is an overall service description, primarily from the
service subscriber\'s and user\'s points of view, but does not deal with the
details of the human interface itself. This TS includes information applicable
to network operators, service providers and terminal, switch and data base
manufacturers.
This TS contains the core requirements for the packet switched networks
specified by 3GPP which are sufficient to provide a complete service. It
defines a set of bearer services that provide packet mode transmission within
the PLMN and interwork with external networks.
The term GPRS shall be used in this document to refer the GPRS service offered
via GERAN and UTRAN and the PS Domain of the 3G PLMN.
The GPRS shall not prevent the user\'s operation of other 3GPP services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.001: \" Principles of telecommunication services supported by a
Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.002: \" Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access reference
configuration\".
[3] ISO 8348: \"Information processing systems - data communications - network
service definition\".
[4] Internet STD 5:RFC 791: Internet protocol, RFC 950: \"Internet standard
subnetting procedure\", RFC 919: \"Broadcasting internet datagrams\", RFC 922:
\"Broadcasting internet datagrams in the presence of subnets\", RFC 792:
\"Internet control message protocol\", RFC 1112: \"Host extensions for IP
multicasting\" RFC 1122:\" Requirements for Internet hosts - communication
layers\". RFC 1920:\" Internet official protocol standards\", RFC 1458:
\"Requirements for multicast protocols\", RFC 1301: \"Multicast transport
protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS22.004: \" General on supplementary services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.030: \" Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment
(UE)\"
[7] 3GPP TS 42.017 : \"Subscriber Identity Modules (SIM) Functional
characteristics\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.041: \"Operator Determined Barring (ODB)\"
[9] 3GPP TS 27.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile Station (MS)
supporting GPRS\".
[10] 3GPP TS 43.055: Dual Transfer Mode; Stage 2\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this 3GPP TS the following definitions apply:
**A**
**access delay:** The value of elapsed time between an access request and a
successful access (source: ITU-T X.140).
**accuracy:** A performance criterion that describes the degree of correctness
with which a function is performed. (The function may or may not be performed
with the desired speed.) (source: ITU-T I.350).
**B**
**bearer service:** A type of telecommunication service that provides the
capability for the transmission of signals between user-network interfaces
(source: ITU-T I.112).
**C**
**conversational service:** An interactive service which provides for bi-
directional communication by means of real-time (no store-and-forward) end-to-
end information transfer from user to user (source: ITU-T I.113).
**D**
**destination user:** Entity to which calls to the General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS) are directed.
**F**
**G**
**I**
**interactive service:** A service which provides the means for bi-directional
exchange of information between users. Interactive services are divided into
three classes of services: conversational services, messaging services and
retrieval services (source: ITU-T I.113).
**interface:** The common boundary between two associated systems (source:
ITU-T I.112).
**M**
**mean bit rate:** A measure of throughput. The average (mean) bit rate
available to the user for the given period of time (source: ITU-T I.210).
**messaging service:** An interactive service which offers user-to-user
communication between individual users via storage units with store-and-
forward, mailbox and/or message handling, (e.g., information editing,
processing and conversion) functions (source: ITU-T I.113).
**mobile termination:** The part of the UE which terminates the radio
transmission to and from the network and adapts terminal equipment
capabilities to those of the radio transmission **multicast service:** A
unidirectional PTM service in which a message is transmitted from a single
source entity to multiple destinations.
**multipoint:** A value of the service attribute \"communication
configuration\", which denotes that the communication involves more than two
network terminations (source: ITU-T I.113).
**N**
**network operator:** Entity which provides the network operating elements and
resources for the execution of the General Packet Radio Service (GPRS).
**network service data unit (NSDU):** A unit of data passed between the user
and the GPRS network across a Network Service Access Point (NSAP).
**network termination:** A functional group on the network side of a user-
network interface (source: ITU-T I.112).
**O**
P
**packet:** An information unit identified by a label at layer 3 of the OSI
reference model (source: ITU-T I.113). A network protocol data unit (NPDU).
**packet data protocol (PDP):** Any protocol which transmits data as discrete
units known as packets, e.g., IP.
**packet transfer mode:** Also known as packet mode. A transfer mode in which
the transmission and switching functions are achieved by packet oriented
techniques, so as to dynamically share network transmission and switching
resources between a multiplicity of connections (source: ITU-T I.113).
**PLMN Operator:** Public Land Mobile Network operator. The entity which
offers a GPRS.
**point-to-multipoint (PTM) service:** A service type in which data is sent to
"all service subscribers or a pre-defined subset of all subscribers" within an
area defined by the Service Requester.
**point-to-point (PTP):** A value of the service attribute \"communication
configuration\", which denotes that the communication involves only two
network terminations.
**point-to-point (PTP) service:** A service type in which data is sent from a
single network termination to another network termination.
**protocol:** A formal set of procedures that are adopted to ensure
communication between two or more functions within the within the same layer
of a hierarchy of functions (source: ITU-T I.112).
**protocol data unit (PDU):** In the reference model for OSI, a unit of data
specified in an (N)-protocol layer and consisting of (N)-protocol control
information and possibly (N)-user data (source: ITU-T X.200 / ISO-IEC 7498-1).
**push service:** service type which delivers information (data/multimedia)
initiated from a network (which may be external to the PLMN) to the UE. The
service will cause a PDP context to be activated if needed.
**Q**
**quality of service:** The collective effect of service performances which
determine the degree of satisfaction of a user of the service (ITU-T E.800).
The set of performance parameters that can be directly observed and measured
at the point at which the service is accessed by the user. There are three
criteria by which performance is measured: speed, accuracy and dependability
(source: ITU-T I.350).
**R**
**reference configuration:** A combination of functional groups and reference
points that shows possible network arrangements (source: ITU-T I.112).
**reference point:** A conceptual point at the conjunction of two non-
overlapping functional groups (source: ITU-T I.112).
**retrieval service:** An interactive service which provides the capability of
accessing information stored in data base centres. The information will be
sent to the user on demand only. The information is retrieved on an individual
basis, i.e., the time at which an information sequence is to start is under
the control of the user (source ITU-T I.113).
**S**
**service attribute:** A specified characteristic of a telecommunication
service (source: ITU-T I.112).
NOTE: the value(s) assigned to one or more service attributes may be used to
distinguish that telecommunications service from others.
**service data unit (SDU):** In the reference model for OSI, an amount of
information whose identity is preserved when transferred between peer
(N+1)-layer entities and which is not interpreted by the supporting (N)-layer
entities (source: ITU-T X.200 / ISO-IEC 7498-1).
**service delay:** The time elapsed from the invocation of the service
request, to the corresponding service request indication at the Service
Receiver, indicating the arrival of application data.
**service provider:** Entity which offers the General Packet Radio Service
(GPRS) for subscription. The network operator may be the service provider.
**service receiver:** The entity which receives the service request indication
primitive, containing the SDU.
**service request:** This is defined as being one invocation of the service
through a service request primitive.
**service requester:** The entity which requests the initiation of a GPRS
operation, through a service request.
**service subscriber:** Entity which subscribes to the General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS) service.
**speed:** A performance criterion that describes the time interval required
to perform a function or the rate at which the function is performed. (The
function may or may not be performed with the desired accuracy.) (source:
ITU-T I.350).
**T**
**throughput:** A parameter describing service speed. The number of data bits
successfully transferred in one direction between specified reference points
per unit time (source: ITU-T I.113).
**transit delay:** A parameter describing service speed. The time difference
between the instant at which the first bit of a protocol data unit (PDU)
crosses one designated boundary (reference point), and the instant at which
the last bit of the PDU crosses a second designated boundary (source: ITU-T
I.113).
**U**
**V**
**variable bit rate service:** A type of telecommunication service
characterised by a service bit rate specified by statistically expressed
parameters which allow the bit rate to vary within defined limits (source:
ITU-T I.113).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this 3GPP TS the following definitions apply:
CLNP Connectionless network protocol
CLNS Connectionless network service
EGPRS Enhanced GPRS
FFS For further study
GPRS General packet radio service
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
IP Internet protocol
IP-M Internet protocol multicast
NSDU Network service data unit
PDP Packet data protocol
PDU Protocol data unit
PLMN Public land mobile network
PTM Point to multipoint
PTP Point to point
QoS Quality of service
SAP Service access point
SVC Switched virtual circuit
SDU Service data unit
TBD To be defined
TLLI Temporary link level identity
# 4 Main Concepts
The GPRS allows the service subscriber to send and receive data in an end-to-
end packet transfer mode, without utilizing network resources in circuit
switched mode.
GPRS enables the cost effective and efficient use of network resources for
packet mode data applications e.g. for applications that exhibit one or more
of the following characteristics:
\- intermittent, non-periodic (i.e., bursty) data transmissions, where the
time between successive transmissions greatly exceeds the average transfer
delay;
\- frequent transmissions of small volumes of data, for example transactions
consisting of less than 500 octets of data occurring at a rate of up to
several transactions per minute;
\- infrequent transmission of larger volumes of data, for example transactions
consisting of several kilobytes of data occurring at a rate of up to several
transactions per hour.
Within the GPRS, two different bearer service types are defined. These are:
\- Point-To-Point (PTP);
\- Point-To-Multipoint (PTM).
Based on standardized network protocols supported by the GPRS bearer services,
a GPRS network administration may offer (or support) a set of additional
services. This is outside the scope of this specification, however, a number
of possible PTP interactive teleservices include:
\- retrieval services which provide the capability of accessing information
stored in data base centres. The information is sent to the user on demand
only. An example of one such service in the Internet\'s World Wide Web (WWW);
\- messaging services which offer user-to-user communication between
individual users via storage units with store-and-forward mailbox, and/or
message handling (e.g., information editing, processing and conversion)
functions;
\- conversational services which provide bi-directional communication by means
of real-time (no store-and-forward) end-to-end information transfer from user
to user. An example of such a service is the Internet\'s Telnet application;
\- tele-action services which are characterized by low data-volume (short)
transactions, for example credit card validations, lottery transactions,
utility meter readings and electronic monitoring and surveillance systems.
Some examples of teleservices which may be supported by a PTM bearer service
include:
\- distribution services which are characterized by the unidirectional flow of
information from a given point in the network to other (multiple) locations.
Examples may include news, weather and traffic reports, as well as product or
service advertisements;
\- dispatching services which are characterized by the bi-directional flow of
information from a given point in the network (dispatcher) and other
(multiple) users. Examples include taxi and public utility fleet services;
\- conferencing services which provide multi-directional communication by
means of real-time (no store-and-forward) information transfer between
multiple users.
Some examples of teleservices which may be supported by either PTP or PTM
bearers include:
\- user subscribed services where a priori agreement is made for delivery of
data to a user, such as stock quotes, sports results, specific product or
service advertisements, and email.
EGPRS is an enhancement of GPRS for GERAN allowing higher data rates on the
radio interface. The same set of services provided by GPRS is available in
EGPRS.
HSDPA is an enhancement to Packet data services for UTRAN allowing higher data
rates on the radio interface downlink. The same set of services provided by
GPRS is available with GPRS using HSDPA.
# 5 Service Requirements
## 5.1 GPRS reference model
The GPRS can be described using the simplified reference model in figure 1.
GPRS provides data transfer capabilities between a sending entity and one or
more receiving entities. These entities may be an UE or a Terminal Equipment,
the latter being attached either to a GPRS network or to an external data
network. The base station provides radio channel access for UEs to the GPRS
network. User data may be transferred between four types of UEs as described
in 3GPP TS22.001 [1] and TS 24.002 [2].
Each PLMN has two access points, the radio interface (labelled Um for GERAN
and Uu for UTRAN) used for mobile access and the R reference point used for
origination or reception of messages. The R reference point for the UEs is
defined in 27.060 [9].
Figure 1: GPRS simplified reference model
### 5.1.1 Bearer services
The GPRS bearer services support the capability to transmit data between user-
network access points.
### 5.1.2 (Void)
### 5.1.3 (Void)
## 5.2 Network Interworking
Network interworking is required whenever a PLMN and a non-PLMN are involved
in the execution of a GPRS Service request.
In general the mobile user of a GPRS network will receive and experience all
the services provided by an external data network. In this case the external
data network refers to the network that the GPRS PLMN interworks with as
determined by the network operator. With this in mind it can be said that a
user :-
1) will require a universal identity(ies) of the form compatible with the
interworked with network(s);
2) and experience access to and provision of all services as offered by the
interworked with networks (some reduction of capability may result from
unavoidable restrictions due to the complexity of implementation).
### 5.2.1 Interworking with other data networks and other PLMNs
GPRS shall provide means to interwork with external data networks. The GPRS
operator may provide an appropriate address to the external data network for
the subscriber as part of the GPRS subscription. That address can be either
dynamic (e.g. the user\'s IP address is allocated from a pool of unused IP
addresses every time the subscriber activates the access to an IP network) or
static (e.g. a certain IP address is permanently allocated to a particular
subscriber). In addition, the GPRS network shall be able to notify the server
IP address (e.g. the gateway IP address) to the subscriber, when the
subscriber activates. When connected with some external data networks, the
routeing protocols of these networks may limit the data network addresses that
can be allocated. For example, when interworking with IP networks, the IP
address for the GPRS subscriber shall belong to that GPRS operator\'s IP
subnetwork that allocates the address. In the case of a simple point to point
connection, a GPRS subscriber need not have an associated network address.
The type of interworking between a PLMN and data networks is determined by the
network operator.
Interworking with the following types of data networks shall be defined:
\- IP networks;
> \- other PLMNs, directly or via a transit network.
#### 5.2.1.1 QoS when Interworking
GPRS shall satisfy, within the constraints introduced by the mobile radio
environment, the QoS requirements of the interworked-with network.
### 5.2.2 GPRS Numbering Plan
It is required that GPRS UE addresses conform to the numbering plan already
defined for 3GPP system.
### 5.2.3 Addressing and routeing requirements
#### 5.2.3.1 PTP network layer services
A GPRS subscriber identified by an IMSI, may have a network layer address(es)
temporarily and/or permanently associated with it that conforms to the
standard addressing scheme of the respective network layer service used, e.g.:
\- IP Version 4 and 6 addresses for Internet CLNS.
> In the case of a simple point to point connection, a GPRS subscriber need
> not have an associated network layer address.
### 5.2.4 Interworking for subscriber roaming
Interworking between different GPRS PLMNs is required in order to support
subscriber roaming.
It shall be possible for the VPLMN to provide access to the external data
network when the external non-3GPP data network address is dynamically
assigned by the VPLMN.
## 5.3 GPRS service description
There are two categories of GPRS services:
\- Point to Point (PTP) services,
\- Point to Multipoint (PTM) services.
The PTP service provides a transmission of one or more packets between two
users, initiated by a service requester and received by a receiver.
There is one PTP service: - PTP Connectionless Network Service (PTP-CLNS). The
PTM service provides a transmission of packets between a service requester and
a receiver group.
There is one PTM service:
\- IP Multicast (IP-M).
An invocation of the service request by a service requester is possible from
the fixed and mobile access points.
Table 1 presents the relationship between service requests and the Service
Requester/Receiver.
Table 1: Relationship of service request and service requester/receiver
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Service |** Types of service | | | requester/receiver**| request** | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | AP = Access Point | **PTP-CLNS** | **IP-M** | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | From fixed AP to mobile | Supported | Supported | | AP | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | From mobile AP to mobile | Supported | Supported | | AP | | | | | | | | (see note 1) | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | From mobile AP to fixed | Supported | Supported | | AP | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: It shall be | | | | possible to transfer data | | | | between two mobiles of | | | | the same operator without | | | | the use of external data | | | | networks. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
### 5.3.1 Point-To-Point Connectionless Network Service (PTP-CLNS)
Point-To-Point Connectionless Network Service (PTP-CLNS) is a service in which
one (or more) single packet(s) is (are) sent from a single service subscriber
\"A\" to a single destination user \"B\". Each packet is independent of the
preceding and succeeding packet. This service is of the datagram type and is
intended to support bursty applications. On the radio interface PTP-CLNS
supports the acknowledged transfer mode for reliable delivery.
GPRS provides data communications services consistent with the connectionless
network layer service definition ISO 8348 [3]. Specifically, GPRS shall be
able to support applications based on the following network layer protocol:
\- Internet Protocol (IP);
\- IP is the network layer protocol of the Internet TCP/IP protocol suite
defined by Internet STD 5 [4].
### 5.3.2 (Void)
### 5.3.3 Point-To-Multipoint (PTM) service overview
A PTM service is the transmission of a single message to multiple subscribers.
The GPRS PTM services provide the capability for a subscriber to send data to
multiple destinations.
There is one PTM service:
\- IP Multicast (IP-M), which is a service defined as a part of the IP
protocol suite. In IP-M messages are sent between participants of an IP-M
group. An IP-M group can be internal to the PLMN or distributed across the
Internet. Participation and data transfer in the IP-M service shall be
compliant with the Internet protocols. See RFC 1920 [4], RFC 1458 [4], RFC
1301 [4] and RFC 1112 [4]. The Service Receiver of a point-to-multipoint
service request shall be able to filter out packets at a network level,
through use of the Packet Identities, which are of no interest either because
they are for a service for which no subscription is held, or the packet
belongs to a sub-group within the offered application service which is of no
interest. It is required that the UE-Application resources shall not be
utilized for this function.
Table 2: PTM Service Characteristics
* * *
Characteristics IP-M Primary addressing mechanism specified group of
subscribers Secondary addressing mechanism no Present subscribers known yes,
group members shall join the IP-M call to become participants. Delivery time
real time Direction of transmission multi-directional Reliable delivery
acknowledged as normal IP PTP packets Ciphering yes
* * *
## 5.4 Service interworking
It shall be possible for the GPRS PTP services to be utilized as a bearer
service for the SMS-MO and SMS-MT services.
## 5.5 Transfer Characteristics
The packet multiplexing mechanisms developed for GPRS shall be independent of
a given channel type. It shall be possible to operate GPRS over low and high
capacity channels. Table 3 is only applicable to the GPRS part of the
connection.
Table 3: Transfer Characteristics
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attributes** | **Supported | | | | capabilities** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Transfer | Unrestricted digital | | | Capability | information | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information | Connection mode | Connection | | | | orientated, | | | | connectionless | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transfer | Traffic type (a) | Variable bit rate | | | | and variable delay | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mode | Timing end-to-end | Asynchronous | | | (b) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Transfer | Maximum bit rate. | | | Rate (c) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information | - Service data unit | | | Structure | integrity | | | | | | | | - Data sequence | | | | integrity | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Communication | - Point to point | | | Configuration | | | | | - Point to | | | | multipoint | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Establishment of | Demand mobile | | | Communication (d) | originated or mobile | | | | terminated | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Negotiation | - Out of band | | | | | | | | - In band | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Symmetry | - Bi-directional | | | | | | | | - Unidirectional | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radio Channel | Shared, multi-user | | | assignment | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
a) Traffic type: describing data streams with constant bit rate or variable
bit rate characteristics.
b) Timing end-to-end: describing the timing relation between the source and
destination of signals.
c) Flexible channels with a maximum bit rate that depends on the type of
channel and the number of time slots in GERAN that are used. This capability
defines the maximum capability associated with the channel(s). The actual bit
rate for a particular user may be any value up to this maximum value.
d) Establishment of communication: may be on demand, reserved or permanent.
## 5.6 Service characteristics
### 5.6.1 Subscriber profile
The subscriber profile holds subscription information about services and other
parameters that have been assigned for an agreed contractual period. It
includes the following information:
\- subscribed services (PTP-CLNS);
\- subscribed QoS profile (service precedence(priority), reliability, delay,
throughput).
An invocation of a service by any user with the appropriate subscription
profile shall be possible.
It shall be possible to validate a service request against a service
subscriber\'s subscription profile.
### 5.6.2 Quality of Service (QoS)
The mapping of user application QoS parameters to GPRS QoS parameters is an
implementation issue and is not part of GPRS specifications.
It shall be possible to respond to local data traffic conditions adaptively.
GPRS shall include the functionality to increase or decrease the amount of
radio resources allocated to GPRS on a dynamic basis. The criteria used to
decide on dynamic changes of the GPRS part of the radio resource should not be
specified. Thus, only the necessary procedure, including radio protocol and
timers, needed to perform the change of radio resources shall be specified
within the ETSI specifications.
Within GPRS the dynamic allocation of the radio resource for bursty or lengthy
file transfer applications shall be such that it can be controlled by the
network operator.
#### 5.6.2.1 QoS parameter definitions
The defined QoS parameter values, assume the user is at a location with
acceptable -coverage and refer to and are valid for normal network operating
conditions or, as in the case of the service precedence parameter, regulate
how the network shall handle abnormal conditions.
##### 5.6.2.1.1 Service precedence (priority)
The service precedence indicates the relative priority of maintaining the
service. For example under abnormal conditions (e.g. network congestion)
packets which may be discarded can be identified. The following precedence
levels are defined:
\- High precedence: Service commitments will be maintained ahead of all other
precedence levels.
\- Normal precedence: Service commitments will be maintained ahead of low
priority users.
\- Low precedence: Service commitments will be maintained after the high and
normal priority commitments have been fulfilled.
##### 5.6.2.1.2 Reliability
The reliability parameter indicates the transmission characteristics that are
required by an application. The reliability class defines the probability of
loss of, duplication of, mis-sequencing of or corruption of SDUs.
Table 4 lists the three classes of the data reliability.
Table 4: Reliability classes
* * *
Reliability class Lost SDU\ Duplicate SDU probability Out of Sequence SDU
probability Corrupt SDU\ Example of application characteristics. probability
(a) probability (b)
1 10-9 10-9 10-9 10-9 Error sensitive, no error correction capability, limited
error tolerance capability.
2 10-4 10-5 10-5 10-6 Error sensitive, limited error correction capability,
good error tolerance capability.
3 10-2 10-5 10-5 10-2 Not error sensitive, error correction capability and/or
very good error tolerance capability.
* * *
a) To protect against buffer overflow or a protocol malfunction, there is a
maximum holding time for each SDU in the GPRS network after which the SDU is
discarded. The maximum holding time depends on the protocols used (e.g.,
TCP/IP).
b) Corrupt SDU probability: the probability that a SDU will be delivered to
the user with an undetected error.
##### 5.6.2.1.3 Delay
GPRS is not a „store and forward" service - although data is temporarily
stored at network nodes during transmission - thus, any delay incurred is due
to technical transmission characteristics (or limitations) of the system and
is to be minimised for a particular delay class. The delay parameter thus
defines the maximum values for the mean delay and 95-percentile delay to be
incurred by the transfer of data through the GPRS network(s). The delay
parameter defines the end-to-end transfer delay incurred in the transmission
of SDUs through the GPRS network(s).
This includes the radio channel access delay (on uplink) or radio channel
scheduling delay (on downlink), the radio channel transit delay (uplink and/or
downlink paths) and the GPRS-network transit delay (multiple hops). It does
not include transfer delays in external networks.
Delay is measured between the R or S (for UE) and Gi (for FS) reference points
when applied to \"UE to fixed station (FS)\" or \"FS to UE\" transmissions.
Table 5: Delay classes
* * *
                      Delay (maximum values)
                      SDU size: 128 octets        SDU size: 1024 octets
Delay Class Mean Transfer Delay (sec) 95 percentile\ Mean Transfer\ 95
percentile\ Delay (sec) Delay (sec) Delay (sec)
1\. (Predictive) \< 0.5 \< 1.5 \< 2 \< 7
2\. (Predictive) \< 5 \< 25 \< 15 \< 75
3\. (Predictive) \< 50 \< 250 \< 75 \< 375
4\. (Best Effort) Unspecified
* * *
The SDUs used to establish communications between network and UE are counted
in the averages in the above table if they also contain user data.
##### 5.6.2.1.4 Throughput
The throughput parameter indicates the user data throughput requested by the
user.
Throughput is defined by two negotiable parameters:
\- Maximum bit rate
\- Mean bit rate (includes, for example for \"bursty\" transmissions, the
periods in which no data is transmitted.)
The maximum and mean bit rates can be negotiated to a value up to the
Information Transfer Rate value (see table 3).
It shall be possible for the network to re-negotiate the throughput parameters
at any time during a session.
#### 5.6.2.2 QoS profile - PTP
The subscriber´s QoS profile for the PTP service consists of the following
parameters which are negotiated or set to default values:
\- service precedence (priority),
\- reliability,
\- delay,
\- user data throughput.
#### 5.6.2.3 Monitor
As an option, the UE may monitor the current QoS level. If this option is
implemented, the following information shall be monitored:
\- user data throughput;
\- radio channel access delay;
\- round-trip-UE/PLMN delay; and
\- reliability,
The UE shall provide means of communicating this information to the
application(s) via the R and S reference points as shown in Figure 2.
### 5.6.3 Packet size
Both PTP and PTM services shall allow the transfer of variable length Network
Service Data Units (NSDU).
# 6 Operational Requirements
## 6.1 GPRS UE Modes of Operation
## 6.1.1 GPRS UE classes
The purpose of the definition of the GPRS UE Classes is to enable the
different needs of the various market segments to be satisfied by a number of
UE types with distinct capabilities (e.g., simultaneous use and number of
time-slots in GERAN). A means shall be provided to indicate the GERAN multi-
slot capability and current configuration to the network when necessary.
Three GPRS UE modes of operation are identified:
NOTE 1: The term simultaneous (attach, traffic, etc.) is the requirement to
simultaneously support GPRS services and circuit switched services including
SMS.
Class A: The UE is attached to both GPRS and other services. The UE supports
simultaneous attach, simultaneous activation, simultaneous monitor,
simultaneous invocation and simultaneous traffic. The mobile user can make
and/or receive calls/sessions on the two services simultaneously subject to
the QoS requirements.
UTRAN will only support Class A mode of operation
In GERAN Class A mode of operation may be achieved using Dual Transfer Mode
(DTM) functionality [10]
Class B: The UE is attached to both GPRS and other services, but the UE can
only operate one set of services at a time. When the UE is in both idle mode
and packet idle mode it should be able to monitor paging channels for both
circuit-switched and packet-switched services depending on the mode of network
operation.
At least one mode of network operation shall be defined so that when an UE is
in both idle mode and packet idle mode it shall be able to respond to paging
for both circuit-switched and packet-switched services. A mode of network
operation where the network performs the paging for circuit-switched and
packet-switched services on different paging channels is also defined. In such
case an UE in both idle mode and packet idle mode should either attempt to
listen to both paging channels with priority for the circuit-switched service
or revert to class-C mode of operation.
If in a mode of network operation the network performs both the paging for
circuit-switched and packet-switched services on the same paging channel, then
the UE shall respond to paging messages for both services.
There is no requirement for the UE to monitor the packet paging channel when
in dedicated mode.
One mode of network operation shall be defined so that when an UE is engaged
in packet data transfer, it shall receive paging messages via the packet data
channel without degradation of the packet data transfer. Modes of network
operation where paging for other services is not done via the packet data
channel are also defined. In such cases an UE engaged in packet data transfer
may attempt to receive paging messages.
When responding to a paging message for other services, the UE shall establish
the connection for that incoming service (i.e., enter dedicated mode) and
suspend GPRS activity. GPRS activity is resumed upon return to idle mode.
If paged for an incoming circuit-switched call, the UE shall indicate the
presence of the call to the user or user\'s application, and where possible
provide to the user the CLI. It shall be possible for the user (or the user\'s
application) to decide how to proceed with an incoming call (e.g., accept the
call, indicate UDUB, or invoke Call Deflection).
It shall be possible for the UE to receive SMS-CB messages if it attached to
GPRS but is not engaged in packet data transfer.
Class B is not applicable to UTRAN or GERAN Iu Mode.
NOTE 2: Users should be aware that monitoring paging (in some modes of network
operation), responding to paging, alerting of circuit-switched service, or
acceptance or establishment of a circuit-switched call during an active GPRS
connection may degrade the performance of the established GPRS connection and,
in some cases, may cause failures in an application using the GPRS connection
(e.g., a file transfer might be aborted due to a timeout of the application
protocol).
Class C: The UE is attached to either GPRS or other services. Alternate use
only. If both services (GPRS and Circuit Switched) are supported then a Class
C UE can make and/or receive calls only from the manually or default selected
service, i.e., either GPRS or Circuit Switched service. The status of the
service which has not been selected is detached i.e., not reachable. The
capability for GPRS-attached class-C UEs to receive and transmit SMS messages
is optional.
It shall be possible for the UE to receive SMS-CB messages if it attached to
GPRS but is not engaged in packet data transfer.
Class C is not applicable to UTRAN.
An UE may be reconfigured. E.g., a class A UE configured as 1 slot for circuit
switched plus 1 slot for GPRS may be reconfigured as a class C configured as 0
slots for circuit switched plus 2 slots for GPRS.
Non-voice only UEs do not have to (but may) support emergency calls.
## 6.1.2 UE support for SMS over GPRS
The network shall support SMS message reception and transmission for GPRS-
attached UEs. However, this feature might not be implemented in all networks.
The following requirements are applicable to class A and class B GPRS UEs:
\- If the UE preferred method, at power up or later, is sending SMS over GPRS
and this fails, either due to a direct failure indication or rejection, or due
to the complete lack of a response, then the UE shall switch to sending
subsequent SMS\'s by circuit switched services for an implementation dependent
time. After this time the UE may again revert to trying to send SMS\'s over
GPRS.\ Also, if a different PLMN is selected the UE shall again revert to
trying to send SMS\'s over GPRS.
\- If the SMS attempt fails on both GPRS and circuit switched services, then
the user/toolkit is informed.
## 6.2 Subscriber roaming
GPRS shall provide the ability for subscribers to access the service while
roaming between networks. This implies the pre-existence of an international
signalling mechanism and a service agreement between the different network
operators involved.
It shall be possible for GPRS subscribers to remain GPRS attached when moving
from one PLMN to another.
HSDPA shall be supported when roaming providing a roaming agreement for the
necessary transport/bearer service(s) is currently valid.
## 6.3 Construction of GPRS subscriber numbers
The number of a GPRS subscriber shall be composed such that the PLMN operator
can maintain control of the numbering scheme, thereby ensuring subscriber
numbering integrity. The ability to allocate a subset of the numbers privately
shall be possible.
## 6.4 Battery life extension
The GPRS service shall provide for a means to extend the battery life of an
UE, by allowing the UE to reduce current drain; e.g., by using a discontinuous
reception (DRX) strategy. The power conservation strategy should allow the UE
to remain in a very low current state for a considerable proportion of the
time. Moreover, the power conservation strategy should ensure that no messages
are lost and that bandwidth is not wasted.
When conserving power through the use of DRX, or other techniques, the UE
shall still meet all QoS requirements of selected classes. Some classes of
service may necessitate continuous reception (i.e., no DRX capability).
## 6.5 Format Of Message User Data
The user data is to be presented as an octet string between GPRS\'s access
points, and is not interpreted by the PLMN.
## 6.6 Charging aspects
The charging information that the GPRS network collects for each UE shall be
standardised. The information that the operator uses to generate a bill to a
subscriber is operator specific. Billing aspects, e.g. a regular fee for a
fixed period, are outside the scope of this specification.
The HPLMN Operator/Service Provider may be able to charge the GPRS subscriber
for all costs incurred including those costs incurred in an external network
be it a VPLMN or a data network.
The charging requirements of HSDPA shall be identical to the existing packet
data services.
### 6.6.1 PTP and IP-M charging information
The charging information of PTP and IP-M services is collected for the GPRS
subscriber. As a minimum the following charging information shall be
collected:
\- destination and source: The charging information shall describe the
destination and source addresses;
\- usage of radio interface: The charging information shall describe the
amount of data transmitted in MO and MT directions categorized with QoS and
user protocols;
\- usage of the external data networks: The charging information shall
describe the amount of data sent/received to/from the external data network;
\- usage of the packet data protocol addresses: The charging information shall
describe how long the UE has used the packet data protocol addresses;
\- usage of the general GPRS resources: The charging information shall
describe the usage of other GPRS related resources and UE\'s activity in the
GPRS network (e.g. Attach/Detach, mobility management);
\- location of UE: HPLMN, VPLMN, plus optional higher accuracy location
information.
### 6.6.2 Reverse Charging
It shall be possible to provide reverse charging as a subscription option.
However, reverse charging may not be applicable to certain external data
network protocols. It shall be possible, as an option, to allow users to roam
from one environment to another, between fixed and mobile, between public and
private as well as between different public systems.
## 6.7 Security services
The use of radio communications for transmission to/from subscribers in mobile
networks makes them particularly sensitive to:
1) misuse of their resources by unauthorized persons using manipulated UEs;
2) eavesdropping on the information being exchanged on the radio path.
Therefore, to protect the system in the two cases mentioned above, the
following security features are provided for GPRS:
\- UE authentication; i.e., the confirmation by the land-based part of the
system that the subscriber identity, transferred by the UE within the
identification procedure on the radio path, is the one claimed. The purpose of
this authentication is to protect the network against unauthorized use. It
also enables the protection of GPRS subscribers by denying intruders the
ability to impersonate authorized users;
\- access control; i.e., the network can support restrictions on access by or
to different GPRS subscribers, such as restrictions by location, screening
lists, and so on;
\- user identity confidentiality; i.e., the property that the user identity on
the radio link is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals,
entities or processes. The purpose is to provide privacy of identities of the
subscribers who are using GPRS radio resources. It allows for the improvement
of other security features, e.g., user information confidentiality, and also
provides for the protection against tracing the location of a mobile
subscriber by listening to the signalling exchanges on the radio path;
\- user information confidentiality; i.e., the property that the user
information is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals,
entities or processes. The purpose is to provide for confidentiality of user
data, i.e., protection of the message part pertaining to layers 3 and above,
that passes over the radio path.
Both user identity and user data shall be protected as shown in table 6:
Table 6: Protection of user identity and user data
* * *
**Service** **User Identity Protection** **User Data Protection** PTP Yes Yes
IP-M Yes Yes
* * *
Security mechanisms available for existing teleservices and bearer services
should be used if possible.
## 6.8 Message Screening
The message screening function is concerned with filtering out unauthorized or
unwanted messages. Message screening may be used to restrict the types of
message or the volume of data which may be transferred across the GPRS network
to/from an individual subscriber.
## 6.9 GPRS Operator Determined Barring
GPRS subscribers can request packet oriented services from access points
within the HPLMN, or from access points within another GPRS enabled PLMN.
Similarly, when roaming, a subscriber may request to be connected to an access
point within the HPLMN which requires all of the packets to be sent over an
international link, which may attract a higher charge from Service Providers.
Therefore, similarly to circuit switched domain, barring capability is
required.
The specific requirements for ODB of GPRS can be found in 3GPP TS 22.041
(Operator Determined Barring) [8].
# 7 Normal procedures with successful outcome
## 7.1 Provision
The GPRS services shall be provided to the subscriber after prior arrangement
with the service provider. The provision of each of the following GPRS
services independently or any combination thereof shall be possible:
1) Point To Point - Connectionless Network Service (PTP-CLNS);
2) Point To Multipoint (PTM).
It shall be possible to subscribe to GPRS services with or without
subscription to other services.
It shall be possible for the network operator to offer GPRS to the Service
Provider(s) who may then offer GPRS-based services to the end-user.
GPRS services can be offered to a subscriber with the subscription option of
using a password to control the services. A single GPRS-password per
subscriber is supported by the network for all GPRS services.
As a subscription option modification of the subscriber's service profile
(e.g., registration) shall be possible only in conjunction with the GPRS-
password.
The following Quality of Service (QoS) parameters shall be assigned to the
subscriber profile upon provision of the GPRS service(s). These parameters may
be negotiated or set to default values:
\- service precedence (priority),
\- reliability,
\- delay,
\- user data throughput.
\- scheduled repeated transmission.
## 7.2 Withdrawal
The service(s) shall be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons. Withdrawal shall de-activate the service.
## 7.3 GPRS-Attach, GPRS-Detach
GPRS-Attach is performed when the UE indicates its presence to the PLMN for
the purpose of using the GPRS PTP or PTM services. This can be immediately
after the UE has been switched on or later as the user decides to use the GPRS
services. The UE identifies itself with its identity (IMSI, TLLI). A GPRS-
Attach shall be successfully performed only if the subscriber has a valid GPRS
subscription. It is assumed that the user will not, under normal
circumstances, initiate a GPRS Attach without first ensuring that the data
handling capability necessary in the terminating equipment has been activated.
GPRS-Detach is performed when the UE indicates to the PLMN that the UE will no
longer be using the GPRS services. The UE identifies itself with its identity
(IMSI, TLLI).
## 7.4 Registration
Registration of the service parameters shall enable the subscriber to optimize
the actual (dynamic) service profile to the subscriber\'s present, actual
requirements within the limitations of the (static) subscription profile (see
subclause 6.1). The result of the registration shall be indicated (i.e.
accepted/registered or rejected/not registered). The registered service
profile is valid for all GPRS transactions until modified by re-registration
or changes to the subscription profile.
As a subscription option registration of the service parameters shall be
possible only in conjunction with a GPRS-password.
It shall be possible for the user to activate connections to non-preconfigured
external networks by using non-subscribed Access Point Names (APN\'s).
Table 7 defines which service parameters shall be able to be registered for
the different GPRS services. The range of values for the service parameters is
specified in subclause 5.6.
Table 7: Registration of service parameters
* * *
Service Parameter PTP-CLNS IP-M
Service precedence (priority) 2,3,4 2,3,4
Reliability 2,4 2,4
Throughput 2, 3, 4 2, 3, 4
Simultaneous use class 2 2
Delay 2, 4 2, 4
Security management / encryption 1 1
Interworking profile\ 2 2 (a)
Password Active / De-active 2 2
* * *
Legend: 1 Network determined.
2 User determined per subscription and registration.
3 User determined per request.
4 Negotiable.
N/A Not applicable.
a) This is the set of subscription attributes (including a user-ID and/or
address valid in the external data network if necessary) adopted by the
subscriber when utilizing a particular destination network. A set of
subscription attributes is required for each destination network. Multiple
user-IDs and/or addresses for each destination network are allowed.
Registration of an identity other than the IMSI (i.e. a user-ID/address in an
external data network, e.g. Internet, etc.) is performed to couple this
identity to the IMSI for the purpose of accessing (MO and/or MT) the external
data network. Registration of an identity other than the IMSI is subject to
valid subscription agreements with the network operator. This also provides an
effective operator determined barring of access to external data networks.
Each of the registered interworking profiles can be individually activated and
de-activated.
Screening parameters can be assigned to a particular interworking profile as a
user protection against unwanted costs and/or data.
## 7.5 Void
## 7.6 Interrogation
The subscriber shall be able to interrogate the status/value of registered
service parameters as defined in the current service profile.
## 7.7 Activation
The subscriber shall be able to activate each of the registered interworking
profiles independently within the limitations of the subscription profile. As
an option the GPRS network may request the activation of a specific
interworking profile for a GPRS attached mobile, when an mobile terminated
packet or activation request from external data network with user-ID (e.g.
MSISDN) packet is received even if a mobile is inactive. This option may be
available for one or more PDP. The activation of the inter-working profile(s)
may be performed automatically by the UE immediately after GPRS Attach. When
an interworking profile is activated a dynamic binding between the 3GPP
identity of the UE and the external data network user-ID and/or address is
made by the system, and the appropriate service parameters are applied thus
establishing a virtual connection between the UE and the GPRS network.
Activation of an interworking profile results in a dynamic binding until de-
activation is performed.
## 7.8 De-activation
The subscriber shall be able to de-activate the previously activated
interworking profiles independently within the limitations of the subscription
profile thus releasing the previously established virtual connection. An
interworking profile(s) shall be automatically de-activated if the provision
for the supporting GPRS service is withdrawn. Interworking profiles are
deactivated automatically upon GPRS detach..
De-activation of a particular interworking profile shall abort all presently
on-going communication between the UE and the external data network.
## 7.9 Invocation and operation
The GPRS service is invoked upon transmission or reception of GPRS data.
It shall be possible for a UE to be a GPRS service requester and a service
receiver. This allows generation and origination of GPRS messages from the
mobile termination itself as a standalone GPRS data source. It also allows the
mobile termination to provide DCE capabilities for user applications based in
terminal equipment outside the mobile termination.
It shall be possible for a subscriber to set-up multiple GPRS communication
sessions and maintain these over prolonged periods (e.g. several hours). It
shall be possible to establish these connections via more than one external
data network. This enables more than one logical data channel to exist to a
single mobile termination.
PTP-CLNS and IP-M communications in any combination shall be possible in
parallel.
## 7.10 PIN and Password Management
GPRS-Attach shall only be possible after correct subscriber identification has
been confirmed by entry of the current PIN if this option is active. Thus only
one PIN is required to gain access to either the Circuit Switched Services/SMS
or the GPRS Services or both.
GPRS services can be offered to a subscriber with the subscription option of
using a password to control the services. One password per subscriber is
supported by the network for all GPRS services. The GPRS password shall be the
specified password for supplementary services according to 3GPP TS22.004 [5]
and TS22.030 [6].
When this option is selected the following actions shall only be performed
with the concurrent entry of the password:
\- registration, de-registration.
# 8 Exceptional procedures
## 8.1 Provision
None.
## 8.2 Withdrawal
None.
## 8.3 Registration
An attempt to register a service or service parameter not available to that
subscriber shall result in an indication to the user. The reason shall be
indicated:
\- the service or service parameter is not supported by the PLMN;
\- the subscriber's present (static) subscription profile prohibits the use of
this service or service parameter;
\- parameter is network determined;
\- the entered parameter value is outside the range of that supported by the
PLMN.
If, in the case of interworking with an external data network, an attempt is
made to set a parameter to a value outside the range of that supported by the
interworking to the external data network, it shall be indicated to the user
and confirmation required before the parameter value is changed to a value
selected by the network.
## 8.4 Void
## 8.5 Interrogation
None.
## 8.6 Activation
An attempt to activate an interworking profile which is already in the active
state shall result in an indication to the user, the interworking profile
shall remain in the active state.
## 8.7 De-activation
An attempt to de-activate an interworking profile which is already in the de-
active state shall result in an indication to the user, the interworking
profile shall remain in the de-active state.
## 8.8 Invocation and operation
An attempt to send an MO message with an UE identity which is not valid in the
network shall be rejected with an appropriate error status.
An MT message that cannot be delivered due to an invalid UE identity shall be
discarded by the network. A message that is received by an incorrect UE shall
be discarded by the UE.
## 8.9 PIN and Password management
PIN and password exceptional procedures are as defined in 3GPP TS 42.017 [7]
and 22.004 [5].
# 9 Addressing
## 9.1 Point to Point services
A GPRS-PTP subscription is identified by an IMSI.
## 9.2 Point to Multipoint services
For mobile originated PTM communications the IMSI shall be the basis for the
access to the network.
## 9.3 Overview
How the identities are used within the different services is described in
table 8.
Table 8: Services and Identities
* * *
Services mobile originated mobile terminated  
calling party Called party  
GPRS PTP IMSI Address (note 1) IMSI
IP-M IMSI Address (note 1) IMSI NOTE 1: The IMSI or in the case of network
interworking refer to subclause 5.2.3.
* * *
#