# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document describes the Supplementary Services belonging to the
group Community Of Interest Supplementary Services.
The general aspects, including definitions and recommended provision, of the
description of the Supplementary Services are given in TS 22.004.
The group of Community Of Interest Supplementary Services includes one
Supplementary Service:
\- Closed user group (clause 1).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation X.121: \"International numbering plan for public data
networks\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation X.180: \"Administrative arrangements for closed user
groups (CUGs)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.088: "Call Barring (CB) supplementary services -- Stage 1".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905 [1].
# 1 Closed User Group (CUG)
## 1.1 Definition
The Closed User Group (CUG) Supplementary Service enables subscribers,
connected to a PLMN and possibly also other networks, to form closed user
groups (CUGs) to and from which access is restricted. A specific user may be a
member of one or more CUGs. Members of a specific CUG can communicate among
each other but not, in general, with users outside the group.
The ability to set up emergency calls remains unaffected.
## 1.2 Description
### 1.2.1 Service description
An ISDN/MSISDN number shall identify each member of a CUG.
A CUG shall be defined for one or more basic service groups.
CUG members can have additional capabilities that allow them to originate
calls outside the group, and/or to receive calls from outside the group. CUG
members can have additional restrictions that prevent them from originating
calls to other members of the CUG, or from receiving calls from other members
of the CUG.
CUG shall remain unaffected when members roam to PLMNs supporting CUG. Roaming
subscribers must have the same CUG facilities on the roamed-to PLMN as on the
Home PLMN.
When roaming to networks not supporting CUG, the CUG restrictions must be
enforced. (However, where possible, the CUG facilities should be supported,
see subclause 1.4.10.)
Each individual subscriber may be a member of a maximum of 10 CUGs.
### 1.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this Supplementary Service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004
[2].
### 1.2.3 Definitions
**MSISDN:** A number conforming to the numbering plan and structure specified
in 3GPP TS 23.003.
**CUG member:** A user who has subscribed to the CUG Supplementary Service and
is one of the users in the group formed by a particular CUG.
**CUG index:** A value assigned by the network to identify a CUG.
**CUG Interlock Code (IC):** Is used by the network (not by the MS) to
identify CUG membership.
**preferential CUG:** A preferential CUG, which can be specified for each
basic service group, is the nominated default CUG to be used when no explicit
CUG index is received by the network.
**suppress preferential CUG:** A user action to prohibit the use of the
preferential CUG, on a per call basis.
**Incoming Access (IA):** An arrangement which allows a member of a CUG to
receive calls from outside the CUG.
**Outgoing Access (OA):** An arrangement which allows a member of a CUG to
place calls outside the CUG.
**suppress OA:** A user action to prohibit the use of the OA subscription
option, on a per call basis.
**Incoming Calls Barred Within A CUG (ICB):** An access restriction that
prevents a CUG member from receiving calls from other members of that group.
**Outgoing Calls Barred Within A CUG (OCB):** An access restriction that
prevents a CUG member from placing calls to other members of that group.
**CUG calls:** A CUG call is a call which is restricted to a pre-defined group
of users.
## 1.3 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 1.3.1 Provision
The CUG Supplementary Service shall be provided after prior arrangement with
the service provider.\ At provision subscription options should be selected by
the served mobile subscriber.
A user may be a member of several CUGs. The service provider defines the
number of CUGs, up to the maximum stated in subclause 1.2.1, which can be
allocated to an individual subscriber.
The user shall choose one of the following subscription options for each basic
service group applied to the CUG Supplementary Service. This subscription
option may be provisioned on a per basic service group basis or for all basic
services:
\- CUG calls only;
\- CUG with incoming access, i.e. can also receive calls, which are not
subject to CUG restrictions;
\- CUG with outgoing access, i.e. can also make calls, which are not subject
to CUG restrictions;
\- CUG with incoming and outgoing access, i.e. can also make and receive
calls, which are not subject to CUG restrictions.
A user may subscribe to one of two additional restrictions applying for each
particular CUG:
\- incoming calls barred within a CUG;
\- outgoing calls barred within a CUG.
The network shall provide a subscription option in order to enable the user to
specify a preferential CUG, for each basic service group included in at least
one of the CUG(s). The user can request that no preferential CUG exists, or
that a particular one of her CUGs (or the only one if a single CUG applies) is
used as a preferential CUG for the particular basic service group.
If a user has the subscription option outgoing calls barred within a CUG, it
is not allowed to specify that particular CUG as a preferential CUG.
The subscription options are shown in Annex 1.
The CUG indices shall be allocated by prior arrangement with the service
provider.
The choice of preferential CUG(s) shall be alterable only by service provider
action upon request by the served user.
### 1.3.2 Withdrawal
Withdrawal of the CUG Supplementary Service, membership of one or more CUGs,
will be by the action of the service provider, at the request of the
subscriber or CUG management, or for administrative reasons.
### 1.3.5 Activation
The CUG Supplementary Service will be activated by the service provider as a
result of provision.
### 1.3.6 Deactivation
The CUG Supplementary Service will be deactivated by the service provider as a
result of withdrawal.
### 1.3.7 Invocation
Normal call setup procedures shall apply to calls with the CUG Supplementary
Service.
### 1.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
A user having neither the restriction of incoming calls barred within a CUG,
nor the restriction of outgoing calls barred within a CUG can make calls to,
and receive calls from, members of those CUGs of which the user is a member.
Upon receipt of a call setup attempt to or from a CUG subscriber the network
shall check its validity in conjunction with the access capabilities
subscribed to.
On successful validation of a CUG call setup attempt the network shall attempt
to establish the call to the required destination.
#### 1.3.8.1 Mobile originating calls
When originating a call, the calling user may specify a CUG index to indicate
that service to a particular CUG is required. If no CUG index is given then
the preferential CUG (if specified) is used by the network.
The Outgoing Access (OA) capability allows CUG subscribers to make outgoing
calls, which are not subject to CUG restrictions.
If a user, subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service, originates a call and
enters a request for suppression of both a preferential CUG and of the OA
capability but does not enter a CUG index, the call shall be rejected.
If a user, subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service and having the OA
capability, originates a call and enters a CUG index (without suppressing the
OA capability), while having the restriction of outgoing calls barred within
that CUG, the call shall be established without any CUG information i.e. as a
normal call.
The originating PLMN actions are illustrated in annex 2.
As a network option, the network may signal towards the calling user the CUG
index in use for the current call, if this can be determined by the network.
##### 1.3.8.1.1 A user with no preferential CUG and no OA capability
If a user, subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service, who has no
preferential CUG and no OA capability, originates a call and enters a CUG
index (and possibly requests suppression of a preferential CUG and/or the OA
capability) the call shall be established using the CUG index provided. If no
CUG index is entered the call shall be rejected.
##### 1.3.8.1.2 A user with a preferential CUG but no OA capability
If a user, subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service, who has a
preferential CUG but no OA capability, originates a call and enters no CUG
information (or if she only requests suppression of the OA capability),the
call shall be established using the preferential CUG. If she enters a CUG
index (and possibly a request for suppression of the preferential CUG and/or
the OA capability), the call shall be established using the CUG index
provided. If she enters only a request for suppression of the preferential
CUG, i.e. no CUG index, the call shall be rejected.
##### 1.3.8.1.3 A user with the OA capability but no preferential CUG
If a user, subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service, who has the OA
capability but no preferential CUG, originates a call and enters no CUG
information (or if she only requests suppression of a preferential CUG), the
call shall be established without any CUG information being sent, i.e. this is
set up as a normal call. If she enters a CUG index (and possibly a request for
suppression of a preferential CUG), the call shall be established using the
CUG index provided and with an indication of OA allowed. If she enters both a
CUG index and a request for suppression of the OA capability (and possibly a
request for suppression of a preferential CUG), the call shall be established
using the CUG index provided. If she enters only a request for suppression of
the OA capability, i.e. no CUG index, the call shall be rejected.
##### 1.3.8.1.4 A user with a preferential CUG and the OA capability
If a user, subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service, who has a
preferential CUG and the OA capability, originates a call without any CUG
information, the call shall be established using the preferential CUG and with
an indication of OA allowed. If she enters a CUG index (and possibly a request
for suppression of the preferential CUG), the call shall be established using
the CUG index provided and with an indication of OA allowed. If she enters
only a request for suppression of the OA capability, the call shall be
established using the preferential CUG. If she enters only a request for
suppression of the preferential CUG, i.e. no CUG index, the call shall be
established without any CUG information i.e. this is set up as a normal call.
If she enters both a CUG index and a request for suppression of the OA
capability (and possibly a request for suppression of the preferential CUG),
the call shall be established using the CUG index provided.
##### 1.3.8.1.5 A user not subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service
If a user, not subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service, originates a call
and enters CUG information the call shall be set up as a normal call.
#### 1.3.8.2 Mobile terminating calls
If a user, with or without the IA capability, receives a CUG call and the
calling user is a member of the same CUG, the incoming CUG call shall be
indicated as such, towards the called Mobile Station, with the appropriate CUG
index.
If a user with the IA capability receives a call from a user who has not
subscribed to the CUG Supplementary service, or from a user who is a member
from another CUG and who is using the OA capability, the call is offered to
the user as a normal incoming call.
The terminating PLMN actions are illustrated in annex 3.
##### 1.3.8.2.1 CUG call with no OA indication
For a call where an interlock code is received, but not an indication of OA
allowed, the following applies:
If there is a match with any of the called user\'s CUGs, and if she does not
have incoming calls barred within this CUG, the call shall be offered as a CUG
call. In all other cases the call shall be rejected.
##### 1.3.8.2.2 CUG call with OA indication
For a call where both an interlock code and an indication of OA allowed is
received, the following applies:
If there is a match with any of the called user\'s CUGs, and if she does not
have incoming calls barred within this CUG, the call shall be offered as a CUG
call.
If the above condition does not apply, and if she has incoming access allowed,
the call shall be offered as a normal call.
If the called subscriber does not subscribe to the CUG Supplementary Service,
the call shall be offered as a normal call.
In all other cases, the call shall be rejected.
##### 1.3.8.2.3 Normal call
When a normal call is received, i.e. a call without any CUG information, the
following shall apply:
If the called subscriber subscribes to the CUG Supplementary Service and has
incoming access allowed, or if she is a normal non-CUG subscriber, the call
shall be offered as a normal call. In all other cases, the call shall be
rejected.
## 1.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 1.4.1 Exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome
Upon receipt of a call setup attempt to or from a CUG subscriber, the network
shall check its validity in conjunction with the access capabilities
subscribed to. If an invalid request is received or the checks cannot be
performed, then the network shall reject the call and return an appropriate
indication to the calling user.
The network shall prohibit a user with incoming calls barred within a CUG from
receiving CUG calls from members of the same CUG.
The network shall prohibit a user with outgoing calls barred within a CUG from
making CUG calls within that CUG.
### 1.4.10 Roaming into networks not supporting CUG
The HPLMN shall control handling of roaming, when a CUG subscriber is roaming
into a network not supporting CUG, without relying on extra functionality in
network entities not supporting CUG.
For subscribers roaming in a PLMN not supporting CUG the following apply:
1) In the case of basic service groups not subject to CUG restrictions,
incoming and outgoing calls shall be allowed as normal.
2) In the case of basic service groups subject to CUG restrictions and without
incoming access, incoming calls shall not be allowed.
3) In the case of basic service groups subject to CUG restrictions and without
outgoing access, outgoing calls shall not be allowed.
4) Normal incoming calls are allowed for basic service groups subject to CUG
restrictions and for which the called user has incoming access allowed.
5) Outgoing calls are allowed for basic service groups subject to CUG
restrictions and for which the user has outgoing access allowed.
## 1.5 Alternate procedures
None identified
## 1.6 Interactions with other Supplementary Services
#### 1.6.82.1 Call forwarding unconditional
CUG restrictions shall be met between the calling user and the forwarding
user. In addition, the call must not be forwarded if the CUG restrictions of
the forwarding mobile subscriber forbid her to make a call attempt of the same
type to the forwarded-to user. The parameters of the CUG requested by the
calling user shall be used for the forwarding call, and by this means CUG
restrictions shall be met between the calling user and the forwarded-to user,
except for the cases stated in section b) below.
Annex 4 shows under what circumstances a call shall be allowed to be
forwarded.
a) CUG call with no OA indication.
For calls received with an IC, but no indication of OA allowed, the following
is valid:
If the forwarding subscriber subscribes to the CUG Supplementary Service, and
if she does not have outgoing calls barred within the CUG, the call shall be
forwarded with the same IC as received from the A-party. In all other cases,
the call shall be rejected.
b) CUG call with an indication of OA allowed.
For calls received with an IC and an indication of OA allowed, the following
is valid:
If the forwarding subscriber subscribes to the CUG Supplementary Service, and
if there is a match with any of her CUGs, and if she does not have OA allowed,
and if she does not have outgoing calls barred within the CUG, then the call
shall be forwarded with the same IC as received from the A-party (the
indication of OA allowed shall in this case NOT be forwarded).
If the forwarding subscriber subscribes to the CUG Supplementary Service, and
if there is a match with any of her CUGs, and if she does have OA allowed, and
if she does not have outgoing calls barred within the CUG, then the call shall
be forwarded with the same IC as received from the A-party and with the
indication of OA allowed. If this forwarding subscriber has outgoing calls
barred within the CUG, then the call shall be forwarded as a normal call (the
CUG information shall in this case NOT be forwarded).
If the forwarding subscriber subscribes to the CUG Supplementary Service, and
if there is no match with any of her CUGs, but if she has IA allowed and OA
allowed, then the call shall be forwarded with the same IC as received from
the A-party and with the indication of OA allowed (in this case the
subscription option \"Intra-CUG restrictions\" is not relevant).
If the forwarding subscriber does not subscribe to the CUG Supplementary
Service, then the call shall be forwarded with the same IC as received from
the A-party and with the indication of OA allowed.
In all other cases, the call shall be rejected.
c) Normal call.
For normal calls received the following is valid:
If the forwarding subscriber subscribes to the CUG Supplementary Service, and
if she does have OA allowed, then the call shall be forwarded without any CUG
data. (In this case the subscription option \"Intra-CUG restrictions\" is not
relevant.)
If the forwarding subscriber does not subscribe to the CUG Supplementary
Service, then the call shall be forwarded (without any CUG data).
In all other cases, the call shall be rejected.
#### 1.6.82.2 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 1.6.82.3 Call forwarding on no reply
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 1.6.82.4 Call forwarding on mobile subscriber not reachable
Same as the interaction with call forwarding unconditional.
#### 1.6.83.1 Call waiting
No interaction. If the incoming (waiting) call is a CUG call it shall be
indicated as such.
#### 1.6.84.1 Multi-party service
No interaction. Multi-party calls shall be set up taking into account the CUG
relationships between the controlling party and each of the remote parties.
The CUG restrictions need not to be checked between remote parties.
### 1.6.88 Call restriction Supplementary Services
Except for ACR, the following is valid:
\- The call restriction Supplementary Services, when active and operative,
takes precedence over the CUG restrictions.
\- The activation of a call restriction Supplementary Service does not affect
any current CUG call.
For ACR, see 3GPP TS 22.088 [6].
## 1.7 Interworking considerations
If, due to an interworking situation, signalling in the network is not able to
carry the information required to provide the service, the network shall
terminate the attempt and return an appropriate indication to the calling
user. However, a CUG call with an OA indication shall in this case continue to
be established as a normal call.
The rejection of CUG calls cannot be technically guarantied in all network
interconnection cases, and can only be ensured by inter-connect agreement.
Management of CUG spanning over multiple networks:
A CUG may span over several networks. In this case the responsibility for the
management of this CUG is in one of these networks.
NOTE: One mechanism exists for CUGs spanning over data networks only, having
X.121 as the numbering plan (see ITU-T Recommendation X.180 (1988)),
\"Administrative arrangements for international closed user groups\".
###### ## Annex 1 (normative): General subscription options (Per Subscriber)
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subscription Option | Values Available | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subscription to CUGs | List of one or more CUG indices | | | to the maximum stated in | | | subclause 1.2.1. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Intra CUG restrictions (for each | - None designated | | CUG) | | | | - Incoming calls barred within | | | a CUG | | | | | | - Outgoing calls barred within | | | a CUG | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Applicability to Basic Services | - List of one or more Basic | | (for each CUG) | Service groups | | | | | | - All Basic Services | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Per basic service group subscription options
+---------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Subscription Option | Values Available | +---------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Preferential CUG | - None designated (NOTE) | | | | | | - CUG index | +---------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Type of inter CUG accessibility | - None designated | | | | | | - Outgoing access | | | | | | - Incoming access | | | | | | - Outgoing and Incoming access | +---------------------------------+---------------------------------+
###### ## Annex 2 (normative): Originating PLMN actions on call requests on
the calling user\'s side
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | calling | | | | | | | user | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Calling | No CUG | CUG | Suppress | Suppress | CUG | | user\'s | info | index or | OA | pref. | index | | subs | | CUG | | CUG | and | | cription | | index | | | suppress | | | | and | | | OA or | | - | | suppress | | | CUG | | | | pref. | | | index | | - | | CUG | | | and | | | | | | | suppress | | - | | | | | OA and | | | | | | | suppress | | | | | | | pref CUG | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | User | Reject | E | Reject | Reject | E | | without | call | stablish | call | call | stablish | | pref | | call | | | call | | erential | | using | | | using | | CUG and | | CUG | | | CUG | | without | | index | | | index | | OA | | provided | | | provided | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | User | E | E | E | Reject | E | | with | stablish | stablish | stablish | call | stablish | | pref | call | call | call | | call | | erential | using | using | using | | using | | CUG but | pref CUG | CUG | pref CUG | | CUG | | without | | index | | | index | | OA | | provided | | | provided | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | User | E | E | Reject | E | E | | without | stablish | stablish | call | stablish | stablish | | pref | call | call | | call | call | | erential | without | using | | without | using | | CUG but | any CUG | CUG | | any CUG | CUG | | with OA | info | index | | info | index | | | i.e. a | provided | | i.e. a | provided | | | normal | and OA | | normal | | | | call | i | | call | | | | | ndicator | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | User | E | E | E | E | E | | with | stablish | stablish | stablish | stablish | stablish | | pref | call | call | call | call | call | | erential | using | using | using | without | using | | CUG and | pref CUG | CUG | pref CUG | any CUG | CUG | | with OA | and OA | index | | info | index | | | i | provided | | i.e. a | provided | | | ndicator | and OA | | normal | | | | | i | | call | | | | | ndicator | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | User | Normal | Normal | Normal | Normal | Normal | | without | call | call | call | call | call | | the CUG | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NOTE 1: If a CUG user enters a non-allocated CUG index the call shall be
rejected.
NOTE 2: If a user, subscribing to the CUG Supplementary Service and having the
OA capability, originates a call and enters a CUG index (without suppressing
the OA capability), while having the restriction of outgoing calls barred
within that CUG, the call shall be established without any CUG information
i.e. as a normal call.
###### ## Annex 3 (normative): Terminating PLMN actions
This table shows the type of call request sent to the destination user or that
a rejection indication is returned to the calling user, as a result of the CUG
checks on the destination network side.
Network actions on call requests on the called user\'s side
* * *
Type of CUG indication M or CUG attributes of the forwarding user for
requested basic service group forwarding user is a non  
from the NM IA not allowed IA allowed CUG user  
network not icb icb not icb icb  
CUG call with no OA M CUG call rejected CUG call rejected rejected indication
NM rejected rejected  
CUG call with OA indication M CUG call rejected CUG call normal call normal
call NM rejected normal call  
Normal call -- rejected normal call normal call
* * *
M: match with any of the called subscriber\'s CUGs for the requested basic
service group.
NM: no match with any of the called subscriber\'s CUGs for the requested basic
service group.
###### ## Annex 4 (normative): CUG interaction with the call forwarding
Supplementary Services
This table shows under what circumstances a call shall be allowed to be
forwarded.
* * *
Type of CUG indication M or CUG attributes of the forwarding user for
requested basic service group forwarding user is a non  
from the NM OA not allowed OA allowed CUG user  
network 1) not ocb ocb not ocb ocb  
CUG call with no OA M CF rejected CF rejected rejected indication NM rejected
rejected  
CUG call with OA indication M CFm 2) rejected CF CFn CF NM rejected CF 3)  
Normal call -- rejected CF 3) CF
* * *
Abbreviations:
CF: Forward call using the calling subscriber\'s parameters
CFm: Forward call using modified calling subscriber\'s parameters
CFn: The call is forwarded as a normal call.
NOTE 1: M: match with any of the called subscriber\'s CUGs for the requested
basic service group.
NM: no match with any of the called subscriber\'s CUGs for the requested basic
service group.
NOTE 2: Only the interlock code is sent from the forwarding subscriber towards
the forwarded to subscriber.
NOTE 3: The subscription option outgoing calls barred within a CUG (ocb), is
not relevant in this case.
#