# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 1 description for the Follow Me
feature.
The Follow Me feature enables a mobile subscriber A to manipulate the Follow
Me data of a party B in such a way that - under certain conditions -
subsequent calls directed to party B will be forwarded to subscriber A.
The feature is described from the service subscriber\'s and user\'s point of
view, in particular:
‑ the procedure for normal operation with successful outcome;
‑ the action to be taken in exceptional circumstances;
‑ the interaction with other GSM services and features.
This TS does not deal with the Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) requirements, but
makes reference to the appropriate specifications.
Any interaction with other services and/or networks not dealt with in this
specification are outside the scope of this TS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.041: \"Operator Determined Barring (ODB) - Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); Service definition (Stage 1).
[9] 3GPP TS 22.079: \"Support of Optimal Routeing (SOR); Service definition
(Stage 1)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.090: \" Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) Stage
1\"
[11] 3GPP TS 42.031: \"Fraud Information Gathering System (FIGS); Service
description - Stage 1\"
[12] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**initiating subscriber:** the mobile subscriber which modifies the Follow Me
data of the remote party.
**remote party:** Is characterised by a number in E.164 format defined in the
numbering plan of a PLMN operator. The Follow Me feature enables the
initiating subscriber to modify the Follow Me data associated with this
number. In general this number is not assigned to a subscriber. In particular
cases the remote party is a subscriber of the PLMN and the number denotes her
basic MSISDN.
**FM service supervisor** : Is an initiating subscriber who is allowed to
modify the Follow Me data of a remote party who has been registered to another
initiating subscriber for the Follow Me application. The FM service supervisor
shall be authorised by her network operator.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS the following abbreviations apply, in addition,
abbreviations used in this TS are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905 [1].
FM Follow Me feature
# 4 Description
Follow Me enables an initiating mobile subscriber A to have control over the
Follow Me data of a remote party B. Initiating Subscriber A shall be able to
manipulate the Follow Me data of remote party B such that subsequent calls
directed to remote party B are forwarded to initiating subscriber A.
Initiating subscriber A needs to have FM provisioned by her service provider.
In case remote party B is a subscriber she needs to have FM provisioned by her
service provider too.
The FM service supervisor shall be able to modify the Follow Me data of the
remote party who has been registered to another initiating subscriber.
It remains in the responsibility of a FM provisioning service provider to
confine
a.) the range of remote parties for which a FM provisioned subscriber may
become initiating subscriber
b.) the range of potential initiating subscribers for a remote party.
The mobile subscriber who has been provisioned Follow Me is able to use the
following control operations:
> Registration available to the initiating subscriber
>
> Interrogation available to the initiating and remote party in case the
> remote party corresponds to a subscriber
>
> Erasure available to the initiating and remote party in case the remote
> party corresponds to a subscriber
(There is no explicit activation or deactivation.)
The FM service supervisor is able to use the following control operations:
> Interrogation
>
> Erasure (forced erasure)
NOTE 1: The functionality of the Follow Me feature is equivalent to the Call
Forwarding Unconditional Supplementary Service (see 3GPP TS 22.082 [5]),
controlled by initiating subscriber A and effecting remote party B.
NOTE 2: The Follow Me feature is designed in such a way that the requirements
of \"functional addressing\", which is needed for GSM-Railway operators, can
be met. The concept of \"functional addressing\" enables a subscriber to set
up a call to a \"function\" - e.g. the conductor - on a \"train\".\ The Follow
Me feature identifies this \"function\" with the remote party B. Consequently
a \"functional number\" is the equivalent to the number of remote party B
(e.g. the MSISDN of a subscriber B). A call to that \"functional number\" (the
conductor on a particular train - to stay with the example) will be forwarded
to the MS of the person, who is on duty as a conductor at this time for this
train.\ In the context of the Follow Me feature, this person (the train
conductor) constitutes the \"initiating subscriber\" A, who has registered
Follow Me with respect to the remote party B (the \"function\" train
conductor).
## 4.1 Normal Operation
Due to reduced security requirements to the Follow Me feature the service
shall not be offered in standard operations of public 3GPP networks. In
railway operations it must be enabled by definitive action on the part of the
operator.
Fraud Information Gathering System (FIGS) as specified in [11] can be used to
protect in CAMEL based inter-working networks.
The Follow Me feature shall be controlled by means of Subscriber Controlled
Input using USSD.
# 5 Applicability to telecommunication services
3GPP TS 22.001 describes the principles of the Telecommunication services
provided in a PLMN. It also defines the concepts of Telecommunication services
and describes their characterization by appropriate attributes. Bearer
services and Teleservices, which are offered by a PLMN in connection with
other networks, are defined in 3GPP TS 22.002, 3GPP TS 22.003 and 3GPP TS
22.101. A list of basic service groups can be found in 3GPP TS 22.004.
Follow Me is applicable to the following telecommunication services:
Table 1: Applicability of the Follow Me feature to telecommunication services
Feature | Telephony | Emergency Call | SMS PTP | SMS‑CB | Fax | cct Data |  | Voice Group Services |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| TS11 | TS12 | TS21 | TS22 | TS 23 | TS 6x | BS2x, BS3x |  |  | TS 91 | TS 92  
Follow Me | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | No1 | No1  
NOTE 1: The feature is in general not applicable for Voice Group Services. However a dispatcher may be an initiating subscriber or a remote party for the Follow Me feature. EDITOR's Note: The applicability of FM to SMS is for further study. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# 6 Normal procedures with successful outcome
## 6.1 Provision
Follow Me shall be provided after prior arrangement with the service provider.
Follow Me will be provisioned for all Basic Services subscribed to and to
which it is applicable.
NOTES:
\- A Follow Me provision is required for the initiating subscriber and for the
remote party in case the remote party corresponds to a subscriber.
> \- If Follow Me is provisioned for a mobile subscriber she may assume the
> role of an initiating subscriber and/or the role of a remote party.
\- A Follow Me provisioning service provider may confine:
a.) the range of remote parties for which a FM provisioned subscriber may
become initiating subscriber
b.) the range of potential initiating subscribers for a remote party.
c) the range of remote parties for which a FM provisioned subscriber may
become FM service supervisor.
NOTE: (Health warning on security) The Follow Me feature is designed in such a
way as to meet the security requirements of GSM-Railway operators. If the
Follow Me feature is to be used by other operators - in particular if the
remote party corresponds to a subscriber - operators are strongly advised to
care for additional suitable security mechanisms to protect the remote party
from potential harm by misuse of FM. These mechanisms are out of scope of this
specification.\ To support such mechanisms the possibility is foreseen to
convey additional operator-specific information in the registration,
interrogation and erasure procedures to the PLMN of the remote party. It
should however be noted, that this is not a very secure mechanism. Operators
should try to use existing security mechanisms where possible
## 6.2 Withdrawal
Follow Me will be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for administrative
reasons.
## 6.3 Registration
Follow Me shall be registered with an appropriate control procedure by the
initiating subscriber.
The initiating Subscriber registers the Follow Me feature with respect to a
particular remote party.
The initiating subscriber shall provide the following information to the
network:
the number of the remote party (e.g. the Basic MSISDN of a subscriber);
The initiating subscriber shall receive an indication if the FM registration
request was accepted or rejected by the network.
As an operator\'s option additional information (such as passwords) for
registration may be required from the initiating subscriber. The registration
procedure shall transport this information from the initiating subscriber to
the network of the remote party. This information shall be coded as a USSD
string with a length not exceeding 30 characters. The content of this
information and the use of it are out of scope of this specification.
NOTE 1: The Follow Me feature may, at an instant, be registered to an
initiating subscriber with respect to several remote parties. Conversely, a
remote party can be registered only to one initiating subscriber at a time.
## 6.4 Erasure
A previous FM registration can be erased in either of the following ways:
a) The initiating subscriber can specifically erase her previous registration
with an appropriate control procedure.
b) In case the remote party corresponds to a subscriber the remote party
can erase any previous registration with an appropriate control procedure.
c) The FM service supervisor can erase any previous registration to any remote
party with an appropriate control procedure (forced erasure).
The subscriber who initiates the FM erase request shall be informed of the
outcome of the request by the network.
For forced erasure by the FM service supervisor the initiating subscriber
whose registration of Follow Me with respect to a remote party has been erased
shall be informed of the successful forced erasure by the network.
As an operator\'s option additional information (such as passwords) for
erasure may be required from the subscriber. The registration procedure shall
transport this information from the subscriber to the network of the remote
party. This information shall be coded as a USSD string with a length not
exceeding 30 characters. The content of this information and the use of it are
out of scope of this specification.
## 6.5 Activation
Follow Me is activated by registration.
## 6.6 Deactivation
Follow Me is deactivated by erasure.
## 6.7 Invocation
Follow Me is automatically invoked by the network if it was previously
registered. If Follow Me is registered all incoming calls to the remote party
will be forwarded to the initiating subscriber by network invocation.
When Follow Me is active and operative and if the remote party is a
subscriber, the ability of the remote party to originate calls is not
affected.
## 6.8 Interrogation
An initiating subscriber (also the FM service supervisor) shall be able to
interrogate the Follow Me data of any remote party, for which she is
authorised to become initiating subscriber.
In case the remote party corresponds to a subscriber the remote party shall be
able to interrogate her own Follow Me data stored in the network.
The network shall return the basic MSISDN of the initiating subscriber for
which the remote party is registered to Follow Me.
As an operator\'s option additional information (such as passwords) for
interrogation may be required from the subscriber. The registration procedure
shall transport this information from the subscriber to the network of the
remote party. This information shall be coded as a USSD string with a length
not exceeding 30 characters. The content of this information and the use of it
are out of scope of this specification.
# 7 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
## 7.1 Registration
If the system cannot accept a registration request, the initiating subscriber
shall receive a notification that Follow Me registration was not successful.
Possible causes are:
\- insufficient information;
\- feature not provisioned to initiating subscriber;
\- feature not provisioned to remote party (in case the remote party is a
subscriber);
\- conflicting situation with supplementary services (e.g. incoming call
barring has been activated);
\- remote party already registered to a different initiating subscriber;
\- insufficient authorisation for initiating subscriber or remote party.
## 7.2 Erasure
If the network cannot accept a mobile initiating or remote subscriber\'s
request for erasure, cause will be returned to the subscriber, such as:
\- insufficient information;
  * remote party not registered;
  * remote party registered to a different initiating subscriber;
  * insufficient authorisation for initiating subscriber or remote party;
\- feature not provisioned to initiating subscriber;
\- feature not provisioned to remote party (in case the remote party is a
subscriber).
## Interrogation
If the network cannot accept a mobile initiating or remote subscriber\'s
request for interrogation, cause will be returned to the subscriber, such as:
  * insufficient information;
  * insufficient authorisation for initiating subscriber or remote party;
  * feature not provisioned to initiating subscriber;
\- feature not provisioned to remote party (in case the remote party is a
subscriber).
## 7.4 Invocation
Within a PLMN or different PLMNs the number of tandem forwarding connections
(including call forwarding, call deflection, Follow Me) should be limited. The
maximum number of tandem forwarding connections should be limited to a value
between 1 and 5. This is to prevent infinite looping.
If the limit of successive forwardings of a call has already been reached, an
unsuccessful call set up indication is sent backwards.
If the call cannot be completed to the Follow Me destination, then the network
will clear the forwarded part of the call and an unsuccessful call set up
indication is sent backwards.
# 8 Alternate procedures
None identified.
# 9 Charging requirements
None identified.
# 10 Interactions with supplementary services
Interactions of the Follow Me feature with supplementary services may occur
only for the remote party.
The interactions of the Follow Me feature with supplementary services other
than Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) are the same as the interactions of
CFU with supplementary services (see 3GPP TS 22.082 [5]).
NOTE: The "served mobile subscriber" in 3GPP TS 22.082 [5] corresponds to the
"remote party" in this document. The "forwarded-to subscriber" in 3GPP TS
22.082 [5] corresponds to the "initiating subscriber" in this document
## 10.1 Call Forwarding unconditional
Follow Me and the Call Forwarding Unconditional Supplementary Service are
mutually exclusive. That is:
If Follow Me is registered with respect to a remote party, registration or
activation of Call forwarding unconditional by the remote party is rejected.
The remote party shall be informed of this incompatibility.
If Call forwarding unconditional is registered or active for the remote party,
registration of Follow Me is rejected. The initiating subscriber shall be
informed of this incompatibility.
# 11 Interaction with Operator Determined barring
Same as interaction between Operator Determined barring and call forwarding
unconditional as defined in 3GPP TS 22.082.
# 12 Interaction with Optimal Routeing
Same as interaction between Optimal Routeing and call forwarding unconditional
as defined in 3GPP TS 22.079.
# 13 Interaction with CAMEL
Same as interaction between CAMEL and call forwarding unconditional as defined
in 3GPP TS 22.078.
# 14 Interworking considerations
If a forwarded call due to invocation of Follow Me meets an interworking
situation, then an interworking indication should be sent to the calling
party. When interworking with non-PLMN or non-ISDN networks, tones and
announcements will be required.
NOTE 1: The number of times a call has been forwarded once it has exited the
PLMN or ISDN may not be limited.
NOTE 2: Tones and/or announcements should not be provided to the calling party
if the information transfer capability is set to UDI.
#