# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This specification defines the requirements for the support of the presence
service. The presence service results in presence information of a user and
information on a user\'s devices, services and services components being
managed by the network. Together, user, these devices, services and services
components are termed presentity (presence entity). This TS makes extensive
use of internet terminology to ensure alignment with the presence service
description and behaviour in internet recommendations.
The presence service provides access to presence information to be made
available to other users or services. Exploitation of this service, see figure
1, will enable the creation of enhanced rich multimedia services along the
lines of those currently present in the internet world.
Presence is an attribute related to, but quite different from mobility
information, and is a service that can be exploited to create additional
services. The types of services that could be supported by the presence
service may include:
\- New communications services
The presence service will enable new multimedia services to exploit this key
enabler to support other advanced multimedia services and communications.
These new services may infer the context, availability and willingness of a
user to accept or participate in particular types of communications by
accessing the presence information for the user\'s devices and services.
Examples of such new multimedia services that could potentially exploit the
presence service include \"chat\", instant messaging, multimedia messaging,
e-mail, , handling of individual media in a multimedia session etc.
\- Information services
The presence service may also be exploited to enable the creation of services
in which abstract entities are providing the services to the mobile community.
The presence service may be used to support such abstract services as cinema
ticket information, the score at a football match, motorway traffic status,
advanced push services etc.
\- Enhanced existing services
Existing services may also be significantly enhanced by exploiting the
presence information. For example a user may dynamically arrange for his
wireless services to be supported through his corporate PABX whilst he is on-
site, require media to be converted and directed to specific devices (e.g.
user cannot accept a voice call whilst in a meeting, but is prepared to
receive the voice call converted to text in the form of an SMS/MMS/e-mail
message). The presence service may also be used to enable the creation of
advanced versions of CS/PS services, enable terminal capabilities support etc.
The following figure 1 represents a logical overview of how services could
exploit the presence service to create advanced services.
Figure 1: Logical presence service support of services
A presence-enabled service as observed by the user is a service in which the
user can control the dissemination of his presence information to other users
and services, and also be able to explicitly identify specifically which other
users and services to which he provides presence status. Combined with the
capability of other users\' control of their own presence status, virtually
infinite combinations of users and services interacting at different levels
can be created.
The exploitation of the presence service is already available in the internet
world, although unfortunately with different non interoperable mechanisms.
This specification identifies the requirements for support of an enhanced
version of the presence service through the support of attributes (e.g.
services, media components of a multimedia service, location information) in
an interoperable manner within both wireless and fixed networks, and with
external networks.
# 1 Scope
This TS defines the stage one description for the presence service. Stage one
is the set of requirements which shall be supported to enable the exploitation
of the presence service, seen primarily from the users\' and home
environments' points of view.
This TS includes information applicable to the home environment, device and
network manufacturers which are sufficient to provide complete support of the
presence service.
Additional functionalities not documented in this TS are considered outside
the scope of this TS. Such additional functionality may be on a network-wide
basis, nation-wide basis or particular to a group of users. Such additional
functionality shall not compromise conformance to the requirements of the
presence service defined in this specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".
[2] Void
[3] RFC 2778: \"A Model for Presence and Instant Messaging\";
http://www.ietf.org/rfc.html.
[4] RFC 2779 \"Instant Messaging / Presence Protocol Requirement\";
http://www.ietf.org/rfc.html.
[5] RFC 3863 \" Presence Information Data Format (PIDF)\";
http://www.ietf.org/rfc.html.
## 2.1 Acknowledgement
This document contains extracts of documents, the copyright of which is vested
in the Internet Society. The terms of the Internet Society copyright are
fulfilled by the reproduction of the copyright and paragraph below. This
copyright only applies to text in this document that has been directly
reproduced from the appropriate RFC.
> Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000). All Rights Reserved.
>
> This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others,
> and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in
> its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and distributed, in
> whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
> copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such copies and
> derivative works. However, this document itself may not be modified in any
> way, such as by removing the copyright notice or references to the Internet
> Society or other Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
> developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights
> defined in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as required
> to translate it into languages other than English.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Access rules** : constraints on how the presence service makes presence
information available to watchers. For each presentity's presence information,
the applicable access rules are managed by the principal that controls the
presentity.
**availability:** a property of a presentity denoting its ability and
willingness to communicate based on factors such as the identity or properties
of the watcher and the preferences and/or policies that are associated with
the presentity
**fetcher:** a form of watcher that has asked the presence service for the
presence information of one or more presentities, but is not requesting a
notification from the presence service of (future) changes in a presentity\'s
presence information.
**identifier** : a means of indicating a point of contact, intended for public
use such as on a business card. Telephone numbers, email addresses, and
typical home page URLs are all examples of identifier in other systems.
**poller:** a fetcher that requests presence information on a regular basis.
**presence information:** is a set of attributes characterising current
properties of presentities such as status, an optional communication address
and other optional attributes etc
**presence service:** the capability to support management of presence
information between watchers and presentities, in order to enable applications
and services to make use of presence information
**presentity (presence entity):** any uniquely identifiable entity that is
capable of providing presence information to presence service. Examples of
presentities are devices, services etc. Any presentity shall have one, and
only one, principal associated with it.
**principal:** human, organisation, program, or collection of humans,
organisations and/or programs that chooses to appear to the presence services
as a single actor, distinct from all other principals. A principal is
associated with one or more presentities and/or watchers. A principal is said
to \"own\" a certain presentity or watcher if such an association exists.
Within the context of this specification a subscriber may be a principal to
one or more presentities and/or watchers. Examples: A subscriber may be a
principal to the terminals (the presentities) he owns. A program, providing a
stock exchange information service to customers, may be the principal to the
market quotations (the presentities) it monitors.
Note: The case where a presentity is not a subscriber requires to be further
considered
**subscribed-watcher: a subscribed-watcher is a type of watcher, which
requests notification from the presence service of changes in a presentity\'s
presence information, resulting in a watcher-subscription, as they occur in
the future.**
**watcher-subscription** : the information kept by the presence service about
a subscribed-watcher\'s request to be notified of changes in the presence
information of one or more presentities
Note: This definition represents an entity\'s request to obtain presence
information, and is not related to the term \"subscription\" in [1]. Within
this specification the term watcher-subscription (and its derivatives) purely
refers to this relationship.
**watcher:** any uniquely identifiable entity that requests presence
information about a presentity, or watcher information about a watcher, from
the presence service. Special types of watcher are fetcher, poller, and
subscribed-watcher. Any watcher shall have one, and only one, principal
associated with it.
**watcher information** : information about watchers that have received or may
receive presence information about a particular presentity within a particular
recent span of time.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document the following abbreviations apply:
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
LAN Local Area Network
VHE Virtual Home Environment
# 4 Presence models
## 4a A brief introduction to the Presence Service
This clause attempts to give a simplistic high level informative overview of
what presence is from a user's perspective, and how it is used to published
to, and accessed by, other users.
Mark's ability and willingness to be reached for communication is defined by a
set of information known as presence information. Mark's presence information
may be related to his mobile network connection status, however it represents
much more than just whether he has network coverage or not. Mark also defines
a set of access rules to control access to his presence information. For the
presence service, Mark is represented by a presentity (presence entity)
associated with Mark\'s presence information and set of access rules.. In this
example, Mark's presence information consists of user status and location
information.
Figure 1: Principal and his representation in the presence information as a
presentity
As well as representing a user such as Mark, a presentity may even be created
to represent an abstract service or application (e.g. to provide road traffic
information, sports results, news headlines etc.). The entity represented by
the Presentity (in this case Mark) controls the supply of information for the
presentity and is known as the principal; thus Mark is principal of his
presentity (see Figure 1).
Paggy, Paul and Jude (e.g. Mark's callers or instant messaging buddies) who
want to determine Mark's ability (and willingness) to communicate may do so by
checking the status information in Mark's presentity. By doing so, Paggy, Paul
and Jude become watchers of Mark (see Figure 2).
Figure 2: Watchers of Mark
To protect his privacy and confidentiality, Mark has full control over whether
Paggy, Paul and Jude, or any other group of watchers, can access his presence
information. Mark may give different watchers different levels of access so
that, for example Paggy can see all of Mark's of presence information, Paul
may only see part of it, and Jude can see none of it. Hence, Mark can control
(per watcher) which parts of his presence information may be seen, and he may
decide that specific watchers have restricted access, and that some do not
have any access at all. Indeed, Mark may also define his presence information
and set up his access rules so that some watchers are given different
information (e.g. Jude is told that Mark is not available, when in fact he is
available), see Figure 3.
Figure 3: Application of Mark's access rules on watchers
Mark's presentity consists of dynamic and static information supplied directly
by himself and/or by the network. Some of the dynamic information may be
derived from a number of sources (e.g. equipment login/attachment, roaming
status, keyboard activity monitoring, equipment type, location information
etc.). An example of the static information could be a fixed telephone number.
The network may also add further information to the presentity (e.g. the
evening/night times when his mobile is usually switched offderived from his
usage patterns) to provide customised presence information.
By supporting a presence service in the network, the operator has the
capability to offer an exciting range of advanced presence-based services and
applications.
## 4.1 Informative models
The below models of the presence service and presence information are not
definitive, and no implementation model or architecture is implied or required
by them, and are solely provided to describe the functions and roles that
shall be provided by the presence service.
## 4.2 Roles in the presence service
Figure 2: Presence service model
The presence service may be considered to support two main roles, as depicted
in figure 2\"Presence service model\".
For the purposes of this TS, the following roles are identified to support the
presence service:
\- Suppliers of presence information
This role represents those entities that supply presence information.
\- Requesters of presence information
This role represents those entities which request (and subsequently receive)
presence information of a presentity. The presence information may also
maintain data on requesters of presence information, which may also be
potentially distributed (on request) to requesters of presence information.
The term watchers is used to identify the requesters of presence information.
The requesters of presence information may be associated with 2 modes of
operation:
\- Information Mode
This mode corresponds to a request-response mode and represents those entities
(i.e. watchers) which simply request the current presence information of a
presentity. The term \"fetchers\" is used to identify the receivers of this
type of presence information of a presentity. The term "pollers" identifies
the type of fetchers that request the presence information of a presentity on
a regular or periodic basis.
\- Notification Mode
This mode corresponds to a 'push-type' mode and represents those entities
(i.e. watchers) which request notifications on (future) changes in presence
information of a presentity. The term subscribed-watchers is used to identify
the receivers of these notifications. Watcher-subscriptions for subscribed-
watchers are soft-stated i.e. they are time-bound, notifications of presence
information cease on expiry of the negotiated interval. The subscribed-watcher
is allowed to 'refresh' a watcher-subscription at any time. Watcher-
subscription refreshes overwrite an existing watcher-subscription for the same
presentity, subject to the presentity\'s access rules.
Figure 3: Presence Service Entity Relationships
The key concepts captured in figure 3 are as follows:
\- a principal may be associated with one or more watchers
\- a watcher is associated with one principal
\- a presentity is associated with one principal
\- a principal may be associated with one or more presentities.
\- a presentity may be associated with one or more presence-tuples
\- a watcher can have a watcher-subscription to one or more presentities
\- a presentity may be watched by one or more watchers
## 4.3 Presence information
A logical model of a presentity\'s presence information consists of an
arbitrary number of elements, known as presence tuples, as depicted in figure
4. Presence information for each presentity is identified by a unique
identifier.
Figure 4: Presence information
Each such presence tuples contains the following information as described in
RFC 2778 [3]:
\- status
Table 1: Status
* * *
Item Explanation Example Values status Indicates the current condition of the
device or service represented by the presence tuple open, closed, online,
offline, busy, away, do not disturb etc.
* * *
\- communication address
consists of a communication means and a contact address
Table 2: Communication address
* * *
Item Explanation Example Values communication means Information indicating a
method whereby communication can take place service type (e.g. telephony,
SMS), media type (e.g. audio, video, text message), multimedia messaging
service, instant messaging service etc. contact address Information indicating
a specific point of contact via some communication means E.164, URI, instant
inbox address etc
* * *
\- other presence markup
any additional presence information
# 5 High level requirements
## 5.1 Home Environment requirements
The presence service shall provide the ability for the home environment to
manage the presence information of users\' devices, services and service
media, even when roaming. The home environment shall be able to be both the
supplier of presence information (i.e. presentities), as well as the
requesters of presence information (i.e. watchers). The presence service can
be regarded as a Home Environment service or a Home Environment -- Value Added
Service Provider (HE-VASP) service.
The home environment requirements for the support of the presence service are
defined in 5.3 General requirements, and the applicable requirements in 5.4
Management requirements and 5.5 Notification and acknowledgement requirements.
External networks (e.g. those in other PLMN's, the Internet, LANs etc.)
currently support several different forms of presence service. The presence
service shall enable the network to present a consistent and interoperable
support of presence, such that the presence capability users can interwork
with one or more other external presence services.
## 5.3 General requirements
The following general requirements for the presence service shall be
supported:-
a) Presence information
i) presence information for presentities shall be made available in a
standardised presence information format to enable interoperability within
networks.
ii) presence information for presentities shall be made available in a
standardised presence information format to enable interoperability with IETF
specified presence information formats (e.g. RFC 2778 [3], RFC 2779 [4] and
RFC3863 [5])
iii) presence information for presentities shall be extensible to represent
additional information, without undermining the standardised format (e.g.
device capabilities)
iv) presence information for presentities shall include a means to uniquely
identify the presentity
v) presence information for presentities shall define a particular type of
presentity, representing a subscriber, with a minimum set of attributes as
described below for interoperability within networks. The values for these
attributes are to be determined in the Stage 2/3 specifications.
In addition to the generic requirements described above, the presence
information representing a subscriber:
a) may include a subscriber's status attribute describing the subscriber's
willingness to communicate (e.g. available, unavailable). It does not identify
the status of the device (e.g. registration or attachment to the network) or
of any application.
This attribute is controlled by the subscriber. It shall be possible for this
subscriber's status to be provided by the subscriber, or by the network on
behalf of the subscriber (subject to the subscriber's agreement). For example
the subscriber could define that he's unavailable each day between 10 p.m. and
7 a.m., and the network would then be responsible for the subscriber's status
update.
The format and values of this attribute shall be standardised.
Note: It is to be determined in the Stage 2/3 specifications how the Status
field (in RFC2778 [3]) in notifications is completed, and whether or not the
values in the subscriber status attribute, network status attribute or other
information are used.
b) may include a network status attribute describing the connectivity state of
the device used by the subscriber. This attribute could for example be defined
using information describing the subscriber's state of connectivity to the
network (e.g. attached, call active, CS attached, CS Call active with bearer
information, IMS registered, PDP context information etc...).
This attribute is controlled by the network.
The format and values of this attribute shall be standardised.
Note: It is to be determined in the Stage 2/3 specifications how the Status
field (in RFC2778 [3]) in notifications is completed, and whether or not the
values in the subscriber status attribute, network status attribute or other
information are used.
c) may include one or more communication means (e.g. SMS, telephone, e-mail,
multimedia session...) and their contact addresses (e.g. MSISDN, e-mail
address, NULL...) by which the subscriber may be contacted.
This attribute is controlled by the subscriber. It shall be possible for this
information to be provided by the subscriber, or by the network on behalf of
the subscriber (subject to the subscriber's agreement).
The format and values of the communication means shall be standardised, and
the format of the contact address shall be standardised.
d) may include two types of location information, one provided by the network
(e.g. geographical co-ordinates) and/or one provided by the subscriber (e.g.
"at home").
The network provided location is controlled by the network, and the subscriber
provided location information is controlled by the subscriber. It shall be
possible for the subscriber provided location information to be furnished by
the subscriber, or by the network on behalf of the subscriber (subject to the
subscriber's agreement).
The format of the network provided location shall be standardised, and the
format of the subscriber provided location shall be standardised.
e) may include a priority attribute giving a relative priority for each of the
defined communication means and contact address pairs. It is via this priority
attribute that the subscriber can indicate his preference for the order in
which the communication means and contact address pairs should be used.
This attribute is controlled by the subscriber. It shall be possible for the
priority information to be provided by the subscriber, or by the network on
behalf of the subscriber (subject to the subscriber's agreement).
The format and values of this attribute shall be standardised.
f) may include a text attribute (e.g. "In a meeting until 4 p.m.")
This attribute is controlled by the subscriber. It shall be possible for the
text information to be provided by the subscriber, or by the network on behalf
of the subscriber (subject to the subscriber's agreement).
The format of this attribute shall be standardised.
b) A means to uniquely identify the watcher
c) Forward compatible presence service
Presence service shall leverage current and evolving presence technology by
re-using existing standards as far as possible and proposing extensions (as
necessary) to existing standards.
d) Interoperability with external presence services
External networks (e.g. those in other PLMN's, the Internet, LANs etc.)
currently support several different forms of presence service. The presence
service shall enable the network to present a consistent and interoperable
support of presence, such that the presence capability users can interwork
with one or more other external presence services.
e) Consistent and interoperable presence service
Regardless of the service using presence information, the presence service
shall be supported in a consistent and interoperable manner between the UE and
the network
f) Transport independence
It shall be possible to use the presence service independent of the bearer or
transport mechanism. Restrictions may apply due to the nature of the
underlying transport mechanism (e.g. a CS or PSTN terminal may not be capable
to supply the same presence information as a terminal attached to the IM CN
Subsystem)
g) Presence service quality of service
i) the Presence Service shall enable a watcher, if required, to request a time
after which delivery of the requested information shall not take place.
ii) the Presence Service shall enable a presentity to indicate an expiry time
for the presence information, if required.
iii) the Presence Service shall enable presence information delivered to a
watcher to be marked with an expiry time, if required.
h) Presence and other user services
The operation of Presence Service may be offered both in parallel and
independent of other services, e.g. supplementary services, teleservices,
bearer services or any other services.
i) Simultaneous access to presence information from multiple terminals
> It shall be possible to access presence information simultaneously from
> multiple terminals (e.g. presentity or watcher would be able to access the
> presence service via mobile phone and PC).
j) Access to the presence service from external applications
> It shall be possible for external applications to be presentities/watchers.
## 5.4 Management requirements
The following management requirements shall be supported for the presence
service:
a) Access control to the presence information
The presentity shall be able to manage the access to its presence information
in compliance with the principal's privacy and access rules requirements
detailed in 6.1 and 6.2.
> The presentity shall have the ability to accept or reject a request for
> presence information on a per watcher basis, with the option:-
i) once only per watcher (e.g. set up access rules for known watcher, groups
of watchers, anonymous watcher-subscriptions, etc.),
ii) for each presence information request (e.g. for watchers that are unknown
or not set up in the current access rules).
> It shall be possible for the presence service to make access control
> decisions on behalf of the presentity (e.g. when the presentity is out of
> contact) subject to the principal's privacy.
>
> It shall be possible to inform the presentity of watcher-subscription
> requests
>
> It shall be possible to report existing watcher-subscriptions to the
> presentity (on request or periodically).
>
> It shall be possible for the presentity to request the watcher information.
b) Not used
c) Supplying data to the presence information
When supplying data it shall be possible to update only part of the presence
information.
d) Requesting data from the presence information
> It shall be possible to request the current value of presence information
> data on demand at any time (i.e. a fetcher) or on a periodic basis (i.e. a
> poller) subject to principal's privacy, or to be notified of subsequent
> changes in presence information data (except when such notification is
> prevented by access rules
>
> It shall be possible for a watcher to define which parts of a presentity\'s
> presence information it receives, subject to the principal's privacy
> requirements.
>
> It shall be possible for watcher to request presence information anonymously
> (i.e. the watcher's identifier will not be revealed to the presentity). This
> request can be accepted or rejected, depending on the principal's privacy.
>
> A Watcher's interest to a presentity\'s presence information shall not be
> revealed to other watchers.
>
> Watcher-subscription to a presentity\'s presence information
>
> i) an entity shall be able to watcher-subscribe to a presentity's presence
> information at any time, i.e. to request notification from the presence
> service of (future) changes in any of the attributes or only in the
> attributes specified by the watcher (subject to the principal's privacy).
> Note, that by this watcher-subscription the entity becomes a subscribed-
> watcher.
>
> ii) subscriptions are soft-stated. The subscribed-watcher shall be able to
> refresh a watcher-subscription to the presentity's presence information at
> any time. A watcher-subscription refreshes overwrite an existing watcher-
> subscription for the same presentity, subject to the presentity\'s access
> rules -- the duration of a watcher-subscription starts from the time it is
> accepted.
>
> iii) the subscribed-watcher shall be able to determine the status of his
> watcher-subscription to that presentity\'s presence information, at any
> time.
>
> iv) the subscribed-watcher shall be able to cancel his watcher-subscription
> to a presentity\'s presence information at any time. Whenever a subscribed-
> watcher withdraws its watcher-subscription from a presentity's presence
> information, the subscribed-watcher shall no longer be receiving
> notifications regarding the presentity's presence information.
>
> v) an unauthorised third party shall not be able to cancel a subscribed-
> watcher\'s watcher-subscription to a presentity\'s presence information
e) User availability and mobility
The presence service shall continue to be supported if the environment into
which the user has moved supports presence service. The presence service shall
take into account changes in the availability of users (e.g. the user is out
of contact or not reachable, despite having activated his presence) or his
mobility (e.g. wherever he may be in his home environment or in a visited
network).
> f) Not used
>
> g) Access to presence service
i) it shall be possible for the presence service to accept presence
information from a presentity at any time
ii) it shall be possible for the presence service to accept requests from, and
provide presence information to, an authorised watcher at any time
## 5.5 Notification and acknowledgement requirements
The following notification and acknowledgement presence service requirements
shall be supported:-
a) Presence data modification and monitoring requests
The presence service shall be able to support the acknowledgement of any
requests to monitor a presentity\'s presence information (i.e. from watchers)
If a **subscribed-watcher** establishes a watcher-subscription to a
presentity\'s presence information:-
i) the presence service, depending on the presentity\'s access rules, shall
inform the **subscribed-watcher** if the presentity refused the **subscribed-
watcher** \'s watcher-subscription
ii) if the subscribed-watcher\'s watcher-subscription to presentity\'s
presence information is cancelled, the presence service shall inform the
subscribed-watcher of the cancellation
iii) it shall be possible for the presentity to configure the presence service
to deny a **subscribed-watcher** \'s subscription, whilst appearing to the
**subscribed-watcher** as if the subscription has been granted (this is
sometimes called \"polite blocking\")
# 6 Privacy
## 6.1 General privacy requirements
The privacy aspect of presence information and the need for authorisation
before providing presence information shall be configurable by the user (i.e.
presentity).
The following privacy requirements shall be supported:-
\- principal's privacy
a principal of a presentity shall, at any time, be able to control to whom,
for how long and what (all or part of) presence information of the presentity
is provided, and a principal of a watcher shall, at any time, be able to
control to whom, for how long and what (all or part of) watcher information of
the watcher is provided
Note: need to consider where subscriber's privacy (as distinct from
principal's privacy) requires to be addressed.
Any services using the presence information shall ensure privacy agreement
before releasing presence information. The presence service does not address
deployment specific issues (e.g. where agreements are stored or how they are
negotiated). It only gives requirements for privacy management.
Specific local, national, and regional privacy regulations shall be complied
with. In particular, an operator shall, at any time, be able to override
principal's privacy if required to do so.
## 6.2 Access rules
The principal that controls the presentity shall be able to define access
rules, in order to control how the presentity's presence information is made
available for watchers.
These access rules shall define:
\- a watcher or groups of watchers allowed access to the presentity's presence
information. For example: watchers x and y are allowed, or only watchers in
group z are allowed, or all watchers and groups are allowed.
\- the validity of the access authorisation granted for a given watcher or
groups of watchers. The access to the presentity's presence information can be
restricted for a certain period (i.e. duration or number of requests), or
during specific periods of the day.
\- the attributes of the presentity's presence information that can be made
available to a given watcher or groups of watchers.
\- the ability to provide different presence information (i.e. both number of
attributes and values of attributes) based on the watcher, and principal\'s
preferences (e.g. its availability). For example: watcher x receives
\'Online/Instant Messaging/im:a\@there.com\', while group y receives
\'Offline/Instant Messaging/im:a\@there.com\'.
A set of default access rules shall be defined by the principal.
# 7 Security
The use and access to the presence service shall be supported in a secure
manner. It shall only be possible for the presence information to be supplied
and/or updated by the presentity or the home environment as identified in
clause 5 \"High Level Requirements\".
It shall be possible to authenticate a principal before allowing registration
to the presence service.
It shall be possible to authenticate at any time a watcher and/or a presentity
requesting access to the presence service. Existing security mechanisms as
well as mechanisms specific to presence service may be used.
It shall be possible to protect the following items from attacks (e.g.,
eavesdropping, tampering, and replay attacks):
\- Presence information and notifications
\- Requests for presence information, e.g., requests for subscription and
requests for presence information retrieval.
# 8 Charging
The presence service shall be able to support various charging mechanisms both
for On-line and Off-line charging. The following charging characteristics
shall be considered:
\- charging for a user\'s registration as a presentity
\- charging for each subscription to presence information for a user
\- charging for presence information retrieval for users
\- charging for presence information notifications received for users
\- charging for presence information usage when in a visited network
The above list is not exhaustive.
# 9 Administration
The following administration requirements shall be supported.
Note: The different logical steps (provision, registration, activation) might
be combined. For example when a principal requests a watcher-subscription, a
watcher associated with him is automatically registered in the Presence
Service.
## 9.1 Provision
Provision is an action taken by the service provider to make the presence
service available to a principal. Provision may be:
\- General: where the service may be made available to all principals without
prior arrangements being made with the service provider.
\- Pre‑arranged: where the service is made available to an individual
principalonly after the necessary arrangements such as login name, password
have been made with the service provider.
This provision action shall allow the principals to subsequently register
within the Presence Service as a presentity, as a watcher or as both.
## 9.2 Withdrawal
Withdrawal is an action taken by the service provider to withdraw the presence
service from the principal. Withdrawal may be:
\- General: where the presence service is removed from all principals
\- Specific: where the presence service is removed per principal.
## 9.3 Registration
Registration is an action taken by the service provider or the principal to
provide information necessary for presentities and/or watchers to use the
Presence Service. For example, a subscriber could request the creation of a
presentity associated with him and provide the corresponding access rules.
It shall be possible to take this registration action under the condition that
the presence service is available for the principal. (i.e. the provision has
been performed previously).
This registration process may be performed at any time by the principal or
service provider to create new presentities/watchers.
The service provider may provide privacy control at registration time on
behalf of a presentity.
## 9.4 Erasure
Erasure is an action taken at any time by the service provider or the
principal in order to cancel a registration.
## 9.5 Activation
Activation is an action taken at any time by the service provider, the
presentity or the watcher to bring the Presence Service into the active state.
It shall be possible to activate the service once the presentity or watcher
has been registered.
Once the presentity or watcher is in an active state,
\- This presentity or watcher may invoke Presence Service features
\- Other presentities or watchers may invoke Presence Service features
concerning this presentity or watcher (e.g. by subscribing to its presence
information)
\- The Presence Service may invoke Presence Service features concerning this
presentity or watcher (e.g. by notifying changes in the presence information)
## 9.6 Deactivation
Deactivation is an action taken at any time by the service provider, the
presentity or the watcher to bring the Presence Service into the non-active
state.
## 9.7 Invocation
Invocation is an action taken at any time by the presentity or watcher (e.g.
by requesting presence information) or by the Presence Service as a result of
a particular condition (e.g. by notifying presence information's changes) in
order to invoke the Presence Service features.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example presence service use cases
**Immediate Messaging Use Case**
\- Premise:
User is in-and-out of coverage
Others wish to send a message and get a response - now
\- Considerations
User's Presence provides info regarding availability (Yields measure of
Probability of message delivery)
\- Presence capability can be separated from IM
Functional Separation
\- Sequence
User is out and about (having meetings or just travelling)
Availability status gets updated as needed (User control - change to
'unavailable - in meeting', Network control - out-of-coverage / busy-in-call)
\- Co-worker wants to send you a note
Check of Presence Info lets others see if user is available (If available -
provides addressing info (e.g. IM server / account ids))
\- IM Server handles message deliveries
Status updates available at any time
**Location Info in Presence Use Case**
\- Premise:
User is travelling per a schedule
Others looking to find out when user will arrive
Alternative model is to know where to go to meet user
\- Considerations
User's Presence Info could have activity indicator (e.g. 'in a meeting' or
'driving')
\- System may have access to location information on user
Issue would be the granularity/resolution
\- System may have access to user's 'calendar'
Would make a plan available
\- Security/authentication aspects of disclosures
\- Sequence
User is out and about (having meetings or just travelling (Assume that user
activity indication available (For example: 'unavailable - driving')
System could correlate location information with activity (Answer questions
like - is user at planned meeting?, If travelling, could correlate distance
with minimum transit time)
System could maintain progress on plan from calendar (System may be able to
determine if user is running late or not, User could revise plan or provide
annotated information)
Co-worker wants to know if you are available (System provides current
activity, possible links to schedule)
\- Family wants to know if user is on way home
Activity indication of 'driving' may assist in determination
Current location info could help determine how far from home
\- Meet-me example
Service may correlate matching info (Example where Activity Indication -
'Shopping' & Location - 'Mall', Friend with matching codes could be flagged,
Could IM to determine which store or to have lunch)
Service could manage meeting maker (May have appointment scheduled with
others, Could check status to see if everybody was in right location)
**Message Modality Control Use Case**
\- Premise:
User has different means to communicate (voice, text...)
User may indicate preferences
Voice number is managed by entity monitoring status
\- Considerations
Content format adaptation available (e.g. text-to-speech (synthetic voice) or
speech-to-text)
User preferences set desired message format (May change the official
communication device address)
Related services subscribe to user status (Cell net could be watcher to
provide value-add/quick routing)
\- Sequence
User is in a meeting (can't take a phone call)
Status shows 'busy - in a meeting' (Presence status listed as 'unavailable for
voice', Option for speech-to-text delivery provided if available)
If friend can send text - does so (Works as expected)
If friend has a voice device (Calls into user's number, Switch sees speech
delivery disabled - conversion offered, Switch connects caller to speech-to-
text converter, Text is sent to user, If caller stays on circuit, could engage
in two-way dialog)
\- Premise:
User is travelling and changes plane
Others looking to communicate with the user
Service available to 'take a message'
\- Considerations
Service has access to User's state
Service could be associated with User info (May be dependent on state or
watcher identification)
Service may deliver 'markup' contact for reply (Ideal is to enable
programmable or responsive operations)
**Traveler Changing Planes Use Case**
\- Sequence
User is on a plane
User (more correctly - device) is not connected to any network (Presence
status listed as 'unavailable', Service ('take a message') shown as available)
Friend wants to pass some info and sees 'unavailable' status (Uses 'take a
message' to save a friendly note)
Co-worker needs some specific info (Uses 'take a message' to record a 'get
back to me' note)
\- User arrives at airport
> User (more correctly - device) is not connected to any network (Presence
> status listed as 'unavailable', Service ('take a message') shown as
> available) 'Take a Message' Service gets update and sends a report (Provides
> an inbox type message)
User may interact to read the messages (stored by service) (Messages could be
selectively managed (read/forward/delete))
Addresses in Notes are associated with status information (Effectively invokes
a dynamically generated buddy list, May have been entities that were not part
of regular buddy list, Very easy to 'return the call' with know availability
information)
\- User gets on next plane
Status changes again - reverts to unavailable handling
#