# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The Push Service introduces a means to transmit push data from a push
initiator to a push recipient (e.g. a UE) without a previous user action. The
push concept, as provided by the SMS teleservice, has been very successful in
the GSM second generation, both for text messaging (for user viewing) and for
other unstandardized data to the SIM (as a building block used for OTA and
other purposes). This TS introduces the Push Service as a generalization of
existing network capabilities plus the development of new capabilities. The
Push Service should therefore be understood as a building block (network
capability), which can be used for new services, both public and private, in
3GPP.
In the normal client/server model, a client requests a service or information
from a server, which then responds in transmitting information to the client.
This is known as the \"pull\" technology, the user pulls information from the
content provider. The World Wide Web is a typical example of pull technology,
where a user enters a URL (the request) that is sent to a server and the
server answers by sending a Web page (the response) to the user.
In contrast to this there is also the \"push\" technology where there is no
explicit request from the user before the content provider (push initiator)
initiates an information transfer to a user. Another way of saying this is
that whereas \"pull\" transaction of information are always initiated from the
user, \"push\" transactions are content provider initiated.\ The welcome
message received after registration with a visited network whilst roaming is
an example of information transfer that has been initiated without a request
from the user. Typically, a user signs up with the push initiator and defines
their interest, volume of information acceptable and other factors in the push
subscription profile. As information becomes available that satisfies the
user's push subscription profile, the push initiator delivers it to the user
using the Push Service.
The Push service may be used to implement high level services such as IP
multimedia services, MMS, etc., and new services including public safety,
government, corporate IT, transfer of push data to machines and devices, in
addition to infotainment type services.
Another common use for push services is the delivery of notification from e.g.
MMS to the user while the user has the option of \"pulling\" the actual push
data from the push initiator.
The PLMN Push function provides the push data to the user agent in the UE. The
user agent interprets and presents the push data to a person, device or
machine using the UE.
NOTE: The requirements of services such as streaming, conversational services
and broadcast are independent from push. Therefore they are not considered
appropriate for inclusion here. Push will be available for use in appropriate
applications of all high level services.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification defines the Stage 1 description of the Push
Service and is the set of requirements that shall be supported for the
provision of push, seen primarily from the subscriber's, service providers'
and delivery network points of view.
This TS includes information applicable to network operators, service
providers, terminal and network manufacturers. It is of use to manufacturers
and organisations which have devices or machines benefiting by availability of
push service.
This TS contains the core requirements for the Push Service, for operator and
external Push Initiators, which are sufficient to provide a complete service
capability and service capability feature.
This TS defines the requirements for the Push Service to enable delivery of
push data, including such functionality as:
  * Transfer of push data from a Push Initiator to a Push Recipient
  * Latency and Priority classes,
  * Definition of handling of undeliverable push data.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"3G security; Security threats and requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"Service requirements for 3GPP Generic User Profile
(GUP); Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Definitions and abbreviations used in the present document are listed in TR
21.905 [2]. For the purposes of this document the following definitions and
abbreviations apply:
## 3.1 Definitions
**Push Data** : data sent by the push initiator to the push recipient, of a
format known to the receiver (push recipient), and not otherwise defined by
the push service.
**PLMN** : the 3GPP network that receives the push data from the push
initiator and ensures the delivery of push data to the push recipient. The
delivery of the push data may involve other networks.
**Push function** : the function in the PLMN that receives the Push Data from
the Push initiator. The push function is responsible for delivering the push
data to the Push recipient.
**Push initiator** : the entity that originates push data and submits it to
the push function for delivery to a Push recipient. A Push initiator may be
e.g. an application providing value added services.
**Push recipient:** the entity that receives the push data from the Push
function and processes or uses it. This may include the UE with which the PLMN
communicates with, the user agent with the application level address, and the
device, machine or person which uses the push data. A Push recipient is
controlled by an individual user .
**Push service** : a service capability offered by the PLMN. The Push Service
is initiated by a Push Initiator in order to transfer push data (e.g. data,
multimedia content) from the Push Initiator to the Push Recipient without a
previous user action. The Push Service could be used as a basic capability or
as component of a value added service.
**Push User agent** : is any software or device associated with a Push
recipient that interprets Push Data to the user. This may include textual
browsers, voice browsers, search engines, machine or device interface
software, etc.
**Push Subscription Profile** : a set of parameters indicating the Push
recipient's settings and preferences for the Push Service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document the following abbreviations apply:
URL -- Uniform Resource Locator.
# 4 Overview of the Push Service
The overview of push is followed by a summary of the relationships among the
entities involved (operators, users, push recipients and push initiators).
NOTE: these are functional descriptions: multiple functions may, depending on
business arrangements, be performed by a single entity.
Figure 1: Push Service Overview
The Push Service is a service whereby the Push Initiator sends push data
through a Push Server to a Push Recipient, without interaction from the Push
Recipient.
The typical mode of operation is as follows:
  * A Push Recipient (e.g. user, receiving device like a meter) explicitly or implicitly subscribes to a set of value added services offered by various Push Initiators and allow these Push Initiators to send it push data that meet the Push Recipient's configured criteria. (This configured criteria is part of the Push user profile.)
  * A Push Initiator identifies information matching the criteria set by the Push Initiator and package it up into the push data
  * The Push Initiator delivers the push data to the Push function, identifying the Recipient's address, and optionally priority, delivery time parameters, etc.
  * The Push function takes the responsibility of delivering the push data, optionally following the priority and delivery time parameters, to the Push Recipient and for providing feedback to the Push Initiator regarding delivery of the push data if requested by the Push Initiator.
Key characteristics of the Push Service include:
  * The Push Initiator may, but is not required to deal with the specifics of the wireless transport, selection of appropriate bearers, out-of-coverage or roaming issues, and other wireless network anomalies. These are all managed by the Push Service and hence can be optimised at the network level rather than being handled by all applications. Using an available bearer the push service offers as many capabilities that are available to delivery of the push data following the requested push services requested by the push initiator.
  * The push initiator shall be provided with a means to query the push server for a specific recipient's push user profile subject to privacy considerations.
  * The push server shall not change the push data (contents). Any transformations that the Push Server provides shall be compliant with user privacy requirements as defined in the push subscriber profile.
  * The push service shall be able to handle user groups (i.e. have the ability to target a certain group of push recipients).
  * The push service is capable of supporting asynchronous communication between a Push Initiator and the push recipient on a wireless device.
  * The privacy of the user is important and the introduction of the push services should in no way result in unwanted information \"spam\" being sent to mobile users.
The Push data could contain:
  * Application specific data exchanged between a server and its client e.g. ERP, CRM, Field Service management, m-commerce transaction data or a meter reading
  * Provisioning or configuration control data
The entities shown in Figure 1 are Push Initiator, Push Server (PLMN) and the
Push Recipient. The Push Initiator may be outside the Operators network and
hence will require well-defined relationships amongst them.
> For example, a Push Initiator can be within the Operator domain (e.g. an
> operator portal) or an external VASP. A Push Recipient (e.g. a User) will
> need to be part of the Operators network and will require allowing the
> network to pass through push data and also subscribing to the Push Initiator
> to generate the data it wants pushed. To support flexible billing models, it
> becomes necessary for the Operator to have a defined commercial relationship
> with the Push Initiator.
# 5 Requirements
The following list gives the high level requirements for the Push service.
## 5.1 General
The Push Service shall allow a Push Initiator (which may be external to the
PLMN) to initiate delivery of push data to the Push recipient. It shall be
possible to deliver push data to the push recipient without any user
intervention, subject to settings in the push subscription profile. The Push
Initiator may interrogate the push subscription profile, if available, in
order to establish the user preference related to the Push Service.
  * The push mechanism shall be efficient in the use of network > resources and terminal resources.
  * It shall be possible to support Push Service independently over CS > (including CS data and SMS), PS domains or IMS.
  * NOTE: Operators should be able to choose which of these options they > use to deliver Push services, and it should be possible to use > these options independently from each other. E.g. delivery over > the PS domain would allow operators who are not planning to > introduce IMS and SMS to offer Push Services.
  * It shall be possible to deploy Push Services independently of other > services defined by 3GPP.
  * The quality of service delivery shall be able to include > time-sensitive as well as reliable delivery choices
  * It shall be possible to use all available access networks (e.g. > GERAN, UTRAN,).
  * It shall be possible for the Push Initiator to specify a bearer for > the Push Service, as a default the push service shall identify the > bearer. The Push Initiator may, however, require certain grade of > service for delivery, e.g. speed of delivery or delivery > acknowledgement.
## 5.2 Provisioning
The operator shall be able to provision a user or organisation-user (e.g. a
subscriber or a VASP) with the Push Service. The provision may include usage
of the Push Service as a Push initiator, as a Push recipient or both.
> The provision may be:
‑ general: where the service is made available to all user or organisation-
users (subject to compatibility restrictions enforced) without prior
arrangements being made with the operator;
‑ pre‑arranged: where the service is made available to an individual user or
organisation-user only after the necessary arrangements have been made with
the operator.
If the user is provisioned with the Push Service as a Push initiator he may
use the Push Service in order to transfer push data to the Push Recipient,
subject to settings in the push subscription profile of the Push Recipient.
If the user is provisioned with the Push Service as a Push recipient he may
use the Push Service in order to receive push data from a Push initiator.
The push subscription profile parameters (user's settings and preferences) are
managed by the user or the operator on behalf of the user.
The operator shall be able to withdraw the provision of the Push service.
Withdrawal may be general or pre-arranged.
NOTE: Provisioning with -- or subscription to -- value added services, that
make use the Push service are out of scope of this specification.
NOTE : the concept of organisation user may apply to GUP and if so will not be
duplicated here.
## 5.3 Subscription
The usage of the Push Service to deliver push data from a Push Initiator to a
Push Recipient requires as a precondition either an explicit or implicit
subscription to the Push Service
Explicit Push Subscription:
> A subscriber subscribes to the Push Service together with the Push service
> provider, i.e. the home PLMN operator. Home PLMN Push service providers may
> then use the Push service to deliver content to the subscriber.
Implicit Push Subscription:
> A Value added service provider shall be able to subscribe to the Push
> Service on behalf of a subscriber to a value added service provided by this
> VASP. From a Push service point of view the subscriber becomes a push
> recipient. From now on the Value added service provider shall be able to use
> the Push Service capabilities to deliver content to this particular
> subscriber, i.e. the push recipient.
The Push service subscription is valid for the subscriber to receive push data
from the VASP that has subscribed to the Push service as long as the
subscription is valid.
## 5.4 Addressing and Routing
It shall be possible to uniquely identify push recipients.
It shall be possible for push recipients to uniquely identify push initiators.
The addressing model shall include addresses of the device (e.g. IP address,
SIP-URI, MSISDN) and application level addressing (i.e. user agents). The
addressing model shall be compatible with Internet specifications when
applicable.
It shall be possible to deliver push data to a push recipient with a
dynamically allocated IP address.
The Push service shall be able to deliver a push data to a push recipient that
does not have an IP address currently assigned.
Both telecom and internet numbering and addressing schemes shall be supported.
It shall be possible to address push recipients without allocating E.164
numbers.
## 5.5 Delivery
The PLMN may set restrictions including maximum size of Push data.
The Push Service may offer classes of priority and service delivery. When
offered this shall include support for the following:
  * Delivery time constraints (timing window, i.e. allow the push > initiator to specify \"deliver after\" and \"deliver before\" > parameters)
  * Requested delivery priority (different priorities dependent on for > example push initiator, or allowing the push initiator to specify > the desired priority)
  * If neither delivery time nor priority is set then a single attempt > shall be made to deliver the push data without unnecessary delay.
```{=html}
``` \- The push service shall be able to send a delivery report to the push >
initiator, which includes information about a specific > submission's final
outcome (delivered, expired, etc.). The report > is sent only if the push
initiator requested it in the initial > push submission or has requested it
for all push submissions.
  * It shall be possible to deliver push data both in an acknowledged > and an un-acknowledged manner between the push service and the > push recipient
  * It shall be possible for the push initiator to request that only one > delivery attempt is made.
In case the push recipient declines a specific instance of push data , it
shall be provided with means to indicate whether the push service is allowed
to re-send it or not.
In the case that classes of priority and service delivery are not offered an
attempt to deliver push data to the push recipient shall be made without
unnecessary delay.
## 5.6 Service Management
The basic principle of service management is \"the user is in control\".
The user is provisioned with the Push Service by a Network Operator. If a user
is provisioned with the push service, the provisioning data shall include a
push subscription profile for push service settings and push service
preferences. .
The push subscription profile of a Push Recipient shall at least contain:
  * General settings, independent of individual Push initiators\ > this may include:
  * Permissible minimal QoS per data format for receiving push data
  * Permissible maximum size of push data permitted to be pushed
  * Permissible charging thresholds to receive push data
  * A mechanism for screening push initiators
NOTE: Parameters may be bearer sensitive.
# 6 Security
The \"Security Threats and Requirements\" specified in 21.133 [1] shall not be
compromised.
It shall be possible for the Push Service Operator to be assured of the
identity of the Push Initiator.
It shall be possible for the Push Recipient to be assured of the identity of
the Push Initiator.
Mechanisms shall be provided to ensure that the push data is sent to and
accessed only by the intended addressed entity.
It shall be possible for the Push Service or the user to deny unauthorized
push data.
An authorization may be based on the following:
  * identity of the Push Initiator
  * the destination user, device or user agent
  * push related attributes such as priority and content type
It shall be possible for the user to control acceptance of push data sent to
the user based on the trust level of the Push Initiator.
The Push Service shall provide data integrity and data confidentiality of the
push data.
Push Initiators must have authorization (e.g. service level agreement) with
the Push Service Operator (e.g. PLMN Operators) in order to use the Push
Service.
# 7 Privacy
The Push Service shall ensure compliance with the Push Recipient's privacy
requirements as described below. Specific local, national, and regional
privacy regulations shall be complied with. **An operator shall, at any time,
be able to override a Push Recipient's privacy preferences if required to do
so by legal authorities.**
The privacy of the user is important and the introduction of the push services
should in no way result in unwanted information \"spam\" being sent to mobile
users.
# 8 Access rules
The Push Recipient shall be able to define access rules, in order to control
how her privacy requirements shall be handled by the Push function.
It shall be possible for the Push Recipient to define the following access
rules:
  * The Push Recipient shall be able to allow push data from individual push initiators or groups of Push Initiators to transmit push data to the Push recipient
```{=html}
``` \- It shall be possible for the Push Recipient to uniquely identify a Push
initiator and the addressed User Agent prior to accepting or declining a
request to receive push data from that Push Initiator.
  * The Push Recipient shall be able to automatically decline push data from individual push initiators or groups of Push Initiators to transmit push data to the Push recipient
  * At any time it shall be possible for the Push Recipient to stop receipt of push data from a Push Initiator. This may include any push data from this Push Initiator or only push data addressed to a particular User Agent of the Push Recipient.
```{=html}
``` \- The Push Recipient shall be able to allow individual push initiators or
groups of Push Initiators to transmit push data without user interaction at
the Push Recipient's side.
It shall be possible for the Push Recipient to define these access rules based
on:
  * The identity of the Push Initiator
  * The addressed User Agent
In addition it shall be possible for the Push Recipient to specify the
validity of these access rules
  * Only for the next request of the Push Initiator or
  * For a pre-defined period e.g. next hour
  * Unlimited, i.e. till modification or removal of the access rule.
NOTE: A set of default access rules may be defined by the operator.
# 9 Charging
This paragraph specifies charging requirements for the Push service.
The Push service shall support various charging mechanisms (e.g. reverse,
prepaid and reply charging etc.).
The following charging scenarios shall be supported:
  1. Charging for the push service can be subscription based.\ > Different charging options shall be permissible whether the user > is provisioned with the Push Service as a Push initiator or as a > Push recipient.
  2. Charging for the push service can be based on the push data, the > resources used and time needed to carry out the push service.
  3. Charging for the push service can be based on the size of the push > data pushed to a receiver.
  4. It shall be possible to charge the Push recipient only, the Push > Initiator only, or both.
  5. It shall also be possible to mix and match the various different > charging scenarios outlined above.
  6. It shall be possible to charge for the initial push service > activation.
  7. It shall be possible to charge a Push initiator for an attempt to > send push data to a push recipient, even if the push recipient > rejects the push data
It shall be possible to include the following data in the CDRs as charging
information if available:
  * message types, length, storage time in the network, etc
  * delivery time, upload / download method,
  * Push service sender / -recipient
  * the amount of the push data sent
  * the amount of the push data received.
  * roaming conditions (e.g. in a visited network)
  * location conditions
# 10 Push Subscription Profile Information
For each Push recipient the Push Service shall keep a Push subscription
profile. This Push subscription profile shall contain the Push recipient's
access rules.
Optionally (as an operator's option) the Push subscription profile may contain
additional Push personalization settings of the Push recipient, e.g.
  * Permissible minimal QoS per data format for receiving push data
  * Permissible maximum size of data packages permitted to be pushed
  * Permissible charging thresholds to receive push data
  * ...
At any time, the Push Service shall permit a Push recipient to modify her Push
subscription profile information.
A Push initiator shall be able to interrogate any Push Recipient's Push
subscription profile information. However only information relevant to this
Push Initiator shall be revealed by the Push Service
NOTE: The Push subscription profile may be realized as part of the 3GPP
Generic User Profile (TS 22.240) [3]
# 11 Roaming
Push services shall be available when roaming.
The push recipients shall be able to select and receive pushed local services,
subject to the user profile settings.
# 12 Barring of the Push Service
It shall be possible to provide the Push Service to a user regardless of
barring status of other services, providing that a bearer to deliver the Push
Content is available.
It shall be possible for user to bar the Push Service regardless of barring
status of other services.
#