# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document covers requirements for Mission Critical Push To Talk
(MCPTT) service (represented by the term, MCPTT Service). The MCPTT Service
can be used for public safety applications and also for general commercial
applications (e.g., utility companies and railways). The specifications
contained within the present document can also form the basis for a non-
mission critical Push To Talk service (called a PTT service).
Note that further development of mission critical services beyond MCPTT (such
as Mission Critical Video and Mission Critical Data) created an opportunity to
re-use base functionality documented in the Stage 1 requirements for MCPTT.
For example, the ability to communicate mission critical information to groups
of users is a common need regardless of service type. Wherever originating
MCPTT requirements were found to be in common with other mission critical
services, those requirements were moved to a new Technical Specification (3GPP
TS 22.280). Each requirement that was moved has been voided in this version of
3GPP TS 22.179, and an informative annex has been created at the end of this
specification documenting the location of the originating 3GPP TS 22.179
requirement in 3GPP TS 22.280.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the service requirements for operation of the
MCPTT Service. MCPTT makes use of capabilities included in Group
Communications System Enablers and Proximity Services, with additional
requirements specific to the MCPTT Service. The MCPTT Service can be used for
public safety applications and also for general commercial applications (e.g.,
utility companies and railways). The requirements in this specification do not
apply to GSM or UMTS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] TSB-102-B: \"Project 25 TIA-102 Document Suite Overview\".
[3] TIA-603-D: \"Land Mobile FM or PM Communications Equipment Measurement and
Performance Standards\".
[4] TIA-102.BABA: \"Vocoder Description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
(GCSE_LTE)\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation P.862: \"Perceptual evaluation of speech quality
(PESQ): An objective method for end-to-end speech quality assessment of
narrow-band telephone networks and speech codecs\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation P.862.1: \"Mapping function for transforming P.862
raw result scores to MOS-LQO\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation P.863: \"Perceptual objective listening quality
assessment\".
[10] TIA-102.BABG: \"Enhanced Vocoder Methods of Measurement for
Performance\", March 2010.
[11] 3GPP TS 26.190: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Transcoding functions\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.194: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Voice Activity Detector (VAD)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Stations (MS) in idle mode\".
> [15] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
> (MCCoRe)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1]. Definitions provided in 3GPP TS 22.280 [15] also apply to this
specification.
**Affiliated MCPTT Group Member** : An MCPTT Group Member who has indicated an
interest in the group and is prepared to receive and/or transmit Group
Communications from/to the particular MCPTT Group.
**Automatic Commencement Private Call:** A Private Call in which the
initiation of the Private Call does not require any action on the part of the
receiving MCPTT User.
**Broadcast Group Call** : A group call where the initiating MCPTT User
expects no response from the other MCPTT Users, so that when his transmission
is complete, so is the call.
**Call Commencement Mode** : This is a setting that determines the conditions
under which a call is started.
**Dispatcher** : An MCPTT User who participates in MCPTT communications for
command and control purposes.
**Floor control** : An arbitration system in an MCPTT Service that determines
who has the authority to transmit (talk) at a point in time during an MCPTT
call.
**Group-Broadcast Group** : A collection of groups defined by the MCPTT
Administrator (e.g., representing a particular organizational structure) and
intended to be the recipients of Broadcast Group Calls.
**Group Regroup** : The temporary combining of a multiplicity of groups into a
single group.
**Hang Time:** A configurable maximum length of the inactivity (silence)
period between consecutive MCPTT transmissions within the same call.
**Imminent Peril Call** : An urgent MCPTT Group call that highlights the
potential of death or serious injury, but is less critical than an MCPTT
Emergency Group Call. For example a call prioritized in the event of immediate
threat to any human life such as resulting from an MCPTT User\'s observation
of or engagement in a situation involving imminent peril to the general public
(e.g., a forest fire about to encircle campers, tanker truck ready to explode
near a school, casualties at the scene of a car bombing).
**In-progress Emergency** : An emergency condition for a group that has been
accepted by the MCPTT Service, but has not yet been cancelled by an authorized
user.
**In-progress Imminent Peril** : An imminent peril condition for a group that
has been accepted by the MCPTT Service and has not yet been cancelled by an
authorized MCPTT User.
**Late call entry:** An Affiliated MCPTT Group Member joins in an in progress
MCPTT Group Call.
**Location** : The current physical location (i.e., co-ordinates plus
estimated accuracy and timestamp) of the MCPTT UE that can be cross-referenced
to a map.
**Losing audio** : Audio of an overridden talker that is routed to selected
authorized MCPTT Users.
**Manual Commencement Private Call:** A Private Call in which the initiation
of the Private Call requires the receiving MCPTT User to perform some action
to accept or reject the Private Call setup.
**MCPTT Administrator** : An individual authorized to control parameters of
the MCPTT Service for an organization including, for example, user and group
definition, user/group aliases, user priorities, group
membership/priorities/hierarchies, security and privacy controls.
**MCPTT Emergency Alert** : A notification from the MCPTT UE to the MCPTT
Service that the MCPTT User has an emergency condition.
**MCPTT Emergency Group Call** : An urgent MCPTT Group call that highlights
the potential of death or serious injury to the initiator.
**MCPTT Emergency Private Call** : An urgent MCPTT Private Call that
highlights the potential of death or serious injury to the initiator.
**MCPTT Emergency State** : A heightened condition of alarm for an MCPTT User
indicating a need for immediate assistance due to a personal life-threatening
situation.
**MCPTT Group** : A defined set of MCPTT Users identified independently of
transport or network type.
**MCPTT Group Member** : An MCPTT User who has been authorized to participate
in Group Communications of a particular MCPTT Group.
**MCPTT Request** : The action taken by an MCPTT User to request the
permission to transmit voice on a call.
**MCPTT Service** : A Push To Talk communication service supporting
applications for Mission Critical Organizations and mission critical
applications for other businesses and organizations (e.g., utilities,
railways) with fast setup times, high availability, reliability and priority
handling.
**MCPTT system** : The collection of applications, services, and enabling
capabilities required to provide Mission Critical Push To Talk for a Mission
Critical Organization.
**MCPTT UE** : A UE that enables an MCPTT User to participate in MCPTT
Service.
**MCPTT User** : A user of an MCPTT Service, who has a device with the
capability to participate in MCPTT Services.
**MCPTT User Profile** : The set of information that allows an MCPTT User to
employ the MCPTT Service in a given role and/or from a given MCPTT device.
**Mission Critical Push To Talk** : A group communication service with fast
setup times, ability to handle large groups, strong security and priority
handling.
**Off-Network MCPTT Service** : The collection of functions and capabilities
required to provide MCPTT using ProSe Discovery and the ProSe Communication
path for MCPTT Users using Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs as a direct
communication between UEs.
**Partner MCPTT System** : Allied MCPTT system that provides MCPTT Services to
an MCPTT User based on the MCPTT User Profile that is defined in the Primary
MCPTT System of that MCPTT User.
**Pre-emption** : The act of terminating on-going calls in order to free up
resources for a higher priority call request.
**Primary MCPTT System** : MCPTT system where the MCPTT User Profile of an
MCPTT User is defined.
**Private Call** : A call between a pair of MCPTT Users using the MCPTT
Service with or without MCPTT Floor control.
**Project 25 RFSS** : A Project 25 Radio Frequency (RF) Subsystem as defined
in TSB-102-B [2].
**Receiving MCPTT Group Member** : An Affiliated MCPTT Group Member who is
currently receiving Group Communication from an MCPTT Group.
**Selected MCPTT Group** : The MCPTT Group that a particular Affiliated MCPTT
Group Member uses for transmission.
**System Call** : A special case of a Broadcast Group Call that is transmitted
to all users in a dynamically defined geographic area.
**Transmitting MCPTT Group Member** : An Affiliated MCPTT Group Member who is
currently transmitting a Group Communication to a Selected MCPTT Group.
**User-Broadcast Group** : A collection of users defined by the MCPTT
Administrator (e.g., representing a particular organizational structure) and
intended to be the recipients of Broadcast Group Calls.
**User ID** : The main unique identifier for an MCPTT User.
**User Regroup** : The temporary combining of a multiplicity of users into a
new group.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
FIFO First In First Out
GCSE_LTE Group Communication System Enablers for LTE
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk
MOS-LQO Mean Opinion Score -- Listening Quality Objective
P25 Project 25
PESQ Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality
POLQA Perceptual Objective Listening Quality Assessment
ProSe Proximity Services
PTT Push To Talk
RFSS Radio Frequency (RF) Subsystem as defined in the TIA-102 specifications
(P25)
TETRA Terrestrial Trunked Radio
TIA Telecommunications Industry Association
# 4 Mission Critical Push To Talk overview
## 4.1 General
A Push To Talk service provides an arbitrated method by which two or more
users may engage in communication. Users may request permission to transmit
(e.g., traditionally by means of a press of a button). The Mission Critical
Push To Talk (MCPTT) service supports an enhanced PTT service, suitable for
mission critical scenarios, based upon 3GPP system services. The requirements
for Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) service defined within can also form
the basis for a non-mission critical Push To Talk (PTT) service.
The MCPTT Service is intended to support communication between several users
(a group call), where each user has the ability to gain access to the
permission to talk in an arbitrated manner. However, the MCPTT Service also
supports Private Calls between pairs of users. The MCPTT Service builds on the
existing 3GPP transport communication mechanisms provided by the 3GPP
architectures to establish, maintain, and terminate the actual communication
path(s) among the users.
The MCPTT Service also builds upon service enablers: Group Communications
System Enablers and Proximity Services. To the extent feasible, it is expected
that the end user\'s experience to be similar regardless if the MCPTT Service
is used under coverage of a 3GPP network or based on ProSe without network
coverage. To clarify this intent, the requirements are grouped according to
applicability to on-network use, off-network use, or both.
Though the MCPTT Service primarily focuses on the use of the 3GPP system there
might be users who access the MCPTT Service through non-3GPP access
technology, dispatchers and administrators are examples of this. Dispatchers
and administrators are special users who have particular admin and call
management privileges which normal users might not have. In MCPTT dispatchers
can use an MCPTT UE (i.e., 3GPP) or a non-3GPP access connection to the MCPTT
Service based on a \"dispatcher and Administrator\" interface. Through this
interface a user is able to access and manage the services related to on the
network and those common to on the network and off the network.
The MCPTT Service allows users to request the permission to talk (transmit
voice/audio) and provides a deterministic mechanism to arbitrate between
requests that are in contention (i.e., Floor control). When multiple requests
occur, the determination of which user\'s request is accepted and which
users\' requests are rejected or queued is based upon a number of
characteristics (including the respective priorities of the users in
contention). MCPTT Service provides a means for a user with higher priority
(e.g., MCPTT Emergency condition) to override (interrupt) the current talker.
MCPTT Service also supports a mechanism to limit the time a user talks (hold
the floor) thus permitting users of the same or lower priority a chance to
gain the floor.
The MCPTT Service provides the means for a user to monitor activity on a
number of separate calls and enables the user to switch focus to a chosen
call. An MCPTT Service user may join an already established MCPTT Group call
(Late call entry). In addition the MCPTT Service provides the User ID of the
current speaker(s) and user\'s Location determination features.
The users of an MCPTT Service may have more stringent expectations of
performance than the users of a commercial PTT service.
MCPTT is primarily targeting to provide a professional Push To Talk service to
e.g., public safety, transport companies, utilities or industrial and nuclear
plants. In addition to this a commercial PTT service for non-professional use
(e.g., groups of people on holiday) may be delivered through an MCPTT system.
Based on their operational model, the performance and MCPTT features in use
vary per user organization, where functionality which is more mission critical
specific (e.g., Ambient Listening and Imminent Peril Call) might not be
available to commercial customers.
MCPTT Users expect to communicate with other MCPTT Users as outlined above,
however MCPTT Users also need to be able to communicate with non MCPTT Users
using their MCPTT UEs for normal telephony services.
## 4.2 Typical use of the MCPTT Service
NOTE: Even though this subclause is written from an organization specific
perspective the text is illustrative for typical use of MCPTT Services by all
MCPTT Users.
Public safety workers often operate in groups and perform different tasks
during the day/week. Many tasks and operations are controlled, assisted and/or
coordinated by a dispatcher.
For their communications public safety workers are organized in groups. People
that are working together communicate in the same MCPTT Group, the group
communication helping them to coordinate quickly.
People with different tasks often communicate in separate MCPTT Groups.
Many of the public safety tasks are routine tasks, that are handled by
standard procedures and communication structures, using dedicated MCPTT
Groups. Communication structures and MCPTT Groups are also prepared for the
handling of large incidents and control of large events. Similarly there are
MCPTT Groups and procedures for coordination with public safety workers from
other organizations and/or other countries.
The standard procedures and communication structures help the public safety
workers to do their work successfully. This results in a long list of (>100)
MCPTT Groups available to a public safety worker, from which the correct one
is selected depending on the task. To help the public safety worker to quickly
find and select the correct MCPTT Group for the task, the MCPTT Groups in the
radio are often structured in folders and/or accessible via key-shortcuts. In
addition to pre-established MCPTT Groups that users select, there are also
provisions in MCPTT systems to merge MCPTT Groups and to select on behalf of a
user which group they should be using and for a dispatcher to push them onto
it. The large number of MCPTT Groups provisioned on devices is helpful for the
device to be able to operate on the network and off the network. However the
ability to provision over the air is also seen as a very useful feature, as
currently Land Mobile Radio devices often have to be locally re-programmed,
rather than updated over the air.
## 4.3 Overview of MCPTT Group affiliation, call and transmission
An MCPTT Service provides Group Call and Private Call capabilities, which have
various process flows, states and permissions associated with them. The figure
4.3.1, figure 4.3.2, and figure 4.3.3 indicate the high level flows, states
and permissions associated with Group Calls and Private Calls. The diagrams
apply to the on-network case and off-network case, as from a user perspective
the service and concepts should appear similar on the network and off the
network. From a technical perspective there might be differences between the
on-network states and off-network states (e.g., off the network Affiliation
might not require notifying an application server of a user\'s affiliation and
there might also be other differences in the detail depending on the extent to
which the off-network capabilities can match the on-network capabilities).
If an MCPTT User wants to communicate with an MCPTT Group they have to be
allowed to access the MCPTT Group (i.e., be an MCPTT Group Member), they then
have to affiliate and then can have an MCPTT Group as their Selected MCPTT
Group. If an MCPTT User is only affiliated to a group this is so that they can
receive from the group, however if an MCPTT User has a Selected MCPTT Group
this is their group for transmitting on. The differences in states enable an
MCPTT User to receive from multiple MCPTT Groups, but specify which MCPTT
Group they would like to transmit on.
{width="6.4944444444444445in" height="4.850694444444445in"}
NOTE: This diagram is for illustrative purposes only and does not supersede
the requirements. The diagram is not exhaustive and does not include all the
different scenarios.
Figure 4.3.1: MCPTT User state diagram- transmit and receive for a particular
MCPTT Group
{width="6.4944444444444445in" height="4.850694444444445in"}
NOTE: This diagram is for illustrative purposes only and does not supersede
the requirements. The diagram is not exhaustive and does not include all the
different scenarios.
Figure 4.3.2: MCPTT User state diagram- transmit only for a particular MCPTT
Group
{width="6.4944444444444445in" height="4.850694444444445in"}
NOTE: This diagram is for illustrative purposes only and does not supersede
the requirements. The diagram is not exhaustive and does not include all the
different scenarios.
Figure 4.3.3: MCPTT User state diagram- receive only for a particular MCPTT
Group
It is possible for an MCPTT User to be affiliated with one or more MCPTT
Groups. Normally, while in operation, an MCPTT User informs the MCPTT Service
about which MCPTT Groups he would like to be affiliated to. These affiliations
remain in effect until the MCPTT User removes them, or changes them, or signs
out of the service. Some MCPTT Users have permanent affiliations to certain
MCPTT Groups and those affiliations are set up implicitly (i.e.,
automatically) when operating on the network. For those users, the MCPTT Group
affiliation starts when the MCPTT Service successfully signs in the user and
ends when the MCPTT User\'s explicit or implicit (e.g., due to inactivity or
the turning off of all its devices) request to sign out of the MCPTT Service
is acknowledged.
Every time a PTT request is granted a user can start an MCPTT transmission or
\"talk burst\". An MCPTT Group Call consists of one or more MCPTT
transmissions. Whether two consecutive transmissions from same or different
users are part of the same call, or the second transmission starts a new call,
depends on the configurable maximum length of the inactivity period between
the consecutive MCPTT transmissions. This inactivity period can be seen as a
Hang Time that starts at the end of the preceding transmission. While this
timer is running, the resources associated with the call stay assigned to the
call (except in case of pre-emption), which could reduce the latency of future
floor requests for this group versus groups who are not involved in a call.
When a new transmission starts during the inactivity period, the timer is
stopped, reset and restarted again at the end of that transmission.
The MCPTT Service recognizes a number of \"special\" group calls including:
Broadcast Group Call, Emergency Group Call and Imminent Peril group call.
A Broadcast Group Call can be seen as a special group call with only one MCPTT
transmission.
While the In-progress Emergency state or In-progress Imminent Peril state is
active, the inactivity period is conceptually set to infinity; i.e., the
resources assigned to calls during these states are never released (except in
case of pre-emption). An MCPTT Emergency Group Call or an Imminent Peril group
call can be seen as having an unspecified number of transmissions:
essentially, all the transmissions to a group during In-progress Emergency
state or In-progress Imminent Peril are part of the same MCPTT Group Call.
Conditions on starting (\"commencement\") and continuing an MCPTT call can be
established. Usually at least the call initiator (but also other users) are
kept informed via notifications of the starting, stopping, queuing, etc., of a
call.
In general, commencement conditions are related to the presence on the call
(i.e., participation) of certain members of the group, and/or of a minimum
number of members, as well as on the availability of resources (e.g., GBR
bearers) of proper ARP. If the commencement conditions are not met, the call
does not start (it can be queued or rejected). Normally, commencement
conditions are not checked for individual transmission within a call.
Continuation conditions are similar (though not required to be identical) to
commencement conditions and get re-evaluated when pre-emption, degradation of
priority, motion out of communication range, de-selection of the group or de-
affiliation (explicit or implicit) occur. If the continuation conditions are
not met, the call stops.
## 4.4 General handling of requests
Request handling is by no means specific only to MCPTT Service, but it plays a
central role in its functionality.
Requests appear in the MCPTT Service in many forms and under many
circumstances: e.g., requests for the floor during a call, requests for
starting a call, requests for resources. Conceptually, requests are
accompanied by priority information that is used in the arbitration, in case
of contention; see also subclause 4.6 for a brief explanation and examples on
how priority processing is modelled.
Upon arrival, a request is immediately granted, denied, or queued.
If queued, a request can be dropped due to queue overflow (i.e., too many
items queued) or can be cancelled by an authorized user, who is usually the
initiator of the request. Either way, the net result is that the request is
denied.
When a request denial is communicated, the request may be re-requested either
manually by user action or automatically. In the automatic case, while the
request remains denied, it may be automatically repeated a configurable number
of times where a minimum time interval between re-transmissions may also be
applied.
There are many \"queuing disciplines\" possible that govern the placement of
items in a queue and their subsequent removal from the queue: e.g., FIFO,
priority order. Assuming that the queuing discipline chosen places the highest
priority requests towards the top of the queue, the granted request is either,
depending on the design and configuration, the front-most entry in the queue
or the first entry counting from the top that can be satisfied by the
available resources. For example, if the topmost entry in the queue is
awaiting for ten GBR bearers of given characteristics to become available and
the second entry in the queue is waiting for seven GBR bearers to become
available, and at some point in time eight GBR bearers become available, then
it is possible that the second request is granted ahead of the first one,
which continues to wait. Alternatively, neither the first request nor the
second request is granted and the wait continues until at least ten GBR
bearers become available, at which time the first request is granted while the
second request continues to wait.
## 4.5 Overview of MCPTT UE and MCPTT User in the MCPTT Service
The MCPTT Service supports MCPTT User Profiles. The MCPTT User Profile
contains important information related to the MCPTT User receiving the MCPTT
Service, including the MCPTT User identity, which is globally unique and
independent of the mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) assigned by a 3GPP
network operator. Part of the content of the MCPTT User Profile (e.g.,
containing some display preferences, some UE audio settings, some address
books) can be set/modified/updated by the MCPTT User, but significant portions
might be set/modified/updated only by authorized persons. The MCPTT User
Profile is stored permanently in database(s) associated with the
infrastructure providing the MCPTT Service. Relevant parts of the profile
might be downloaded to and cached temporarily or permanently on certain MCPTT
UEs. When stored on an MCPTT UE, the MCPTT User Profile associated with an
MCPTT User might be confidentiality and integrity protected, with the
information available only to a trusted application client associated to the
MCPTT User, upon authentication. The MCPTT User Profile information can be
synchronized automatically or on demand between the cache on the MCPTT UE and
the main copy held in the database(s) of the MCPTT Service infrastructure. The
MCPTT User Profile is part of the MCPTT application service domain and forms
the basis of MCPTT application layer security and identifies an MCPTT User to
the MCPTT Service.
Each MCPTT User has at least one MCPTT User Profile, and possibly several.
Typically, one of the MCPTT User Profiles is designated as the default MCPTT
User Profile, to be used unless an MCPTT User Profile is explicitly selected.
In general, a user profile is associated with a specific device, with a
specific mode of operation (i.e., on the network or off the network) and/or
with a specific situation (e.g., user being off-duty, in a certain city, or
playing a certain role). When an MCPTT User Profile is synchronized between
the infrastructure and an MCPTT device, information could be downloaded to the
device and updated, as necessary. Subsequently and subject to permissions, the
MCPTT User might choose a different associated MCPTT User Profile to be
downloaded and stored on the device. Only one MCPTT User Profile is active at
a time. Authorized users are allowed to create, delete and alter MCPTT User
Profiles for an MCPTT User and/or pre-stored MCPTT User Profiles.
The MCPTT Service supports MCPTT UEs which connect to the MCPTT Service. The
capabilities of an MCPTT UE are specified in the present document. The MCPTT
Application that is resident on the MCPTT UE establishes this connection,
employing application layer security in its connection to the MCPTT Service.
An MCPTT UE is capable of operating in on-network and off-network modes.
### 4.5.1 MCPTT User association to MCPTT UE in on-network mode
Consistent with the 3GPP paradigm, when an MCPTT UE is powered on, it accesses
the 3GPP system, and connects to the 3GPP network. During this phase, the
credentials from a USIM application (or possibly, an ISIM application, if IMS
is used) on a UICC associated with the MCPTT UE is used for authentication
with an HSS. This is followed by the MCPTT Application, resident on the MCPTT
UE, establishing a connection, employing application layer security in its
connection to the MCPTT Service.
Possibilities for the MCPTT UE, when connecting to the MCPTT Service:
\- An MCPTT UE, with credentials of an MCPTT User at the time of connection to
the MCPTT Service, is able to authenticate using a specific MCPTT User
identity (e.g., via an Identity Management service). After successful user
authentication the MCPTT User Profiles are made available to the MCPTT UE for
use in both on-network and off-network operation modes.
\- An MCPTT UE, without credentials of a specific MCPTT User at the time of
connection to the MCPTT Service, proceeds using a default identity associated
with the MCPTT UE itself. In this case, the MCPTT Service is capable of
assigning a temporary MCPTT User Identity to this MCPTT UE. Some level of
authentication might be attempted, and, depending on the results, an
appropriate MCPTT User Profile associated with this temporary MCPTT User
Identity and with the circumstances of the access is made available to the
MCPTT UE for use in both on-network and off-network operation modes.
\- The MCPTT Administrator is able to retrieve hardware and software
parameters to define specific parameters and attributes (e.g., groups, MCPTT
Emergency behaviour, priority and QoS attributes) associated with a temporary
MCPTT User Identity for operation of the MCPTT UE for use in both on-network
and off-network operation modes.
### 4.5.2 MCPTT User and MCPTT UE relationship
A user can enter his identifying/authenticating credentials (e.g., user name/
password, PIN, biometrics, asserted identity from a remote, trusted device).
This step typically gives the MCPTT User access to local information and
applications stored on the MCPTT UE, and in particular, to the MCPTT client
application.
The MCPTT Service allows the same MCPTT User to sign in (and stay
simultaneously signed in) from different MCPTT UEs. For example, an incident
manager or commander might use a portable phone, a command tablet, or a
separate messaging unit.
### 4.5.3 MCPTT Users accessing the service through non-3GPP access interface
This document primarily focuses on MCPTT Users accessing and managing the
MCPTT Service through MCPTT UEs, however there might be some dispatchers and
administrators who might access the service through a non-3GPP access
interface.
### 4.5.4 Shareable MCPTT UEs and gateway UEs
The conceptual model for shareable MCPTT UEs is that of a pool of UEs, each UE
being interchangeable with any other, and users randomly choosing one or more
UEs from the pool, each user for his temporary exclusive use. A shareable
MCPTT UE can be used by user who can gain access to the MCPTT client
application stored on it and can become an authenticated MCPTT User. A
shareable MCPTT UE can serve only one MCPTT User at a time. An MCPTT User who
signs into a shareable MCPTT UE that is already in-use causes the sign-off of
the previous MCPTT User.
An MCPTT User can simultaneously have several active MCPTT UEs, which, from an
MCPTT Service point of view, are addressable individually and/or collectively
within the context of their association to the MCPTT User.
The conceptual model for a gateway UE is that of a UE capable of providing
service to an MCPTT User employing a non-3GPP device. A gateway UE is usable
simultaneously by multiple MCPTT Users. Unlike a shareable MCPTT UE, if a new
person enters his valid credentials towards signing in the MCPTT Service, his
successful signing in and becoming an MCPTT User does not affect the initial
MCPTT Users already served by the gateway UE.
A gateway UE is typically installed in a vehicle (e.g., a police car, fire
truck) and has wired and/or wireless connections to various devices in use by
the MCPTT Users.
A gateway UE differs functionally from a ProSe relay node. In the ProSe
paradigm, the relay node and the devices served by it are all (ProSe enabled)
3GPP UEs, and are \"visible\" to the 3GPP system as UEs. In the gateway UE
paradigm, only the gateway UE is an 3GPP device and only it is \"visible\" at
the 3GPP network layer.
Figure 4.5.4.1 shows schematically some of the relationships between MCPTT
Users and MCPTT UEs.
Figure 4.5.4-1: Relationships between MCPTT Users and MCPTT UEs
### 4.5.5 MCPTT User association to MCPTT UE in off-network mode
A user can enter his identifying/authenticating credentials (e.g., user name/
password, PIN, biometrics, asserted identity from a remote, trusted device).
This step typically gives the MCPTT User access to local information and
applications stored on the MCPTT UE, and in particular, to the MCPTT client
application.
After successful local user authentication an MCPTT User Profile, which was
previously made available to the MCPTT UE, is used for off-network operation
mode. This previously configured MCPTT User Profile information allows the
MCPTT User to be identified using the same MCPTT User Identity as in the on-
network mode.
An MCPTT UE, without credentials of a specific MCPTT User, operates in off-
network mode, if so configured by an MCPTT Administrator. The MCPTT
Administrator defines specific parameters and attributes (e.g., groups, MCPTT
Emergency behaviour, priority and QoS attributes) associated with a temporary
MCPTT User Identity for operation of the MCPTT UE in off-network operation
mode.
## 4.6 Overview of MCPTT priorities
### 4.6.1 MCPTT priority model
Many non-public safety 3GPP users today subscribe to one particular priority
and QoS level of service (e.g., \"gold\", \"silver\" or \"bronze\"), which
always provides fixed differentiation. This model, effective and relatively
straightforward for non-public safety users, falls short when it comes to the
needs of the public safety applications.
MCPTT Priority and QoS is situational. The MCPTT Service is intended to
provide a real-time priority and QoS experience for MCPTT calls, as public
safety users have significant dynamic operational conditions that determine
their priority. For example, the type of incident a responder is serving or
the responder\'s overall shift role needs to strongly influence a user\'s
ability to obtain resources from the 3GPP system.
Another feature of a mission critical service is transparency of interactions
between the users and the system. A first responder that needs to change the
QoS of his communications is not to be distracted from his mission due to
complicated UE behaviours or service interactions. Instead, the service acts
in an anticipatory and adaptive manner to provide the proper quality of
experience to the user, automatically, or with simple and minimal interaction.
The mission critical service is also expected to provide the ability to
interface with public safety systems (e.g., Computer Aided Dispatch) in order
to determine the user\'s state (e.g., incident severity), environment and
conditions and to affect the most appropriate priority and QoS experience for
the user.
The MCPTT Priority handling for on-network use for MCPTT Calls is conceptually
modelled as shown in figure 4.6.1.1. The conceptual model identifies three
areas of prioritization: prioritization between and within calls, inter-system
prioritization, and prioritization at the transport layer (3GPP system and
UE). At the Application Layer a generic, network side, functional entity,
\"MCPTT Priority and QoS Control\", processes with each request static,
preconfigured information about users and groups participating in MCPTT, as
well as dynamic (or situational) information about them. Based on the results
of this processing, the \"MCPTT Priority and QoS Control\" provides
information to and directs interactions with other functional entities,
systems, or layers to ensure, to the extent possible, that from a quality of
experience point of view, calls and transmissions are handled properly in
accordance to established policy rules.
{width="6.496527777777778in" height="4.726388888888889in"}
Figure 4.6.1-1: A conceptual on-network MCPTT priority model
The User Static Attributes include information categorizing the user, possibly
by several criteria (e.g., first responder, second responder, supervisor,
dispatcher, administrator), as well as jurisdictional boundaries and possibly
a preconfigured system-wide individual priority level.
The Group Static Attributes include information about the nature/type of the
group and the owning organization(s), the jurisdictional boundaries for
transmitters and receivers within the group, the normal hours of operation for
the group, pre-emption dispositions relative to other groups, and the default
minimum priority of the group, i.e., the minimum priority characteristics that
are provided to all the Participants in a group call associated with this
group, regardless of their individual priority characteristics.
The User Dynamic Attributes include the user/Participant\'s operational status
(e.g., on/off duty), his location, the type of incident (e.g., MCPTT Emergency
or Imminent Peril) he might be involved in and whether or not he initiated it,
whether or not he is individually involved in a formally managed incident and
if yes, the boundaries of the incident area, the incident severity and his
assigned role in the resolution of the incident.
The Group Dynamic Attributes include the type of incident (e.g., MCPTT
Emergency or Imminent Peril), if any, the group is currently handling and in
case of involvement in a formally managed incident the boundaries of the
incident area and the incident severity.
### 4.6.2 Generic processing of priority information
This functionality applies to MCPTT Call initiations and transmissions for the
management of potentially contended resources (e.g., GBR bearers) and also for
Floor control during an MCPTT Group Call.
Each request for exclusive access to resource(s) or for preferential treatment
over a contending request arrives accompanied by priority information. This
information stays associated with the companion request, whether the request
is granted or is queued. The priority information is used for comparison
between requests and facilitates the adding and removing of requests from
queues and/or authorized interruption of service associated with a previously
granted request, if still active. For each request, whether initially queued
or not, the requesting party is informed (directly or indirectly) when his
request is granted or denied. Other users/Participants are also notified of
the disposition of a request and the notification includes the identity of the
requestor, as needed. In addition, each requestor can be notified of the
position of his request in the queue and he is allowed to cancel his requests
while queued.
### 4.6.3 Handling of MCPTT priority information for Floor control
Floor control is applied in the context of a single MCPTT Call and is
triggered by a Participant request for the permission to transmit. Priority
information accompanies each grant request.
### 4.6.4 Handling of MCPTT priority information for interactions at the
transport layer
At the Transport Layer, the MCPTT Service uses3GPP controls to adapt the
overall behaviour of the MCPTT System to the needs for resources and/or
preferential treatment over other contenders, based on the priority
information accompanying the request.
The following four controls are available, to be used as necessary, based on
the phase of the MCPTT call:
  * 3GPP system Access Controls;
  * UE Access Controls;
  * 3GPP system Admission Controls; and
  * 3GPP system Scheduling Controls.
3GPP system Access Controls and UE Access Controls are used to allow
preferential treatment of public safety UEs in situations of access
congestion. The controls use priority and QoS mechanisms (e.g., using
mechanisms like Access Class Barring, Service Specific Access Control, Access
Control for Circuit Switched Fallback, Extended Access Barring).
Admission Controls are used for the establishment and maintenance of the
priority levels and of the pre-emption vulnerability and capability of bearers
associated with transmissions and calls. At the start of an MCPTT call, the
MCPTT Service requires bearers with proper ARP and pre-emption characteristics
are in place prior to the call proceeding.
Scheduling Controls (e.g., QCI and bandwidth for the bearers) are used for
assuring the appropriate QoS necessary for meeting the Participants\'
expectation in the perceived quality of the delivered information, primarily
in terms of when the service starts and the real-time characteristics of the
delivered traffic (e.g., perceived delay, choppiness, clarity).
### 4.6.5 Handling of MCPTT priority information for interactions with
non-3GPP PTT systems
An MCPTT call can be mixed, with some Participants served by one
network/system and other Participants served by a different
network(s)/system(s). In general the systems can be quite different. For
example, some Participants use MCPTT/LTE, while others could use a P25-based
system.
### 4.6.6 MCPTT priority for Private Call
The MCPTT Service uses User Static Attributes of the Participants, potentially
adjusted based on User Dynamic Attributes, if applicable. By default, the
priority of an MCPTT Private Call is the same as the priority of the
originator of the call. Similar to group calls there are MCPTT Emergency
Private Calls (with Floor control), which also have a similarly high priority.
These are used where there is immediate danger to the user and are typically
used to communicate with a dispatcher.
## 4.7 Overview of MCPTT identifiers
The main identifiable entities in use by the MCPTT Service are Mission
Critical Organizations, MCPTT Groups, MCPTT Users, and MCPTT Administrators.
The UEs are identified at the transport or network layer, but in some
situations they might also be identified by the MCPTT Service. Each
identifiable entity is distinct from all others and has an identifier (ID)
associated to it, unique within a proximate identity domain. Those domains
correspond to identifiable entities and can be nested within other domains in
a multi-level hierarchical fashion. For example an MCPTT User might have an
identifier unique within the domain corresponding to a Mission Critical
Organization. The top-down concatenation of identifiers can generate unique
identifiers within larger contexts, eventually leading to the identifiers
being globally unique.
Each identifier can be associated with one or more aliases, which can be used
for displaying and selection purposes. Some aliases are shortened equivalents
of the identifier used for efficient signalling and are not intended for human
interactions. At a minimum, each entity has one alias (default) which is the
alphanumeric representation of its identifier. Most entities have a main
alias, which is the entity\'s name. Some aliases can be pictures, icons or
other graphic representations. It is up to the implementation to decide if
aliases have to be unique and if so, within which domain. Finally, some
aliases are public, can be created/deleted only by authorized persons and are
available to the MCPTT Service, while other aliases are private, can be
created/deleted by their owners and might be residing only on certain UEs or
be part of some private address books.
It is possible in principle for User IDs, Group IDs, as well as for aliases,
to be defined system wide with certain values, but have different values for
each application: e.g., the system wide User ID might be different from the
MCPTT User ID and different from the video User ID for the same user. However,
this type of separation might not be beneficial, and in practice only one
identifier is likely to be used.
For simplicity, the term \"User ID\" is employed to identify an MCPTT User,
without distinction of whether it is an identifier or an alias.
# 5 MCPTT Service requirements common for on the network and off the network
## 5.1 General group call requirements
### 5.1.1 General aspects
[R-5.1.1-001] Void
[R-5.1.1-002] Void
[R-5.1.1-003] Void
[R-5.1.1-004] Void
[R-5.1.1-005] Void
### 5.1.2 Group/status information
[R-5.1.2-001] Void
[R-5.1.2-002] Void
### 5.1.3 Group configuration
[R-5.1.3-001] Void
[R-5.1.3-002] Void
### 5.1.4 Identification
[R-5.1.4-001] Void
### 5.1.5 Membership/affiliation
[R-5.1.5-001] Void
[R-5.1.5-002] Void
[R-5.1.5-003]Void
[R-5.1.5-004] Void
[R-5.1.5-005] Void
[R-5.1.5-006] Void
[R-5.1.5-007] Void
[R-5.1.5-008] Void
### 5.1.6 Group Call administration
[R-5.1.6-001] Void
### 5.1.7 Prioritization
[R-5.1.7-001] Void
[R-5.1.7-002] Void
### 5.1.8 Charging requirements for MCPTT
[R-5.1.8-001] Void
[R-5.1.8-002] Void
[R-5.1.8-003] Void
[R-5.1.8-004] Void
[R-5.1.8-005]Void
[R-5.1.8-006] Void
[R-5.1.8-007] Void
[R-5.1.8-008] Void
[R-5.1.8-009] Void
[R-5.1.8-010] Void
[R-5.1.8-011] Void
## 5.2 Broadcast Group
### 5.2.1 General Broadcast Group Call
[R-5.2.1-001] Void
[R-5.2.1-002] Void
### 5.2.2 Group-Broadcast Group (e.g., announcement group)
[R-5.2.2-001] Void
[R-5.2.2-002] Void
[R-5.2.2-003] Void
[R-5.2.2-004] Void
### 5.2.3 User-Broadcast Group (e.g., System Call)
[R-5.2.3-001] Void
[R-5.2.3-002] Void
## 5.3 Late call entry
[R-5.3-001] Void
[R-5.3-002] Void .
[R-5.3-003] Void
[R-5.3-004] Void .
[R-5.3-005] Void
## 5.4 Dynamic group management (i.e., dynamic regrouping)
NOTE: No common on-network and off-network dynamic group management
requirements have been identified.
## 5.5 Receiving from multiple MCPTT calls
### 5.5.1 Overview
MCPTT Users receive call traffic of their affiliated MCPTT Groups. This
multiple receiving, called monitoring by some organizations, provides MCPTT
Users current information about police, fire or critical medical events that
are occurring within their jurisdictions. This is useful for dispatchers or
those that might not be the primary support for that event at that moment. The
information gained by monitoring might be useful for the dispatcher to
determine any actions to take or be useful later if the MCPTT User is deployed
to provide additional support for that event. The MCPTT User might be assigned
to support the activities of more than one MCPTT Group on the same shift. This
means that the MCPTT User receives multiple MCPTT Groups.
An MCPTT User with limited speaker resources (e.g., a handheld UE) might find
that playing out concurrent received audio from multiple active MCPTT Groups
becomes confusing and could also cause undesired voice distortion for the
receiving user. During periods of time when the MCPTT User is receiving audio
from multiple MCPTT Groups, which MCPTT Group\'s audio is presented to the
MCPTT User is determined by the MCPTT User\'s choice, the priority associated
with the talker of the Selected MCPTT Group(s), other considerations or
combinations of these. The MCPTT UE is aware of all the active groups to which
the MCPTT User has affiliated or selected and the identity of the other active
receiving groups is available for display on the MCPTT UE. When the receive
activity from the Selected MCPTT Group stops, the MCPTT UE might present the
audio from the next group per the MCPTT User\'s choice or by other means.
If none of the multiple groups to which the MCPTT User has affiliated or
selected is active, the MCPTT UE would continue to monitor for activity by any
of the multiple affiliated or Selected MCPTT Groups. Monitoring for activity
of multiple MCPTT Groups is also known as scanning and the list of the
multiple groups is also known as a scan list.
### 5.5.2 Requirements
[R-5.5.2-001] Void
[R-5.5.2-002] Void
[R-5.5.2-003] Void
[R-5.5.2-004] Void
[R-5.5.2-005] Void
[R-5.5.2-006] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to limit the total number (N5) of MCPTT Group transmissions that
an MCPTT UE simultaneously receives in one MCPTT Group call in case of
override.
[R-5.5.2-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to limit the total number (N10) of MCPTT Private Calls (with
Floor control) in which an MCPTT UE simultaneously participates.
[R-5.5.2-008] Void
[R-5.5.2-009] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to limit the total number (N7) of MCPTT Group transmissions that
an MCPTT User simultaneously receives in one MCPTT Group call in case of
override.
[R-5.5.2-010] Void
[R-5.5.2-011] Void
[R-5.5.2-012] Void
[R-5.5.2-013] Void
## 5.6 Private Call
### 5.6.1 Private Call overview
Private Calls allow two MCPTT Users to communicate directly with each other
without the use of MCPTT Groups. They leverage many of the functions and
features of MCPTT Group Calls, such as MCPTT User identity and alias
information, location information, encryption, privacy, priority, and
administrative control. Private Calls can use Floor control or not (i.e., be
full voice duplex calls between users), though Private Calls without Floor
control are only supported on the network.
Two commencement modes of Private Calls are supported: Manual Commencement
Private Call and Automatic Commencement Private Call. The two commencement
modes can be used in conjunction with Private Calls with/without Floor
control.
Manual Commencement Private Calls mimic a telephone conversation where the
called party receives a notification that they are being requested to join a
Private Call, and the called party may accept, reject, or ignore the call
request. Once the call setup is accepted, the Private Call is established and
both Participants may communicate with each other.
Automatic Commencement Private Calls mimic the immediate setup and voice
propagation of Group Call operation between two users where the calling party
initiates an Automatic Commencement Private Call to another user and sends
audio without any additional call setup delay beyond Group Calls. If available
and able to accept the Private Call from the calling party, the called party
immediately joins the Private Call and processes the calling party\'s audio.
### 5.6.2 Private Call (with Floor control) general requirements
NOTE: The requirements in this subclause should mirror requirements in 6.7.1
for Private Call (without Floor control).
[R-5.6.2-001] The MCPTT Service shall provide the status (e.g., ringing,
accepted, rejected, active) of an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) to
the relevant MCPTT User that is a Participant of the MCPTT Private Call (with
Floor control).
[R-5.6.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall support Private Calls with Floor
control.
[R-5.6.2-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an authorized
MCPTT User that is a called party in an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor
control), to restrict providing the reason why an MCPTT Private Call (with
Floor control) setup has failed to the calling MCPTT User.
[R-5.6.2-004] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for the Private Call
(with Floor control) to be set up with the MCPTT UE designated by the called
MCPTT User to be used for Private Calls (with Floor control) when the called
MCPTT User has signed on to the MCPTT Service with multiple MCPTT UEs.
[R-5.6.2-005] Void
### 5.6.3 Private Call (with Floor control) commencement requirements
NOTE 1: The requirements in this subclause should mirror the requirements in
6.7.4 for Private Call (without Floor control).
[R-5.6.3-001] The MCPTT Service shall support Call Commencement Modes for
Private Calls (with Floor control), which determine the conditions under which
Private Calls (with Floor control) are set up.
[R-5.6.3-002] Void.
[R-5.6.3-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT User to
cancel an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) prior to the call setup.
[R-5.6.3-004] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an authorized
MCPTT User initiates an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control).
[R-5.6.3-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an MCPTT UE
initiates an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) to any MCPTT User for
which the MCPTT UE\'s current MCPTT User is authorized.
NOTE 2: For off-network use, only an MCPTT UE within communication range
(possibly via a ProSe UE-to-UE Relay) receives the transmission.
[R-5.6.3-006] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an MCPTT User
initiates a Manual Commencement Private Call (with Floor control) to any MCPTT
User for which the MCPTT User is authorized.
[R-5.6.3-007] The MCPTT Service shall require that the called MCPTT User
accepts a Manual Commencement Private Call (with Floor control) setup request
before the call proceeds.
[R-5.6.3-008] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means for an MCPTT User to
accept a Manual Commencement Private Call (with Floor control) request from
another MCPTT User.
[R-5.6.3-009] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an MCPTT User
initiates an Automatic Commencement Private Call (with Floor control) to any
MCPTT User for which the MCPTT User is authorized.
[R-5.6.3-010] The MCPTT UE shall support automatic commencement mode and
manual commencement mode for Private Calls (with Floor control).
[R-5.6.3-011] The MCPTT Service shall provide a manual commencement mode
countermand by which an authorized MCPTT User may request that the invited
MCPTT UE answer automatically.
[R-5.6.3-012] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which the calling
authorized MCPTT User is notified the called MCPTT User received the Private
Call (with Floor control) request.
[R-5.6.3-013] The MCPTT Service shall require that the called MCPTT UE
acknowledge receipt of an Automatic Commencement Private Call (with Floor
control) setup request before the audio transmission proceeds.
### 5.6.4 Private Call (with Floor control) termination
NOTE 1: The requirements in this subclause should mirror the requirements in
6.7.5 for Private Call (without Floor control).
[R-5.6.4-001] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT User to
reject an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control).
[R-5.6.4-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an authorized
MCPTT User ignores a Manual Commencement Private Call (with Floor control)
request from another MCPTT User.
NOTE 2: Ignoring a Manual Commencement Private Call (with Floor control)
results in no indication of the reason for call failure being sent to the
calling MCPTT User.
[R-5.6.4-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an MCPTT User
ends a Private Call (with Floor control) in which the MCPTT User is a
Participant.
### 5.6.5 Private Call (with Floor control) administration
NOTE: The requirements in this subclause should mirror requirements in 6.7.2
for Private Call (without Floor control), except [R-5.6.5-005] which is
specific to Private Call with Floor control.
[R-5.6.5-001] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure which MCPTT Users, within their authority, are
authorized to place a Manual Commencement Private Call (with Floor control).
[R-5.6.5-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure which MCPTT Users, within their authority, are
authorized to place an Automatic Commencement Private Call (with Floor
control).
[R-5.6.5-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure for a particular authorized MCPTT User, a set of
MCPTT Users under the same authority to which an MCPTT Private Call (with
Floor control) can be made.
[R-5.6.5004] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure the maximum duration for MCPTT Private Calls (with
Floor control) for MCPTT Users within their authority.
[R-5.6.5-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure a timeout value in which an MCPTT Private Call
(with Floor control) without a transmitting or receiving MCPTT User ends, for
MCPTT Users within their authority.
[R-5.6.5-006] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure whether an MCPTT User, within their authority, that
is a called party in an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control), may restrict
providing the reason why an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) setup has
failed to the calling MCPTT User.
## 5.7 MCPTT priority requirements
### 5.7.1 Overview
MCPTT Emergency Group Call and MCPTT Imminent Peril group call are MCPTT Group
Calls that provide the MCPTT User elevated priority towards obtaining
resources of the MCPTT system. The MCPTT Emergency Private Call similarly
provides elevated priority to resources of the MCPTT system. The MCPTT
Emergency Alert provides a notification of an MCPTT Emergency situation from
an MCPTT UE, regardless if the user is signed in with the MCPTT Service or
not.
The MCPTT Emergency Alert is initiated from an MCPTT UE to inform the MCPTT
Service of the user\'s immediate need of assistance due to the user\'s
personal, life-threatening situation. If the user is not properly
authenticated, he is treated as a temporary MCPTT User with limited
permissions. The user initiates this notification by actuating a user
interface on the MCPTT UE. The notification to the MCPTT Service includes the
MCPTT User\'s ID, potentially an MCPTT Group ID, the user\'s Mission Critical
Organization name and the most current location available for the user\'s
MCPTT UE.
The user profile/group configuration determines which MCPTT Group ID is used,
if any. If the user profile indicates that a dedicated (i.e., not used for
everyday traffic) MCPTT Emergency Group is to be used, then the MCPTT
Emergency call traffic moves to a different group. MCPTT Users that support
MCPTT Emergency situations are required to monitor the dedicated MCPTT
Emergency Group(s) for call activity. If the user profile indicates that the
selected (i.e., currently active) MCPTT Group is to be used, then its Group ID
is used, unless no group is selected.
After the MCPTT User has initiated an MCPTT Emergency Alert, MCPTT Emergency
Private Call or MCPTT Emergency Group Call, the MCPTT User is considered to be
in the MCPTT Emergency State. The user remains in the MCPTT Emergency State
until the MCPTT User cancels the MCPTT Emergency State.
An MCPTT Group Call started by an MCPTT User while in the MCPTT Emergency
State or previously started but followed by an MCPTT Emergency Alert becomes
an MCPTT Emergency Group Call. The MCPTT Group ID used for the MCPTT Emergency
Group Call is the same MCPTT Group ID included in the MCPTT Emergency Alert.
An MCPTT User or dispatcher might initiate an MCPTT Emergency Group Call
without an MCPTT Emergency Alert. The start of an MCPTT Emergency Group Call
starts an In-progress Emergency condition for the MCPTT Group. Any subsequent
MCPTT Group Call made by any MCPTT Group Member of an MCPTT Group which has an
In-progress Emergency is treated as an MCPTT Emergency Group Call. MCPTT
Emergency Group priority is removed when the In-progress Emergency for the
group is cancelled.
An MCPTT Private Call started by an MCPTT User while in the MCPTT Emergency
State becomes an MCPTT Emergency Private Call.
MCPTT Imminent Peril group call is differentiated from MCPTT Emergency Group
Call based on for whom the assistance is required. The MCPTT Emergency Group
Call is initiated by an MCPTT User for assistance for the MCPTT Emergency
condition involving that user. The MCPTT Imminent Peril group call is
initiated by an MCPTT User for assistance to other MCPTT Users or persons of
the general public observed to be in trouble and may soon need assistance.
There is no MCPTT Imminent Peril Alert and no MCPTT Imminent Peril State for
MCPTT Users. The granting of an MCPTT Imminent Peril group call starts an In-
progress Imminent Peril condition for the MCPTT Group. Any subsequent MCPTT
Group Call made by any MCPTT Group Member of an MCPTT Group which has an In-
progress Imminent Peril condition is treated as an MCPTT Imminent Peril group
call. MCPTT Imminent Peril Group priority is removed when the In-progress
Imminent Peril for the group is cancelled.
### 5.7.2 Call types based on priorities
#### 5.7.2.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call
##### 5.7.2.1.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call requirements
[R-5.7.2.1.1-001] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-002] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-003] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-004] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-005] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-006] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-007] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-008] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-009] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-010] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-011] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-012] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-013] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.1-014] Void
### 5.7.2.1.2 MCPTT Emergency Group Call cancellation requirements
[R-5.7.2.1.2-001] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.2-002] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.2-003] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.2-004] Void
[R-5.7.2.1.2-005] Void
#### 5.7.2.2 Imminent Peril group call
##### 5.7.2.2.1 Imminent Peril group call requirements
[R-5.7.2.2.1-001] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.1-002] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.1-003] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.1-004] Void.
[R-5.7.2.2.1-005] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.1-006] Void.
[R-5.7.2.2.1-007] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.1-008] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.1-009] Void
##### 5.7.2.2.2 Imminent Peril group call cancellation requirements
[R-5.7.2.2.2-001] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.2-002] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.2-003] Void
[R-5.7.2.2.2-004] Void
#### 5.7.2.3 MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor control)
##### 5.7.2.3.1 MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor control) requirements
[R-5.7.2.3.1-001] The MCPTT Service shall support MCPTT Emergency Private
Calls (with Floor control) from authorized MCPTT Users.
NOTE: This functionality out of network relies on the MCPTT User being called
being within ProSe Communication range. For this reason this functionality is
more likely to be used on the network.
[R-5.7.2.3.1-002] When an MCPTT User initiates an MCPTT Emergency Private Call
(with Floor control) this may trigger an MCPTT Emergency Alert for that MCPTT
User.
[R-5.7.2.3.1-003] When an MCPTT User initiates an MCPTT Emergency Private Call
(with Floor control) this shall put that MCPTT User into an MCPTT Emergency
State.
##### 5.7.2.3.2 MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor control) cancellation
requirements
[R-5.7.2.3.2-001] The MCPTT Service shall support cancellation of the MCPTT
Emergency priority of an MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor control) by
an authorized MCPTT User.
[R-5.7.2.3.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall support cancellation of the MCPTT
Emergency priority of an MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor control)
when criteria established by the MCPTT Administrator are met (e.g., timeout).
[R-5.7.2.3.2-003] The MCPTT Service shall support an MCPTT User cancelling
their own MCPTT Emergency State.
#### 5.7.2.4 MCPTT Emergency Alert
##### 5.7.2.4.1 MCPTT Emergency Alert requirements
[R-5.7.2.4.1-001] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-002] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-003] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-004] Void .
[R-5.7.2.4.1-005] Void.
[R-5.7.2.4.1-006] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-007] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-008] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-009] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-010] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-011] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.1-012] Void
##### 5.7.2.4.2 MCPTT Emergency Alert cancellation requirements
[R-5.7.2.4.2-001] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.2-002] Void
[R-5.7.2.4.2-003] Void
## 5.8 User ID
[R-5.8-001] Void
[R-5.8-002] Void
[R-5.8-003] Void
## 5.9 MCPTT UE management
[R-5.9-001] Void
[R-5.9-002] Void
## 5.10 MCPTT User Profile
[R-5.10-001] Void
[R-5.10-002] Void
## 5.11 Support for multiple devices
[R-5.11-001] Void
[R-5.11-002] Void
## 5.12 Location
[R-5.12-001] Void
[R-5.12-002] Void
[R-5.12-003] Void
[R-5.12-004] Void
[R-5.12-005] Void
[R-5.12-006] Void
[R-5.12-007] Void
[R-5.12-008] Void .
[R-5.12-009] Void
[R-5.12-010] Void
[R-5.12-011] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means for an MCPTT UE to send a
Location information update whenever the MCPTT User initiates an MCPTT
Imminent Peril Call.
[R-5.12-012] Void
[R-5.12-013] Void
[R-5.12-014] Void
[R-5.12-015] Void
## 5.13 Security
[R-5.13-001] Void
[R-5.13-002] Void
[R-5.13-003] Void
[R-5.13-004] Void
[R-5.13-005] Void
[R-5.13-006] Void
[R-5.13-007] Void
[R-5.13-008] Void
[R-5.13-009] Void
[R-5.13-010] Void
[R-5.13-011] Void
[R-5.13-012] Void
[R-5.13-013] Void
## 5.14 Audio / voice quality
[R-5.14-001] Void
[R-5.14-002] MOS-LQO shall achieve the noise reduction performance of
TIA-102.BABG [10] Table 3-1.
[R-5.14-003] MOS-LQO shall achieve a noise reduction performance for the 3GPP
Adaptive Multi-Rate Wide Band codec (AMR-WB TS 26.190 [11] and TS 26.194 [12]
that is equal to or greater than that specified for the P25 full rate and half
rate voice codecs in TIA-102. BABG [10].
## 5.15 Interactions between MCPTT Group calls and MCPTT Private Calls (with
Floor control)
[R-5.15-001] The MCPTT Service shall allow an MCPTT UE to be transmitting in
one MCPTT Group Call while simultaneously receiving transmissions from one or
more MCPTT Private Calls (with Floor control).
[R-5.15-002] The MCPTT Service shall allow an MCPTT UE to be receiving or
transmitting in one MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) while
simultaneously receiving transmissions from one or more MCPTT Group Calls.
[R-5.15-003] The MCPTT Service shall allow an MCPTT UE to be receiving one or
more MCPTT Group Calls while simultaneously receiving transmissions from one
or more MCPTT Private Calls (with Floor control).
## 5.16 Relay requirements
[R-5.16-001] Void
[R-5.16-002] Void
[R-5.16-003] Void
## 5.17 Gateway requirements
[R-5.17-001] Void
## 5.18 Control and management by Mission Critical Organizations
### 5.18.1 Overview
Subclause 5.18 contains general requirements for management of the MCPTT
Service by Mission Critical Organizations sharing the same MCPTT system, and
more specific requirements pertaining to management controls and operational
visibility, and to management of security services.
### 5.18.2 General requirements
[R-5.18.2-001] Void
[R-5.18.2-002] Void
[R-5.18.2-003] Void
[R-5.18.2-004] Void
[R-5.18.2-005] Void
### 5.18.3 Operational visibility for Mission Critical Organizations
[R-5.18.3-001] Void
## 5.19 General Administrative -- groups and users
[R-5.19-001] Void
[R-5.19-002] Void
[R-5.19-003] Void
[R-5.19-004] Void
[R-5.19-005] Void
[R-5.19-006] Void
[R-5.19-007] Void
[R-5.19-008] Void
# 6 MCPTT Service requirements specific to on-network use
## 6.1 General administrative -- groups and users
[R-6.1-001] Void
[R-6.1-002] Void
[R-6.1-003] Void
[R-6.1-004] Void.
[R-6.1-005] Void.
[R-6.1-006] Void
[R-6.1-007] Void
## 6.2 MCPTT calls
### 6.2.1 Commencement modes for MCPTT Group calls
[R-6.2.1-001] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of allowing an MCPTT Group
call setup request to proceed without prior acknowledgement by any MCPTT User
of that MCPTT Group.
[R-6.2.1-002] An MCPTT User currently affiliated to an MCPTT Group shall
acknowledge receipt of an MCPTT Group call setup request, if requested to do
so by the MCPTT Service.
[R-6.2.1-003] The MCPTT User\'s acknowledgement may require direct interaction
of the MCPTT UE with the human user, or may be automatically executed by the
MCPTT UE, in accordance with policy established by an MCPTT Administrator.
[R-6.2.1-004] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of requiring that a minimum
number of Affiliated MCPTT Group Members acknowledges receipt of the MCPTT
Group call setup request before the audio transmission proceeds.
[R-6.2.1-005] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of requiring that specific
MCPTT Users acknowledge receipt of the MCPTT Group call setup request before
the audio transmission proceeds, regardless of the affiliation state of those
users.
NOTE 1: In this case the MCPTT Service affiliates the specific MCPTT Users who
are not currently affiliated to the target MCPTT Group and then returns them
to their previous affiliation state when the transmission ends.
[R-6.2.1-006] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of requiring that all MCPTT
Users that are both affiliated to the MCPTT Group and in a given geographical
area acknowledge receipt of an MCPTT Group call setup request before the audio
transmission proceeds.
[R-6.2.1-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to determine the subset of Affiliated MCPTT Group Members that
shall acknowledge receipt of the MCPTT Group call setup request before the
audio transmission proceeds.
NOTE 2: In the following requirements, the term, \"MCPTT Group Call setup
request requires acknowledgement\" is used when one or more of the
acknowledgement conditions defined above (i.e., [R-6.2.1-004], [R-6.2.1-005],
[R-6.2.1-006], and/or [R-6.2.1-007]) applies.
[R-6.2.1-008] If an MCPTT Group Call setup request requires acknowledgement
from Affiliated MCPTT Group Members, and the required MCPTT Group Members do
not acknowledge the call setup within a configured time (the \"acknowledged
call setup timeout\"), the MCPTT Service may proceed with the call and then
may notify the initiating MCPTT User that the acknowledgements did not include
all required members.
[R-6.2.1-009] If an MCPTT Group Call setup request requires acknowledgement
from Affiliated MCPTT Group Members, and the required MCPTT Group Members do
not acknowledge the call setup within a configured time, the MCPTT Service may
abandon the call and then may notify the initiating MCPTT User that the
acknowledgements did not include all required members.
[R-6.2.1-010] If an MCPTT Group Call setup request requires acknowledgement
from Affiliated MCPTT Group Members, the initiating MCPTT User shall at any
time have the option of allowing the call to proceed regardless of the state
of the acknowledgements (i.e., to \"convert\" the call to an unacknowledged
call).
[R-6.2.1-011] If an MCPTT Group Call setup request requires acknowledgement
from Affiliated MCPTT Group Members, the acknowledged call setup timeout shall
be established by an MCPTT Administrator.
[R-6.2.1-012] If an MCPTT Group Call setup request requires acknowledgement
from Affiliated MCPTT Group Members, the behaviour in response to the
expiration of the acknowledged call setup timeout shall be established by an
MCPTT Administrator.
[R-6.2.1-013] If an MCPTT Group Call setup request requires acknowledgement
from Affiliated MCPTT Group Members, the MCPTT Service shall support an
indefinite (i.e., infinite) call setup timeout.
[R-6.2.1-014] If the MCPTT Service has knowledge that some affiliated members
of a group can not be Participants in an unacknowledged MCPTT Group Call, the
MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to the requester that the call is
proceeding without all affiliated members, and shall provide the list of the
missing members based on policy established by the MCPTT Administrator.
[R-6.2.1-015] If MCPTT User(s) are excluded from an MCPTT call as there is
insufficient capacity to support their participation the MCPTT Service shall
ensure that the MCPTT User(s) receive a notification that they have been
excluded from the call for reasons of lack of capacity.
### 6.2.2 Queuing
[R-6.2.2-001] Void
[R-6.2.2-002] Void
[R-6.2.2-003] Void
[R-6.2.2-004] Void
[R-6.2.2-005] Void
[R-6.2.2-006] Void
### 6.2.3 Floor control
#### 6.2.3.1 General aspects
[R-6.2.3.1-001] The Floor control functionality in an MCPTT Service shall
determine at a point in time which Participant(s) are allowed to transmit to
other Participant(s).
[R-6.2.3.1-002] Receiving Participant(s) shall receive audio from one
transmitting Participant. The only exception is if an MCPTT Group is
configured to allow simultaneous Transmitting MCPTT Group Members in override.
[R-6.2.3.1-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for the MCPTT
Administrator to configure the number (maximum of N9) of simultaneous audios
received by an MCPTT User in a single MCPTT Group.
#### 6.2.3.2 Requesting permission to transmit
[R-6.2.3.2-001] An authorized Participant shall be able to request to transmit
to an MCPTT Group or an individual Participant.
[R-6.2.3.2-002] At call setup the MCPTT Service shall provide a notification,
for example audio and/or visual, to the MCPTT Group Member attempting to
transmit that there are no other Group Members who have affiliated to the
MCPTT Group.
[R-6.2.3.2-003] The Floor control functionality shall determine the
transmitting Participant(s) when there are simultaneous requests for
permission to transmit within the same call.
[R-6.2.3.2-004] Following an MCPTT Request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCPTT Group, the Affiliated MCPTT Group Member that made and was
granted the request shall be given an indication of being allowed to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.2-005] Following an MCPTT Request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCPTT Group, an Affiliated MCPTT Group Member that made and was not
granted the request shall be given an indication that permission to transmit
was rejected or queued.
[R-6.2.3.2-006] The depth of the Floor control queue shall be configurable.
[R-6.2.3.2-007] Following an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) request
for permission to transmit, the MCPTT User that is allowed to transmit shall
be given an indication that the user is allowed to transmit to the targeted
MCPTT User.
[R-6.2.3.2-008] Following an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) request
for permission to transmit, an MCPTT User that is not allowed to transmit
shall be given an indication that the permission to transmit was rejected or
queued.
[R-6.2.3.2-009] The MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to receiving
Participants that the transmitting Participant is starting to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.2-010] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Participant to remove its MCPTT Request from the Floor control queue.
[R-6.2.3.2-011] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for removal (i.e.,
request accepted, request denied, or expiration of a timer) of an MCPTT
Request from the Floor control queue.
[R-6.2.3.2-012] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for the MCPTT
Administrator to configure the parameter(s) of the Floor control queue for an
MCPTT Group (i.e., timer).
#### 6.2.3.3 Override
##### 6.2.3.3.1 General aspects
[R-6.2.3.3.1-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable MCPTT Administrators to
create a priority hierarchy for determining what Participants, Participant
types, and urgent transmission types shall be granted a request to override an
active MCPTT transmission.
[R-6.2.3.3.1-002] The MCPTT Service shall enable an MCPTT Administrator to
configure which MCPTT Group transmission a Participant(s) receives, overriding
and/or overridden for cases where an authorized Participant overrides an MCPTT
transmission.
[R-6.2.3.3.1-003] The MCPTT Service shall enable the MCPTT Administrator to
configure the MCPTT Group to allow only the overriding Participant to transmit
or to allow both the overriding and overridden Participant to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.3.1-004] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure MCPTT Private Calls (with Floor control) to allow
only the overriding Participant to transmit or to allow both the overriding
and overridden Participant to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.3.1-005] The priority hierarchy used for granting a request to
override an active MCPTT transmission shall contain at least four (4) levels.
[R-6.2.3.3.1-006] The transmitting Participant shall be determined by the
relative Floor control priorities of the Participants and Call type based on
priority (e.g MCPTT Emergency).
[R-6.2.3.3.1-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for
Participants, to override an active MCPTT transmission of a transmitting
Participant when the priority level of the overriding Participant or Call type
based on priority (e.g MCPTT Emergency) are ranked higher than the priority
level of the transmitting Participant or Call type based on priority.
[R-6.2.3.3.1-008] If an authorized Participant overrides an MCPTT
transmission, the MCPTT Service shall provide a means of notifying the
overridden Participant(s) that the transmission has been overridden.
##### 6.2.3.3.2 Override -- one transmitting Participant
[R-6.2.3.3.2-001] If the MCPTT Group has been configured to only allow the
overriding transmitting Participant, the MCPTT Service shall revoke the
transmit permission of the overridden transmitting Participant.
##### 6.2.3.3.3 Override -- simultaneously Transmitting MCPTT Group Members
[R-6.2.3.3.3-001] If the MCPTT Group has been configured to allow both
overriding and overridden transmitting Participants, authorized receiving
Participants shall be enabled to listen to both the overriding and overridden
Participant transmissions, dependent on configuration.
[R-6.2.3.3.3-002] The MCPTT Service shall allow successive overrides of an
MCPTT Group Call when the request to override is made by an MCPTT User having
a higher Floor control priority than the currently transmitting Participants.
[R-6.2.3.3.3-003] In the case of successive overrides, the MCPTT Service shall
enable only two transmissions, one overriding transmission, from the highest
priority MCPTT User, and one overridden transmission, chosen from among the
two overridden Participants based upon configured rule(s). (i.e., this could
be based simply on priority of user, it could be based on a policy that an
overridden MCPTT Emergency transmission shall remain as the overridden
transmission or a rule could be established that the MCPTT system shall not
allow two dispatchers to be both the overriding and overridden transmitters.).
#### 6.2.3.4 Terminating permission to transmit
[R-6.2.3.4-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable an authorized MCPTT User to
terminate the permission to transmit of a transmitting Participant at any
time.
[R-6.2.3.4-002] A transmitting Participant shall be able to indicate to the
MCPTT Service that the Participant no longer wants to transmit.
> NOTE: In this case audio stops being transmitted to the receiver
> Participant(s) until an authorized Participant sends a subsequent request
> for permission to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.4-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to receiving
Participants that the transmitting Participant has finished transmitting.
#### 6.2.3.5 Transmit time limit
[R-6.2.3.5-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable an MCPTT Administrator to
configure the limit for the length of time that a Participant transmits from a
single request to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.5-002] The Floor control functionality shall have a configurable
limit for the length of time that a Participant transmits from a single
request to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.5-003] The Floor control functionality shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant that the Participant is within a configurable
amount of time before his transmit time limit is reached.
[R-6.2.3.5-004] The Floor control functionality shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant that the Participant\'s transmit time limit has
been reached.
[R-6.2.3.5-005] The Floor control functionality shall remove the permission to
transmit from the transmitting Participant when the Participant\'s transmit
time limit has been reached.
#### 6.2.3.6 Audio cut-in on designated MCPTT Groups
##### 6.2.3.6.1 Overview
The audio cut-in feature applies to specially designated MCPTT Groups and
results in Floor control for that group allowing any participant within the
MCPTT Group to interrupt any other participant. In particular the audio cut-in
feature means that the last Participant to request the floor is assigned the
floor immediately and there is only ever one talker on the call at a
particular point in time. Audio cut-in is often used for teams escorting VIPs
where timeliness is essential to allow teams to react as quickly as possible.
Other than the difference in floor control logic, the MCPTT Groups configured
to support audio cut-in behave in the same way as other MCPTT Groups with
group management, affiliation, selection of a group, requesting the floor, the
notifications received related to Floor control etc working in the same way.
##### 6.2.3.6.2 Requirements
[R-6.2.3.6.2-001] The MCPTT Group shall be configurable to allow audio cut-in.
NOTE 1: MCPTT Groups configured for audio cut-in behave in the same way as
MCPTT Groups not configured for audio cut-in in all other respects other than
the Floor control logic described in this sub-clause.
[R-6.2.3.6.2-002] When an MCPTT Group has been configured to support audio
cut-in, the Floor control functionality shall give the floor to the MCPTT
Group Member that has selected that MCPTT Group and made the most recent
request to transmit in that MCPTT Group.
NOTE 2: Requests to transmit that are received simultaneously will be
addressed by manufacturer implementation.
[R-6.2.3.6.2-003] When an MCPTT Group has been configured to support audio
cut-in the Floor control functionality shall restrict the number of talkers in
the group to one.
[R-6.2.3.6.2-004] When an MCPTT Group has been designated to support audio
cut-in the MCPTT Group shall not support any form of floor control queuing and
associated functionality.
[R-6.2.3.6.2-005] When the current talker is interrupted by a request to
transmit on an MCPTT Group supporting audio cut-in, the talk request of the
interrupted talker shall end.
NOTE 3: The interrupted talker must make a new request to transmit in order to
transmit again.
[R-6.2.3.6.2-006] Void
[R-6.2.3.6.2-007] Void
##### 6.2.3.6.3 Requesting permission to transmit
[R-6.2.3.6.3-001] An authorized Participant shall be able to request to
transmit to an MCPTT Group configured to support audio cut-in.
[R-6.2.3.6.3-002] At call setup the MCPTT Service shall provide a
notification, for example audio and/or visual, to the MCPTT Group Member
attempting to transmit that there are no other Group Members who have
affiliated to the MCPTT Group configured to support audio cut-in.
[R-6.2.3.6.3-003] Following an MCPTT Request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCPTT Group configured to support audio cut-in, the Affiliated MCPTT
Group Member that made and was granted the request shall be given an
indication of being allowed to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.6.3-004] The MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to receiving
Participants that the transmitting Participant is starting to transmit on a
group configured for audio cut-in.
##### 6.2.3.6.4 Terminating permission to transmit
[R-6.2.3.6.4-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable an authorized MCPTT User to
terminate the permission to transmit of a transmitting Participant at any time
on a group configured for audio cut-in.
[R-6.2.3.6.4-002] A transmitting Participant shall be able to indicate to the
MCPTT Service that the Participant no longer wants to transmit on a group
configured for audio cut-in.
> NOTE: In this case audio stops being transmitted to the receiver
> Participant(s) until an authorized Participant sends a subsequent request
> for permission to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.6.4-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to receiving
Participants that the transmitting Participant has finished transmitting on a
group configured for audio cut-in.
##### 6.2.3.6.5 Transmit time limit
[R-6.2.3.6.5-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable an MCPTT Administrator to
configure the limit for the length of time that a Participant transmits from a
single request to transmit on a group configured for audio cut-in.
[R-6.2.3.6.5-002] The Floor control functionality for a group configured for
audio cut-in shall have a configurable limit for the length of time that a
Participant transmits from a single request to transmit.
[R-6.2.3.6.5-003] The Floor control functionality for a group configured for
audio cut-in shall provide an indication to the transmitting Participant that
the Participant is within a configurable amount of time before his transmit
time limit is reached.
[R-6.2.3.6.5-004] The Floor control functionality for a group configured for
audio cut-in shall provide an indication to the transmitting Participant that
the Participant\'s transmit time limit has been reached.
[R-6.2.3.6.5-005] The Floor control functionality for a group configured for
audio cut-in shall remove the permission to transmit from the transmitting
Participant when the Participant\'s transmit time limit has been reached.
#### 6.2.3.7 MCPTT Groups configured for multi-talker control
##### 6.2.3.7.1 Overview
The multi-talker control applies to designated MCPTT Groups and results in
allowing several Participants talking simultaneously within the MCPTT Group.
For example, Multi-talker control is used by railway communication e.g. during
shunting operation.
Except for Floor control as specified in clauses 6.2.3.1, 6.2.3.2, 6.2.3.3 and
6.2.3.6 all other requirements specified in 6.2.3 floor control are applicable
to MCPTT Groups configured to support multi-talker control
When an MCPTT Group is configured for multi-talker control, the requirements
listed below apply.
##### 6.2.3.7.2 General aspects
[R-6.2.3.7.2-001] An MCPTT Group shall be configurable to allow multi-talker
control.
[R-6.2.3.7.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for multiple
MCPTT Users to talk simultaneously in an MCPTT Group configured for multi-
talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.2-003] The MCPTT Service shall determine which Participant(s) are
allowed to transmit to all other Participant(s) in an MCPTT Group configured
for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.2-004] The MCPTT Service shall support all Participant(s) to
receive audio from all other Participant(s) that are transmitting in an MCPTT
Group configured for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.2-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for the MCPTT
Administrator to configure the maximum number of simultaneous talkers in an
MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.2-006] The MCPTT Service shall allow an authorized MCPTT User to
change the maximum number of simultaneous talkers at any time during a group
call in an MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
##### 6.2.3.7.3 Requesting permission to transmit
[R-6.2.3.7.3-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable authorized Participants to
request to transmit to an MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.3-002] At call setup the MCPTT Service shall provide a
notification, for example audio and/or visual, to the MCPTT Group Member
attempting to transmit that there are no other Group Members who have
affiliated to the MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.3-003] The MCPTT Service shall determine the transmitting
Participant(s) when there are simultaneous requests for permission to transmit
within the same call for an MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.3-004] Following an MCPTT Request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control the MCPTT Service
shall provide an Affiliated MCPTT Group Member that made and was granted the
request an indication of being allowed to transmit.
##### 6.2.3.7.4 Override
##### 6.2.3.7.4.1 General aspects {#general-aspects-4 .H6}
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-001] If the number of MCPTT Users requesting the permission to
talk exceeds the maximum number of simultaneous talkers in an MCPTT Group
configured for multi-talker control, the MCPTT Service shall apply the
override mechanism.
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-002] The MCPTT Service shall enable MCPTT Administrators to
create a priority hierarchy for determining what Participants, Participant
types, and urgent transmission types shall be granted a request to override an
active MCPTT transmission on an MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker
control.
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-003] The priority hierarchy used for granting a request to
override an active MCPTT transmission on a group configured for multi-talker
control shall contain at least four (4) levels.
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-004] The transmitting Participant onan MCPTT Group a group
configured for multi-talker control shall be determined by the relative
priorities of the Participants and Call type based on priority (e.g MCPTT
Emergency).
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-005] Transmission requests of Participants with insufficient
relative priority shall be rejected.
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-006] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for
Participants, to override an active MCPTT transmission of a transmitting
Participant when the priority level of the overriding Participant or Call type
based on priority (e.g MCPTT Emergency) are ranked higher than the priority
level of the transmitting Participant or Call type based on priority for an
MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-007] If an authorized Participant overrides an MCPTT
transmission, the MCPTT Service shall provide a means of notifying the
overridden Participant(s) that the transmission has been overridden for an
MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-008] The MCPTT Service shall revoke the transmit permission of
the overridden transmitting Participant on an MCPTT Group configured for
multi-talker control.
### 6.2.4 Call termination
[R-6.2.4-001] If a Participant of an MCPTT Group call is pre-empted, the MCPTT
Service shall terminate the call or continue the call with an indication to
the transmitting Participant that one or more receiving Participants was pre-
empted.
[R-6.2.4-002] If MCPTT User(s) are pre-empted from an ongoing MCPTT call as
there is insufficient capacity to support their ongoing participation, the
MCPTT Service shall ensure that the MCPTT User(s) receive a notification that
they have been removed from the call for reasons of lack of capacity.
[R-6.2.4-003] The MCPTT Service shall terminate a call after the Hang Time
expires.
[R-6.2.4-004] Void.
[R-6.2.4-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to the
Participants that the call is within a configurable amount of time before the
call time limit is reached.
[R-6.2.4-006] The MCPTT Service shall release the call when the call time
limit has been reached.
[R-6.2.4-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to the
Participants that the call time limit has been reached.
[R-6.2.4-008] The MCPTT Service shall release an MCPTT Group call if any of
the termination conditions are met (e.g., last Participant leaving, second
last Participant leaving, initiator leaving) or the minimum number of
Affiliated MCPTT Group Members are not present.
## 6.3 General requirements
[R-6.3-001] Void
[R-6.3-002] Void
[R-6.3-003] Void
[R-6.3-004] Void
## 6.4 General group call
### 6.4.1 General aspects
[R-6.4.1-001] Void
### 6.4.2 Group status/information
[R-6.4.2-001] Void
[R-6.4.2-002] Void
[R-6.4.2-003] Void
[R-6.4.2-004] Void
[R-6.4.2-005] Void
[R-6.4.2-006] Void
[R-6.4.2-007] Void
### 6.4.3 Identification
[R-6.4.3-001] Void
[R-6.4.3-002] Void
### 6.4.4 Membership/affiliation
[R-6.4.4-001] Void
[R-6.4.4-002] Void
### 6.4.5 Membership/affiliation list
[R-6.4.5-001] Void
[R-6.4.5-002] Void
[R-6.4.5-003] Void
[R-6.4.5-004] Void
[R-6.4.5-005] Void
[R-6.4.5-006] Void
[R-6.4.5-007] Void
[R-6.4.5-008] Void
### 6.4.6 Authorized user remotely changes another MCPTT User\'s affiliated
and/or Selected MCPTT Group(s)
#### 6.4.6.1 Mandatory change
[R-6.4.6.1-001] Void
[R-6.4.6.1-002] Void
[R-6.4.6.1-003] Void
[R-6.4.6.1-004] Void
#### 6.4.6.2 Negotiated change
[R-6.4.6.2-001] Void
[R-6.4.6.2-002] Void
[R-6.4.6.2-003] Void
[R-6.4.6.2-004] Void
[R-6.4.6.2-005] Void
[R-6.4.6.2-006] Void
### 6.4.7 Prioritization
[R-6.4.7-001] Void
[R-6.4.7-002] Void
[R-6.4.7-003] Void
[R-6.4.7-004] Void
### 6.4.8 Relay requirements
[R-6.4.8-001] Void
### 6.4.9 Administrative
[R-6.4.9-001] Void
[R-6.4.9-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to set a predefined time period (Hang Time) without any traffic
in MCPTT calls (with Floor control), after which the MCPTT calls shall
terminate.
[R-6.4.9-003] Void
[R-6.4.9-004] Void
[R-6.4.9-005] Void
[R-6.4.9-006] Void
[R-6.4.9-007] Void
## 6.5 Broadcast group
## 6.5.1 General Broadcast Group Call
[R-6.5.1-001] Void
[R-6.5.1-002] Void
### 6.5.2 Group-Broadcast Group (e.g., announcement group)
[R-6.5.2-001] Void
### 6.5.3 User-Broadcast Group (e.g., System Call)
[R-6.5.3-001] Void
## 6.6 Dynamic group management (i.e., dynamic regrouping)
### 6.6.1 General dynamic regrouping
[R-6.6.1-001] Void
[R-6.6.1-002] Void
[R-6.6.1-003] Void
[R-6.6.1-004] Void
[R-6.6.1-005] Void
[R-6.6.1-006] Void
#### 6.6.2 Group Regrouping
#### 6.6.2.1 Service description
Group Regrouping enables dispatchers or any authorized user to temporarily
combine MCPTT Groups. A dispatcher uses Group Regrouping for different
reasons.
Due to an incident in an area it can be necessary to temporarily enable MCPTT
Users from different MCPTT Groups to communicate to each other to coordinate.
After the incident the dispatcher cancels the Group Regrouping and the MCPTT
Users continue with their original configured MCPTT Groups.
During quiet periods control room managers can decide to combine MCPTT Groups
and handle their operations and communications with one dispatcher. In the
busier period the Group Regrouping is cancelled and the MCPTT Groups are
handled by separate dispatchers.
#### 6.6.2.2 Requirements
[R-6.6.2.2-001] Void
[R-6.6.2.2-002] Void
[R-6.6.2.2-003] Void
[R-6.6.2.2-004] Void
[R-6.6.2.2-005] Void
[R-6.6.2.2-006] Void
[R-6.6.2.2-007] Void
### 6.6.3 Temporary Group-Broadcast Group
[R-6.6.3-001] Void
[R-6.6.3-002] Void
#### 6.6.4 User regrouping
#### 6.6.4.1 Service description
In the operational MCPTT environment most tasks are covered by standard
procedures and communication structures and MCPTT Users can easily access the
MCPTT Groups to handle their tasks.
Exceptionally it could happen that there is an urgent need for a dedicated set
of individual MCPTT Users to communicate in an MCPTT Group, but that this is
not foreseen in the communication structure. This could be due to extreme
conditions or due to a cooperation that is outside normal procedures.
User Regrouping enables dispatchers or authorized users to instantaneously
provide a dedicated MCPTT Group to these MCPTT Users to enable the required
communication. Depending on configuration the MCPTT Users could be
automatically affiliated to this MCPTT Group. After the operation this MCPTT
Group is removed by the dispatcher or authorized user.
#### 6.6.4.2 Requirements
[R-6.6.4.2-001] Void
[R-6.6.4.2-002] Void
[R-6.6.4.2-003] Void
[R-6.6.4.2-004] Void
[R-6.6.4.2-005] Void
## 6.7 Private Call
### 6.7.0 Overview
Private Calls can use Floor control or not. Private Calls (without Floor
control) are only supported on network, whereas Private Calls (with Floor
control) are supported both on and off network. Private Calls (without Floor
contol) are intended to have the same functionality as specified for Private
Calls (with Floor control) in subclauses 5.6.2, 5.6.3, 5.6.4, 5.6.5.
Comparable requirements are included in subclauses 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.7.4 and
6.7.5, with the exception of R-5.6.5-005, which is specific to Private Calls
(with Floor control).
### 6.7.1 General requirements
[R-6.7.1-001] The on-network MCPTT Service shall support two types of Private
Calls, one which uses Floor control and one which does not.
NOTE: An MCPTT Private Call (without Floor control) is effectively a full
voice duplex call between two users.
[R-6.7.1-002] Void
[R-6.7.1-003] Void
[R-6.7.1-004] Void
[R-6.7.1-005] Void
[R-6.7.1-006] Void
[R-6.7.1-007] Void
[R-6.7.1-008] Void
[R-6.7.1-009] Void
[R-6.7.1-010] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism by which specified
Participants or Participant types (e.g., dispatch) have the ability to
override an active PTT transmission of the other Participant in the Private
Call.
[R-6.7.1-011] Void
[R-6.7.1-012] The MCPTT Service shall provide the status (e.g., ringing,
accepted, rejected, active) of an MCPTT Private Call (without Floor control)
to the relevant MCPTT User that is a Participant of the MCPTT Private Call
(without Floor control).
[R-6.7.1-013] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an authorized
MCPTT User that is a called party in an MCPTT Private Call (without Floor
control), to restrict providing the reason why an MCPTT Private Call (without
Floor control) setup has failed to the calling MCPTT User.
[R-6.7.1-014] Void
### 6.7.2 Administrative
[R-6.7.2-001] Void
[R-6.7.2-002] Void
[R-6.7.2-003] Void
[R-6.7.2-004] Void
[R-6.7.2-005] Void
[R-6.7.2-006] Void
[R-6.7.2-007] Void
[R-6.7.2-008] Void
### 6.7.3 Prioritization
[R-6.7.3-001] Void
[R-6.7.3-002] Void
[R-6.7.3-003] Void
[R-6.7.3-004] Void
[R-6.7.3-005] Void
[R-6.7.3-006] Void
[R-6.7.3-007] Void
### 6.7.4 Private Call (without Floor control) commencement requirements
[R-6.7.4-001] The MCPTT Service shall support Call Commencement Modes for
Private Calls (without Floor control), which determine the conditions under
which Private Calls (without Floor control) are set up.
[R-6.7.4-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT User to
cancel an MCPTT Private Call (without Floor control) prior to the call setup.
[R-6.7.4-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an authorized
MCPTT User initiates an MCPTT Private Call (without Floor control).
[R-6.7.4-004] Void
[R-6.7.4-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an MCPTT User
initiates a Manual Commencement Private Call (without Floor control) to any
MCPTT User for which the MCPTT User is authorized.
[R-6.7.4-006] The MCPTT Service shall require that the called MCPTT User
accepts a Manual Commencement Private Call (without Floor control) setup
request before the call proceeds.
[R-6.7.4-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means for an MCPTT User to
accept a Manual Commencement Private Call (without Floor control) request from
another MCPTT User.
[R-6.7.4-008] Void
[R-6.7.4-009] The MCPTT UE shall support automatic commencement mode and
manual commencement mode for Private Calls (without Floor control).
[R-6.7.4-010]The MCPTT Service shall provide a manual commencement mode
countermand by which an authorized MCPTT User may request that the invited
MCPTT UE answers automatically.
[R-6.7.4-011] Void
[R-6.7.4-012] The MCPTT Service shall require that the called MCPTT UE
acknowledge receipt of an Automatic Commencement Private Call (without Floor
control) setup request before the audio transmission proceeds.
[R-6.7.4-013] The MCPTT Service shall provide a first-to-answer commencement
mode by allowing the originating user to indicate multiple potential target
recipients for a Private Call (without Floor control) and shall ensure that
the call is established only to the first answering user.
Note: Attention needs to be given to prevent undesired outcomes caused, for
example, by automatic answer or divert to voicemail.
[R-6.7.4-014] When a receiving user answers a first-to-answer Private Call
(without Floor control) the MCPTT Service shall remove all other receiving
users from that call.
### 6.7.4a Private Call (with Floor control) commencement requirements
[R-6.7.4a-001] The MCPTT Service shall provide a first-to-answer commencement
mode by allowing the originating user to indicate multiple potential target
recipients for a Private Call (with Floor control) and shall ensure that the
call is established only to the first answering user.
Note: Attention needs to be given to prevent undesired outcomes caused, for
example, by automatic answer or divert to voicemail.
[R-6.7.4a-002] When a receiving user answers a first-to-answer Private Call
(with Floor control) the MCPTT Service shall remove all other receiving users
from that call.
### 6.7.5 Private Call (without Floor control) termination
[R-6.7.5-001] Void
[R-6.7.5-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a means by which an authorized
MCPTT User ignores a Manual Commencement Private Call (without Floor control)
request from another MCPTT User.
NOTE: Ignoring a Manual Commencement Private Call (without Floor control)
results in no indication of the reason for call failure being sent to the
calling MCPTT User.
[R-6.7.5-003] Void
### 6.7.6 Call back request requirements
[R-6.7.6-001] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism (i.e., MCPTT Private
Call call back request) for the calling party of an MCPTT Private Call to
request that the called party (at earliest convenience) place a call to the
calling party.
[R-6.7.6-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for the calling
party of an MCPTT Private Call to assign an urgency indication (i.e., low,
normal, urgent) to any call back request.
[R-6.7.6-003] The MCPTT Service shall provide an MCPTT UE receiving an MCPTT
Private Call call back request with an indication of the assigned call back
urgency assigned by the calling party.
[R-6.7.6-004] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT User to
cancel a call back request.
[R-6.7.6-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide an MCPTT UE receiving an MCPTT
Private Call call back request with an indication of which MCPTT User called
and when.
## 6.8 MCPTT priority requirements
### 6.8.1 General
[R-6.8.1-001] Void
[R-6.8.1-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide an access control mechanism to
support multiple Access Priorities to prioritize MCPTT MO call initiation
attempts, depending on their access priorities.
[R-6.8.1-003] Void
[R-6.8.1-004] Void
[R-6.8.1-005] Void
[R-6.8.1-006] Void
[R-6.8.1-007] Void
[R-6.8.1-008] Void
[R-6.8.1-009] Void
[R-6.8.1-010] Void
[R-6.8.1-011] Void
[R-6.8.1-012] Void
[R-6.8.1-013] Void
[R-6.8.1-014] Void
[R-6.8.1-015] Void
[R-6.8.1-016] Void
[R-6.8.1-017] Void
### 6.8.2 3GPP system access controls
[R-6.8.2-001] Void
### 6.8.3 3GPP system admission controls
[R-6.8.3-001] Void
### 6.8.4 3GPP system scheduling controls
[R-6.8.4-001] Void
### 6.8.5 UE access controls
[R-6.8.5-001] Void
### 6.8.6 Application layer priorities
#### 6.8.6.1 Overview
Dispatchers from different critical communication organizations access the
same networks and network resources. Depending on the event, the priority is
given to an organization and/or a group rather than to another. For instance,
in case of a fire priority is given to the fire brigades dealing with it,
while in case of a criminal arrest priority is given to the police officers in
charge of the arrest.
#### 6.8.6.2 Requirements
[R-6.8.6.2-001] Void
[R-6.8.6.2-002] Void
[R-6.8.6.2-003] Void
[R-6.8.6.2-004] The MCPTT system may stop already established MCPTT calls with
the capability to be pre-empted and a lower application layer priority to
allow a new MCPTT call with pre-emption capability enabled for pre-emption to
be established.
[R-6.8.6.2-005] Void
[R-6.8.6.2-006] Void
### 6.8.7 Call types based on priorities
#### 6.8.7.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call requirements
[R-6.8.7.1-001] Void
[R-6.8.7.1-002] Void
[R-6.8.7.1-003] Void
[R-6.8.7.1-004] Void
#### 6.8.7.2 MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor control) requirements
[R-6.8.7.2-001] The MCPTT Service shall ensure that MCPTT Emergency Private
Calls (with Floor control) have the highest priority over all other MCPTT
Private Calls.
[R-6.8.7.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of requesting increased
priority for the Participants of an MCPTT Emergency Private Call.
[R-6.8.7.2-003] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of changing a Private Call
(with Floor control) in progress to an MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with
Floor control).
[R-6.8.7.2-004] MCPTT Emergency Private Calls (with Floor control), including
their content and signalling, shall have pre-emptive priority over all other
types of MCPTT calls, except System Calls, MCPTT Emergency Group Calls and
other MCPTT Emergency Private Calls (with Floor control).
#### 6.8.7.3 Imminent Peril group call requirements
[R-6.8.7.3-001] Void
[R-6.8.7.3-002] Void
[R-6.8.7.3-003] Void
#### 6.8.7.4 MCPTT Emergency Alert
##### 6.8.7.4.1 Requirements
[R-6.8.7.4.1-001] Void
[R-6.8.7.4.1-002] Void
[R-6.8.7.4.1-003] Void
[R-6.8.7.4.1-004] Void
[R-6.8.7.4.1-005] Void
[R-6.8.7.4.1-006] Void
##### 6.8.7.4.2 MCPTT Emergency Alert cancellation requirements
[R-6.8.7.4.2-001] Void
[R-6.8.7.4.2-002] Void
## 6.9 IDs and aliases
[R-6.9-001] Void
[R-6.9-002] Void
[R-6.9-003] Void
[R-6.9-004] Void
## 6.10 User Profile management
[R-6.10-001] Void
[R-6.10-002] Void
[R-6.10-003] Void
[R-6.10-004] Void
## 6.11 Support for multiple devices
[R-6.11-001] Void
[R-6.11-002] Void
[R-6.11-003] Void
## 6.12 Location
[R-6.12-001] Void
[R-6.12-002] Void
[R-6.12-003] Void
[R-6.12-004] Void
[R-6.12-005] Void
[R-6.12-006] Void
[R-6.12-007] Void
## 6.13 Security
### 6.13.1 Overview
Security covers areas designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of information that is processed, stored, and transmitted. The
security requirements listed here cover the areas of cryptographic protocols,
authentication, access control, and regulatory issues.
### 6.13.2 Cryptographic protocols
[R-6.13.2-001] Void
[R-6.13.2-002] Void
[R-6.13.2-003] Void
### 6.13.3 Authentication
[R-6.13.3-001] Void
### 6.13.4 Access control
[R-6.13.4-001] Void
[R-6.13.4-002] Void
[R-6.13.4-003] Void
[R-6.13.4-004] Void
[R-6.13.4-005] Void
[R-6.13.4-006] Void
[R-6.13.4-007] Void
[R-6.13.4-008] Void
[R-6.13.4-009] Void
[R-6.13.4-010] Void
### 6.13.5 Regulatory issues
[R-6.13.5-001] Void
## 6.14 Interactions for MCPTT Group Calls and MCPTT Private Calls
[R-6.14-001] Void
[R-6.14-002] Void
[R-6.14-003] The MCPTT Service shall only allow an MCPTT User to participate
in one MCPTT Private Call (without Floor control) at a time.
## 6.15 Audio MCPTT call performance
### 6.15.1 General overview
Meeting the KPIs defined in the following subclauses is based on a number of
factors, including the selection of appropriate protocols, minimizing
messaging, the backhaul technology used, and appropriate configuration of the
deployed network. The corresponding requirements are intended to convey the
resulting KPIs when all of those factors are taken into account. For example,
where there is significant backhaul delay, that delay is expected to be added
to the KPIs.
### 6.15.2 General requirements
[R-6.15.2-001] The architecture and protocols providing the MCPTT Service
shall be designed in a way to eventually allow a deployed network to meet the
KPIs specified hereafter (subclause 6.15.3.2 and subclause 6.15.4.2).
### 6.15.3 MCPTT access time and mouth-to-ear latency
#### 6.15.3.1 General overview
For MCPTT Users, one of the most important performance criteria is the MCPTT
Access time (KPI 1). The MCPTT Access time is defined as the time between when
an MCPTT User request to speak (normally by pressing the MCPTT control on the
MCPTT UE) and when this user gets a signal to start speaking. This time does
not include confirmations from receiving users.
The MCPTT Access time (KPI 1) does not include the time for an MCPTT User to
affiliate to the group. This is a common scenario within public safety,
meaning that affiliations to MCPTT Groups are long lived during several
working hours. KPI 1 is applicable in both an MCPTT Group call setup request
and subsequent MCPTT Requests that are part of the same call. KPI 1 for
subsequent MCPTT Requests might take a slightly shorter time than the first
MCPTT setup request of the same call due to its potential need of resource
allocation in terms of bearer establishment. However from an end user
perspective there is no need to differentiate required performance for an
MCPPT Group call setup request and subsequent MCPTT Requests.
The End-to-end MCPTT Access time (KPI 2) is defined as the time between when
an MCPTT User requests to speak (normally by pressing the MCPTT control on the
MCPTT UE) and when this user gets a signal to start speaking, including MCPTT
call establishment (if applicable) and possibly acknowledgement from first
receiving user before voice can be transmitted. Group calls can be set up with
or without acknowledgements from receiving users. A typical case for the End-
to-end MCPTT Access time including acknowledgement is an MCPTT Private Call
(with Floor control) request where the receiving user\'s client accepts the
call automatically.
NOTE: The End-to-end MCPTT Access time (KPI 2) is not applicable for an MCPTT
Group transmission call setup when no acknowledgement is requested from any
Affiliated MCPTT Group Member.
The Mouth-to-ear latency (KPI 3) is the time between an utterance by the
transmitting user, and the playback of the utterance at the receiving user\'s
speaker. Figure 6.15.3.1.1 illustrates the MCPTT Access time and Mouth-to-ear
latency.
{width="6.5in" height="2.6902777777777778in"}
Figure 6.15.3.1.1: Illustration of MCPTT access time and mouth-to-ear latency
#### 6.15.3.2 Requirements
[R-6.15.3.2-001] KPI 1, KPI 2, and KPI 3 should be measured where there is
negligible backhaul delay.
[R-6.15.3.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide the MCPTT Access time and
Mouth-to-ear latency specified in this subclause to all MCPTT Users related to
an MCPTT call regardless of call type (e.g., group, Private Call), group size
and/or user density.
NOTE: This ensures that all MCPTT Users experience the same performance
regardless of whether the audio is transferred over unicast or multicast
delivery.
[R-6.15.3.2-003] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of providing the
performance specified herein for all Affiliated MCPTT Group Members in the
Group Call when there is not a transcoder in the bearer path.
[R-6.15.3.2-004] The MCPTT Service shall be capable of providing the
performance specified herein for all Participants in a Private Call when there
is not a transcoder in the bearer path.
[R-6.15.3.2-005] The KPIs defined in this subclause shall apply in an 3GPP
network under traffic load not exceeding 70% of each network nodes capacity.
[R-6.15.3.2-006] On networks with QOS services, the KPIs defined in this
subclause shall apply when the total sector loading of the serving sector by
MCPTT Users with equal or greater priority than the subject MCPTT User is less
than 70%.
[R-6.15.3.2-007] The KPIs defined in this subclause shall apply to group calls
when the transmitting MCPTT User is connected to the MCPTT Service and has
selected an MCPTT Group.
[R-6.15.3.2-008] The KPIs defined in this subclause shall apply to group calls
when the receiving MCPTT User is connected to the MCPTT Service and affiliated
with the MCPTT Group.
[R-6.15.3.2-009] The KPIs defined in this subclause shall apply to Automatic
Commencement Private Calls when both the transmitting and receiving MCPTT
Users are connected to the MCPTT Service.
[R-6.15.3.2-010] The KPIs, except KPI 2, defined in this subclause shall apply
when the call under consideration is set up without acknowledgement from the
receiving MCPTT UEs.
[R-6.15.3.2-011] When there are transcoding functions in the bearer path of
the MCPTT Service, the performance provided by the MCPTT Service shall be no
more than 40 ms greater than the performance specified herein when there are
no transcoding functions in the bearer path.
[R-6.15.3.2-012] The MCPTT Service shall provide an MCPTT Access time (KPI 1)
less than 300 ms for 95% of all MCPTT Request.
[R-6.15.3.2-013] For MCPTT Emergency Group Calls and Imminent Peril Calls the
MCPTT Service shall provide an MCPTT Access time (KPI 1) less than 300 ms for
99% of all MCPTT Requests.
[R-6.15.3.2-014] The MCPTT Service shall provide an End-to-end MCPTT Access
time (KPI 2) less than 1000 ms for users under coverage of the same network
when the MCPTT Group call has not been established prior to the initiation of
the MCPTT Request.
[R-6.15.3.2-015] The MCPTT Service shall provide a Mouth-to-ear latency (KPI
3) that is less than 300 ms for 95% of all voice bursts.
[R-6.15.3.2-016] There shall be no (0 ms) initial lost audio at receiving
user.
[R-6.15.3.2-017] There shall be no (0 ms) trailing lost audio at the end of
the voice burst at receiving user.
### 6.15.4 Late call entry performance
#### 6.15.4.1 General overview
An MCPTT User is able to join or leave already ongoing MCPTT Group calls. Late
call entry is the activity when an Affiliated MCPTT Group Member joins an
MCPTT Group call in which other Affiliated MCPTT Group Members are already
active. The Late call entry time (KPI 4) is the time to enter an ongoing MCPTT
Group call measured from the time that a user decides to monitor such an MCPTT
Group Call, to the time when the MCPTT UE\'s speaker starts to play the audio.
The performance requirements for Late call entry time only applies to when
there is ongoing voice transmitted at the time the MCPTT User joins the call.
In a Late call entry there might be an initial lost audio of the voice burst
sent to the new Receiving MCPTT Group Member. Figure 6.15.4.1.1 illustrates
the Late call entry time.
{width="6.496527777777778in" height="3.7708333333333335in"}
Figure 6.15.4.1.1: Illustration of Late call entry time
#### 6.15.4.2 Requirements
[R-6.15.4.2-001] The KPIs in this subclause shall apply for terrestrial use
only, and when users are under coverage of the same network.
[R-6.15.4.2-002] The KPIs defined in this subclause shall apply in an 3GPP
network under traffic load not exceeding 70% of each network nodes capacity.
[R-6.15.4.2-002a] The KPIs defined in this subclause shall apply to MCPTT
users who have affiliated or have been affiliated by the network and are now
performing late call entry due to activity on the affiliated group.
NOTE: Cases of UE mobility, or loss of coverage and re-establishment, are not
covered.
[R-6.15.4.2-003] The maximum Late call entry time (KPI 4^a^) for calls without
application layer encryption within one MCPTT system shall be less than 150 ms
for 95% of all Late call entry requests.
[R-6.15.4.2-004] The maximum Late call entry time (KPI 4^b^) for application
layer encrypted calls within one MCPTT system should meet the requirements for
KPI 4 for unencrypted calls.
[R-6.15.4.2-005] The maximum Late call entry time (KPI 4^b^) for application
layer encrypted calls within one MCPTT system shall be less than 350 ms for
95% of all Late Call Entries into encrypted calls.
[R-6.15.4.2-006] The Late call entry Time for encrypted calls interworking
with other non-3GPP PTT systems should meet the requirements for KPI 4^b^ for
application layer encrypted calls within one MCPTT system.
NOTE: Additional delay deriving from the non-3GPP PTT system is not included
in this KPI.
[R-6.15.4.2-007] The additional Late call entry Time for an MCPTT UE late
entering an application layer encrypted call interworking with other non-3GPP
PTT systems shall not exceed the difference in the encrypted and unencrypted
Late call entry Times for the interworking system.
### 6.15.5 Audio / voice quality
[R-6.15.5-001] The MCPTT UE shall support at least one mandatory 3GPP voice
codec.
NOTE 1: The UE implementation could include other non-3GPP voice codecs, e.g.,
TETRA voice codecs, P25 voice codecs [4].
NOTE 2: Refer to [R-6.4.9-006], which enables an MCPTT Administrator to set
the preferred voice codec for an MCPTT Group.
[R-6.15.5-002] When an MCPTT call is within one MCPTT system the average MOS-
LQO shall be greater than or equal to 3.0 measured according to the ITU
standard Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality (PESQ) as defined in P.862
[7] and P.862.1 [8].
[R-6.15.5-003] When an MCPTT call involves interworking with other non-3GPP
PTT systems the average MOS-LQO shall be greater than or equal to 2.7 measured
according to the ITU standard PESQ as defined in P.862 [7] and P.862.1 [8].
[R-6.15.5-004] When an MCPTT call is within one MCPTT system the average MOS-
LQO shall be greater than or equal to 3.0 measured according to the ITU
standard Perceptual Objective Listening Quality Assessment (POLQA) as defined
in P.863 [9].
[R-6.15.5-005] When an MCPTT call involves interworking with other non-3GPP
PTT systems the average MOS LQO shall be greater than or equal to 2.7 measured
according to the ITU standard POLQA as defined in P.863 [9].
### 6.15.6 Radio Resource Efficiency Performance
[R-6.15.6-001] Void
[R-6.15.6-002] Void
### 6.16 Additional services for MCPTT calls
### 6.16.1 Discreet listening capabilities
[R-6.16.1-001] Void
### 6.16.2 Ambient listening
#### 6.16.2.1 Overview of ambient listening
Ambient Listening is a feature that allows an authorized MCPTT User, typically
a dispatcher, to cause an MCPTT UE to initiate a call which results in no
indication on the MCPTT UE that it is transmitting. Ambient Listening can be
initiated by an authorized MCPTT User who wants to be listened to by another
remote authorized MCPTT User or can be initiated by a remote authorized MCPTT
User who wants to listen to another MCPTT User. The purpose of this feature
allows a dispatcher to listen to activities at the Location of the remote
MCPTT UE to find out what is happening around that MCPTT UE without providing
an indication to the MCPTT User or people around the user (whom the MCPTT User
does not want to make aware of this action) that this is happening. This type
of call is different from other types of call, as for Ambient Listening audio
is only transmitted to one party in the call (i.e., a dispatcher or an
authorized MCPTT User that is acting in a similar role to a dispatcher).
This is used for stolen MCPTT UEs, monitoring officers, officer safety and
particular operations, where it is important that the MCPTT UE does not
indicate what is happening.
#### 6.16.2.2 Ambient listening requirements
##### 6.16.2.2.1 General Ambient Listening requirements
[R-6.16.2.2.1-001] Void
[R-6.16.2.2.1-002] Void
[R-6.16.2.2.1-003] Void
[R-6.16.2.2.1-004] The MCPTT Service shall terminate Ambient Listening if the
MCPTT User being listened to starts to transmit in an MCPTT Private Call or an
MCPTT Group Call.
NOTE: An authorized MCPTT User could initiate Discreet Listening at this point
if needed.
##### 6.16.2.2.2 Remotely initiated Ambient Listening requirements
[R-6.16.2.2.2-001] Void
[R-6.16.2.2.2-002] Void
##### 6.16.2.2.3 Locally initiated Ambient Listening requirements
[R-6.16.2.2.3-001] Void
[R-6.16.2.2.3-002] Void
### 6.16.3 Remotely initiated MCPTT call
### 6.16.3.1 Overview
A Remotely initiated MCPTT Call is a feature that allows an authorized user,
typically a dispatcher, to cause a remote MCPTT UE to initiate a call by
itself, without its user explicitly initiating the call by depressing the PTT
switch. The purpose of this feature allows the dispatcher to listen to
activities at the Location of the remote MCPTT UE to find out what is
happening around that MCPTT UE. This feature is also known as \"Remote Unit
Monitoring\" in P25 systems.
There are two typical use cases for this feature.
The first one is the case where a user could have been incapacitated. This
could be both accidentally, say a traffic accident, or deliberately, for
example a violent attack. In both cases it would be necessary to remotely open
the microphone of the MCPTT UE in order to allow another user or a group of
users to listen to what is happening to prepare assistance. The communication
that is set up is either a Private Call or a Group Call, and the call could
optionally be visible to the remote MCPTT UE\'s user.
The second one is the case of a stolen MCPTT UE. Here it is just necessary to
activate the radio so that a dispatcher can listen to any background noise or
speech in order to make an analysis of the situation. In this situation, the
initiation of the call from the remote MCPTT UE, typically a Private Call in
that case, is not visible by that MCPTT UE\'s user.
Other use cases, such as undercover operations, discreet surveillance of users
or investigations, could exist depending on the missions of the critical
communications users and on legislations.
The behaviour of the remotely initiated Call is not different from a normal
call initiated by the local user. The same rules for resource allocation and
interactions with other services apply, but the initiator of the feature can
have the capability to request a pre-emptive or high priority for that Call to
ensure it is set up even in case of resource congestion or to limit
disturbance by other services.
### 6.16.3.2 Requirements
[R-6.16.3.2-001] Void
[R-6.16.3.2-002] Void
[R-6.16.3.2-003] Void
[R-6.16.3.2-004] Void
### 6.16.4 Recording and audit requirements
[R-6.16.4-001] Void
[R-6.16.4-002] Void
[R-6.16.4-003] Void
[R-6.16.4-004] Void
[R-6.16.4-005] Void
[R-6.16.4-006] Void
[R-6.16.4-007] Void
[R-6.16.4-008] Void
[R-6.16.4-009] Void
[R-6.16.4-010] Void
## 6.17 Interaction with telephony services
[R-6.17-001] Void
[R-6.17-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to configure the interaction between telephony calls and MCPTT
calls for an MCPTT User.
[R-6.17-003] Void
## 6.18 Interworking
### 6.18.1 Non-3GPP access
[R-6.18.1-001] Void
### 6.18.2 Interworking between MCPTT systems
[R-6.18.2-001] Void
[R-6.18.2-002] Void
[R-6.18.2-003] Void
[R-6.18.2-004] Void
[R-6.18.2-005] Void
[R-6.18.2-006] Void
[R-6.18.2-007] Void
### 6.18.3 Interworking with non-3GPP PTT systems
#### 6.18.3.1 Overview
Mission critical users currently employ a wide range of narrowband mission
critical Push To Talk services. Project 25 (governed by the TIA-102 standards)
and TETRA (governed by ETSI standards) are digital public safety grade PTT
systems. In addition, \"legacy\" or \"conventional FM\" systems are common
throughout the world. These systems provide PTT and related services that are
analogous to those provided by MCPTT, including group calls, Private Calls,
broadcast calls, dynamic group management and other services.
The MCPTT Service is intended to interwork with these non-3GPP PTT systems.
#### 6.18.3.2 Project 25
[R-6.18.3.2-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable interworking with non-3GPP PTT
Systems that are compliant with the TIA-102 (P25) standards.
[R-6.18.3.2-002] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall be
capable of interworking with a multiplicity of independently administered
Project 25 Radio Frequency Subsystems (RFSS).
[R-6.18.3.2-003] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
interoperable MCPTT Group Calls between MCPTT Users and P25 subscriber units
and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.2-004] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
interoperable MCPTT Emergency Group Calls and P25 emergency calls.
[R-6.18.3.2-005] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
end-to-end encrypted MCPTT Group Calls between MCPTT Users and P25 subscriber
units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.2-006] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall provide
a means for an authorized user to initiate an override of a PTT Group call
between MCPTT Users and P25 subscriber units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.2-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to authorize an MCPTT User to be able to initiate an override of
a PTT Group call between MCPTT Users and P25 subscriber units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.2-008] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall provide
a means for an authorized P25 subscriber units and consoles to initiate an
override of a PTT Group call between MCPTT Users and P25 subscriber units and
consoles.
[R-6.18.3.2-009] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to authorize a P25 subscriber unit or P25 console to be able to
initiate an override of a PTT Group call between MCPTT Users and P25
subscriber units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.2-010] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
Group Regrouping that includes both MCPTT Groups and P25 groups.
[R-6.18.3.2-011] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
User Regrouping that includes both MCPTT Users and P25 subscriber units.
[R-6.18.3.2-012] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
interworking of Group-Broadcast Group Calls and P25 announcement group calls.
[R-6.18.3.2-013] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
interoperable User IDs and P25 subscriber IDs.
[R-6.18.3.2-014] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
interoperable PTT Private Calls (with Floor control) between an MCPTT User and
a P25 subscriber unit or console.
[R-6.18.3.2-015] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall provide
a mechanism to reconcile the Private Call (with Floor control) commencement
mode between an MCPTT User and a P25 subscriber unit or console.
[R-6.18.3.2-016] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
end-to-end encrypted PTT Private Calls (with Floor control) between an MCPTT
User and a P25 subscriber unit or console.
[R-6.18.3.2-017] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
a means of reconciling codecs between interoperable calls.
[R-6.18.3.2-018] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and P25 shall support
conveyance of Losing audio from P25 subscriber units and consoles to
authorized MCPTT Users.
[R-6.18.3.2-019] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to authorize MCPTT Users to be able to receive Losing audio from
P25 subscribers units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.2-020] For Private Calls (with Floor control) interworking between
the MCPTT Service and non-3GPP PTT systems that do not support Private Call
override (e.g., Project 25 Phase 1 systems), the Participant attempting to
override shall be notified that the override can not be accomplished.
[R-6.18.3.2-021] For Private Call (with Floor control) interworking, between
the MCPTT Service and non-3GPP PTT systems that do support Private Call
override (e.g., Project 25 Phase 2 systems), the MCPTT Service shall provide a
mechanism for Participants to override an active MCPTT transmission of a
transmitting Participant when the priority level of the overriding Participant
is ranked higher than the priority level of the transmitting Participant.
#### 6.18.3.3 TETRA
[R-6.18.3.3-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable interworking with non-3GPP PTT
Systems that are compliant with the ETSI TETRA standards.
[R-6.18.3.3-002] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall be
capable of interworking with a multiplicity of independently administered
TETRA systems (Switching and management Infrastructures).
[R-6.18.3.3-003] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support interoperable MCPTT Group Calls between MCPTT Users and TETRA mobile
stations and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.3-004] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support interoperable MCPTT Emergency Group Calls and TETRA emergency calls.
[R-6.18.3.3-005] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support end-to-end encrypted MCPTT Group Calls between MCPTT Users supporting
the TETRA voice codec and end-to-end encryption and TETRA mobile stations and
consoles.
[R-6.18.3.3-006] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
provide a means for an authorized user to initiate an override of a PTT Group
call between MCPTT Users and TETRA mobile stations and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.3-007] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
provide a means for an authorized TETRA mobile station or console to initiate
an override of a PTT Group call between MCPTT Users and TETRA mobile stations
and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.3-008] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support Group Regrouping that includes both MCPTT Groups and TETRA groups.
[R-6.18.3.3-009] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support User Regrouping that includes both MCPTT Users and TETRA mobile
stations.
[R-6.18.3.3-010] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support interoperable User IDs and TETRA IDs.
[R-6.18.3.3-011] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support interoperable PTT Private Calls between an MCPTT User and a TETRA
mobile station or console.
[R-6.18.3.3-012] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support end-to-end encrypted PTT Private Calls between an MCPTT User
supporting TETRA codec and encryption and a TETRA mobile station or console.
[R-6.18.3.3-013] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TETRA shall
support a means of reconciling codecs between interoperable calls when not
end-to-end encrypted.
[R-6.18.3.3-014] For Private Call (with Floor control) interworking, between
the MCPTT Service and non-3GPP PTT systems that do support Private Call
override, the MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for Participants to
override an active MCPTT transmission of a transmitting Participant when the
priority level of the overriding Participant is ranked higher than the
priority level of the transmitting Participant.
#### 6.18.3.4 Legacy land mobile radio
[R-6.18.3.4-001] The MCPTT Service shall enable interworking with legacy Land
Mobile Radio systems that are compliant with the TIA-603-D [3] Standard.
[R-6.18.3.4-002] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TIA-603 systems
shall be capable of interworking with a multiplicity of independently
administered systems based on the TIA-603-D [3] Standard.
[R-6.18.3.4-003] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TIA-603 systems
shall support interoperable PTT Group calls between MCPTT Users and TIA-603
subscriber units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.4-004] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TIA-603 systems
shall provide a mechanism for an authorized MCPTT User to initiate an override
within a PTT Group call that has both MCPTT Users and TIA 603 subscriber units
and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.4-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to authorize an MCPTT User to be able to initiate an override of
a PTT Group call between MCPTT Users and TIA-603 subscriber units and
consoles.
[R-6.18.3.4-006] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TIA-603 systems
shall provide a mechanism for an authorized TIA-603 subscriber unit or console
to initiate an override within a PTT Group call that has both MCPTT Users and
TIA 603 subscriber units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.4-007] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to authorize a TIA-603 subscriber unit or TIA-603 console to be
able to initiate an override of a PTT Group call between MCPTT Users and
TIA-603 subscriber units and consoles.
[R-6.18.3.4-008] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TIA-603 systems
shall support interoperable PTT Private Calls (with Floor control) between
MCPTT Users and TIA-603 subscriber units or consoles.
[R-6.18.3.4-009] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TIA-603 systems
shall support a means of reconciling codecs between interoperable calls.
[R-6.18.3.4-010] Interworking between the MCPTT Service and TIA-603 systems
shall support conveyance of Losing audio from TIA 603 subscribers units and
consoles to suitably privileged MCPTT Users.
[R-6.18.3.4-011] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCPTT
Administrator to authorize MCPTT Users to be able to receive Losing audio from
TIA-603 subscribers units and consoles.
## 6.19 MCPTT coverage extension using ProSe UE-to-Network Relays
[R-6.19-001] Void
[R-6.19-002] Void
[R-6.19-003] Void
[R-6.19-004] Void
[R-6.19-005] Void
[R-6.19-006] Void
# 7 MCPTT Service requirements specific to off-network use
## 7.1 Off-network Push To Talk overview
The MCPTT Service while operating in off-network mode comprises a set or
collection of functions necessary to provide Mission Critical Push To Talk
(MCPTT) using a ProSe direct (UE-to-UE) Communication path (ProSe direct
communication path) for transport. The ProSe direct communication path does
not traverse the network infrastructure.
Users operating off the network are either out of network coverage (not served
by a 3GPP network) (e.g., in a remote mountain area fighting a forest fire 20
miles from the nearest network) or have selected a ProSe direct communication
path for MCPTT while in network coverage. MCPTT Users operating off the
network need to be in ProSe direct communication range in order to
communicate.
NOTE 1: While the network is likely to be a primary, reliable transport of
MCPTT communications, there are many situations where MCPTT communications are
needed in areas where the network is not available, or coverage is not
reliable.
MCPTT Users outside of the coverage of the fixed network might be first
responders in a rural area assisting in a response to a plane crash, fire
fighters in a remote mountain area fighting a forest fire or police officers
inside a residence responding to a domestic issue. Off-network MCPTT
communications are expected to be immediately accessible to users in the
absence of the network.
MCPTT Users in network coverage might be working in a confined area, such as
fire fighters fighting a structure fire where direct UE-to-UE communication is
more desirable and reliable. Users can communicate directly with one another
without having to overcome the resistance of a building and distance to the
nearest base station to communicate with other members of their team inside
the building that are nearby.
To operate off the network, an MCPTT UE is capable of automatically switching
to a ProSe direct communication path for use of MCPTT when detecting an off-
network (out of coverage) condition. In addition a mechanism is provided for
an authorized user to select (manually switch to) a ProSe direct communication
path for use of off-network MCPTT communications (e.g., while in network
coverage).
When operating off the network, the MCPTT Service is provided by the MCPTT
application on the UE as compared to operations on the network, where the
MCPTT Application on the UE interacts with an MCPTT server and the network to
provide the MCPTT Service.
NOTE 2: For MCPTT UEs that have selected a ProSe Direct Communication path for
use of MCPTT while in network coverage, signalling with the network and MCPTT
Service might be available (e.g., radio resource allocation, MCPTT User
Profile management updates and cryptographic key management updates), while
the MCPTT User transmissions would be direct between the MCPTT UEs (e.g., not
traversing the network).
The Off-Network MCPTT Service builds upon ProSe enablers to establish,
maintain and terminate the signalling and communication path(s) among the off-
network users. To the extent feasible, it is expected that the end user\'s
experience is similar regardless if the MCPTT Service is used with a 3GPP
network or based on the use of a ProSe direct communication path.
The Off-Network MCPTT Service is intended to support communication between a
group of users (a group call), where each user has the ability to gain access
to the permission to talk in an arbitrated manner. However, the MCPTT Service
also supports Private Calls between pairs of users.
When operating off the network the MCPTT Service allows users to request the
permission to talk (transmit voice/audio) and provides a deterministic
mechanism to arbitrate between requests that are in contention (i.e., Floor
control).
The Off-Network MCPTT Service provides a means for a user with higher priority
(e.g., MCPTT Emergency condition) to override (interrupt) the current talker.
The Off-Network MCPTT Service also supports a mechanism to limit the time a
user talks (hold the floor) thus permitting users of the same or lower
priority a chance to gain the floor.
The Off-Network MCPTT Service provides the means for a user to monitor
activity on a number of separate calls and enables the user to switch focus to
a chosen call. An Off-Network MCPTT Service user might join an already
established MCPTT Group call (Late call entry). In addition the Off-Network
MCPTT Service supports User IDs, aliases and user Location determination
features.
For operation off the network (e.g., when out of network coverage), an MCPTT
UE is (pre-)provisioned by an MCPTT Administrator and/or authorized user with
the following in order to use MCPTT:
a) An MCPTT User Profile associated with each of the intended MCPTT > Users of
the MCPTT UE that might be used for off-network > operation;
```{=html}
``` 1) An alphanumeric identifier (with a minimum length of N3) (i.e., >
alias) for each MCPTT User;
2) A number of off-network MCPTT Groups for use by the MCPTT User;
3) An alphanumeric identifier (i. e., alias) for the authorized > off-network
MCPTT Groups;
4) A Mission Critical Organization name if available, associated with > each
of the intended MCPTT Users or Administrator;
5) A number of off-network MCPTT Users for Private Call for which the > MCPTT
User is authorized;
```{=html}
``` b) Authentication and end to end security keys.
NOTE 3: MCPTT UEs can be provisioned for off-network use by either
configuration outside of network coverage or by attaching to the network.
An MCPTT UE operating off the network is capable of transmitting the talker
Location information, User ID, alias(es), off-network MCPTT Group ID, group
alias and, if available, Mission Critical Organization name of the user who is
talking (i.e., whose UE is transmitting) to all other users in a call
including MCPTT UEs operating off the network that are late entering a call in
progress.
The Off-Network MCPTT Service uses the capabilities defined in ProSe TS 22.278
[5], including the ProSe Relay capabilities defined in ProSe TS 22.278 [5] and
GCSE_LTE TS 22.468 [6].
NOTE 4: As indicated in TS 22.278 [5] use of a ProSe Direct Communication path
outside of network coverage is only applicable for Public Safety ProSe enabled
UEs. For non-Public Safety ProSe enabled UEs the selection of the most
appropriate communication path (ProSe Communication path (direct or routed via
local basestation) or 3GPP network path) is under network control and based on
operator preferences.
MCPTT Service requirements specific to off-network use are defined in clause
7. Common MCPTT service requirements defined in clause 5 apply whether the
MCPTT Service is in use on the network or off the network.
## 7.2 General off-network MCPTT requirements
[R-7.2-001] Void
[R-7.2-002] Void
[R-7.2-003] Void
[R-7.2-004] Void
[R-7.2-005] Void
## 7.3 Floor control
### 7.3.1 General aspects
[R-7.3.1-001] The off-network Floor control functionality in an MCPTT Service
shall determine at a point in time which off-network Participant(s) are
allowed to transmit to other off-network Participants.
[R-7.3.1-002] The off-network Floor control functionality in an MCPTT Service
shall determine at a point in time which received transmission(s) from off-
network Participant(s) shall be presented to the receiving off-network
Participant(s).
### 7.3.2 Requesting permission to transmit
[R-7.3.2-001] A Participant in an off-network MCPTT Group call, with the
authority to transmit, shall be able to request to transmit to the off-network
MCPTT Group.
[R-7.3.2-002] The off-network Floor control functionality shall have a
mechanism for resolving simultaneous requests for permission to transmit
within the same call.
[R-7.3.2-003] Following an MCPTT Request for permission to transmit, the
Affiliated MCPTT Group Member that is allowed to transmit shall be given an
indication that the member is allowed to transmit on the member\'s Selected
MCPTT Group.
[R-7.3.2-004] Following an MCPTT Request for permission to transmit, an
Affiliated MCPTT Group Member that is not allowed to transmit on the Selected
MCPTT Group shall be given an indication that permission to transmit was
rejected or queued.
[R-7.3.2-005] Following an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) request for
permission to transmit, the MCPTT User that is allowed to transmit shall be
given an indication that the user is allowed to transmit to the targeted MCPTT
User.
[R-7.3.2-006] Following an MCPTT Private Call (with Floor control) request for
permission to transmit, an MCPTT User that is not allowed to transmit shall be
given an indication that the permission to transmit was rejected.
### 7.3.3 Override
[R-7.3.3-001] An MCPTT UE shall be pre-provisioned by an MCPTT Administrator
and/or authorized user with the necessary information in order that Floor
control override may operate during off-network MCPTT.
[R-7.3.3-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for MCPTT
Administrators to create a priority hierarchy for determining what
Participants, Participant types, and urgent transmission types, when operating
off the network, be granted a request to override an active off-network MCPTT
transmission.
[R-7.3.3-003] The priority hierarchy used for granting a request to override
an active MCPTT transmission shall contain at least four (4) levels.
[R-7.3.3-004] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for Participants, to
override an active MCPTT transmission of a transmitting Participant when the
priority level of the overriding Participant or call type are ranked higher
than the priority level of the transmitting Participant or call type.
[R-7.3.3-005] If an authorized Participant overrides an MCPTT transmission,
the MCPTT Service shall provide a means of notifying the overridden
Participant(s) that the transmission has been overridden.
[R-7.3.3-006] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism to enable an MCPTT
Administrator to configure which MCPTT Group transmission a Participant(s)
receives, overriding and/or overridden for cases where an authorized
Participant overrides an off-network MCPTT transmission. This mechanism, at
the receiving Participant, shall also determine which transmission should be
presented to the MCPTT User when an unauthorized transmission override has
occurred due to a failure of transmit Floor control (e.g., due to the best
effort nature of ProSe direct communication).
[R-7.3.3-007] If the MCPTT Group has been configured to only allow the
overriding transmitting Participant to transmit, the MCPTT Service shall
revoke the transmit permission of the overridden transmitting Participant.
[R-7.3.3-008] If the MCPTT Group has been configured to allow both overriding
and overridden transmitting Participants to transmit, the MCPTT Service shall
provide a mechanism for authorized receiving Participants to be able to listen
to both the overriding transmission and any overridden Participant
transmissions, dependent on configuration.
### 7.3.4 Terminating permission to transmit
[R-7.3.4-001] A transmitting Participant shall be able to indicate to the Off-
Network MCPTT Service that the Participant no longer wants to transmit.
[R-7.3.4-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide an indication to receiving
Participants that the transmitting Participant has finished transmitting.
### 7.3.5 Transmit time limit
[R-7.3.5-001] An MCPTT UE shall be pre-provisioned by an MCPTT Administrator
and/or authorized user with the necessary information in order that a transmit
time limit function may operate during off-network MCPTT.
[R-7.3.5-002] The MCPTT Service shall enable an MCPTT Administrator to
configure the limit for the length of time that a Participant transmits from a
single request to transmit.
[R-7.3.5-003] The Floor control functionality shall have a configurable limit
for the length of time that a Participant transmits from a single request to
transmit.
[R-7.3.5-004] The Floor control functionality shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant that the Participant is within a configurable
amount of time before his transmit time limit is reached.
[R-7.3.5-005] The Floor control functionality shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant that the Participant\'s transmit time limit has
been reached.
[R-7.3.5-006] The Floor control functionality shall remove the permission to
transmit from the transmitting Participant when the Participant\'s transmit
time limit has been reached.
## 7.4 Call Termination
[R-7.4-001] The MCPTT Service when operating off the network shall terminate a
call after a period of inactivity.
[R-7.4-002] The MCPTT Service when operating off the network shall provide a
mechanism for an MCPTT Administrator to preconfigure the inactivity timer.
[R-7.4-003] Void
[R-7.4-004] Void
[R-7.4-005] Void
[R-7.4-006] Void
## 7.5 Broadcast Group
[R-7.5-001] Void
[R-7.5-002] Void
## 7.6 Dynamic group management (i.e., dynamic regrouping)
NOTE: No specific off-network MCPTT requirements for dynamic group management
have been identified.
## 7.7 MCPTT priority requirements
[R-7.7-001] Void
[R-7.7-002] The Off-Network MCPTT Service shall pass these attributes to the
ProSe transport layer for the purposes of prioritizing the associated user
data.
[R-7.7-003] Void
## 7.8 Call types based on priorities
### 7.8.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call requirements
[R-7.8.1-001] Void
[R-7.8.1-002] Void
[R-7.8.1-003] Void
### 7.8.2 MCPTT Emergency Group Call cancellation requirements
[R-7.8.2-001] Void
### 7.8.3 Imminent Peril Call
#### 7.8.3.1 Imminent Peril group call requirements
[R-7.8.3.1-001] Void
[R-7.8.3.1-002] Void
[R-7.8.3.1-003] Void
[R-7.8.3.1-004] Void
[R-7.8.3.1-005] Void
#### 7.8.3.2 Imminent Peril group call cancellation requirements
[R-7.8.3.2-001] Void
[R-7.8.3.2-002] Void
## 7.9 Location
[R-7.9-001] Void
## 7.10 Security
[R-7.10-001] Void
[R-7.10-002] Void
## 7.11 Audio MCPTT Call performance
### 7.11.1 MCPTT Access time and Mouth-to-ear latency
#### 7.11.1.1 General overview
For MCPTT Users, one of the most important performance criteria is the MCPTT
Access time (KPI 1). The MCPTT Access time is defined as the time between when
an MCPTT User requests to speak (normally by pressing the MCPTT control on the
UE) and when this user gets a signal to start speaking. This time does not
include confirmations from receiving users.
The Mouth-to-ear latency (KPI 3) is the time between an utterance by the
transmitting user, and the playback of the utterance at the receiving user\'s
speaker. Figure 7.11.1.1.1 illustrates the MCPTT Access time and Mouth-to-ear
latency.
{width="6.5in" height="2.6902777777777778in"}
Figure 7.11.1.1-1: Illustration of MCPTT Access time and Mouth-to-ear latency
#### 7.11.1.2 Requirements
NOTE: The MCPTT Access time and Mouth-to-ear latency for off-network use is
FFS.
### 7.11.2 Late call entry performance
#### 7.11.2.1 General overview
An MCPTT User is able to join or leave an already ongoing MCPTT Group Call.
Late call entry is the activity when an Affiliated MCPTT Group Member joins an
MCPTT Group Call in which other Affiliated MCPTT Group Members are already
active. The Late call entry time (KPI 4) is the time to enter an ongoing MCPTT
Group Call measured from the time that the user decides to monitor such an
MCPTT Group Call, to the time when the UE\'s speaker starts to play the audio.
The performance requirements for Late call entry time only applies to when
there is ongoing voice transmitted at the time the MCPTT User joins the call.
In a Late call entry there might be an initial lost audio of the voice burst
sent to the new Receiving MCPTT Group Member.
#### 7.11.2.2 Requirements
NOTE: The Late call entry time (KPI 4) for off-network use is FFS.
### 7.11.3 Audio / Voice quality
[R-7.11.3-001] Void.
## 7.12 Off-network MCPTT operations
[R-7.12-001] Void
[R-7.12-002] Void
[R-7.12-003] Void
## 7.13 Off-network UE functionality
[R-7.13-001] Void
[R-7.13-002] Void
[R-7.13-003] Void
[R-7.13-004] Off-network MCPTT UEs shall support a minimum number of (N8)
simultaneous off-network MCPTT calls.
## 7.14 Switching to off-network MCPTT
[R-7.14-001] Void
[R-7.14-002] Void
[R-7.14-003] Void
## 7.15 Off-network recording and audit requirements
[R-7.15-001] Void
[R-7.15-002] Void
## 7.16 Off-network UE-to-UE Relay
### 7.16.1 Private Calls
[R-7.16.1-001] Void
[R-7.16.1-002] Void
[R-7.16.1-003] Void
### 7.16.2 Group Calls
[R-7.16.2-001] Void
[R-7.16.2-002] Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Variables
Table A.1: List of variables
* * *
Variable Meaning Value Reference B1 Number of levels of group hierarchy 5.2.2
B2 Number of levels of user hierarchy 5.2.3 KPI 1 MCPTT Access time \< 300 ms
6.15.3.2 KPI 2 End-to-end MCPTT Access time \< 1000 ms 6.15.3.2 KPI 3 Mouth-
to-ear latency \< 300 ms 6.15.3.2 KPI 4^a^ Maximum Late call entry time
(without application layer encryption) \< 150 ms 6.15.4.2 KPI 4^b^ Maximum
Late call entry time (with application layer encryption) \< 350 ms 6.15.4.2
N1 Number of receiving members present for an MCPTT Group. 6.4.2 N2 Total
number of MCPTT Groups that an MCPTT User can be affiliated to simultaneously
5.1.5 N3 Minimum length of alphanumeric identifiers (i.e., Alias ID) 5.8,
6.4.3, 7.1, and 7.2 N4 Number of simultaneous MCPTT Group calls received by a
UE 5.5.2 N5 Total number of MCPTT Group transmissions that a UE can receive
5.5.2 N6 Number of simultaneous MCPTT Group calls received by a user 5.5.2 N7
Total number of MCPTT Group transmissions that a user can receive 5.5.2 N8
Minimum number of simultaneous off-network MCPTT calls supported by an off-
network MCPTT UE. 7.13 N9 Maximum number of simultaneous audios received by an
MCPTT User in a single MCPTT Group 6.2.3.1 N10 Total number of MCPTT Private
Calls (with Floor control) in which a UE simultaneously participates 5.5.2 N11
Total number of MCPTT Group Members of an MCPTT Group 6.1
* * *
###### ## Annex A1 (Informative): MCPTT Requirements for MCCoRe
This table provides an exhaustive list of those requirements in 3GPP TS 22.179
that have been mapped to MCCoRe.
* * *
**5 MCPTT Service Requirements common for on the network and off the network**  
**5.1 General Group call requirements**  
**5.1.1 General Aspects**  
R-5.1.1-001  R-5.1.1-001 R-5.1.1-002  R-5.1.1-002 R-5.1.1-003  R-5.1.1-003
R-5.1.1-004  R-5.1.1-004 R-5.1.1-005  R-5.1.1-005 **5.1.2 Group/status
information**  
R-5.1.2-001  R-5.1.2-001 R-5.1.2-002  R-5.1.2-002 **5.1.3 Group
configuration**  
R-5.1.3-001  R-5.1.3-001 R-5.1.3-002  R-5.1.3-002 **5.1.4 Identification**  
R-5.1.4-001  R-5.1.4-001 **5.1.5 Membership/affiliation**  
R-5.1.5-001  R-5.1.5-001 R-5.1.5-002  R-5.1.5-002 R-5.1.5-003  R-5.1.5-003
R-5.1.5-004  R-5.1.5-004 R-5.1.5-005  R-5.1.5-005 R-5.1.5-006  R-5.1.5-006
R-5.1.5-007  R-5.1.5-007 R-5.1.5-008  R-5.1.5-008 **5.1.6 Group Call
administration**  
R-5.1.6-001  R-5.1.6-001 **5.1.7 Prioritization**  
R-5.1.7-001  R-5.1.7-001 R-5.1.7-002  R-5.1.7-002 **5.1.8 Charging
requirements for MCPTT**  
R-5.1.8-001  R-5.1.8-001 R-5.1.8-002  R-5.1.8-002 R-5.1.8-003  R-5.1.8-003
R-5.1.8-004  R-5.1.8-004 R-5.1.8-005  R-5.1.8-005 R-5.1.8-006  R-5.1.8-006
R-5.1.8-007  R-5.1.8-007 R-5.1.8-008  R-5.1.8-008 R-5.1.8-009  R-5.1.8-009
R-5.1.8-010  R-5.1.8-010 R-5.1.8-011  R-5.1.8-011 **5.2 Broadcast Group**  
**5.2.1 General Broadcast Group Communication**  
R-5.2.1-001  R-5.2.1-001 R-5.2.1-002  R-5.2.1-002 **5.2.2 Group-Broadcast
Group (e.g., announcement group)**  
R-5.2.2-001  R-5.2.2-001 R-5.2.2-002  R-5.2.2-002 R-5.2.2-003  R-5.2.2-003
R-5.2.2-004  R-5.2.2-004 **5.2.3 User-Broadcast Group (e.g., System
Communication)**  
R-5.2.3-001  R-5.2.3-001 R-5.2.3-002  R-5.2.3-002 **5.3 Late call entry**  
R-5.3-001  R-5.3-001 R-5.3-002  R-5.3-002 R-5.3-003  R-5.3-003 R-5.3-004 
R-5.3-004 R-5.3-005  R-5.3-005 **5.4 Dynamic group management (i.e., dynamic
regrouping)**  
NA **5.5 Receiving from multiple MCPTT calls**  
**5.5.1 Overview**  
NA **5.5.2 Requirements**  
R-5.5.2-004  R-5.4.2-001 R-5.5.2-005  R-5.4.2-002 R-5.5.2-008  R-5.4.2-003
R-5.5.2-010  R-5.4.2-004 R-5.5.2-011  R-5.4.2-005 R-5.5.2-012  R-5.4.2-006
R-5.5.2-013  R-5.4.2-007 **5.6 Private Call**  
NA **5.6.1 Private Call Overview**  
NA **5.6.2 Private Call (with Floor control) general requirements**  
NA **5.6.3 Private Call (with Floor control) commencement requirements**  
NA **5.6.4 Private Call (with Floor control) termination**  
NA **5.6.5 Private Call (with Floor control) administration**  
NA **5.7 MCPTT priority requirements**  
NA **5.7.1 Overview**  
NA **5.7.2 Call types based on priorities**  
NA **5.7.2.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call**  
NA **5.7.2.1.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call requirements**  
R-5.7.2.1.1-002  R-5.6.2.2.1-002 R-5.7.2.1.1-003  R-5.6.2.2.1-003
R-5.7.2.1.1-004  R-5.6.2.2.1-004 R-5.7.2.1.1-005  R-5.6.2.2.1-005
R-5.7.2.1.1-006  R-5.6.2.2.1-006 R-5.7.2.1.1-007  R-5.6.2.2.1-007
R-5.7.2.1.1-008  R-5.6.2.2.1-008 R-5.7.2.1.1-009  R-5.6.2.2.1-009
R-5.7.2.1.1-010  R-5.6.2.2.1-010 R-5.7.2.1.1-011  R-5.6.2.2.1-011
R-5.7.2.1.1-012  R-5.6.2.2.1-012 R-5.7.2.1.1-013  R-5.6.2.2.1-013
R-5.7.2.1.1-014  R-5.6.2.2.1-014 R-5.7.2.1.1-001  R-5.6.2.2.1-001
**5.7.2.1.2 MCPTT Emergency Group Call cancellation requirements**  
R-5.7.2.1.2-001  R-5.6.2.2.2-001 R-5.7.2.1.2-002  R-5.6.2.2.2-002
R-5.7.2.1.2-003  R-5.6.2.2.2-003 R-5.7.2.1.2-004  R-5.6.2.2.2-004
R-5.7.2.1.2-005  R-5.6.2.2.2-005 **5.7.2.2 Imminent Peril group call**  
NA **5.7.2.2.1 Imminent Peril group call requirements**  
R-5.7.2.2.1-001  R-5.6.2.3.1-001 R-5.7.2.2.1-002  R-5.6.2.3.1-002
R-5.7.2.2.1-003  R-5.6.2.3.1-003 R-5.7.2.2.1-004  R-5.6.2.3.1-004
R-5.7.2.2.1-005  R-5.6.2.3.1-005 R-5.7.2.2.1-006  R-5.6.2.3.1-006
R-5.7.2.2.1-007  R-5.6.2.3.1-007 R-5.7.2.2.1-008  R-5.6.2.3.1-008
R-5.7.2.2.1-009  R-5.6.2.3.1-009 **5.7.2.2.2 Imminent Peril group call
cancellation requirements**  
R-5.7.2.2.2-001  R-5.6.2.3.2-001 R-5.7.2.2.2-002  R-5.6.2.3.2-002
R-5.7.2.2.2-003  R-5.6.2.3.2-003 R-5.7.2.2.2-004  R-5.6.2.3.2-004 **5.7.2.3
MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor Control)**  
NA **5.7.2.3.1 MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor Control)
requirements**  
NA **5.7.2.3.2 MCPTT Emergency Private Call (with Floor Control) cancellation
requirements**  
NA **5.7.2.4 MCPTT Emergency Alert**  
NA **5.7.2.4.1 MCPTT Emergency Alert requirements**  
R-5.7.2.4.1-001  R-5.6.2.4.1-001 R-5.7.2.4.1-002  R-5.6.2.4.1-002
R-5.7.2.4.1-003  R-5.6.2.4.1-003 R-5.7.2.4.1-004  R-5.6.2.4.1-004
R-5.7.2.4.1-005  R-5.6.2.4.1-005 R-5.7.2.4.1-006  R-5.6.2.4.1-006
R-5.7.2.4.1-007  R-5.6.2.4.1-007 R-5.7.2.4.1-008  R-5.6.2.4.1-008
R-5.7.2.4.1-009  R-5.6.2.4.1-009 R-5.7.2.4.1-010  R-5.6.2.4.1-010
R-5.7.2.4.1-011  R-5.6.2.4.1-011 R-5.7.2.4.1-012  R-5.6.2.4.1-012
**5.7.2.4.2 MCPTT Emergency Alert cancellation requirements**  
R-5.7.2.4.2-001  R-5.6.2.4.2-001 R-5.7.2.4.2-002  R-5.6.2.4.2-002
R-5.7.2.4.2-003  R-5.6.2.4.2-003 **5.8 User ID**  
R-5.8-001  R-5.7-001 R-5.8-002  R-5.7-002 R-5.8-003  R-5.7-003 **5.9 MCPTT
UE Management**  
R-5.9-001  R-5.8-001 R-5.9-002  R-5.8-002 **5.10 MCPTT User Profile**  
R-5.10-001  R-5.9-001 R-5.10-002  R-5.9-002 **5.11 Support for multiple
devices**  
R-5.11-001  R-5.10-001 R-5.11-002  R-5.10-002 **5.12 Location**  
R-5.12-001 R-5.11-001, R-5.11-002 R-5.12-002  R-5.11-003 R-5.12-003 
R-5.11-004 R-5.12-004  R-5.11-005 R-5.12-005  R-5.11-006 R-5.12-006 
R-5.11-007 R-5.12-007  R-5.11-008 R-5.12-008  R-5.11-009 R-5.12-009 
R-5.11-010 R-5.12-010  R-5.11-011 R-5.12-012  R-5.11-012 R-5.12-013 
R-5.11-013 R-5.12-014  R-5.11-014 R-5.12-015  R-5.11-015 **5.13 Security**  
R-5.13-001  R-5.12-001 R-5.13-002  R-5.12-002 R-5.13-003  R-5.12-003
R-5.13-004  R-5.12-004 R-5.13-005  R-5.12-005 R-5.13-006  R-5.12-006
R-5.13-007  R-5.12-007 R-5.13-008  R-5.12-008 R-5.13-009  R-5.12-009
R-5.13-010  R-5.12-010 R-5.13-011  R-5.12-011 R-5.13-012  R-5.12-012
R-5.13-013  R-5.12-013 **5.14 Audio/voice quality**  
R-5.14-001  R-5.13-001 **5.15 Interactions between MCPTT Group calls and
MCPTT Private Calls (with Floor Control)**  
NA **5.16 Relay requirements**  
R-5.16-001  R-5.14-001 R-5.16-002  R-5.14-002 R-5.16-003  R-5.14-003 **5.17
Gateway Requirements**  
R-5.17-001  R-5.15-001 **5.18 Control and management by Mission Critical
Organizations**  
NA **5.18.1 Overview**  
NA **5.18.2 General Requirements**  
R-5.18.2-001  R-5.16.2-001 R-5.18.2-002  R-5.16.2-002 R-5.18.2-003 
R-5.16.2-003 R-5.18.2-004  R-5.16.2-004 R-5.18.2-005  R-5.16.2-005 **5.18.3
Operational visibility for Mission Critical Organizations**  
R-5.18.3-001  R-5.16.3-001 **5.19 General Administrative -- groups and
users**  
R-5.19-001  R-5.17-001 R-5.19-002  R-5.17-002 R-5.19-003  R-5.17-003
R-5.19-004  R-5.17-004 R-5.19-005  R-5.17-005 R-5.19-006  R-5.17-006
R-5.19-007  R-5.17-007 R-5.19-008  R-5.17-008 **6 MCPTT Service requirements
specific to on-network use**  
NA **6.1 General administrative -- groups and users**  
R-6.1-001  R-6.1-001 R-6.1-002  R-6.1-002 R-6.1-003  R-6.1-003 R-6.1-006 
R-6.1-004 R-6.1-007  R-6.1-005 **6.2 MCPTT calls**  
NA ** ** **6.2.1 Commencement modes for MCPTT Group calls**  
NA
**6.2.2 Queuing**  
R-6.2.2-001  R-6.2.2-001 R-6.2.2-002  R-6.2.2-002 R-6.2.2-003  R-6.2.2-003
R-6.2.2-004  R-6.2.2-004 R-6.2.2-005  R-6.2.2-005 R-6.2.2-006  R-6.2.2-006
**6.2.3 Floor control**  
NA **6.2.3.1 General aspects**  
NA **6.2.3.2 Requesting permission to transmit**  
NA **6.2.3.3 Override**  
NA **6.2.3.3.1 General aspects**  
NA
**6.2.3.3.2 Override -- one transmitting Participant**  
NA **6.2.3.3.3 Override -- simultaneously Transmitting MCPTT Group Members**  
NA **6.2.3.4 Terminating permission to transmit**  
NA  
**6.2.3.5 Transmit time limit**  
NA **6.2.3.6 Audio cut-in designated MCPTT Groups**  
NA  
**6.2.3.6.1 Overview**  
NA  
**6.2.3.6.2 Requirements**  
NA  
**6.2.3.6.3 Requesting permission to transmit**  
NA  
**6.2.3.6.4 Terminating permission to transmit**  
NA  
**6.2.3.6.5 Transmit time limit**  
NA  
**6.2.3.7 MCPTT Groups designated for multi-talker control**  
NA  
**6.2.3.7.1 Overview**  
NA  
**6.2.3.7.2 General Aspects**  
NA  
**6.2.3.7.3 Requesting permission to transmit**  
NA  
**6.2.3.7.3 Requesting permission to transmit**  
NA  
**6.2.3.7.4 Override**  
NA  
**6.2.3.7.4.1 General Aspects**  
NA  
**6.2.4 Call termination**  
NA
**6.3 General requirements**  
R-6.3-001  R-6.3-001 R-6.3-002  R-6.3-002 R-6.3-003  R-6.3-003 R-6.3-004 
R-6.3-004 **6.4 General group call**  
NA **6.4.1 General aspects**  
R-6.4.1-001  R-6.4.1-001 **6.4.2 Group status/information**  
R-6.4.2-001  R-6.4.2-001 R-6.4.2-002  R-6.4.2-002 R-6.4.2-003  R-6.4.2-003
R-6.4.2-004  R-6.4.2-004 R-6.4.2-005  R-6.4.2-005 R-6.4.2-006  R-6.4.2-006
R-6.4.2-007  R-6.4.2-007 **6.4.3 Identification**  
R-6.4.3-001  R-6.4.3-001 R-6.4.3-002  R-6.4.3-002 **6.4.4
Membership/affiliation**  
R-6.4.4-001  R-6.4.4-001 R-6.4.4-002  R-6.4.4-002 **6.4.5
Membership/affiliation list**  
R-6.4.5-001  R-6.4.5-001 R-6.4.5-002  R-6.4.5-002 R-6.4.5-003  R-6.4.5-003
R-6.4.5-004  R-6.4.5-004 R-6.4.5-005  R-6.4.5-005 R-6.4.5-006  R-6.4.5-006
R-6.4.5-007  R-6.4.5-007 R-6.4.5-008  R-6.4.5-008 **6.4.6 Authorized user
remotely changes another MCPTT User's affiliated and/or Selected MCPTT
Group(s)**  
NA **6.4.6.1 Mandatory change**  
R-6.4.6.1-001  R-6.4.6.1-001 R-6.4.6.1-002  R-6.4.6.1-002 R-6.4.6.1-003 
R-6.4.6.1-003 R-6.4.6.1-004  R-6.4.6.1-004 **6.4.6.2 Negotiated change**  
R-6.4.6.2-001  R-6.4.6.2-001 R-6.4.6.2-002  R-6.4.6.2-002 R-6.4.6.2-003 
R-6.4.6.2-003 R-6.4.6.2-004  R-6.4.6.2-004 R-6.4.6.2-005  R-6.4.6.2-005
R-6.4.6.2-006  R-6.4.6.2-006 **6.4.7 Prioritization**  
R-6.4.7-001  R-6.4.7-001 R-6.4.7-002  R-6.4.7-002 R-6.4.7-003  R-6.4.7-003
R-6.4.7-004  R-6.4.7-004 **6.4.8 Relay requirements**  
R-6.4.8-001  R-6.4.8-001 **6.4.9 Administrative**  
R-6.4.9-001  R-6.4.9-001 R-6.4.9-003  R-6.4.9-002 R-6.4.9-004  R-6.4.9-003
R-6.4.9-007  R-6.4.9-004 R-6.4.9-006  R-6.4.9-005 R-6.4.9-007  R-6.4.9-006
**6.5 Broadcast Group**  
NA **6.5.1 General Broadcast Group Call**  
R-6.5.1-001  R-6.5.1-001 R-6.5.1-002  R-6.5.1-002 **6.5.2 Group-Broadcast
Group (e.g., announcement group)**  
R-6.5.2-001  R-6.5.2-001 **6.5.3 User-Broadcast Group (e.g., System Call)**  
R-6.5.3-001  R-6.5.3-001 **6.6 Dynamic group management (i.e., dynamic
reporting)**  
NA **6.6.1 General dynamic regrouping**  
R-6.6.1-001  R-6.6.1-001 R-6.6.1-002  R-6.6.1-002 R-6.6.1-003  R-6.6.1-003
R-6.6.1-004  R-6.6.1-004 R-6.6.1-005  R-6.6.1-005 R-6.6.1-006  R-6.6.1-006
**6.6.2 Group Regrouping**  
NA **6.6.2.1 Service Description**  
NA **6.6.2.2 Requirements**  
R-6.6.2.2-001  R-6.6.2.2-001 R-6.6.2.2-002  R-6.6.2.2-002 R-6.6.2.2-003 
R-6.6.2.2-003 R-6.6.2.2-004  R-6.6.2.2-004 R-6.6.2.2-005  R-6.6.2.2-005
R-6.6.2.2-006  R-6.6.2.2-006 R-6.6.2.2-007  R-6.6.2.2-007 **6.6.3 Temporary
Group-Broadcast Group**  
R-6.6.3-001  R-6.6.3-001 R-6.6.3-002  R-6.6.3-002 **6.6.4 User regrouping**  
NA **6.6.4.1 Service description**  
NA **6.6.4.2 Requirements**  
R-6.6.4.2-001  R-6.6.4.2-001 R-6.6.4.2-002  R-6.6.4.2-002 R-6.6.4.2-003 
R-6.6.4.2-003 R-6.6.4.2-004  R-6.6.4.2-004 R-6.6.4.2-005  R-6.6.4.2-005
**6.7 Private Call**  
NA **6.7.0 Overview**  
NA **6.7.1 General Requirements**  
R-6.7.1-002  R-6.7.2-001 R-6.7.1-003  R-6.7.2-002 R-6.7.1-004  R-6.7.2-003
R-6.7.1-011  R-6.7.2-004 R-6.7.1-014  R-6.7.2-005  
**6.7.2 Administrative**  
R-6.7.2-001  R-6.7.3-001 R-6.7.2-002  R-6.7.3-002 R-6.7.2-003  R-6.7.3-003
R-6.7.2-004  R-6.7.3-004 R-6.7.2-005  R-6.7.3-005 R-6.7.2-006  R-6.7.3-006
R-6.7.2-007  R-6.7.3-007 R-6.7.2-008  R-6.7.3-008 **6.7.3 Prioritization**  
R-6.7.3-001  R-6.7.4-001 R-6.7.3-002  R-6.7.4-002 R-6.7.3-003  R-6.7.4-003
R-6.7.3-004  R-6.7.4-004 R-6.7.3-005  R-6.7.4-005 R-6.7.3-006  R-6.7.4-006
R-6.7.3-007  R-6.7.4-007  
**6.7.4 Private Call (without Floor control) commencement requirements**  
R-6.7.4-004  R-6.7.5-001 R-6.7.4-008  R-6.7.5-002 R-6.7.4-011  R-6.7.5-003  
**6.7.4a Private Call (with Floor control) commencement requirements**  
**NA**  
**6.7.5 Private Call (without Floor control) termination**  
R-6.7.5-001  R-6.7.6-001 R-6.7.5-003  R-6.7.6-002 **6.7.6 Call back request
requirements**  
NA **6.8 MCPTT Priority Requirements**  
NA **6.8.1 General**  
R-6.8.1-001  R-6.8.1-001 R-6.8.1-003  R-6.8.1-002 R-6.8.1-004  R-6.8.1-003
R-6.8.1-005  R-6.8.1-004 R-6.8.1-006  R-6.8.1-005 R-6.8.1-007  R-6.8.1-006
R-6.8.1-008  R-6.8.1-007 R-6.8.1-009  R-6.8.1-008 R-6.8.1-010  R-6.8.1-009
R-6.8.1-011  R-6.8.1-010 R-6.8.1-012  R-6.8.1-011 R-6.8.1-013  R-6.8.1-012
R-6.8.1-014  R-6.8.1-013 R-6.8.1-015  R-6.8.1-014 R-6.8.1-016  R-6.8.1-015
R-6.8.1-017  R-6.8.1-016 **6.8.2 3GPP system access controls**  
R-6.8.2-001  R-6.8.2-001 **6.8.3 3GPP system admission controls**  
R-6.8.3-001  R-6.8.3-001 **6.8.4 3GPP system scheduling controls**  
R-6.8.4-001  R-6.8.4-001 **6.8.5 UE access controls**  
R-6.8.5-001  R-6.8.5-001 **6.8.6 Application layer priorities**  
NA **6.8.6.1 Overview**  
NA **6.8.6.2 Requirements**  
R-6.8.6.2-001  R-6.8.7.2-001 R-6.8.6.2-002  R-6.8.7.2-002 R-6.8.6.2-003 
R-6.8.7.2-003 R-6.8.6.2-005  R-6.8.7.2-004 R-6.8.6.2-006  R-6.8.7.2-005
**6.8.7 Call types based on priorities**  
NA **6.8.7.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call requirements**  
R-6.8.7.1-001  R-6.8.8.1-001 R-6.8.7.1-002  R-6.8.8.1-002 R-6.8.7.1-003 
R-6.8.8.1-003 R-6.8.7.1-004  R-6.8.8.1-004 **6.8.7.2 MCPTT Emergency Private
Call (with Floor control) requirements**  
NA **6.8.7.3 Imminent Peril group call requirements**  
R-6.8.7.3-001  R-6.8.8.3-001 R-6.8.7.3-002  R-6.8.8.3-002 R-6.8.7.3-003 
R-6.8.8.3-003  
**6.8.7.4 MCPTT Emergency Alert**  
NA **6.8.7.4.1 Requirements**  
R-6.8.7.4.1-001  R-6.8.8.4.1-001 R-6.8.7.4.1-002  R-6.8.8.4.1-002
R-6.8.7.4.1-003  R-6.8.8.4.1-003 R-6.8.7.4.1-004  R-6.8.8.4.1-004
R-6.8.7.4.1-005  R-6.8.8.4.1-005 R-6.8.7.4.1-006  R-6.8.8.4.1-006
**6.8.7.4.2 MCPTT Emergency Alert cancellation requirements**  
R-6.8.7.4.2-001  R-6.8.8.4.2-001 R-6.8.7.4.2-002  R-6.8.8.4.2-002 **6.9 IDs
and aliases**  
R-6.9-001  R-6.9-001 R-6.9-002  R-6.9-002 R-6.9-003  R-6.9-003 R-6.9-004 
R-6.9-004 **6.10 User Profile Management**  
R-6.10-001  R-6.10-001 R-6.10-002  R-6.10-002 R-6.10-003  R-6.10-003
R-6.10-004  R-6.10-004 **6.11 Support for multiple devices**  
R-6.11-001  R-6.11-001 R-6.11-002  R-6.11-002 R-6.11-003  R-6.11-003 **6.12
Location**  
R-6.12-001  R-6.12-001 R-6.12-002  R-6.12-002 R-6.12-003  R-6.12-003
R-6.12-004  R-6.12-004 R-6.12-005  R-6.12-005 R-6.12-006  R-6.12-006
R-6.12-007  R-6.12-007 **6.13 Security**  
NA **6.13.1 Overview**  
NA **6.13.2 Cryptographic protocols**  
R-6.13.2-001  R-6.13.2-001 R-6.13.2-002  R-6.13.2-002 R-6.13.2-003 
R-6.13.2-003 **6.13.3 Authentication**  
R-6.13.3-001  R-6.13.3-001 **6.13.4 Access control**  
R-6.13.4-001  R-6.13.4-001 R-6.13.4-002  R-6.13.4-002 R-6.13.4-003 
R-6.13.4-003 R-6.13.4-004  R-6.13.4-004 R-6.13.4-005  R-6.13.4-005
R-6.13.4-006  R-6.13.4-006 R-6.13.4-007  R-6.13.4-007 R-6.13.4-008 
R-6.13.4-008 R-6.13.4-009  R-6.13.4-009 R-6.13.4-010  R-6.13.4-010 **6.13.5
Regulatory Issues**  
R-6.13.5-001  R-6.13.5-001 **6.14 Interactions for MCPTT Group Calls and
MCPTT Private Calls**  
R-6.14-001  R-6.14-001 R-6.14-002  R-6.14-002 **6.15 Audio MCPTT call
performance**  
NA **6.16 Additional services for MCPTT calls**  
NA **6.16.1 Discreet listening capabilities**  
R-6.16.1-001  R-6.15.1-001 **6.16.2 Ambient listening**  
NA **6.16.2.1 Overview of ambient listening**  
NA **6.16.2.2 Ambient listening requirements**  
NA **6.16.2.2.1 General Ambient Listening Requirements**  
R-6.16.2.2.1-001  R-6.15.2.2.1-001 R-6.16.2.2.1-002  R-6.15.2.2.1-002
R-6.16.2.2.1-003  R-6.15.2.2.1-003  
**6.16.2.2.2 Remotely initiated ambient listening requirements**  
R-6.16.2.2.2-001  R-6.15.2.2.2-001 R-6.16.2.2.2-002  R-6.15.2.2.2-002
**6.16.2.2.3 Locally initiated ambient listening requirements**  
R-6.16.2.2.3-001  R-6.15.2.2.3-001 R-6.16.2.2.3-002  R-6.15.2.2.3-002
**6.16.3 Remotely initiated MCPTT call**  
NA **6.16.3.1 Overview**  
NA **6.16.3.2 Requirements**  
R-6.16.3.2-003  R-6.15.3.2-003 R-6.16.3.2-004  R-6.15.3.2-004 R-6.16.3.2-002
 R-6.15.3.2-002 R-6.16.3.2-001  R-6.15.3.2-001 **6.16.4 Recording and audit
requirements**  
R-6.16.4-001  R-6.15.4-001 R-6.16.4-002  R-6.15.4-002 R-6.16.4-005 
R-6.15.4-005 R-6.16.4-006  R-6.15.4-006 R-6.16.4-007  R-6.15.4-007
R-6.16.4-008  R-6.15.4-008 R-6.16.4-009  R-6.15.4-009 R-6.16.4-010 
R-6.15.4-010 R-6.16.4-003  R-6.15.4-003 R-6.16.4-004  R-6.15.4-004 **6.17
Interaction with telephony services**  
R-6.17-001  R-6.16-001 R-6.17-003  R-6.16-002 **6.18 Interworking**  
NA **6.18.1 Non-3GPP access**  
R-6.18.1-001  R-6.17.1-001 **6.18.2 Interworking between MCCore systems**  
R-6.18.2-001 R-6.17.2-001 R-6.18.2-002 R-6.17.2-002 R-6.18.2-003
R-6.17.2-003 R-6.18.2-004 R-6.17.2-004 R-6.18.2-005 R-6.17.2-005
R-6.18.2-006 R-6.17.2-006 R-6.18.2-007 R-6.17.2-007 **6.18.3 Interworking
with non-3GPP PTT systems**  
NA **6.18.3.1 Overview**  
NA **6.18.3.2 Project 25**  
NA **6.18.3.3 TETRA**  
NA **6.18.3.4 Legacy land mobile radio**  
NA **6.19 MCPTT coverage extension using ProSe UE-to-Network Relays**  
R-6.19-001  R-6.18-001 R-6.19-002  R-6.18-002 R-6.19-003  R-6.18-003
R-6.19-004  R-6.18-004 R-6.19-005  R-6.18-005 R-6.19-006  R-6.18-006 **7
MCPTT Service Requirements specific to off-network use**  
NA **7.1 Off-network Push To Talk overview**  
NA **7.2 General off-network MCPTT requirements**  
R-7.2-001  R-7.2-001 R-7.2-002  R-7.2-002 R-7.2-003  R-7.2-003 R-7.2-004 
R-7.2-004 R-7.2-005  R-7.2-005 **7.3 Floor control**  
NA **7.3.1 General Aspects**  
NA **7.3.2 Requesting permission to transmit**  
NA **7.3.3 Override**  
NA **7.3.4 Terminating permission to transmit**  
NA **7.3.5 Transmit time limit**  
NA **7.4 Call Termination**  
R-7.4-003  R-7.4-001 R-7.4-004  R-7.4-002 R-7.4-005  R-7.4-003 R-7.4-006 
R-7.4-004 **7.5 Broadcast Group**  
R-7.5-001  R-7.5-001 R-7.5-002  R-7.5-002 **7.6 Dynamic group management
(i.e., dynamic regrouping)**  
NA **7.7 MCPTT priority requirements**  
R-7.7-001  R-7.6-001 R-7.7-003  R-7.6-002 **7.8 Call types based on
priorities**  
NA **7.8.1 MCPTT Emergency Group Call requirements**  
R-7.8.1-001  R-7.7.1-001 R-7.8.1-002  R-7.7.1-002 R-7.8.1-003  R-7.7.1-003
**7.8.2 MCPTTEmergency Group Call cancellation requirements**  
R-7.8.2-001  R-7.7.2-001 **7.8.3 Imminent Peril Call**  
NA **7.8.3.1 Imminent Peril group call requirements**  
R-7.8.3.1-001  R-7.7.3.1-001 R-7.8.3.1-002  R-7.7.3.1-002 R-7.8.3.1-003 
R-7.7.3.1-003 R-7.8.3.1-004  R-7.7.3.1-004 R-7.8.3.1-005  R-7.7.3.1-005
**7.8.3.2 Imminent Peril group call cancellation requirements**  
R-7.8.3.2-001  R-7.7.3.2-001 R-7.8.3.2-002  R-7.7.3.2-002 **7.9 Location**  
R-7.9-001  R-7.8-001 **7.10 Security**  
R-7.10-001  R-7.9-001 R-7.10-002  R-7.9-002 **7.11 Audio MCPTT Call
performance**  
NA **7.11.1 MCPTT Access time and Mouth-to-ear latency**  
NA **7.11.1.1 General overview**  
NA **7.11.1.2 Requirements**  
NA **7.11.2 Late call entry performance**  
NA **7.11.2.1 General overview**  
NA **7.11.2.2 Requirements**  
NA **7.11.3 Audio/voice quality**  
NA **7.12 Off-network MCPTT operations**  
R-7.12-001  R-7.10-001 R-7.12-002  R-7.10-002 R-7.12-003  R-7.10-003 **7.13
Off-network UE functionality**  
R-7.13-001  R-7.11-001 R-7.13-002  R-7.11-002 R-7.13-003  R-7.11-003 **7.14
Switching to off-network MCPTT**  
R-7.14-001  R-7.13-001 R-7.14-002  R-7.13-002 R-7.14-003  R-7.13-003 **7.15
Off-network recording and audit requirements**  
R-7.15-001  R-7.14-001 R-7.15-002  R-7.14-002 **7.16 Off-network UE-to-UE
relay**  
NA **7.16.1 Private Communications**  
R-7.16.1-001  R-7.15.1-001 R-7.16.1-002  R-7.15.1-002 R-7.16.1-003 
R-7.15.1-003  
**7.16.2 Group Communications**  
R-7.16.2-001  R-7.15.2-001 R-7.16.2-002  R-7.15.2-002
* * *
###### ## Annex B (informative): Bibliography
\- 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
###### ## Annex C (informative): MCPTT scalability guide
The MCPTT Service might support an authorized MCPTT UE to be an MCPTT member
of at least 5,000 MCPTT Groups.
The MCPTT Service might support a minimum of 500,000 MCPTT Groups.
The MCPTT Service might support MCPTT Group membership from two MCPTT Users to
all the MCPTT Users signed on the MCPTT system.
The MCPTT Service might support an MCPTT Group Call where all the Participants
are located in one cell of the MCPTT system.
The MCPTT Service might support an MCPTT Group Call with one or more
Participants located in every cell of the MCPTT system.
The MCPTT Service might support a range of 36 to 150 simultaneous MCPTT Group
Calls in every cell of the MCPTT system per regional regulatory requirement.
The MCPTT Service might support a minimum of 2000 MCPTT Users within an MCPTT
Group or a combination of different MCPTT Groups, in every cell of the MCPTT
system.
NOTE: The concurrent number of Participants in a cell is subject to radio
capacity limitation in a cell per operator policy.
#