# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
TS 22.146 [2] specifies the multimedia broadcast and multicast service (MBMS)
application independent transport service and includes some guidance on
application services and bit rates. The present specification defines MBMS
User Services that use the capabilities of MBMS. Service related information
is defined in this specification to specify requirements in terms of data
rates, quality of service requirements, typical volumes of data etc.
MBMS User Services may be delivered to a user at different bit rates and
quality of service depending on radio networks and conditions. This technical
specification describes service scenarios for MBMS User Services.
In addition scenarios related to security and charging are described providing
information for detailed MBMS User Services security and charging mechanisms
to be specified. The service scenarios described in this specification are not
exhaustive, it is possible that MBMS may be used for services that are not
included in this specification. The present specification describes the
minimal requirements for interoperability for MBMS based services. This
specification establishes a basis which can also be used for future services.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes MBMS User Services that use the capabilities of
MBMS. Application scenarios including charging, QoS aspects and related
service requirements derived from them are described. These scenarios and
service requirements can be used as guidance for the design of codecs and
bearers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS): Media formats and
Codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.134: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS) Protocols and codecs\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.240 "Service requirement for the 3GPP Generic User Profile
(GUP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.242: \"Digital Rights Management\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the definitions in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] as well as the following definitions apply.
**Broadcast service area** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Local Broadcast Area** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Broadcast mode** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service\"
[2].
**Broadcast service** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Broadcast session** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**MBMS transport service** : A MBMS transport service is either a broadcast
service or a multicast service as defined in TS 22.146 [2].
**MBMS User Services** : Services that are intended to be delivered to
multiple users simultaneously. MBMS User Services use the capabilities of the
MBMS application independent transport.
**Media types:** a media type refers to one form of presenting information to
a user, e.g. voice or fax.
**Mobile Station (MS):** see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Multicast transmission activation** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia
Broadcast/Multicast Service\" [2].
**Multicast service area** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Local multicast area** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Multicast mode** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service\"
[2].
**Multicast joining:** see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Multicast session** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS)** : see TS 22.146:
\"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service\" [2].
**Multicast group** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Multicast service** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Multicast subscription** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service\" [2].
**Multicast Subscription Group** : see TS 22.146: \"Multimedia
Broadcast/Multicast Service\" [2].
**User Equipment:** defined in TS 21.905. An occurrence of a User Equipment is
an MS for GSM as defined in TS 24.002 [7].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MS Mobile Station
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
UE User Equipment
# 4 Classification of MBMS User Services
There exist many services and applications that can be provided over the
application independent MBMS transport [2]. It is not necessary to standardise
specific end user services because the deployment of particular applications
and services over the capabilities provided by the 3GPP system is operator
specific and outside the scope of standardisation. However, it is possible to
classify MBMS User Services according to the method used to distribute these
services.
There are four types of MBMS User Service considered within this
specification.
• Streaming services
> A continuous data flow providing a stream of continuous media (i.e. audio
> and video) is a basic MBMS User Service. Like digital video broadcasting,
> supplementary information of text and/or still images (static media) is also
> important. For example, if text includes URLs of some content on the
> Internet, a user can easily access the content without entering the URL for
> herself. Still images may also be used for banner images that advertise some
> product or service. These static media need to be synchronized and displayed
> with audio/video streams.
Note: Streaming in the context of MBMS User Services may not be the same as
that described e.g. within PSS [4].
• File download services
> This service delivers binary data (file data) over an MBMS bearer. An MBMS
> client (i.e. UE) activates an appropriate application, and utilises the
> delivered data. The most important functionality for this service is
> reliability. In other words, it is necessary that the user receive all the
> data sent in order to experience the service.
• Carousel services
> Carousel is a service that combines aspects of both the Streaming and File
> download services described above. Similar to the streaming service this
> service includes time synchronisation. However, the target media of this
> service is only static media (e.g. text and/or still images). Time
> synchronization with other media is also required. For example, text objects
> are delivered and updated from time to time. Still images may also be
> collated to display low frame-rate video. In common with the download
> service this service also includes reliability (typically 100% reliability
> is not always necessary). The benefit of this service is that it is possible
> over a low bit-rate bearer.
>
> An example of an application utilising the Carousel service is a \'ticker-
> tape\' type service in which the data is provided to the user repetitively
> and updated at certain times to reflect changing circumstances.
• Television (TV) service
> The Television service is an MBMS service consisting of synchronised
> streaming audio and visual components.
# 5 High level requirements
## 5.0 General
MBMS user services are services an operator may provide to subscribers. MBMS
user services use the capabilities of MBMS. The operator may provide such
services on his own or in collaboration with third party service providers. In
addition, an MBMS user service may be provided to the operator\'s own
subscribers and/or to inbound roaming subscribers from other operators.
**[MBMS User Services]{.underline}**
MBMS user services are based on broadcast- or multicast services, which are
defined in TS 22.146 [2].
MBMS user services shall be bearer agnostic to enable access via generic IP
access systems.
An MBMS user service may use one or more broadcast- or multicast services at a
time within the MBMS service area bound to this user service.
Note 1: A single broadcast- or multicast service can only have one broadcast-
or multicast session at any time within the MBMS service area bound to this
user service. A broadcast- or multicast service may consist of multiple
successive broadcast- or multicast sessions. (see TS 22.146 [2])
Note 2: As part of the same multicast service, it should be possible for the
operator to provide the UEs with multiple successive sessions with different
quality-of-service for each session. (see TS 22.146 [2])
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="5.016666666666667in"}
It shall be possible for an MBMS user service to make use of different
application independent MBMS transport services at different times or in
parallel. The MBMS transport services used may vary for instance in QoS
parameters or target broadcast or multicast area.
It shall be possible for one application independent MBMS transport service to
be used by more than one MBMS user service at a time.
If an MBMS user service makes use of several application independent MBMS
transport services then these may only consist of either broadcast or
multicast services, but not of a combination of both.
Note: The combination of broadcast- or multicast services in future releases
is FFS
When necessary, within a single MBMS user service, it shall be possible to
synchronize the media sessions.
NOTE: For different application independent MBMS transport services to support
a single MBMS user service it may be necessary to logically link the transport
services to each other, as illustrated in the figure for the audio- and video
session of MBMS user service X.
The UTRAN, GERAN and E-UTRAN accesses shall provide protection against normal
transmission errors (eg interference not related to cell changes and
handovers).
Non 3GPP access system used to transport MBMS user services should provide
protection against normal transmission errors (e.g. interference not related
to cell changes and handovers).
The BM-SC is responsible for providing protection e.g. FEC, long interleaving
and/or point to point repairing the transmission, against errors (eg those
caused by cell changes and longer breaks in transmission).
**[Service examples]{.underline}**
MBMS user services may be classified according to the table within Annex A of
this specification into several service examples, which are characterized by
• Their predominant broadcast- or multicast service, that constitutes this
MBMS user service together with its reliability (QoS) and data transfer rate
requirements
• Media types that are transmitted via this broadcast- or multicast service
• Type of the service, which implies handling of the distributed media by the
UE (e.g. download for subsequent presentation, streaming for instant
presentation or carousel downloading)
• Charging characteristics
• A potential requirement for point-to-point delivery verification for
delivered content.
To express the requirements for standardised service types are one objective
of the present specification.
**[Service classes]{.underline}**
MBMS user services may be provided for many purposes to the user and may
convey information of various kinds. E.g. some services may be used for
traffic information, others for entertainment or for news services. Service
classes denote a classification of MBMS user services according to their
usage. However, service class values are not in the scope of 3GPP
standardisation but may be subject of inter-operator service arrangements.
## 5.1 Common requirements to broadcast and multicast
The following list describes requirements on an application level:
> **Service classes\** In case of roaming a user shall be able to enjoy
> services as follows:
  * A user shall be able to activate services that are provided locally in the visited network, as allowed by the user's home environment (e.g. local tourist information).
  * A user subscribed to a service class in the HPLMN shall be able to enjoy equivalent services in the same service class as provided by a visited PLMN without explicit subscription in the VPLMN (e.g. weather forecast).
> A user subscribed to a service class in the HPLMN shall be able to have
> access to home contents provided via a visited PLMN without explicit
> subscription in the VPLMN (e.g. enjoy subscribed service while roaming)
>
> **Service Interworking\** The user shall be able to manipulate content
> delivered over MBMS and forward it using other services (e.g. MMS, Speech
> Call- and IMS signalling, Hyperlinks, ....). Care should be taken in order
> to fulfil requirements concerning DRM and respective barring and charging
> capabilities.
>
> **When interacting with user profiles, MBMS User Services shall use the
> mechanisms described in [5] TS 22.240 (Generic User Profile).**
>
> **Content storage in the UE\** It shall be possible for the UE to store
> content delivered to it over MBMS and provide it to the user at a later
> time. Care should be taken in order to fulfil requirements concerning DRM
> and respective charging capabilities.
>
> **Data formats and types\** Media types shall be supported independent of
> specific data types and formats behind..
As a minimum MBMS User Services shall support the following media types:
\- Text
> It shall be possible to embed hyperlinks and to decorate text within content
> provided by MBMS User Services.
\- Still Images
\- Video
\- Speech
\- Mono/Stereo Audio
Data format and data types as being used by other multimedia services shall be
supported for interoperability reasons.
Note : It is not intended to constrain MBMS to existing codec technologies.
The intention is to maintain consistency with other multimedia services whilst
also allowing for adoption of new codec technologies as appropriate.
> **Digital Rights Management\** The MBMS User Service shall be able to
> control content distribution as defined in 3GPP TS 22.242 [6]. MBMS content
> providers shall be able to invoke DRM to prevent unauthorized copying and
> forwarding of content.
>
> **Notification of required capabilities** \ The capabilities (e.g. memory
> size) required to receive a particular transmission shall be notified in
> advance by the network or service centre.
>
> **MBMS Television Service**
>
> It shall be possible for a user to select between different content within
> the MBMS Television Service.
>
> The MBMS service shall add no more than 1 second when switching between
> different TV streams to any delay introduced with regards to the coding of
> the TV stream.
>
> It shall be possible for an operator to configure the MBMS Television
> service so that the typical switching time, from the end user\'s
> perspective, does not exceed 2 seconds.
>
> Handover within the same radio access technology shall be transparent to the
> user.
>
> Handover between different radio access technologies should be performed
> without any user perceived interruption.
Note: The quality of the MBMS Television service may change depending on the
capabilities of the target network.
## 5.2 Interoperability
MBMS User Services shall ensure service interoperability with respect to media
formats and codecs, at the same time being able to re-use existing multimedia
capabilities in the UE as far as possible.
Therefore MBMS User Services shall support a minimum set of media formats and
codecs. This minimum set should be aligned with the set of media formats and
codecs required for MMS [3] and PSS [4].
## 5.2a Pre-Delivery verification
It is required that the operator can verify the number of active MBMS users
when service commences.
The UE shall provide a secure means to inform the network of the start of
services by pre-delivery verification transmitted over a point-to-point
connection to the home/visited network. This pre-delivery verification may be
relayed to the service provider. The pre-delivery verification shall also
support the carriage of bearer specific non-real time information, i.e.
previously stored in the UE, to the BM-SC. Such bearer specific information
may, for example, include historic C/I measurements for the serving cell.
**It should be noted that pre-delivery verification by point-to-point
mechanisms** partially reduces the resource-efficiency of the underlying
broadcast services**.** Sacrificing resource-efficiency due to requirements of
UE reporting may be necessary but should be kept as minimal as possible to
minimize congestion.
## 5.3 Delivery verification
For some MBMS user services it is required that the operator can verify that
the content conveyed by the service has been received by the UE.
The UE shall provide a secure means to provide such delivery verification
transmitted over a point-to-point connection to the home/visited network. This
delivery verification may be relayed to the service provider.
The delivery verification shall also support the carriage of bearer specific
non-real time information, i.e. previously stored in the UE, to the BM-SC.
Such bearer specific information may, for example, include historic C/I
measurements for the serving cell.
It should be noted that delivery verification by point-to-point mechanisms
partially reduces the resource-efficiency of the underlying broadcast
services. Sacrificing resource-efficiency due to requirements of UE reporting
may be necessary but should be kept as minimal as possible to minimize
congestion.
# 6 MBMS User Service requirements
## 6.1 Charging
The MBMS User Service shall support standardized mechanisms to transfer
charging related information.
It shall be possible to charge for MBMS content the user receives while
roaming in a VPLMN.
As indicated in Annex A some services will require an indication that MBMS
content has been received. Therefore it shall be possible for the UE to
provide such an indication.
The MBMS User Service shall support the following charging mechanisms :
• Charging on a subscription basis
• Charging for keys that that allow the user access to the data
## 6.2 Security
The following security aspects shall be taken into account:
Any user modifiable MBMS service data (e.g. storage of deliveries in the UE,
data type and format specific behaviours etc) shall only be modified by the
authenticated user (see also 4.1.1 above).
## 6.3 Privacy
Third parties and VASP should not be aware about user IDs for MBMS
subscriptions unless explicitly allowed by the operator.
## 6.4 Quality of service
It should be possible for the operator to collect statistical data such as
lost frames, assigned resources, bit-rates achieved etc.
It shall be possible for the operator to adapt the distribution of a MBMS user
service consisting of different MBMS transport services to provide multiple
QoS levels according to the QoS resources provided by the access network(s),
while maintaining the resource efficiency of the underlying MBMS transport
services.
Note: It is necessary that an MBMS user service, consisting of different MBMS
transport services providing multiple QoS levels, can be received by all MBMS-
capable terminals.
It shall be possible to base the adaptation of the distribution of a MBMS user
service to the QoS resources provided by the access network(s) on:
\- the QoS resources within the same access network (e.g. UTRAN).
\- the QoS resources provided by different access networks (e.g. UTRAN and
GERAN).
It shall be possible to adapt the distribution of an ongoing MBMS user service
to persistently changed QoS resource conditions in the access network(s).
Adaptation of the distribution of a MBMS user service to the QoS resources in
different access networks or parts of the same access network shall not affect
the QoS of the MBMS user service in other access networks or other parts of
the same access network.
## 6.5 Subscription
During the lifetime of subscription to a Multicast Service it shall be
possible for the user to declare the service preferences. It shall be possible
for the network to store the user settings e.g. using GUP.
## 6.6 Availability
The user should be able to receive MBMS user services via generic IP access
systems.
Note: The transport of MBMS user services over non 3GPP accesses is out of
scope of 3GPP, however if the non 3GPP access system has multicast or
broadcast capabilities these should be utilised if possible.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Use Cases
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Service | Media | Distr | MBMS | Applica | D | User | | Example | | ibution | User | tionBit | elivery | C | | | | Scope | Service | rate | Verif | harging | | | | | Classif | | ication | | | | | | ication | Note 1 | R | Note 4 | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | R | Text | Mu | D | Up to | Yes | Event | | eliable | | lticast | ownload | 10 kbps | | | | text | | | | | | | | distr | | | | | | | | ibution | | | | | | | | (eg | | | | | | | | Local | | | | | | | | news) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Unv | Text | Mul | Ca | Up to | No | - | | erified | | ticast, | rousel, | 10 kbps | | | | text | | Br | d | | | | | distr | | oadcast | ownload | | | | | ibution | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Text | Text, | Mul | Ca | Up to | Service | User | | distr | Still | ticast, | rousel, | 32 kbps | de | service | | ibution | images, | Br | d | | pendent | de | | with | Video | oadcast | ownload | | | pendent | | still | (e.g. | | | | | | | images | 3fps) | | | | | Note 2 | | and/or | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Mu | St | Up to | Service | - | | st | Audio | lticast | reaming | 48kbps | de | | | reaming | | | | | pendent | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Br | St | Up to | No | - | | st | Audio | oadcast | reaming | 48kbps | | | | reaming | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Br | D | Up to | Service | - | | d | Audio | oadcast | ownload | 48kbps | de | | | ownload | | | | | pendent | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Mu | D | Up to | Yes | Event | | d | Audio | lticast | ownload | 48kbps | | | | ownload | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Br | St | Up to | No | - | | distr | Audio, | oadcast | reaming | 128kbps | | | | ibution | Video | | | | | | | with | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | low | 3fps) | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Mu | St | Up to | Service | - | | distr | Audio, | lticast | reaming | 128kbps | de | | | ibution | Video | | | | pendent | | | with | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | low | 3fps) | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Br | D | Up to | Service | - | | distr | Audio, | oadcast | ownload | 128kbps | de | | | ibution | Video | | | | pendent | | | with | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | low | 3fps) | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Stereo | Mu | D | Up to | Yes | Event | | distr | Audio, | lticast | ownload | 128kbps | | | | ibution | Video | | | | | | | with | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | low | 3fps) | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Video | Video & | Br | St | Up to | No | - | | st | supple | oadcast | reaming | 384 | | | | reaming | mentary | | | kbps | | | | | data | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | | text, | | | | | | | | still | | | | | | | | images) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Video | Video & | Mu | St | Up to | Service | - | | st | supple | lticast | reaming | 384 | de | | | reaming | mentary | | | kbps | pendent | | | | data | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | | text, | | | | | | | | still | | | | | | | | images) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Video | Video & | Br | D | Up to | Service | - | | distr | supple | oadcast | ownload | 384 | de | | | ibution | mentary | | | kbps | pendent | | | | data | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | | text, | | | | | | | | still | | | | | | | | images) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Video | Video & | Mu | D | Up to | Yes | Event | | distr | supple | lticast | ownload | 384 | | | | ibution | mentary | | | kbps | | | | | data | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | Note 5 | | | | | text, | | | | | | | | still | | | | | | | | images) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | Video, | Br | Ca | Up to | Service | - | | Content | Audio, | oadcast | rousel, | 384 | de | | | Distr | File | | | kbps | pendent | | | ibution | Data | | d | | | | | | (binary | | ownload | Note 5 | | | | | data) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | Video, | Mu | Ca | Up to | Yes | Event | | Content | Audio, | lticast | rousel, | 384 | | | | Distr | File | | | kbps | | | | ibution | Data | | d | | | | | | (binary | | ownload | Note 5 | | | | | data) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Secure | File; | Mu | Ca | Up to | - | - | | data | eg UE | lticast | rousel, | 10kbps | | | | d | type | | d | | | | | ownload | s | | ownload | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | oftware | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Notes : | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. Bit | | | | | | | | rate of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | data at | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | layer. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. If | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | harging | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | Event | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | then | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | elivery | | | | | | | | Verif | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | elivery | | | | | | | | Verif | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | relates | | | | | | | | only to | | | | | | | | verif | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | itself. | | | | | | | | Quality | | | | | | | | asse | | | | | | | | ssments | | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | dition. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 DRM | | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to User | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | arging. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5 For | | | | | | | | GERAN | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | avail | | | | | | | | ability | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | nstrain | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | applic | | | | | | | | ations. | | | | | | | | In such | | | | | | | | cases | | | | | | | | it may | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | ossible | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | fferent | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | elivery | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | ethods. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > 6 The | | | | | | | | > \' - | | | | | | | | > \' | | | | | | | | > mark | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | dicates | | | | | | | | > that | | | | | | | | > no | | | | | | | | > app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | > info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | > has | | | | | | | | > been | | | | | | | | > iden | | | | | | | | tified. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example service scenarios
This annex provides a non-exhaustive list of potential service scenarios for
MBMS User Services.
## B.1 Text notification service
**Media** : Text
**Precondition:** The user is a member of a MBMS Multicast group supplying
text alerts.
**Actions:** At an appropriate time an alert is sent to the user's mobile
handset using the MBMS Multicast service.
**Post condition:** The user receives the alert using her mobile handset and
takes appropriate action.
## B.2 Local Area Information distribution (Case A)
**Media** : Text & Text with low quality video
**Precondition:** The user is a registered with an MBMS Broadcast service
providing information to the local area such as local news and weather
reports.
**Actions:** Information in the form of text & text with low quality video is
distributed to the user's mobile handset by the MBMS Broadcast service. The
text may be scrolled on the mobile handset. The information distributed by the
MBMS Broadcast Service may be repeated periodically and updated at appropriate
intervals.
**Post condition:** The user is aware of events that have taken place within
the local area and can view appropriate images.
## B.3 Local Area Information distribution (Case B)
**Media** : Video & Audio
**Precondition:** The user is a registered with an MBMS Broadcast service
providing streaming audio and/or visual content related to a local area, such
as audio and visual guides to local attractions, traffic reports etc...
**Actions:** Audio and/or visual information is distributed to the user's
mobile handset by the MBMS Broadcast service. The user is able experience the
content on her mobile device. The user is able to receive the MBMS broadcast
service continuously throughout the local area. At some points the user is
able to interact with the content of the MBMS Broadcast service in order to
access specific information regarding items being presented within the
content. The user is able to activate/deactivate reception of the MBMS service
at any time.
**Post condition:** The user experiences and interacts with the content
provided and is therefore able to obtain information regarding the local area
and act accordingly.
## B.4 Multicast distribution
**Media** : Text & Text with still images
**Precondition:** The user is a member if a MBMS multicast group providing
personally tailored content such as targeted advertising etc...
**Actions:** Information is provided by the MBMS Multicast service in the form
of text & text with still images, to the user's mobile handset based on her
subscription to the Multicast group and current location.
**Post condition:** The user receives tailored content and is able to utilize
this as appropriate.
## B.5 Audio Distribution
**Media** : Stereo Audio
**Precondition:** The user is registered with an MBMS Broadcast service
providing stereo quality streaming audio content.
**Actions:** Audio content is distributed to the user's mobile handset by the
MBMS Broadcast service. Whilst listening to the audio content the user is able
to interact with the service using the capabilities of the mobile handset
(e.g. messaging).
**Post condition:** The user is able to enjoy the stereo quality audio content
and interacts with the service as appropriate.
## B.6 General Content Distribution
**Media** : Video, Audio & File Data
**Precondition:** The user is registered with a MBMS Broadcast service
providing a variety of content.
**Actions:** Content is periodically distributed to a particular area by the
MBMS Broadcast service. When the user activates reception of the MBMS
Broadcast service she is able to receive the content being distributed at that
time.
**Post condition:** The user is able to receive and enjoy the content being
distributed.
## B.7 Software Download
**Media :** File
**Preconditions** :Need to update/download software in UE, the User is
subscribed to MBMS User Service, OTA download is supported in UE
**Actions:** The operator compiles a list of affected users and sends them a
text message (using MBMS) explaining the problem and that the user should
select the MBMS application on their handset. The user sees a message inviting
her to activate the Enable Upgrade, selects \'yes\' and the software patch
transferred by the MBMS User Service, including verification parameters.
**Postcondition :** The software once installed allows the user to view the
MMs that she couldn\'t see before.
#