# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The need to support different kinds of UEs (e.g., for the Internet of Things
(IoT)), services, and technologies is driving the technology revolution to a
high-performance and highly efficient 3GPP system. The drivers include IoT,
Virtual Reality (VR), industrial control, ubiquitous on-demand coverage, as
well as the opportunity to meet customized market needs. These drivers require
enhancements to the devices, services, and technologies well established by
3GPP. The key objective with the 5G system is to be able to support new
deployment scenarios to address diverse market segments.
This document compiles requirements that define a 5G system.
The 5G system is characterised, for example, by:
\- Support for multiple access technologies
\- Scalable and customizable network
\- Advanced Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (e.g., availability, latency,
reliability, user experienced data rates, area traffic capacity)
\- Flexibility and programmability (e.g., network slicing, diverse mobility
management, Network Function Virtualization)
\- Resource efficiency (both user plane and control plane)
\- Seamless mobility in densely populated and heterogeneous environment
\- Support for real time and non-real time multimedia services and
applications with advanced Quality of Experience (QoE)
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the service and operational requirements for a
5G system, including a UE, NG-RAN, and 5G Core network. Requirements for a 5G
E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity in E-UTRAN connected to EPC are found in TS 22.278
[5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] NGMN 5G White Paper v1.0, February 2015.
[3] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[4] NGMN, \"Perspectives on Vertical Industries and Implications for 5G,
v2.0\", September 2016.
[5] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) user
services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios\".
[10] NGMN, \"Recommendations for NGMN KPIs and Requirements for 5G\", June
2016
[11] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[12] Communication network dependability engineering. IEC 61907:2009.
[13] Soriano, R., Alberto, M., Collazo, J., Gonzales, I., Kupzo, F., Moreno,
L., & Lorenzo, J. OpenNode. Open Architecture for Secondary Nodes of the
Electricity Smartgrid. In Proceedings CIRED 2011 21st International Conference
on Electricity Distribution, CD1. June 2011.
[14] North American Electric Reliability Council. Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs) Cyber Security Standards CIP--002--1 through CIP--009--1. Available:
http://www.nerc.com/docs/standards/sar/Revised_CIP-002-009_FAQs_06Mar06.pdf.
2006.
[15] McTaggart, Craig, et al. \"Improvements in power system integrity
protection schemes.\" Developments in Power System Protection (DPSP 2010).
Managing the Change, 10th IET International Conference on. IET, 2010.
[16] IEEE Power Engineering Society -- Power System Relaying Committee \--
System Protection Subcommittee Working Group C-6. Wide Area Protection and
Emergency Control.
[17] Begovic, Miroslav, et al. \"Wide-area protection and emergency control.\"
Proceedings of the IEEE 93.5, pp. 876-891, 2005.
> [18] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on scenarios and requirements for next
> generation access technologies\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**active communication:** a UE is in active communication when it has one or
more connections established. A UE may have any combination of PS connections
(e.g., PDP contexts, active PDN connections).
**activity factor:** percentage value of the amount of simultaneous active UEs
to the total number of UEs where active means the UEs are exchanging data with
the network.
**area traffic capacity:** total traffic throughput served per geographic
area.
**communication service availability** : percentage value of the amount of
time the end-to-end communication service is delivered according to an agreed
QoS, divided by the amount of time the system is expected to deliver the end-
to-end service according to the specification in a specific area.
NOTE 1: The end point in \"end-to-end\" is assumed to be the communication
service interface.
**direct network connection:** one mode of network connection, where there is
no relay UE between a UE and the 5G network.
**end-to-end latency:** the time that takes to transfer a given piece of
information from a source to a destination, measured at the communication
interface, from the moment it is transmitted by the source to the moment it is
successfully received at the destination.
**Hosted Service:** a service containing the operator\'s own application(s)
and/or trusted 3^rd^ party application(s) in the Service Hosting Environment,
which can be accessed by the user.
**IoT device:** a type of UE which is dedicated for a set of specific use
cases or services and which is allowed to make use of certain features
restricted to this type of UEs.
NOTE 3: An IoT device may be optimized for the specific needs of services and
application being executed (e.g., smart home/city, smart utilities, e-Health
and smart wearables). Some IoT devices are not intended for human type
communications.
**network slice:** a set of network functions and corresponding resources
necessary to provide the required telecommunication services and network
capabilities.
**NG-RAN:** a radio access network connecting to the 5G core network which
uses NR, E-UTRA, or both.
**NR:** the new 5G radio access technology.
**priority service:** a service that requires priority treatment based on
regional/national or operator policies.
**private network:** an isolated network deployment that does not interact
with a public network.
**reliability** : in the context of network layer packet transmissions,
percentage value of the packets successfully delivered to a given system
entity within the time constraint required by the targeted service out of all
the packets transmitted.
**satellite access:** direct connectivity between the UE and the satellite.
**service area:** geographic region where a 3GPP communication service is
accessible.
NOTE 4: The service area can be indoors.
NOTE 5: For some deployments, e.g., in process industry, the vertical
dimension of the service area can be considerable.
**service continuity:** the uninterrupted user experience of a service that is
using an active communication when a UE undergoes an access change without, as
far as possible, the user noticing the change.
NOTE 6: In particular service continuity encompasses the possibility that
after a change the user experience is maintained by a different
telecommunication service (e.g., tele- or bearer service) than before the
change.
NOTE 7: Examples of access changes include the following. For EPS: CS/PS
domain change. For EPS and 5G: radio access change.
**Service Hosting Environment:** the environment, located inside of 5G network
and fully controlled by the operator, where Hosted Services are offered from.
**survival time:** the time that an application consuming a communication
service may continue without an anticipated message.
**User Equipment:** An equipment that allows a user access to network services
via 3GPP and/or non-3GPP accesses.
**user experienced data rate:** the minimum data rate required to achieve a
sufficient quality experience, with the exception of scenario for broadcast
like services where the given value is the maximum that is needed.
**wireless backhaul:** a link which provides an interconnection between 5G
network nodes and/or transport network using 5G radio access technology**.**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
3D Three Dimensional
5G Fifth Generation
AR Augmented Reality
A/S Actuator/sensor
E2E End to End
eFMSS Enhancement to Flexible Mobile Service Steering
FMSS Flexible Mobile Service Steering
ICP Internet Content Provider
ID Identification
IOPS Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety
IoT Internet of Things
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MBB Mobile BroadBand
MIoT Massive Internet of Things
MNO Mobile Network Operator
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator
NGMN Next Generation Mobile Networks
QoE Quality of Experience
SEES Service Exposure and Enablement Support
SST Slice/Service Type
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UHD Ultra High Definition
VR Virtual Reality
# 4 Overview
Unlike previous 3GPP systems that attempted to provide a \'one size fits all\'
system, the 5G system is expected to be able to provide optimized support for
a variety of different services, different traffic loads, and different end
user communities. Various industry white papers, most notably, the NGMN 5G
White Paper [2], describe a multi-faceted 5G system capable of simultaneously
supporting multiple combinations of reliability, latency, throughput,
positioning, and availability. This technology revolution is achievable with
the introduction of new technologies, both in access and the core, such as
flexible, scalable assignment of network resources. In addition to increased
flexibility and optimization, a 5G system needs to support stringent KPIs for
latency, reliability, throughput, etc. Enhancements in the air interface
contribute to meeting these KPIs as do enhancements in the core network, such
as network slicing, in-network caching and hosting services closer to the end
points.
A 5G system also supports new business models such as those for IoT and
enterprise managed networks. Drivers for the 5G KPIs include services such as
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) control, Augmented Reality (AR), and factory
automation. Network flexibility enhancements support self-contained enterprise
networks, installed and maintained by network operators while being managed by
the enterprise. Enhanced connection modes and evolved security facilitate
support of massive IoT, expected to include tens of millions of UEs sending
and receiving data over the 5G network.
Flexible network operations are the mainstay of the 5G system. The
capabilities to provide this flexibility include network slicing, network
capability exposure, scalability, and diverse mobility. Other network
operations requirements address the necessary control and data plane resource
efficiencies, as well as network configurations that optimize service delivery
by minimizing routing between end users and application servers. Enhanced
charging and security mechanisms handle new types of UEs connecting to the
network in different ways.
Mobile Broadband (MBB) enhancements aim to meet a number of new KPIs. These
pertain to high data rates, high user density, high user mobility, highly
variable data rates, deployment, and coverage. High data rates are driven by
the increasing use of data for services such as streaming (e.g., video, music,
and user generated content), interactive services (e.g., AR), and IoT. These
services come with stringent requirements for user experienced data rates as
well as associated requirements for latency to meet service requirements.
Additionally, increased coverage in densely populated areas such as sports
arenas, urban areas, and transportation hubs has become essential for
pedestrians and users in urban vehicles. New KPIs on traffic and connection
density enable both the transport of high volumes of data traffic per area
(traffic density) and transport of data for a high number of connections
(e.g., UE density or connection density). Many UEs are expected to support a
variety of services which exchange either a very large (e.g., streaming video)
or very small (e.g., data burst) amount of data. The 5G system will handle
this variability in a resource efficient manner. All of these cases introduce
new deployment requirements for indoor and outdoor, local area connectivity,
high user density, wide area connectivity, and UEs travelling at high speeds.
Another aspect of 5G KPIs includes requirements for various combinations of
latency and reliability, as well as higher accuracy for positioning. These
KPIs are driven by support for both commercial and public safety services. On
the commercial side, industrial control, industrial automation, UAV control,
and AR are examples of those services. Services such as UAV control will
require more precise positioning information that includes altitude, speed,
and direction, in addition to horizontal coordinates.
Support for Massive Internet of Things (MIoT) brings many new requirements in
addition to those for the enhanced KPIs. The expansion of connected things
introduces a need for significant improvements in resource efficiency in all
system components (e.g., UEs, IoT devices, radio, access network, core
network).
The 5G system also aims to enhance its capability to meet KPIs that emerging
V2X applications require. For these advanced applications, the requirements,
such as data rate, reliability, latency, communication range and speed, are
made more stringent.
# 5 High-level requirements
## 5.1 Migration to 5G
### 5.1.1 Description
The 5G system supports most of the existing EPS services, in addition to many
new services. The existing EPS services may be accessed using the new 5G
access technologies even where the EPS specifications might indicate E-UTRA(N)
only. Only new or changed service requirements for new or changed services are
specified in this TS. The few EPS capabilities that are not supported by the
5G system are identified in clause 5.1.2.2 below.
### 5.1.2 Requirements
#### 5.1.2.1 Interworking between 5G systems
The 5G system shall support a UE with a 5G subscription roaming into a 5G
Visited Mobile Network which has a roaming agreement with the UE\'s 5G Home
Mobile Network.
The 5G system shall enable a Visited Mobile Network to provide support for
establishing home network provided data connectivity as well as visited
network provided data connectivity.
The 5G system shall enable a Visited Mobile Network to provide support for
services provided in the home network as well as provide services in the
visited network. Whether a service is provided in the visited network or in
the home network is determined on a service by service basis.
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for a network operator to limit access
to its services for a roaming UE, (e.g., based on roaming agreement).
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for a network operator to direct a UE
onto a partnership network for routing all or some of the UE user plane and
associated control plane traffic over the partnership network, subject to an
agreement between the operators.
#### 5.1.2.2 Legacy service support
The 5G system shall support all EPS capabilities (e.g., from TSs 22.011,
22.101, 22.278, 22.185, 22.071, 22.115, 22.153, 22.173) with the following
exceptions:
\- CS voice service continuity and/or fallback to GERAN or UTRAN,
\- seamless handover between NG-RAN and GERAN,
\- seamless handover between NG-RAN and UTRAN, and
\- access to a 5G core network via GERAN or UTRAN.
#### 5.1.2.3 Interoperability with legacy 3GPP systems
The 5G system shall support mobility procedures between a 5G core network and
an EPC with minimum impact to the user experience (e.g. QoS, QoE).
# 6 Basic capabilities
## 6.1 Network slicing
### 6.1.1 Description
Network slicing allows the operator to provide customised networks. For
example, there can be different requirements on functionality (e.g., priority,
charging, policy control, security, and mobility), differences in performance
requirements (e.g., latency, mobility, availability, reliability and data
rates), or they can serve only specific users (e.g., MPS users, Public Safety
users, corporate customers, roamers, or hosting an MVNO).
A network slice can provide the functionality of a complete network, including
radio access network functions and core network functions (e.g., potentially
from different vendors). One network can support one or several network
slices.
### 6.1.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall allow the operator to create, modify, and delete a network
slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to define and update the set of
services and capabilities supported in a network slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to configure the information which
associates a UE to a network slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to configure the information which
associates a service to a network slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to assign a UE to a network slice, to
move a UE from one network slice to another, and to remove a UE from a network
slice based on subscription, UE capabilities, the access technology being used
by the UE, operator\'s policies and services provided by the network slice.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the VPLMN to assign a UE to a
network slice with the needed services and authorised by the HPLMN, or to a
default network slice.
The 5G system shall enable a UE to be simultaneously assigned to and access
services from more than one network slice of one operator.
Traffic and services in one network slice shall have no impact on traffic and
services in other network slices in the same network.
Creation, modification, and deletion of a network slice shall have no or
minimal impact on traffic and services in other network slices in the same
network.
The 5G system shall support scaling of a network slice, i.e., adaptation of
its capacity.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define a minimum available
capacity for a network slice. Scaling of other network slices on the same
network shall have no impact on the availability of the minimum capacity for
that network slice.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define a maximum capacity
for a network slice.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define a priority order
between different network slices in case multiple network slices compete for
resources on the same network.
The 5G system shall support means by which the operator can differentiate
policy control, functionality and performance provided in different network
slices.
The serving 5G network shall support providing connectivity to home and
roaming users in the same network slice.
In shared 5G network configuration, each operator shall be able to apply all
the requirements from this clause to their allocated network resources.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to configure a specific geographic
area in which a network slice is accessible, i.e., a UE shall be within the
geographical area in order to access the network slice.
## 6.2 Diverse mobility management
### 6.2.1 Description
A key feature of 5G is support for UEs with different mobility management
needs. 5G will support UEs with a range of mobility management needs,
including UEs that are
\- stationary during their entire usable life (e.g., sensors embedded in
infrastructure),
\- stationary during active periods, but nomadic between activations (e.g.,
fixed access),
\- mobile within a constrained and well-defined space (e.g., in a factory),
and
\- fully mobile.
Moreover, some applications require the network to ensure seamless mobility of
a UE so that mobility is hidden from the application layer to avoid
interruptions in service delivery while other applications have application
specific means to ensure service continuity. But these other applications may
still require the network to minimize interruption time to ensure that their
application-specific means to ensure service continuity work effectively.
With the ever-increasing multimedia broadband data volumes, it is also
important to enable the offloading of IP traffic from the 5G network onto
traditional IP routing networks via an IP anchor node close to the network
edge. As the UE moves, changing the IP anchor node may be needed in order to
reduce the traffic load in the system, reduce end-to-end latency and provide a
better user experience.
The flexible nature of a 5G system will support different mobility management
methods that minimize signalling overhead and optimize access for these
different types of UEs.
### 6.2.2 General requirements
The 5G network shall allow operators to optimize network behaviour (e.g.,
mobility management support) based on the mobility patterns (e.g., stationary,
nomadic, spatially restricted mobility, full mobility) of a UE or group of
UEs.
The 5G system shall enable operators to specify and modify the types of
mobility support provided for a UE or group of UEs.
The 5G system shall optimize mobility management support for a UE or group of
UEs that use only mobile originated communications.
### 6.2.3 Service continuity requirements
The 5G system shall enable packet loss to be minimized during inter- and/or
intra- access technology changes for some or all connections associated with a
UE.
For applications that require the same IP address during the lifetime of the
session, the 5G system shall enable maintaining the IP address assigned to a
UE when moving across different cells and access technologies for connections
associated with a UE.
The 5G system shall enable minimizing impact to the user experience (e.g.,
minimization of interruption time) when changing the IP address and IP
anchoring point for some or all connections associated with a UE.
## 6.3 Multiple access technologies
### 6.3.1 Description
The 5G system will support 3GPP access technologies, including one or more NR
and E-UTRA as well as non-3GPP access technologies. Interoperability among the
various access technologies will be imperative. For optimization and resource
efficiency, the 5G system will select the most appropriate 3GPP or non-3GPP
access technology for a service, potentially allowing multiple access
technologies to be used simultaneously for one or more services active on a
UE. New technology such as satellite and wide area base stations will increase
coverage and availability. This clause provides requirements for interworking
with the various combinations of access technologies.
### 6.3.2 Requirements
#### 6.3.2.1 General
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall enable the UE to select, manage,
and efficiently provision services over the 3GPP or non-3GPP access.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support steering a UE to select
certain 3GPP access network(s).
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall be able to dynamically offload
part of the traffic (e.g. from 3GPP RAT to non-3GPP access technology), taking
into account traffic load and traffic type.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall be able to provide simultaneous
data transmission via different access technologies, (e.g., NR, E-UTRA,
non-3GPP), to access one or more 3GPP services.
When a UE is using two or more access technologies simultaneously, the 5G
system shall be able to select between access technologies in use, taking into
account e.g., service, traffic characteristics, radio characteristics, and
UE\'s moving speed.
The 5G system shall be able to support data transmissions optimized for
different access technologies (e.g., 3GPP, non-3GPP) for UEs that are
simultaneously connected to the network via different accesses.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall be able to add or drop the
various access connections for a UE during a session.
The 5G system shall be able to support mobility between the supported access
networks (e.g., NG-RAN, WLAN).
The 5G system shall support UEs with multiple radio and single radio
capabilities.
The 5G system shall support dynamic and static network address allocation of a
common network address to the UE over all supported access types.
The 5G system shall support a set of identities for a single user in order to
provide a consistent set of policies and a single set of services across 3GPP
and non-3GPP access types.
The 5G system shall support the capability to operate in licensed and/or
unlicensed bands.
#### 6.3.2.2 E-UTRA access
The 5G system shall be able to support seamless handover between NR and
E-UTRA.
The 5G system shall support UEs with dual radio capability (i.e., a UE that
can transmit on NR and E-UTRA simultaneously) as well as UEs with single radio
capability (i.e., a UE that cannot transmit on NR and E-UTRA simultaneously).
#### 6.3.2.3 Void
#### 6.3.2.4 Void
## 6.4 Resource efficiency
### 6.4.1 Description
5G introduces the opportunity to design a system to be optimized for
supporting diverse UEs and services. While support for IoT is provided by EPS,
there is room for improvement in efficient resource utilization that can be
designed into a 5G system whereas they are not easily retrofitted into an
existing system. Some of the underlying principles of the potential service
and network operation requirements associated with efficient configuration,
deployment, and use of UEs in the 5G network include bulk provisioning,
resource efficient access, optimization for UE originated data transfer, and
efficiencies based on the reduced needs related to mobility management for
stationary UEs and UEs with restricted range of movement.
As sensors and monitoring UEs are deployed more extensively, the need to
support UEs that send data packages ranging in size from a small status update
in a few bits to streaming video increases. A similar need exists for smart
phones with widely varying amounts of data. Specifically, to support short
data bursts, the network should be able to operate in a mode where there is no
need for a lengthy and high overhead signalling procedure before and after
small amounts of data are sent. The system will, as a result, avoid both a
negative impact to battery life for the UE and wasting signalling resources.
For small form factor UEs it will be challenging to have more than 1 antenna
due to the inability to get good isolation between multiple antennas. Thus
these UEs need to meet the expected performance in a 5G network with only one
antenna.
Cloud applications like cloud robotics perform computation in the network
rather than in a UE, which requires the system to have high data rate in the
uplink and very low round trip latency. Supposed that high density cloud
robotics will be deployed in the future, the 5G system need to optimize the
resource efficiency for such scenario.
Additional resource efficiencies will contribute to meeting the various KPIs
defined for 5G. Control plane resource efficiencies can be achieved by
optimizing and minimizing signalling overhead, particularly for small data
transmissions. Mechanisms for minimizing user plane resources utilization
include in-network caching and application in a Service Hosting Environment
closer to the end user. These optimization efforts contribute to achieving
lower latency and higher reliability.
Diverse mobility management related resource efficiencies are covered in
clause 6.2.
Security related resource efficiencies are covered in clause 8.8.
### 6.4.2 Requirements
#### 6.4.2.1 General
The 5G system shall minimize control and user plane resource usage for data
transfer from send only UEs.
The 5G system shall minimize control and user plane resource usage for
stationary UEs (e.g., lower signalling to user data resource usage ratio).
The 5G system shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or user
plane for transfer of small data units.
The 5G system shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or user
plane for transfer of continuous uplink data that requires both high data rate
(e.g., 10 Mbps) and very low end-to-end latency (e.g., 1-10 ms).
The 5G network shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or
user plane to support high density connections (e.g., 1 million connections
per square kilometre) taking into account, for example, the following
criteria:
\- type of mobility support;
\- communication pattern (e.g., send-only, frequent or infrequent);
\- characteristics of payload (e.g., small or large size data payload);
\- characteristics of application (e.g., provisioning operation, normal data
transfer);
\- UE location;
\- timing pattern of data transfer (e.g., real time or non-delay sensitive).
The 5G system shall efficiently support service discovery mechanisms where UEs
can discover, subject to access rights:
\- status of other UEs (e.g., sound on/off);
\- capabilities of other UEs (e.g., the UE is a relay UE) and/or;
\- services provided by other UEs (e.g., the UE is a colour printer).
The 5G system shall be able to minimise the amount of wireless backhaul
traffic (e.g., consolidating data transmissions to 1 larger rather than many
smaller), when applicable (e.g., providing service in an area subject to power
outages).
The 5G system shall support small form factor UEs with single antenna.
NOTE: Small form factor UEs are typically expected to have the diagonal less
than 1/5 of the lowest supported frequency wave length.
#### 6.4.2.2 Void
#### 6.4.2.3 Void
#### 6.4.2.4 Efficient control plane
The 5G system shall minimize the signalling that is required prior to user
data transmission.
NOTE: The amount of signalling overhead may vary based on the amount of data
to be transmitted, even for the same UE.
## 6.5 Efficient user plane
### 6.5.1 Description
5G is designed to meet diverse services with different and enhanced
performances (e.g., high throughput, low latency and massive connections) and
data traffic model (e.g., IP data traffic, non-IP data traffic, short data
bursts and high throughput data transmissions).
User plane should be more efficient for 5G to support differentiated
requirements. On one hand, a Service Hosting Environment located inside of
operator\'s network can offer Hosted Services closer to the end user to meet
localization requirement like low latency, low bandwidth pressure. These
Hosted Services contain applications provided by operators and/or trusted 3rd
parties. On the other hand, user plane paths can be selected or changed to
improve the user experience or reduce the bandwidth pressure, when a UE or
application changes location during an active communication.
### 6.5.2 Requirements
Based on operator policy, application needs, or both, the 5G system shall
support an efficient user plane path between UEs attached to the same network,
modifying the path as needed when the UE moves during an active communication.
The 5G network shall enable a Service Hosting Environment provided by
operator.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall be able to support routing of
data traffic between a UE attached to the network and an application in a
Service Hosting Environment for specific services, modifying the path as
needed when the UE moves during an active communication.
Based on operator policy, application needs, or both, the 5G system shall
support an efficient user plane path , modifying the path as needed when the
UE moves or application changes location ,between a UE in an active
communication and:
\- an application in a Service Hosting Environment, or
\- an application server located outside the operator's network.
The 5G network shall maintain user experience (e.g., QoS, QoE) when a UE in an
active communication moves from a location served by a Service Hosting
Environment to:
\- another location served by a different Service Hosting Environment, or
\- another location served by an application server located outside the
operator's network, and vice versa.
The 5G network shall maintain user experience (e.g., QoS, QoE) when an
application for a UE moves as follows:
\- within a Service Hosting Environment, or
\- from a Service Hosting Environment to another Service Hosting Environment,
or
\- from a Service Hosting Environment to an application server located place
outside the operator's network, and vice versa.
The 5G network shall be able to interact with applications in a Service
Hosting Environment for efficient network resource utilization and offloading
data traffic to the Service Hosting Environment close to the UE\'s point of
attachment to the access network.
The 5G network shall support configurations of the Service Hosting Environment
in the network (e.g., access network, core network), that provide application
access close to the UE\'s point of attachment to the access network.
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to enable a UE to access the closest
Service Hosting Environment for a specific hosted application or service.
The 5G network shall enable instantiation of applications for a UE in a
Service Hosting Environment close to the UE\'s point of attachment to the
access network.
The 5G system shall be able to suspend or stop application instances in a
Service Hosting Environment.
NOTE: Not all applications will always be available in all Service Hosting
Environments. Therefore, it may be needed to instantiate an application at a
Service Hosting Environment nearby for serving a particular UE.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall provide a mechanism such that
one type of traffic (from a specific application or service) to/from a UE can
be offloaded close to the UE\'s point of attachment to the access network,
while not impacting other traffic type to/from that same UE.
## 6.6 Efficient content delivery
### 6.6.1 Description
Video-based services (e.g., live streaming, VR) and personal data storage
applications have been instrumental for the massive growth in mobile broadband
traffic. Subject to service agreement between the operator and the content
provider, the information of content and content itself can be aware by
operator. In-network content caching provided by the operator, a 3^rd^ party
or both, can improve user experience, reduce backhaul resource usage and
utilize radio resource efficiently.
The operation of in-network caching includes flexible management of the
location of the content cache within the network and efficient delivery of
content to and from the appropriate content caching application. Examples of
services are the delivery of popular video content from a content caching
application via broadcast, and secure storage of a user\'s personal data or
files using a distributed caching application. Such a service could also
provide a student with a wireless backpack, where students can resume their
work through the same or a different UE at any time, with very fast response
times from the network.
### 6.6.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall enable efficient delivery of content from a content
caching application under the control of the operator (e.g., a cache located
close to the UE).
The 5G system shall support a content caching application in a UE under the
control of the operator.
The 5G system shall support configurations of content caching applications in
the network (e.g., access network, core network), that provide content close
to the UE.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support an efficient mechanism
for selection of a content caching application (e.g., minimize utilization of
radio, backhaul resources and/or application resource) for delivery of the
cached content to the UE.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the operator to manage content
distribution across content caching applications.
The 5G system shall support delivery of cached content from a content caching
application via the broadcast/multicast service.
## 6.7 Priority, QoS, and policy control
### 6.7.1 Description
The 5G network will support many commercial services (e.g., medical) and
regional or national regulatory services (e.g., MPS, Emergency, Public Safety)
with requirements for priority treatment. Some of these services share common
QoS characteristics such as latency and packet loss rate, but may have
different priority requirements. For example, UAV control and air traffic
control may have stringent latency and reliability requirements but not
necessarily the same priority requirements. In addition, voice based services
for MPS and Emergency share common QoS characteristics as applicable for
normal public voice communications, yet may have different priority
requirements. The 5G network will need to support mechanisms that enable the
decoupling of the priority of a particular communication from the associated
QoS characteristics such as latency and reliability to allow flexibility to
support different priority services (that need to be configurable to meet
operator needs, consistent with operator policies and corresponding national
and regional regulatory policies).
The network needs to support flexible means to make priority decisions based
on the state of the network (e.g., during disaster events and network
congestion) recognizing that the priority needs may change during a crisis.
The priority of any service may need to be different for a user of that
service based on operational needs and regional or national regulations.
Therefore, the 5G system should allow a flexible means to prioritise and
enforce prioritisation among the services (e.g., MPS, Emergency, medical,
Public Safety) and among the users of these services. The traffic
prioritisation may be enforced by adjusting resource utilization or pre-
empting lower priority traffic.
The network must offer ~~a~~ means to provide the required QoS (e.g.,
reliability, latency, and bandwidth) for a service and the ability to
prioritize resources when necessary to meet the service requirements. Existing
QoS and policy frameworks handle latency and improve reliability by traffic
engineering. In order to support 5G service requirements, it is necessary for
the 5G network to offer QoS and policy control for reliable communication with
latency required for a service and enable the resource adaptations as
necessary.
Also, as 5G network is expected to operate in a heterogeneous environment with
multiple access technologies, multiple types of UE, etc., it should support a
harmonised QoS and policy framework that applies to multiple accesses.
Further, for QoS control in EPS only covers RAN and core network, but for 5G
network E2E QoS (e.g., RAN, backhaul, core network, network to network
interconnect) is needed to achieve the 5G user experience (e.g., ultra-low
latency, ultra-high bandwidth).
### 6.7.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall allow flexible mechanisms to establish and enforce
priority policies among the different services (e.g., MPS, Emergency, medical,
Public Safety) and users.
NOTE 1: Priority between different services is subject to regional or national
regulatory and operator policies.
The 5G system shall be able to provide the required QoS (e.g., reliability,
end-to-end latency, and bandwidth) for a service and support prioritization of
resources when necessary for that service.
The 5G system shall allow decoupling of the priority of a particular
communication from the associated QoS characteristics such as end-to-end
latency and reliability.
The 5G system shall be able to support a harmonised QoS and policy framework
applicable to multiple accesses.
The 5G system shall be able to support E2E (e.g., UE to UE) QoS for a service.
NOTE 2: E2E QoS needs to consider QoS in the access networks, backhaul, core
network, and network to network interconnect.
The 5G system shall be able to support QoS for applications in a Service
Hosting Environment.
## 6.8 Dynamic policy control
The 5G system shall support the creation and enforcement of prioritisation
policy for users and traffic, during connection setup and when connected.
NOTE: Prioritisation, pre-emption, and precedence of critical traffic
associated with certain priority services (e.g., MPS and Emergency) are
subject to regional/national regulatory and operator policies.
The 5G system shall support optimised signalling for prioritised users and
traffic where such signalling is prioritized over other signalling traffic.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall allow flexible means to create
and enforce priority among the different service flows by authorized users.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall allow real-time, dynamic, secure
and limited interaction with the QoS and policy framework for modification of
the QoS and policy framework by authorized users.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall maintain a session when
prioritization of that session changes in real time, provided that the new
priority is above the threshold for maintaining the session.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall allow modifications by
authorized users and context aware network functionality to the QoS and policy
framework to have a variable duration.
## 6.9 Void
### 6.9.1 Void
### 6.9.2 Void
## 6.10 Network capability exposure
### 6.10.1 Description
3GPP SEES and (e)FMSS features allow the operator to expose network
capabilities e.g., QoS policy to 3^rd^ party ISPs/ICPs. With the advent of 5G,
new network capabilities need to be exposed to the 3^rd^ party (e.g., to allow
the 3^rd^ party to customize a dedicated network slice for diverse use cases;
to allow the 3^rd^ party to manage a trusted 3^rd^ party application in a
Service Hosting Environment to improve user experience, and efficiently
utilize backhaul and application resources).
Applications may be frugal at periods when resources are rare and can
compensate and anticipate as much as they can if timely network status
information is aware by application; otherwise. Applications may be
disconnected in case of user mobility.
### 6.10.2 Requirements
The following set of requirements complement the requirements listed in 3GPP
TS 22.101 [6], clause 29.
Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a
trusted 3^rd^ party to create, modify, and delete network slices used for the
3^rd^ party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted 3^rd^ party to monitor the network slice used for the 3^rd^ party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted 3^rd^ party to define and update the set of services and
capabilities supported in a network slice used for the 3^rd^ party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted 3^rd^ party to configure the information which associates a UE to a
network slice used for the 3^rd^ party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted 3^rd^ party to configure the information which associates a service
to a network slice used for the 3^rd^ party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted 3^rd^ party to assign a UE to a network slice used for the 3^rd^
party, to move a UE from one network slice used for the 3rd party to another
network slice used for the 3rd party, and to remove a UE from a network slice
used for the 3rd party based on subscription, UE capabilities, and services
provided by the network slice.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted 3^rd^ party to scale a network slice used for the 3rd party, i.e.,
to adapt its capacity.
Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
3^rd^ party to offload one type of traffic (from trusted 3^rd^ party owned
applications in the operator\'s Service Hosting Environment) to/from a UE to a
Service Hosting Environment close to the UE\'s location.
## 6.11 Context aware network
### 6.11.1 Description
A variety of sensors such as accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer,
barometer, proximity sensor, and GPS can be integrated in a UE. Also,
different applications running on the UE can have different communication
needs (e.g., different traffic time). In addition, a UE can support different
access technologies such as NR, E-UTRA, WLAN access technology, and fixed
broadband access technology. The information gathered by sensors, the utilized
access technologies, the application context, and the application traffic
characteristics can provide useful information to the applications installed
in the UE and can also help the 5G system utilize resources in an efficient
and optimized way.
### 6.11.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall support network resource utilization efficiently and
network optimization based on system information, including:
\- network conditions, such as network load and congestion information;
\- information on served UEs such as access information (e.g., 3GPP access,
non-3GPP access), cell type (e.g., macro cell, small cell), user experienced
data rate;
\- application\'s characteristics (e.g., expected traffic over time);
\- information on prioritized communication such as user subscription profile
and priority level, priority services (e.g., MPS, Emergency, and Public
Safety), application used for priority communications (e.g., voice, video, and
data) and traffic associated with priority communications (signalling and
media);
\- subject to user consent, enhanced traffic characteristic of UE (e.g.,
Mobility information (e.g., no mobility, nomadic, spatially restricted
mobility, full mobility), location, sensor-level information (e.g., direction,
speed, power status, display status, other sensor information installed in the
UE), application-level information (e.g., foreground applications, running
background application, and user settings).
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to collect system information for
network optimization within an operator configured time scale.
## 6.12 Void
## 6.13 Void
## 6.14 Subscription aspects
### 6.14.1 Description
With the Internet of Things, it is expected that the diversity of IoT devices
(e.g., sensors, UAVs, smart flower pots) and the usage models will largely
vary. Moreover, when the IoT device is manufactured, the deployment location
and specific usage may not be known. Sometimes the IoT devices will be added
to existing subscriptions, other times they may be part of a new subscription
for the user. Sometimes the IoT devices may be leased. During their life cycle
these IoT devices go through different stages, involving the change in
ownership when the IoT device is deployed and possibly afterwards, the
activation of the IoT device by the preferred operator, a possible change of
operators, etc. These stages need to be managed securely and efficiently. A
method of dynamic subscription generation and management is needed in addition
to statically provisioned subscription. Once the subscription is established,
subscription management becomes necessary, for example, to modify the
subscription when the ownership of the IoT device changes, to update or
refresh credentials due to suspected leakage or theft of security keys or as a
preventive measure.
The Internet of Things will also support various connectivity models: The IoT
devices can connect with the network directly. In order to identify and manage
the IoT devices, a subscription with the 5G network is needed, even if the
access is done via non-3GPP access.
### 6.14.2 Requirements
An IoT device which is able to access a 5G PLMN in direct network connection
mode using a 3GPP RAT shall have a 3GPP subscription.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to identify a UE as an IoT device based
on UE characteristics (e.g., identified by an equipment identifier or a range
of equipment identifiers) or subscription or the combination of both.
The 5G system shall be able to provide mechanisms to change the association
between a subscription and address/number of an IoT device (e.g., changing the
owner and subscription information associated with the IoT device) within the
same operator and in between different operators in an automated or manual
way.
The 5G system shall be able to support identification of subscriptions
independently of identification of IoT devices. Both identities shall be
secure.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support a mechanism to provision
on-demand connectivity (e.g. IP connectivity for remote provisioning). This
on-demand mechanism should enable means for a user to request on-the-spot
network connectivity while providing operators with identification and
security tools for the provided connectivity.
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism for a home operator to remotely
provision the 3GPP credentials of a uniquely identifiable and verifiably
secure IoT device.
## 6.15 Energy efficiency
### 6.15.1 Description
Energy efficiency is a critical issue in 5G. The potential to deploy systems
in areas without a reliable energy source requires new methods of managing
energy consumption not only in the UEs but throughout all components of the 5G
system.
Small form factor UEs also typically have a small battery and this not only
puts constrains on general power optimization but also on how the energy is
consumed. With smaller batteries it is more important to understand and follow
the limitations for the both the maximum peak and continuous current drain.
### 6.15.2 Requirements
The 5G access network shall support an energy saving mode with the following
characteristics:
\- the energy saving mode can be activated/deactivated either manually or
automatically;
\- service can be restricted to a group of users (e.g., public safety user,
emergency callers).
NOTE: When in energy saving mode the UE\'s and Access transmit power may be
reduced or turned off (deep sleep mode), end-to-end latency and jitter may be
increased with no impact on set of users or applications still allowed.
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to improve battery life for a UE over
what is possible in EPS.
The 5G system shall support UEs using small rechargeable and single coin cell
batteries (e.g., considering impact on maximum pulse and continuous current).
## 6.16 Markets requiring minimal service levels
### 6.16.1 Description
A key aspect of 5G system flexibility is the ability to support both the very
high end markets as well as very low end markets. Some systems will be
deployed in areas where there are constraints on energy resources (e.g.,
sporadic access to power) and lower end user expectations for availability,
reliability, and data rates. In such cases, the system needs additional
flexibility to adapt power consumption needs based on fluctuations in power
availability. The system should be efficient in order to provide essential
services in harsh environments (e.g., far remote rural areas, very large
territories) while taking into account the local constraints (adapting
resources consumptions to long distances, dealing with variable conditions and
possibly disconnections). Content delivery should be optimized in order to
reduce constraints on transport networks, on low-end UEs (e.g., small screen,
limited energy consumption), variable network conditions, and client profiles.
### 6.16.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall be able to give priority to services (e.g., e-Health) when
resources are limited.
## 6.17 Extreme long range coverage in low density areas
### 6.17.1 Description
A fully connected society is expected in the near future. The network access
everywhere over long distances (e.g., at extreme rural areas or at sea) for
both humans and machines needs to be supported.
### 6.17.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall support the extreme long range coverage (up to 100 km) in
low density areas (up to 2 user/km^2^).
The 5G system shall support a minimum user throughput of 1 Mbps on DL and 100
kbps on UL at the edge of coverage.
The 5G system shall support a minimum cell throughput capacity of 10 Mbps/cell
on DL (based on an assumption of 1 GB/month/sub).
## 6.18 Void
## 6.19 3GPP access network selection
### 6.19.1 Description
The 5G system will support the concept of \"network slices\" where different
NG-RANs potentially are connected to network slices of different SSTs. A 5G UE
can provide assistance information (e.g., SST) to enable the network to select
one or more network slices. A 5G system is foreseen to support one or more
SSTs, but possibly not all existing SSTs.
A 5G network operator controls and is responsible for what SSTs that should be
available to a specific UE and subscription combination, based on associated
subscription type, network operator policies, network capabilities and UE
capabilities. The network operator can populate the Operator Controlled PLMN
Selector list with associated access technology identifiers, stored in the 5G
UE, with the PLMN/RAT combinations enabling access to the SSTs that are
available to the 5G UE with associated subscription.
The UE uses the list of PLMN/RAT combinations for PLMN selection, if
available, typically during roaming situations. In non-roaming situations, the
UE and subscription combination typically matches the HPLMN/EHPLMN
capabilities and policies, from a SST perspective. That is, a 5G UE accessing
its HPLMN/EHPLMN should be able to access SSTs according to UE capabilities
and the related subscription.
Optionally, a 5G system supports, subject to operator policies, a User
Controlled PLMN Selector list that enables the 5G UE user to specify preferred
PLMNs with associated access technology identifier in priority order. The user
may have obtained information about suitable PLMN/RAT combination that would
support services preferred by the user.
### 6.19.2 Requirements
The following set of requirements complement the requirements listed in 3GPP
TS 22.011 [3], clause 3.2.
The 5G system shall support selection among any available PLMN/RAT
combinations, identified through their respective PLMN identifier and Radio
Access Technology identifier, in a prioritised order. The priority order may,
subject to operator policies, be provisioned in an Operator Controlled PLMN
Selector lists with associated RAT identifiers, stored in the 5G UE.
The 5G system shall support, subject to operator policies, a User Controlled
PLMN Selector list stored in the 5G UE, allowing the UE user to specify
preferred PLMNs with associated RAT identifier in priority order.
## 6.20 eV2X aspects
### 6.20.1 Description
The 3GPP system is expected to support various enhanced V2X scenarios.
Vehicles Platooning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a group
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon receive periodic data
from the leading vehicle, in order to carry on platoon operations. This
information allows the distance between vehicles to become extremely small,
i.e., the gap distance translated to time can be very low (sub second).
Platooning applications may allow the vehicles following to be autonomously
driven.
Advanced Driving enables semi-automated or fully-automated driving. Longer
inter-vehicle distance is assumed. Each vehicle and/or RSU shares data
obtained from its local sensors with vehicles in proximity, thus allowing
vehicles to coordinate their trajectories or manoeuvres. In addition, each
vehicle shares its driving intention with vehicles in proximity. The benefits
of this use case group are safer traveling, collision avoidance, and improved
traffic efficiency.
Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video data among vehicles, Road Site Units, UEs
of pedestrians and V2X application servers. The vehicles can enhance the
perception of their environment beyond what their own sensors can detect and
have a more holistic view of the local situation.
Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive themselves or a remote
vehicle located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. In addition, access to cloud-based back-
end service platform can be considered for this use case group.
### 6.20.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system supports the transport of messages with different performance
requirements to support V2X scenarios. The associated requirements are
described in eV2X 3GPP TS 22.186 [9].
## 6.21 NG-RAN Sharing
### 6.21.1 Description
The increased density of access nodes needed to meet future performance
objectives poses considerable challenges in deployment and acquiring spectrum
and antenna locations. RAN sharing is seen as a technical solution to these
issues.
### 6.21.2 Requirements
Requirements related to NG-RAN sharing are described in 3GPP TS 22.101 [6],
clause 28.2.
6.22 Unified access control
6.22.1 Description
Depending on operator policies, deployment scenarios, subscriber profiles, and
available services, different criterion will be used in determining which
access attempt should be allowed or blocked when congestion occurs in the 5G
System. These different criteria for access control are associated with Access
Identities and Access Categories. The 5G system will provide a single unified
access control where operators control access attempts based on these two
aspects.
In unified access control, each access attempt is categorized into one or more
of the Access Identities and one of the Access Categories. Based on the access
control information applicable for the corresponding Access Identity and
Access Category of the access attempt, the UE performs a test whether the
actual access attempt can be made or not.
The unified access control supports extensibility to allow inclusion of
additional standardized Access Identities and Access Categories and supports
flexibility to allow operators to define operator-defined Access Categories
using their own criterion (e.g. network slicing, application, and application
server).
NOTE: Sections 4.1 through 4.4a of TS 22.011 are obsolete and replaced by
Section 6.22.2 of this specification. However, when a UE is configured for EAB
according to TS 22.011, the UE is also configured for delay tolerant service
for 5G system.
6.22.2 Requirements
#### 6.22.2.1 General
Based on operator's policy, the 5G system shall be able to prevent UEs from
accessing the network using relevant barring parameters that vary depending on
Access Identity and Access Category. Access Identities are configured at the
UE as listed in Table 6.22.2.2-1. Access Categories are defined by the
combination of conditions related to UE and the type of access attempt as
listed in Table 6.22.2.3-1. One or more Access Identities and only one Access
Category are selected and tested for an access attempt.
The 5G network shall be able to broadcast barring control information (i.e. a
list of barring parameters associated with an Access Identity and an Access
Category) in one or more areas of the RAN.
The UE shall be able to determine whether or not a particular new access
attempt is allowed based on barring parameters that the UE receives from the
broadcast barring control information and the configuration in the UE.
In the case of multiple core networks sharing the same RAN, the RAN shall be
able to apply access control for the different core networks individually.
The unified access control framework shall be applicable both to UEs accessing
the 5G CN using E-UTRA and to UEs accessing the 5G CN using NR.
The unified access control framework shall be applicable to UEs in RRC Idle,
RRC Inactive, and RRC Connected at the time of initiating a new access attempt
(e.g. new session request).
NOTE1: \"new session request\" in RRC Connected refers to events, e.g. new
MMTEL voice or video session, sending of SMS (SMS over IP, or SMS over NAS),
new PDU session establishment, existing PDU session modification, and service
request to re-establish the user plane for an existing PDU session.
The 5G system shall support means by which the operator can define operator-
defined Access Categories to be mutually exclusive.
NOTE 2: Examples of criterion of operator-defined Access Categories are
network slicing, application, and application server.
The unified access control framework shall be applicable to inbound roamers to
a PLMN.
The serving PLMN should be able to provide the definition of operator-defined
Access Categories to the UE.
#### 6.22.2.2 Access identities
Table 6.22.2.2-1: Access Identities
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Access Identity number** | **UE configuration** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 0 | UE is not configured with any | | | parameters from this table | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1 (NOTE 1) | UE is configured for Multimedia | | | Priority Service (MPS). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2 (NOTE 2) | UE is configured for Mission | | | Critical Service (MCS). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3-10 | Reserved for future use | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 11 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 11 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 12 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 12 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 13 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 13 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 14 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 14 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 15 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 15 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Access Identity 1 is | | | used by UEs configured for MPS, | | | in the PLMNs where the | | | configuration is valid. The | | | PLMNs where the configuration is | | | valid are HPLMN, PLMNs | | | equivalent to HPLMN, and visited | | | PLMNs of the home country. | | | Access Identity 1 is also valid | | | when the UE is explicity | | | authorized by the network based | | | on specific configured PLMNs | | | inside and outside the home | | | country. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Access Identity 2 is | | | used by UEs configured for MCS, | | | in the PLMNs where the | | | configuration is valid. The | | | PLMNs where the configuration is | | | valid are HPLMN or PLMNs | | | equivalent to HPLMN and visited | | | PLMNs of the home country. | | | Access Identity 2 is also valid | | | when the UE is explicity | | | authorized by the network based | | | on specific configured PLMNs | | | inside and outside the home | | | country. | | | | | | NOTE 3: Access Identities 11 and | | | 15 are valid in Home PLMN only | | | if the EHPLMN list is not | | | present or in any EHPLMN. Access | | | Identities 12, 13 and 14 are | | | valid in Home PLMN and visited | | | PLMNs of home country only. For | | | this purpose, the home country | | | is defined as the country of the | | | MCC part of the IMSI. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Any number of these Access Identities may be barred at any one time.
#### 6.22.2.3 Access categories
Table 6.22.2.3-1: Access Categories
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Access Category |** Conditions related | **Type of access | | number** | to UE**| attempt** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 0 | All | MO signalling | | | | resulting from | | | | paging | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 (NOTE 1) | UE is configured for | All except for | | | delay tolerant | Emergency | | | service and subject | | | | to access control | | | | for Access Category | | | | 1, which is judged | | | | based on relation of | | | | UE's HPLMN and the | | | | selected PLMN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | All | Emergency | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | All except for the | MO signalling on NAS | | | conditions in Access | level resulting from | | | Category 1. | other than paging | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4 | All except for the | MMTEL voice (NOTE 3) | | | conditions in Access | | | | Category 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | All except for the | MMTEL video | | | conditions in Access | | | | Category 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6 | All except for the | SMS | | | conditions in Access | | | | Category 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7 | All except for the | MO data that do not | | | conditions in Access | belong to any other | | | Category 1. | Access Categories | | | | (NOTE 4) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 8 | All except for the | MO signalling on RRC | | | conditions in Access | level resulting from | | | Category 1 | other than paging | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 9-31 | | Reserved | | | | standardized Access | | | | Categories | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 32-63 (NOTE 2) | All | Based on operator | | | | classification | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The barring | | | | parameter for Access | | | | Category 1 is | | | | accompanied with | | | | information that | | | | define whether | | | | Access Category | | | | applies to UEs | | | | within one of the | | | | following | | | | categories:\ | | | | a) UEs that are | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service;\ | | | | b) UEs that are | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service and | | | | are neither in their | | | | HPLMN nor in a PLMN | | | | that is equivalent | | | | to it;\ | | | | c) UEs that are | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service and | | | | are neither in the | | | | PLMN listed as most | | | | preferred PLMN of | | | | the country where | | | | the UE is roaming in | | | | the operator-defined | | | | PLMN selector list | | | | on the SIM/USIM, nor | | | | in their HPLMN nor | | | | in a PLMN that is | | | | equivalent to their | | | | HPLMN.\ | | | | When a UE is | | | | configured for EAB, | | | | the UE is also | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service. In | | | | case a UE is | | | | configured both for | | | | EAB and for EAB | | | | override, when upper | | | | layer indicates to | | | | override Access | | | | Category 1, then | | | | Access Category 1 is | | | | not applicable. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: When there | | | | are an Access | | | | Category based on | | | | operator | | | | classification and a | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category to both of | | | | which an access | | | | attempt can be | | | | categorized, and the | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category is neither | | | | 0 nor 2, the UE | | | | applies the Access | | | | Category based on | | | | operator | | | | classification. When | | | | there are an Access | | | | Category based on | | | | operator | | | | classification and a | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category to both of | | | | which an access | | | | attempt can be | | | | categorized, and the | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category is 0 or 2, | | | | the UE applies the | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Includes | | | | Real-Time Text (RTT) | | | | . | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Includes IMS | | | | Messaging. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Access Category 0 shall not be barred, irrespective of Access Identities.
NOTE: The network can control the amount of access attempts relating to Access
Category 0 by controlling whether to send paging or not.
# 7 Performance requirements
## 7.1 High data rates and traffic densities
Several scenarios require the support of very high data rates or traffic
densities of the 5G system. The scenarios address different service areas:
urban and rural areas, office and home, and special deployments (e.g., massive
gatherings, broadcast, residential, and high-speed vehicles). The scenarios
and their performance requirements can be found in table 7.1-1.
\- Urban macro -- The general wide-area scenario in urban area
\- Rural macro -- The general wide-area scenario in rural area
\- Indoor hotspot -- The scenario for offices and homes, and residential
deployments.
\- Broadband access in a crowd -- The scenario for very dense crowds, for
example, at stadiums or concerts. In addition to a very high connection
density the users want to share what they see and hear, putting a higher
requirement on the uplink than the downlink.
\- Dense urban -- The scenario for pedestrian users, and users in urban
vehicles, for example, in offices, city centres, shopping centres, and
residential areas. The users in vehicles can be connected either directly or
via an onboard base station to the network.
\- Broadcast-like services -- The scenario for stationary users, pedestrian
users, and users in vehicles, for example, in offices, city centres, shopping
centres, residential areas, rural areas and in high speed trains. The
passengers in vehicles can be connected either directly or via an onboard base
station to the network.
\- High-speed train -- The scenario for users in trains. The users can be
connected either directly or via an onboard base station to the network.
\- High-speed vehicle -- The scenario for users in road vehicles. The users
can be connected either directly or via an onboard base station to the
network.
\- Airplanes connectivity -- The scenario for users in airplanes. The users
can be connected either directly or via an onboard base station to the
network.
Table 7.1-1 Performance requirements for high data rate and traffic density
scenarios.
| Scenario | Experienced data rate (DL) | Experienced data rate (UL) | Area traffic capacity (DL) | Area traffic capacity (UL) | Overall user density | Activity factor | UE speed | Coverage  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | Urban macro | 50 Mbps | 25 Mbps | 100 Gbps/km2 (note 4) | 50 Gbps/km2 (note 4) | 10 000/km2 | 20% | Pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 120 km/h | Full network (note 1)  
2 | Rural macro | 50 Mbps | 25 Mbps | 1 Gbps/km2 (note 4) | 500 Mbps/km2 (note 4) | 100/km2 | 20% | Pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 120 km/h | Full network (note 1)  
3 | Indoor hotspot | 1 Gbps | 500 Mbps | 15 Tbps/km2 | 2 Tbps/km2 | 250 000/km2 | note 2 | Pedestrians | Office and residential (note 2) (note 3)  
4 | Broadband access in a crowd | 25 Mbps | 50 Mbps | [3,75] Tbps/km2 | [7,5] Tbps/km2 | [500 000]/km2 | 30% | Pedestrians | Confined area  
5 | Dense urban | 300 Mbps | 50 Mbps | 750 Gbps/km2 (note 4) | 125 Gbps/km2 (note 4) | 25 000/km2 | 10% | Pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 60 km/h) | Downtown (note 1)  
6 | Broadcast-like services | Maximum 200 Mbps (per TV channel) | N/A or modest (e.g., 500 kbps per user) | N/A | N/A | [15] TV channels of [20 Mbps] on one carrier | N/A | Stationary users, pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 500 km/h) | Full network (note 1)  
7 | High-speed train | 50 Mbps | 25 Mbps | 15 Gbps/train | 7,5 Gbps/train | 1 000/train | 30% | Users in trains (up to 500 km/h) | Along railways (note 1)  
8 | High-speed vehicle | 50 Mbps | 25 Mbps | [100] Gbps/km2 | [50] Gbps/km2 | 4 000/km2 | 50% | Users in vehicles (up to 250 km/h) | Along roads (note 1)  
9 | Airplanes connectivity | 15 Mbps | 7,5 Mbps | 1,2 Gbps/plane | 600 Mbps/plane | 400/plane | 20% | Users in airplanes (up to 1 000 km/h) | (note 1)  
NOTE 1: For users in vehicles, the UE can be connected to the network directly, or via an on-board moving base station. NOTE 2: A certain traffic mix is assumed; only some users use services that require the highest data rates [2]. NOTE 3: For interactive audio and video services, for example, virtual meetings, the required two-way end-to-end latency (UL and DL) is 2‑4 ms while the corresponding experienced data rate needs to be up to 8K 3D video [300 Mbps] in uplink and downlink. NOTE 4: These values are derived based on overall user density. Detailed information can be found in [10]. NOTE 5: All the values in this table are targeted values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 7.2 Low latency and high reliability
### 7.2.1 Overview
Several scenarios require the support of very low latency and very high
communications service availability. Note that this implies a very high
reliability. The overall service latency depends on the delay on the radio
interface, transmission within the 5G system, transmission to a server which
may be outside the 5G system, and data processing. Some of these factors
depend directly on the 5G system itself, whereas for others the impact can be
reduced by suitable interconnections between the 5G system and services or
servers outside of the 5G system, for example, to allow local hosting of the
services.
### 7.2.2 Scenarios and KPIs
Some scenarios requiring very low latency and very high communication service
availability are described below:
\- Discrete automation -- Discrete automation is characterised by high
requirements on the communications system regarding reliability and
availability. Systems supporting discrete automation are usually deployed in
geographically limited areas, access to them may be limited to authorised
users, and they may be isolated from networks or network resources used by
other cellular customers.
\- Process automation -- Automation for (reactive) flows, e.g., refineries and
water distribution networks. Process automation is characterized by high
requirements on the communications system regarding communication service
availability. Systems supporting process automation are usually deployed in
geographically limited areas, access to them is usually limited to authorised
users, and it will usually be served by private networks.
\- Automation for electricity distribution (mainly medium and high voltage).
Electricity distribution is characterized by high requirements on the
communications service availability. In contrast to the above use cases,
electricity distribution is deeply immersed into the public space. Since
electricity distribution is an essential infrastructure, it will, as a rule,
be served by private networks.
\- Intelligent transport systems -- Automation solutions for the
infrastructure supporting street-based traffic. This use case addresses the
connection of the road-side infrastructure, e.g., road side units, with other
infrastructure, e.g., a traffic guidance system. As is the case for automation
electricity, the nodes are deeply immersed into the public space.
The example scenarios and their performance requirements can be found in table
7.2.2-1.
Table 7.2.2-1 Examples of performance requirements for low-latency and high-
reliability scenarios.
Scenario | Max. allowed end-to-end latency (note 2) | Survival time | Communication service availability (note 3) | Reliability (note 3) | User experienced data rate | Payload size (note 4) | Traffic density  
(note 5) | Connection density  
(note 6) | Service area dimension  
(note 7)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Discrete automation | 10 ms | 0 ms | 99,99% | 99,99% | 10 Mbps | Small to big | 1 Tbps/km2 | 100 000/km2 | 1000 x 1000 x 30 m  
Process automation – remote control | 60 ms | 100 ms | 99,9999% | 99,999% | 1 Mbps up to 100 Mbps | Small to big | 100 Gbps/km2 | 1 000/km2 | 300 x 300 x 50 m  
Process automation ‒ monitoring | 60 ms | 100 ms | 99,9% | 99,9% | 1 Mbps | Small | 10 Gbps/km2 | 10 000/km2 | 300 x 300 x 50  
Electricity distribution – medium voltage | 40 ms | 25 ms | 99,9% | 99,9% | 10 Mbps | Small to big | 10 Gbps/km2 | 1 000/km2 | 100 km along power line  
Electricity distribution – high voltage  
(note 1) | 5 ms | 10 ms | 99,9999% | 99,999% | 10 Mbps | Small | 100 Gbps/km2 | 1 000/km2 (note 8) | 200 km along power line  
Intelligent transport systems –  
infrastructure backhaul | 30 ms | 100 ms | 99,9999% | 99,999% | 10 Mbps | Small to big | 10 Gbps/km2 | 1 000/km2 | 2 km along a road  
NOTE 1: Currently realised via wired communication lines. NOTE 2: This is the maximum end-to-end latency allowed for the 5G system to deliver the service in the case the end-to-end latency is completely allocated to the 5G system from the UE to the Interface to Data Network. NOTE 3: Communication service availability relates to the service interfaces, and reliability relates to a given system entity. One or more retransmissions of network layer packets may take place in order to satisfy the reliability requirement. NOTE 4: Small: payload typically ≤ 256 bytes NOTE 5: Based on the assumption that all connected applications within the service volume require the user experienced data rate. NOTE 6: Under the assumption of 100% 5G penetration. NOTE 7: Estimates of maximum dimensions; the last figure is the vertical dimension. NOTE 8: In dense urban areas. NOTE 9: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. Deployment configurations should be taken into account when considering service offerings that meet the targets. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
To support ultra reliable low latency communication services, the 5G system
shall support the transmission over the radio interface of a packet of 32
bytes with a reliability of 99,999% and a user plane latency of 1ms, as
described in 3GPP TR 38.913 [18].
The 5G system shall be capable of providing sufficient QoS levels to support
low latency and high reliability communication services for:
\- \"Discrete automation\", as described in the table 7.2.2-1, with the
maximum delay within the 5G system of 10 ms and 99,99% reliability.
\- \"Process automation -- remote control\", as described in the table
7.2.2-1, with the maximum delay within the 5G system of 60 ms and 99,999%
reliability.
\- \"Process automation ‒ monitoring\", as described in the table 7.2.2-1,
with the maximum delay within the 5G system of 60 ms and 99,9% reliability.
\- \"Electricity distribution -- medium voltage\", as described in the table
7.2.2-1, with the maximum delay within the 5G system of 40 ms and 99,9%
reliability.
\- \"Electricity distribution -- high voltage\", as described in the table
7.2.2-1, with the maximum delay within the 5G system of 5 ms and 99,999%
reliability.
\- \"Intelligent transport systems -- infrastructure backhaul\", as described
in the table 7.2.2-1, with the maximum delay within the 5G system of 30 ms and
99,999% reliability.
### 7.2.3 Other requirements
Audio-visual interaction is characterised by a human being interacting with
the environment or people, or controlling a UE, and relying on audio-visual
feedback. In the use cases like VR and interactive conversation the latency
requirements include the latencies at the application layer (e.g., codecs),
which could be specified outside of 3GPP.
To support VR environments with low motion-to-photon capabilities, the 5G
system shall support:
\- motion-to-photon latency in the range of 7-15ms while maintaining the
required user data rate of [250Mbps] and
\- motion-to-sound delay of [\ 10 km^-2^), and the number of connections to each ring main
unit is expected to increase swiftly once economical, suitable wireless
connectivity becomes available. We predict connection densities of up to 1.000
km^-2^.
#### D.4.1.2 Security
Due to its central role in virtually every country on earth, electricity
distribution is heavily regulated. Security assessment for, e.g., deployments
in North America, need to adhere to the NERC CIP suite [14]. Technical
implementations are described in standard suites such as IEC 62351.
### D.4.2 Energy distribution -- high voltage
In order to avoid region- or even nation-wide power outages, wide-area power
system protection is on the rise. \"When a major power system disturbance
occurs, protection and control actions are required to stop the power system
degradation, restore the system to a normal state and minimize the impact of
the disturbance. The present control actions are not designed for a fast-
developing disturbance and may be too slow. Local protection systems are not
able to consider the overall system, which may be affected by the disturbance.
Wide area disturbance protection is a concept of using system-wide information
and sending selected local information to a remote location to counteract
propagation of the major disturbances in the power system.\" [15]. Protection
actions include, \"among others, changes in demand (e.g. load shedding),
changes in generation or system configuration to maintain system stability or
integrity and specific actions to maintain or restore acceptable voltage
levels.\" [16]. One specific application is phasor measurement for the
stabilisation of the alternating-current phase in a transport network. For
this, the voltage phase is measured locally and sent to a remote control
centre. There, this information is processed and automated actions are
triggered. One can be the submission of telegrams to power plants, instructing
them to either accelerate or deaccelerate their power generators in order to
keep the voltage phase in the transport network stable. A comprehensive
overview of this topic can be found elsewhere in the literature [17].
This kind of automation requires very low end-to-end latencies (5 ms) [16]
and―due to its critical importance for the operation of society―a very high
communication service availability (99,9999%).
#### D.4.2.1 Service area and connection density
As is the case for medium-voltage distribution networks (see Annex D.4.1),
connectivity in high-voltage automation has to be provided mainly along the
power line. The distances to be covered can be substantial (hundreds of
kilometres in rural settings), while shorter links are prevalent in
metropolitan areas. The number of connections in wide-area power system
protection is rather low; but―due to the sliver-shaped service area―the
connection density can be rather high (1000 km^-2^).
#### D.4.2.2 Security
Due to its central role in virtually every country on earth, electricity
distribution is heavily regulated. Security assessment for, e.g., deployments
in North America, need to adhere to the NERC CIP suite [14]. Technical
implementations are described in standard suites such as IEC 62351.
## D.5 Intelligent transport systems -- infrastructure backhaul
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) embrace a wide variety of communications-
related applications that are intended to increase travel safety, minimize
environmental impact, improve traffic management, and maximize the benefits of
transportation to both commercial users and the general public. Over recent
years, the emphasis in intelligent vehicle research has turned to co-operative
systems in which the traffic participants (vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
etc.) communicate with each other and/or with the infrastructure.
Cooperative ITS is the term used to describe technology that allows vehicles
to become connected to each other, and to the infrastructure and other parts
of the transport network. In addition to what drivers can immediately see
around them, and what vehicle sensors can detect, all parts of the transport
system will increasingly be able to share information to improve decision
making. Thus, this technology can improve road safety through avoiding
collisions, but also assist in reducing congestion and improving traffic
flows, and reduce environmental impacts. Once the basic technology is in place
as a platform, an array of applications can be developed.
Cooperative ITS can greatly increase the quality and reliability of
information available about vehicles, their location and the road environment.
In the future, cars will know the location of road works and the switching
phases of traffic lights ahead, and they will be able to react accordingly.
This will make for safer and more convenient travel and faster arrival at the
destination. On-board driver assistance, coupled with two-way communication
between vehicles and between cars and road infrastructure, can help drivers to
better control their vehicle and hence have positive effects in terms of
safety and traffic efficiency. An important role in this plays the so-called
road-side units (RSUs). Vehicles can also function as sensors reporting
weather and road conditions including incidents. In this way cars can be used
as information sources for high-quality information services.
RSUs are connected to the traffic control centre for management and control
purposes. They broadcast e.g. traffic light information (RSU  vehicle) and
traffic information from the traffic-control centre (TCC) via the RSU to the
vehicles (TCC  RSU  vehicle); and collect vehicle probe data for the traffic
control centre (vehicle  RSU  TCC). For reliable distribution of data, low-
latency and high-capacity connections between RSUs (e.g. traffic lights,
traffic signs, etc.) and the TCC is required. This type of application comes
with rather tight end-to-end latency requirements for the communication
service between RSU and TCC (10 ms) since relayed data needs to be processed
in the TCC and, if needed, the results need to be forwarded to neighbouring
RSUs. Also, the availability of the communication service has to be very high
(99,9999%) in order to compete with existing wired technology and in order to
justify the costly deployment and maintenance of RSUs. Furthermore, due to
considerably large aggregation areas (see Annex D.5.1), considerable amounts
of data need to be backhauled to the TCC (up to 10 Mbps per RSU).
### D.5.1 Service area and connection density
It is relatively hard to provide estimates for the service area dimension. One
reason is that it depends on the placement of the base station relative to the
RSUs. Also, the RSUs can, in principle, act as relay nodes for each other. The
service area dimension stated in table 7.2.2-1 indicates the size of the
typical data collection area of an RSU (2 km along a road), from which the
minimum spacing of RSUs can be inferred. The connection density can be quite
high in case data is relayed between RSUs, i.e. along the road (1000 km^-2^).
###### ## Annex E (informative): Higher-accuracy positioning use cases
## E.1 Mobile objects on factory floor
If a factory floor contains mobile objects such as forklifts or parts to be
assembled moving along on suspension tracks, it is important to know their
position in order to avoid collisions. The position needs to be acquired
quickly within 500 ms, it might be longer for slow-moving objects. In any
case, the position accuracy is very high (0,5 m). Furthermore, the higher-
accuracy network positioning service requires a high availability (99,99%) but
can survive with a missed measurement (survival time of 1 s).
The factory floor unit to be served is usually up to 500 x 500 x 30 m. It can
be assumed that there are only few fast-moving objects (e.g. forklifts) but
many slow-moving objects (parts to be assembled on suspension tracks) on the
factory floor.
Often, the position is transmitted to neighbouring (mobile) objects and a
control and monitoring centre.
#