# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the service requirements for Isolated E-UTRAN
Operation in support of mission critical network operation for Public Safety.
In particular, requirements are specified for:
\- Initiation of Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
\- Ongoing Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
\- Termination of Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
\- Security aspects of Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Services aspects; Service principles\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Isolated E-UTRAN:** either an E-UTRAN without normal connectivity with the
EPC or deployed NeNBs with E-UTRAN functionality.
**Isolated E-UTRAN operation** : Comprises two situations: 1) In the event of
an interruption to normal backhaul connectivity Isolated E-UTRAN operation
aims to adapt to the failure and maintain an acceptable level of network
operation in the Isolated E-UTRAN. The restoration of service is the eventual
goal. 2) Operation following the deployment of one or more Nomadic eNBs either
without backhaul or with limited backhaul.
**Limited backhaul capability** : Isolated E-UTRAN operation supports
operation where the Isolated E-UTRAN has no backhaul capability to the EPC.
Furthermore Isolated E-UTRAN operation may have limited backhaul capability to
the EPC. For the case of limited backhaul capability to the EPC only the
signalling of public safety Ues can reliably be communicated to the EPC; in
addition users may have the possibility to transmit a limited amount of user
data with no guarantee of service.
**Nomadic eNB (NeNB)** : An NeNB is a nomadic cell and may consist: base
station, antennas, microwave backhaul and support for local services. The NeNB
is intended for Public Safety use providing coverage or additional capacity
where: 1) coverage was never present (e.g. forest fire or underground rescue)
or 2) where, for example, due to natural disaster coverage is no longer
present.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NeNB Nomadic eNB
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Service description
Ensuring the continued ability of Public Safety users to communicate within
mission critical situations is of the utmost importance. The Isolated E-UTRAN
mode of operation provides the ability to maintain a level of communications
for Public Safety users, via an eNB (or set of connected eNBs), following the
loss of backhaul communications. The Isolated E-UTRAN mode of operation also
provides the ability to create a serving radio access network without backhaul
communications, from a deployment of one or more standalone Nomadic eNBs
(NeNBs). In addition the Isolated EUTRAN feature also addresses the scenario
where a fixed or nomadic set of eNBs is without normal backhaul communications
but has been provided with an alternative (non-ideal) limited bandwidth
backhaul.
An Isolated E-UTRAN may comprise a deployment of one or more NeNBs. In this
case operator control would initiate Isolated E-UTRAN operation for a group of
NeNBs in a given incident area. An Isolated E-UTRAN derived from NeNBs
exhibits similar behaviour to an Isolated E-UTRAN derived from eNBs including:
support for Public Safety Ues in the coverage area, communication between
NeNBs and support for limited backhaul connectivity.
The Isolated E-UTRAN may comprise a single or multiple eNBs, a single or
multiple NeNBs, or a mixed group of eNBs and NeNBs. An Isolated E-UTRAN
comprising multiple (N)eNBs, with connections between the (N)eNBs, can provide
communication between Ues across a wider area of coverage than can be provided
by a single isolated (N)eNB. The Ues in the coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN
are able to continue communicating and provide a restricted set of services
supporting voice, data and group communications, to their Public Safety users.
An Isolated E-UTRAN is characterized by having no, or a limited, backhaul
connection. In particular, the Isolated E-UTRAN feature enables services to be
provided to Public Safety Ues in the following backhaul scenarios (see also
Table 4.1-1):
\- No backhaul;
\- Limited bandwidth signalling only backhaul;
\- Limited bandwidth signalling and user data backhaul.
Table 4.1-1: Isolated E-UTRAN scenarios
* * *
IOPS Scenario Signalling backhaul status User Data backhaul status Comment
**No backhaul** Absent Absent Fully Isolated E-UTRAN operation using local
routing of UE-UE data traffic and possible support for access to the public
internet via a local gateway **Signalling only backhaul** Limited Absent User
data traffic offload at the E-UTRAN using local routing of UE-UE data traffic
and possible support for access to the public internet via a local gateway
**Limited backhaul** Limited Limited Selective user data traffic offload at
the E-UTRAN using local routing of UE-UE data traffic and possible support for
access to the public internet via a local gateway **Normal backhaul** Normal
Normal Normal EPC connected operation
* * *
# 5 Service requirements
## 5.1 General requirements
Isolated E-UTRAN operation shall not impact either GSM or UMTS.
The use of Isolated E-UTRAN operation shall be authorized by the operator. The
network controls the use of E-UTRAN resources used for Isolated E-UTRAN
operation.
When a Public Safety UE communicates within the Isolated E-UTRAN, the PLMN
operator shall be able to collect accounting data for this communication.
## 5.2 Subscriber and service management requirements
### 5.2.1 Introduction (informative)
In order to provide efficient Isolated E-UTRAN operation it is necessary that
eNBs (and NeNBs) capable of forming and joining an Isolated E-UTRAN are able
to support certain functions locally thereby providing services of importance
to the Public Safety community.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
Public Safety Ues served only by an Isolated E-UTRAN will not possess user
plane connectivity to an external IP network due to the absence of backhaul
connectivity to the Mobile Operator Network. The Isolated E-UTRAN may support
Selected IP Traffic Offload at the Local Network, compatible with the service
principles defined in [2], in order to provide connectivity to external IP
networks (e.g. internet) when a backhaul connection (limited or otherwise) is
present.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to make use of a limited backhaul
connection to exchange control plane signalling with the EPC.
The Isolated E-UTRAN may use the limited backhaul connection to exchange user
plane data with the EPC.
NOTE: There is no quality of service expectations for user plane data.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall support mobility for Public Safety Ues between the
eNBs comprising the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to establish \'local routing\' and ProSe
Group Communication for the Public Safety Ues in coverage of the Isolated
E-UTRAN.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to provide voice and data communications
services to all Public Safety Ues and groups under the coverage of the
Isolated E-UTRAN.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall allow Public Safety Ues under its coverage to
initiate and maintain voice and data communications with other Public Safety
Ues and groups under the coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall be capable of informing served Public Safety Ues
about which other Public Safety Ues the Isolated E-UTRAN is serving. The
Isolated E-UTRAN shall support restrictions upon the provision of this
information according to security policy.
NOTE: For example, information on users within a served user\'s organization
could be sent to that served user, and information on users could be provided
to other users within the same group. Lists of served users and/or served
groups could be obtained from the network or could be compiled from
information collected from the Ues served by the isolated system.
### 5.2.3 Interoperability with MCPTT
The following requirements define a minimal set of MCPTT capabilities that are
needed to provide MCPTT support under Isolated E-UTRAN operation. These
requirements apply only to users under coverage of the same Isolated E-UTRAN.
These requirements apply to (N)eNBs which support MCPTT communications when
not operating in an Isolated E-UTRAN.
A mechanism to pre-provision group membership, including MCPTT Emergency Group
membership, shall be supported.
NOTE: Groups may be pre-provisioned on an organization basis or may cross
organizational boundaries.
A Public Safety user shall be able to initiate an MCPTT Emergency Group call
that reaches the following, when preconfigured as affiliated Group Members:
\- a dispatcher (the dispatcher may be connected directly to the (N)eNB or via
a UE)
\- members of the group under the coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN and/or;
\- all Ues under the coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
During Isolated E-UTRAN operation each group shall be able to initiate at
least one MCPTT voice group communication that all the group\'s authorized
members are allowed to join, up to the limit of available radio resources.
MCPTT voice group communication shall be able to pre-empt video communications
or other data services.
## 5.3 Requirements for initiation of Isolated E-UTRAN operation
### 5.3.1 Introduction (informative)
The initiation of Isolated E-UTRAN operation occurs in the event an eNB
determines that there is an interruption to normal backhaul connectivity. At
this point the eNB can determine if it still has connectivity to other eNBs.
It is necessary for services to be set up and a limited backhaul, that might
be present, needs to be taken into consideration. The Isolated E-UTRAN needs
to inform the UE that it is now working in an Isolated E-UTRAN and an
indication to this effect is passed on to the Public Safety user.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
An eNB supporting Isolated E-UTRAN operation shall be able to detect a loss of
backhaul connection and shall be able to initiate Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
An (N)eNB shall be informed by O&M procedures if its backhaul connection is of
limited bandwidth (e.g. a temporary nomadic backhaul deployment or a
replacement backhaul in a disaster situation).
Under operator control an NeNB shall be able to initiate Isolated E-UTRAN
operation.
When an eNB enters Isolated E-UTRAN operation it shall be able to, if
permitted by operator policy, minimize disruption to existing established
services between those Public Safety Ues served by the eNB. The eNB shall
terminate services that cannot be supported locally by the Isolated E-UTRAN or
by the limited backhaul service if that is available.
When an (N)eNB enters Isolated E-UTRAN operation services shall be supported
for all Public Safety Ues under the coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
An Isolated E-UTRAN may comprise one or more (N)eNBs.
An (N)eNB supporting Isolated E-UTRAN operation which has initiated Isolated
E-UTRAN operation shall attempt to communicate with known peer (N)eNBs for the
purpose of commencing Isolated E-UTRAN joint operation.
(N)eNBs engaged in Isolated E-UTRAN joint operation shall be able to exchange
user traffic and signalling with other (N)eNBs belonging to the same Isolated
E-UTRAN.
An Isolated E-UTRAN shall provide an indication to Public Safety Ues within
the coverage area regarding whether limited bandwidth backhaul services are
available or whether support is available for local services only. An Isolated
E-UTRAN shall be capable of continuing to provide this indication until the
Isolated E-UTRAN operation is terminated.
A Public Safety UE served by an Isolated E-UTRAN shall provide an indication
to the user that the user is communicating within an Isolated E-UTRAN and
whether a limited backhaul service is available or whether support is
available for local services only.
## 5.4 Requirements for ongoing Isolated E-UTRAN operation
### 5.4.1 Introduction (informative)
It is necessary to manage the potentially dynamic ongoing operation of an
Isolated E-UTRAN where:
\- Public Safety Ues join and leave the Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- eNBs join and leave the Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- NeNBs join and leave the Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- Isolated E-UTRANs may be combined to form larger Isolated E-UTRANs or may
be split up in smaller Isolated E-UTRANs.
The EPS should monitor the status of a disconnected or limited bandwidth
backhaul with the intention of re-establishing a normal connection between the
Isolated E-UTRAN and the EPC.
### 5.4.2 Requirements
The EPS shall monitor the status of a disconnected backhaul with the intention
of re-establishing a connection to the EPC.
The EPS shall monitor the status of a limited bandwidth backhaul connection
with the intention of re-establishing normal operation with the EPC.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall admit Public Safety Ues to the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall manage Public Safety UE mobility between (N)eNBs
within the Isolate E-UTRAN.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall possess the ability to add (N)eNBs to the Isolated
E-UTRAN.
NOTE: An (N)eNB added to the Isolated E-UTRAN may be an (N)eNB which possess a
limited backhaul connection. Furthermore the (N)eNB with a limited backhaul
connection admitted to the Isolated E-UTRAN may be the only (N)eNB in the
Isolated E-UTRAN that possesses a limited backhaul connection.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall support the ability to combine with another
Isolated E-UTRAN to form a larger combined Isolated E-UTRAN.
No disruption shall be caused to local services within the remaining Isolated
E-UTRAN due to an (N)eNB leaving the Isolated E-UTRAN
NOTE: The (N)eNB leaving the Isolated E-UTRAN may be the only (N)eNB in the
Isolated E-UTRAN which possess a limited backhaul connection.
No disruption shall be caused to local services within the remaining Isolated
E-UTRANs due to an Isolated E-UTRAN being subdivided.
## 5.5 Requirements for termination of an Isolated E-UTRAN
### 5.5.1 Introduction (informative)
In the event that the EPS detects a restored backhaul it attempts to re-
establish a connection between the EPC and (N)eNB. On successful re-
establishment of a connection to the EPC the (N)eNB reverts to the normal EPC
connected mode of operation. While reverting to the EPC connected mode of
operation the (N)eNB will transition all Public Safety Ues with active
contexts to operation under the control of the EPC.
When the connection to the EPC is restored, Public Safety Ues, which were
served by the (N)eNB as part of the Isolated E-UTRAN can indicate to the
Public Safety user that EPC connected services are once again available.
### 5.5.2 Requirements
If the Isolated E-UTRAN is operating without any backhaul connection the EPS
shall on detection of a restored backhaul attempt to re-establish a connection
between the EPC and (N)eNB.
If the Isolated E-UTRAN is operating with a limited bandwidth backhaul
connection the EPS shall on detection of a restored full bandwidth backhaul
attempt to re-establish normal operation between the EPC and (N)eNB.
While re-establishing a connection to the EPC, or normal operation with the
EPC, the EPS shall be able to manage, for all Ues with active contexts, the
transition, where appropriate, of local services provided by the Isolated
E-UTRAN to equivalent services provided via the EPC.
Having re-established control plane and user plane connections to the EPC,
which are not restricted by a limited backhaul capability, the (N)eNB shall
cease to provide the local services and routing which characterized Isolated
E-UTRAN operation.
When an (N)eNB ceases Isolated E-UTRAN operation the (N)eNB shall cease to
provide any indications, to Public Safety Ues within its coverage area,
regarding the availability of only limited bandwidth backhaul services and/or
whether support is available only for local services. Public Safety Ues served
by the (N)eNB shall be able to indicate to the user the cessation of the
restricted Isolated E-UTRAN mode of operation and/or the availability of
normal EPC connected services.
## 5.6 Requirements for security aspects of Isolated E-UTRAN operation
### 5.6.1 Introduction (informative)
The Isolated E-UTRAN is expected to provide for the authentication of
participating entities and for the confidentiality and integrity of
communications. Provision of these security features is required for:
\- UE to (N)eNB communication;
\- (N)eNB to (N)eNB communication;
\- UE to UE communication, i.e. for the case of ProSe operation within the
Isolated E-UTRAN.
### 5.6.2 Requirements
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall support the following requirements for security,
authorization and privacy in each of the three IOPS backhaul scenarios (see
scenarios 1-3 in Table 4.1-1).
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall ensure the confidentiality and integrity of both
user data and network signalling to a level comparable with that provided by
the existing 3GPP system. This requirement applies to any communication
between two Public Safety Ues communicating via the Isolated E-UTRAN and
between an (N)eNB providing locally connected services and a Public Safety UE
connected to the Isolated E-UTRAN.
A mechanism shall be provided to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of
user data and signalling over the radio communication paths and over any
inter-(N)eNB communication paths of an Isolated E-UTRAN.
Existing 3GPP security mechanisms (including, but not necessarily limited to,
ProSe security mechanisms) shall be reused whenever possible and appropriate.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall provide mechanism(s) to ensure mutual
authentication between an Isolated E-UTRAN and (N)eNBs, or other Isolated
E-UTRANs, joining the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The Isolated E-UTRAN shall provide mechanism(s) to ensure mutual
authentication between an Isolated E-UTRAN and Ues connecting to the Isolated
E-UTRAN.
The security mechanism(s) supported by an Isolated E-UTRAN shall be consistent
with the dynamic nature of an Isolated E-UTRAN. The security of credentials
shall not be compromised by solutions for Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
#