# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
The present document aims to support the maritime communication services
between users ashore and at sea or between vessels at sea over 3GPP system
that are targeted to improve maritime safety, protect the maritime environment
and promote the efficiency of shipping by reducing maritime casualty caused by
human error, in particular, involving small ships and fishing vessels. In
addition, the outcome of the technical report is expected to narrow the
information gap between mobile users on land and shipboard users on vessels at
sea by making it possible to provide the mobile broadband services.
The document describes use cases and potential requirements for services
between shore-based users such as authorities and shipboard users in the
maritime radio communication environment over 3GPP system. In addition, it
deals with use cases to support Mission Critical Services between authorities
on land and authorities at sea (e.g. maritime police) as well as use cases to
support the interworking between 3GPP system and the existing/future maritime
radio communication system for the seamless service of voice communication and
data communication between users ashore and at sea or between vessels at sea.
Analysis is also made on which legacy services and requirements from the
existing 3GPP system need to be included and which potential requirements need
additional work for new functions to support maritime communication services
over 3GPP system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
It is preferred that the reference to 21.905 be the first in the list.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Overview
This clause provides a high-level overview of the feature that includes:
\- description of feature
\- benefit(s) the feature provide to the operator, end user, etc
\- any other (background) information that helps the reader understand the
feature
# 5 Use Cases for Mobile Broadband Services for Users at Sea
## 5.1 Use case on video streaming service in the cabin or on the deck
### 5.1.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where users experience video streaming
service in the cabin or on the deck of the vessel.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Because most of vessels are made of the steel material, UEs on the
vessel(especially in the cabin of the vessel) access 3GPP network via the
indirect network connection provided by another UE that plays a role as a
relay UE for other UEs on the vessel and is deployed at the top of the vessel.
> NOTE: Depending on the vessel capacity and the number of users on the
> vessel, the relay UE might be incapable of supporting the indirect network
> connection for all UEs on the vessel. In this use case, it is assumed that
> the size of a vessel and the number of users on the vessel are reasonable to
> have 3GPP network access via the relay UE.
UEs on the deck are capable of accessing 3GPP networks via direct network
connection or via indirect network connection depending on the UE constraint
related to the uplink transmission capability.
UEs on the vessel are subscribed and connected to a 3GPP network.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
Bob is now on his yacht that is far away from the shore (e.g. 100 km distance
from the shore) for his holidays.
He turns on the device that is positioned at the top of the yacht and is the
relay UE that connects to 3GPP network.
The device automatically establishes the indirect network connection to
provide 3GPP network access to UEs on the yacht.
Bob moves into the steel cabin of the yacht and enjoys the video streaming
service from his tablet via the indirect network connection.
He wants to watch it on the deck of the yacht because the weather suddenly
turns to be clear so moves out of the steel cabin with his table while keeping
watching the video streaming service.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
Bob enjoyed the video streaming service on the deck as well as in the steel
cabin of the vessel.
### 5.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified
### 5.1.6 Potential Requirements
3GPP system shall support the extreme long range coverage at sea (up to 100
km).
3GPP system shall provide a mechanism to establish and keep a 3GPP network
connection for UEs on the vessel when UEs are to be connected to 3GPP system
via an indirect network connection or when there is any UE constraint on the
uplink transmission capability at sea.
Downlink video streaming service shall be accessible by the direct network
connection or the indirect network connection for users at sea.
> Editor's NOTE: It is FFS on whether the service continuity shall be
> supported between in direct network connection and in indirect network
> connection at sea.
# 6 Use Cases for Machine Type Communication Services inside a Vessel, between
Vessels and between UEs at Sea
## 6.1 Use case title
### 6.1.1 Description
### 6.1.2 Pre-conditions
### 6.1.3 Service Flows
### 6.1.4 Post-conditions
### 6.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
### 6.1.6 Potential Requirements
# 7 Use Cases for Maritime Communication Services between Authorities and
Users at Sea
## 7.1 Maritime single window service
### 7.1.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where the reports required for the ship's
arrival or departure are automatically processed by automatic system-to-system
data exchange and by automated ship clearance functions.
Maritime single window (MSW) service collects information from reporting
formalities required before or at ship's arrival or departure, distributes the
information to the relevant authorities, and records decisions and comments
from the authorities and communicates them to users such as shore-based users
or shipboard users.
### 7.1.2 Pre-conditions
Ships that need to report for their arrival or departure are within the
territorial waters that are in the coverage supported by 3GPP system so that
ship information can be automatically transmitted between ships and
authorities.
Ships are subscribed to maritime single window service that allows them to
have automatic system-to-system data exchange and automated ship clearance
functions.
Ship information provided by ship data providers who are shipping companies,
ship agents and ship masters is ready to be sent over 3GPP system for
reporting on ship's arrival or departure.
Ship identification information to be reported is prefilled with information
from the ship database managed by the maritime single window administrator.
### 7.1.3 Service Flows
When a ship is approaching to the port, a shipboard user powers on MSW capable
UE which accesses 3GPP system, connects to the core network and authenticates
with ship's credentials in the core network.
The shipboard user successfully enters user's identification and
authentication credentials into MSW capable UE to gain access to MSW
application on MSW capable UE and MSW service.
MSW application on MSW capable UE establishes a connection with the MSW
service using application layer security and authenticates with MSW service
using a specific shipboard user identification obtained from the credentials
of the shipboard user.
After successful authentication, the shipboard user sends the reporting
information required for ship's arrival or departure to MSW server and files
such as copies of electronic ship certificate can be attached if needed.
MSW server sends the reception indication of the reporting information to MSW
capable UE if all required information is successfully received, and then
forwards the received reporting information to shore-based users such as
authorities who are in charge of customs, security, border control, health,
maritime safety and port authority correspondingly for ship's arrival or
departure.
Acknowledgement including decisions made by one or more authorities is sent to
the shipboard user via MSW service to notify the shipboard user about the
result on the immigration inspection based on the reporting information sent
by the shipboard user.
### 7.1.4 Post-conditions
The ship successfully completed the automatic reports required for ship's
arrival and departure and arrived at the port or departs from the port if the
acknowledgement is indicated as "accepted".
### 7.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified
### 7.1.6 Potential Requirements
> Editor's note: Potential requirements are to be provided.
## 7.2 Use case on communication for search and rescue
### 7.2.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where a user saves the life by receiving
the immediate emergency treatment by the tele-medical service accessible
between the patrol boat of coast guards at sea and the health organization on
land after the maritime emergency request is transmitted to the maritime
rescue co-ordination centre that transmits the maritime notification message
informing the emergency event to patrol boats of coast guards at sea.
### 7.2.2 Pre-conditions
The patrol boat of the coast guard is equipped with the tele-medical treatment
machine that is connected to national health organization or dedicated health
organization such as a hospital for the tele-medical service over 3GPP system.
In addition, the patrol boat is in the coverage of 3GPP system at sea and
mission critical services such as MCVideo and MCData are supported for the
communication between the coast guard in the patrol boat and a doctor in
health organizations in order to provide tele-medical services.
Because most of yacht are made of the steel material, UEs on the yacht
(especially in the steel cabin of the yacht) access 3GPP network via the
indirect network connection provided by another UE that plays a role as a
relay UE and is deployed at the top of the yacht.
### 7.2.3 Service Flows
When Jiho and her friends are spending their summer vacation on the yacht at
sea, Jiho suddenly collapses in the steel cabin of the yacht so one of her
friends sends a maritime emergency request to the maritime rescue co-
ordination centre using her mobile device through the indirect network
connection provided by the relay UE.
The maritime rescue co-ordination centre transmits the maritime notification
message about the emergency event and the location of the yacht to all patrol
boats of coast guards around the yacht at sea.
One of patrol boats is fortunately very close to the yacht so sends the reply
message back to the maritime rescue co-ordination centre in order to indicate
that they will move to Jiho's yacht.
Jiho needs the immediate medical treatment when the coast guards arrive at the
yacht so they move her to the patrol boat to take her to the hospital on land.
The coast guard requests the maritime rescue co-ordination centre to call for
the ambulance that takes her to the hospital as soon as the patrol boat
arrives at the port while the tele-medical service is provided to her through
tele-medical treatment machine in the patrol boat.
The doctor examines her health status based on the video information
transmitted from the tele-medical treatment machine over the relay UE that is
connected to 3GPP system.
### 7.2.4 Post-conditions
Coast guard took the proper medical action for Jiho according to the
instruction of the doctor thanks to the tele-medical service in the patrol
boat before arriving at the port so they saved her life.
### 7.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified
### 7.2.6 Potential Requirements
A UE shall transmit the maritime emergency request with the location
information of the UE at sea to the mission critical organisation (e.g.
maritime rescue co-ordination centre) when the UE transmits the maritime
emergency request via the indirect network connection.
The 3GPP network shall transmit the maritime notification message including
the user's location information extracted from the maritime emergency request
and optionally emergency event information to inform.
An MCX UE shall receive the maritime notification message transmitted from the
mission critical organisation over 3GPP system and an MCX UE may receive the
maritime notification message transmitted from the mission critical
organisation via the indirect network connection provided by the relay UE
connecting to 3GPP system.
A UE at sea may receive the maritime notification message transmitted from the
mission critical organisation over 3GPP system.
The MCX UE shall transmit the maritime response message including the location
information of the authority (e.g. the location of the patrol boat of the
coast guard) at sea to the mission critical organization over 3GPP system.
3GPP system shall support the capability of transmitting vessel's location
information used in the legacy maritime communication in case there is any
equipment providing such location information inside the vessel.
Editor's Note: It is FFS on whether MCVideo service and MCData service shall
be accessible by the indirect network connection provided by the relay UE for
the communication between the coast guard of the patrol boat and a doctor in a
health organization to support the tele-medical service.
Editor's Note: the requirements above need further.
# 8 Use Cases for Interworking and Harmonization
## 8.1 Use case title
### 8.1.1 Description
### 8.1.2 Pre-conditions
### 8.1.3 Service Flows
### 8.1.4 Post-conditions
### 8.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
### 8.1.6 Potential Requirements
# 9 Considerations
## 9.1 Considerations on ...
Provide any additional aspects not considered in the use cases, or that need
further elaboration.
Text to be provided.
# 10 Potential Requirements
Text to be provided.
# 11 Conclusion and Recommendations
Text to be provided.
###### ### Annex A: IMO Maritime Service Portfolios
> Editor's note: This annex is provided here as the informative annex for the
> time being until detailed use cases are described in the technical report.
> This annex will be removed before the technical report is approved if it is
> concluded not to be included or it will be referenced in the section 2 of
> the technical report if it is worth to keep them in the document.
16 maritime service portfolios (MSPs) have been identified as the means of
providing electronic information in a harmonized way and the following six
areas have been identified for the delivery of MSPs:
1) Port areas and approaches;
2) Coastal waters and confined or restricted areas;
3) Open sea and open areas;
4) areas with offshore and/or infrastructure developments;
5) Polar areas; and
6) other remote areas.
Given that the content of MSPs will be developed by different international
organizations, coordination among these organizations is a priority to ensure
harmonisation of scope, format, structure, display on board, and communication
systems used to transmit the information electronically.
The IHO S-100 framework has been chosen as a baseline for the common maritime
data structure (CMDS) for e-navigation. The maritime safety committee has
already authorized the establishment of an IMO-IHO Harmonization Group on Data
Modelling (HGDM) (MSC 90/28/Add.1, annex 22) to consider matters related to
the framework for data access and information services under the scope of
SOLAS.
Following description on 16 MSPs is extracted from IMO NCSR 1-28 Report To The
Maritime Safety Committee.
# A.1 MSP 1: VTS Information Service
Vessel traffic service (VTS) is a shore-side system which range from the
provision of simple information messages to ships, such as position of other
traffic or meteorological hazard warnings, to extensive management of traffic
within a port or waterway.
Generally, ships entering a VTS area report to the authorities, usually by
radio, and may be tracked by the VTS control centre. Ships must keep watching
on a specific frequency for navigational or other warnings, while they may be
contacted directly by the VTS operator if there is risk of an incident or, in
areas where traffic flow is regulated, to be given advice on when to proceed.
Regulation 12 on vessel traffic services that is described in the SOLAS
(International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea) Chapter V states:
1\. VTS contribute to safety of life at sea, safety and efficiency of
navigation and protection of the marine environment, adjacent shore areas,
work sites and offshore installations from possible adverse effects of
maritime traffic.
2\. Contracting Governments undertake to arrange for the establishment of VTS
where, in their opinion, the volume of traffic or the degree of risk justifies
such services.
3\. Contracting Governments planning and implementing VTS shall, wherever
possible, follow the guidelines developed by the Organization. The use of VTS
may only be made mandatory in sea areas within the territorial seas of a
coastal State.
4\. Contracting Governments shall endeavour to secure the participation in,
and compliance with, the provisions of vessel traffic services by ships
entitled to fly their flag.
5\. Nothing in this regulation or the guidelines adopted by the Organization
shall prejudice the rights and duties of Governments under international law
or the legal regimes of straits used for international navigation and
archipelagic sea lanes.
End-users of VTS Information Service (IS) identified as MSP1 could be shore-
based users such as VTS authority and shipboard users such as a ship master or
crew who has the access right to VTS IS.
The VTS IS is defined as a service to ensure that essential information
becomes available in time for onboard navigational decision making.
Relevant information is broadcasted at fixed times and intervals or provided
when deemed necessary by the VTS or at the request of a vessel.
A VTS IS involves maintaining a traffic image and allows interaction with
traffic and response to developing traffic situations. A VTS IS should provide
essential and timely information to assist the onboard decision-making
process, which may include but is not limited to:
\- the position, identity, intention and destination of vessels;
> \- amendments and changes in promulgated information concerning the VTS area
> such as boundaries, procedures, radio frequencies, reporting points;
\- the mandatory reporting of vessel traffic movements;
\- meteorological and hydrological conditions, notices to mariners, status of
aids to navigation;
\- manoeuvrability limitations of vessels in the VTS area that may impose
restrictions on the navigation of other vessels, or any other potential
hindrances; or
\- any information concerning the safe navigation of the vessel.
The VTS IS is designed to improve the safety and efficiency of vessel traffic
and to protect the environment. Among others, such services include catalogue
such as: routing, channel info, security level, berthing, anchorage, time
slot, traffic monitoring and assessment, waterway conditions, weather,
navigational hazards, any other factors that may influence the vessel\'s
transit, reports on the position, identity and intentions of other traffic.
# A.2 MSP 2: Navigational Assistance Service
End-users of navigational assistance service (NAS) identified as MSP2 could be
shore-based users such as national competent VTS authorities and coastal or
port authorities and shipboard users such as a ship master or crew who has the
access right to NAS.
The NAS is defined as \"a service to assist onboard navigational decision-
making and to monitor its effects\".
NAS may be provided on request by a vessel in circumstances such as equipment
failure or navigational unfamiliarity.
Specific examples of developing situations where NAS may be provided by the
VTS include:
\- risk of grounding;
\- vessel deviating from the recommended track or sailing plan;
\- vessel unsure of its position or unable to determine its position;
\- vessel unsure of the route to its destination;
\- assistance to a vessel to an anchoring position;
\- vessel navigational or manoeuvring equipment casualty;
\- inclement conditions (e.g. low visibility, high winds);
\- potential collision between vessels;
\- potential collision with a fixed object or hazard; and
\- assistance to a vessel to support the unexpected incapacity of a key member
of the bridge team, on the request of the master.
# A.3 MSP 3: Traffic Organization Service
End-users of traffic organization service (TOS) identified as MSP3 could be
shore-based users such as national competent VTS authorities and coastal or
port authorities and shipboard users such as a ship master or crew who has the
access right to TOS.
The TOS is defined as \"a service to prevent the development of dangerous
maritime traffic situations and to provide for the safe and efficient movement
of vessel traffic within the VTS area\".
The purpose of the TOS is to prevent hazardous situations from developing and
to ensure safe and efficient navigation through the VTS area.
TOS should be provided when the VTS is authorized to provide services, such as
when:
\- vessel movements need to be planned or prioritized to prevent congestion or
dangerous situations;
\- special transports or vessels with hazardous or polluting cargo may affect
the flow of other traffic and need to be organized;
\- an operating system of traffic clearances or sailing plans, or both, has
been established;
\- the allocation of space needs to be organized;
\- mandatory reporting of movements in the VTS area has been established;
\- special routes should be followed;
\- speed limits should be observed;
\- the VTS observes a developing situation and deems it necessary to interact
and coordinate vessel traffic; and
\- nautical activities (e.g. sailing regattas) or marine works in-progress
(such as dredging or submarine cable-laying) may interfere with the flow of
vessel movement.
# A.4 MSP 4: Local Port Service
End-users of local port service (LPS) identified as MSP4 could be shore-based
users such as local port/harbour operators and shipboard users such as a ship
master who has the access right to LPS.
LPS is applicable to those ports where it has been assessed that a VTS, as
described above, is excessive or inappropriate.
The main difference arising from the provision of LPS is that it does not
interact with traffic, nor is it required to have the ability and/or the
resources to respond to developing traffic situations and there is no
requirement for a vessel traffic image to be maintained.
Provision of LPS is designed to improve port safety and co-ordination of port
services within the port community by dissemination of port information to
vessels and berth or terminal operators. It is mainly concerned with the
management of the port, by the supply of information on berth and port
conditions. Provision of LPS can also act as a medium for liaison between
vessels and allied services, as well as providing a basis for implementing
port emergency plans. Examples of LPS may include:
\- berthing information;
\- availability of port services;
\- shipping schedules; and
\- meteorological and hydrological data.
A number of web-based LPS services are being developed. An example is AVANTI,
an initiative of the International Harbour Masters Association (IHMA).
# A.5 MSP 5: Maritime Safety Information Service
End-users of maritime safety information (MSI) service identified as MSP5
could be shore-based users such as national competent authorities and
shipboard users such as a ship master or crew who has the access right to MSI
service.
The Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS) as described in SOLAS
chapter IV defines the seventh functional requirement as:
\"Every ship, while at sea, shall be capable of transmitting and receiving
maritime safety information\".
The MSI service is an internationally coordinated network of broadcasts of
maritime safety information from official information providers, such as:
\- national hydrographic offices, for navigational warnings and chart
correction data;
\- national meteorological offices, for weather warnings and forecasts;
\- rescue co-ordination centres (RCCs), for shore-to-ship distress alerts; and
\- the international ice patrol, for oceanic ice hazards.
Specific information on Aids to Navigation and restrictions on safe navigation
are part of MSI services provided by national authorities. This can include
but is not limited to, the following type of information to be available to
mariners:
\- status of Aids to Navigation;
\- status of GPS and DGPs;
\- buoy tendering operation; and
\- restriction on safe navigation such as bridge/hydro cable air gap, new
hazards, construction or dredging operations.
# A.6 MSP 6: Pilotage Service
End-users of pilotage service identified as MSP6 could be shore-based users
such as pilot authorities, pilot organization or bridge personnel and
shipboard users such as a pilot or a ship master who has the access right to
pilotage service.
The aim of the pilotage service is to safeguard traffic at sea and protect the
environment by ensuring that vessels operating in pilotage area have
navigators with adequate qualifications for safe navigation. Each pilotage
area needs highly specialized experience and local knowledge on the part of
the pilot.
Efficient pilotage depends, among other things, upon the effectiveness of the
communications and information exchanges between the pilot, the master and the
bridge personnel and upon the mutual understanding each has for the functions
and duties of the other.
The Pilot\'s Portable Unit (PPU) is a useful tool for safe navigation in clear
and restricted visibility. Data accessible by the PPU should be made available
in a structured, harmonized and reliable manner, and the interface for
accessing such e-navigation information should be standardized.
Establishment of effective coordination between the pilot, the master and the
bridge personnel, taking due account of the ship\'s systems and equipment
available to the pilot, will aid a safe and expeditious passage (see
resolution A.960(23)).
# A.7 MSP 7: Tugs Service
End-users of tugs service identified as MSP7 could be shore-based users such
as port/commercial tug organization and shipboard users such as a ship master
who has the access right to tug service.
Efficient tug operations depend on, among other things, the effectiveness of
the communications and information exchanges between relevant stakeholders.
The aim of the tugs services is to safeguard traffic at sea and protect the
environment by conducting operations such as:
\- transportation (personnel and staff from port to anchorage) operations;
\- ship assistance (ex: mooring) operations;
\- salvage (grounded ships or structures) operations;
\- shore operations;
\- towage (harbour/ocean) operations;
\- escort operations; and
\- oil spill response operations.
# A.8 MSP 8: Vessel Shore Reporting
End-users of vessel shore reporting identified as MSP8 could be shore-based
users such as national competent authorities, ship owners or operator and
shipboard users such as a ship master who has the access right to vessel shore
reporting.
The aim of vessel shore reporting is to safeguard traffic at sea, ensure
personnel safety and security, ensure environmental protection and increase
the efficiency of maritime operations.
Maritime single window is one of the most important solutions to reduce the
mariners workload (amount of time spent on preparing and submitting reports to
shore-based authorities). To achieve this, reports should be automatically
generated as much as possible from onboard systems. Some other important
possibilities for vessel shore reporting system may include:
\- single-entry of reportable information in single-window solution;
\- automated collection of internal ship data for reporting;
\- all national reporting requirements to apply standardized digital reporting
formats based on IMO FAL forms; and
\- automated or semi-automated digital distribution/communication of required
reportable information.
# A.9 MSP 9: Telemedical Assistance Service
End-users of telemedical assistance service (TMAS) identified as MSP9 could be
shore-based users such as national health organization or dedicated health
organization and shipboard users who need medical treatment.
TMAS centres should provide medical advice for seafarers 24 h/day, 365
days/year. TMAS should be permanently staffed by physicians qualified in
conducting remote consultations and who are well versed in the particular
nature of treatment on board ship.
Within the maritime medicine the prevailing view has for a long time been that
a standardization of the TMAS services is both necessary and wanted. This
would firstly enhance the quality of the medical practice, and secondly, a
standardization of reporting and registering of medical events will make a
much better basis for advancement.
# A.10 MSP 10: Maritime Assistance Service
End-users of maritime assistance service (MAS) identified as MSP10 could be
shore-based users such as coastal or port authorities/organizations and
shipboard users who has the access right to MAS.
The primary mission of MAS is to handle communication between the coastal
state, ship\'s officers requiring assistance and other players in maritime
community. These can be fleet owners, salvage companies, port authorities,
brokers, etc.
The MAS is on 24-hour alert to deploy rapid assistance and professional
support for ships in connection with combating pollution, fire and explosions
on board, collision, grounding, maritime security, terror mitigation, etc.
The ship security alert system (SSAS) enables a vessel to send a distress call
if it is attacked by pirates, etc. On receiving such a call, the MAS is
responsible for alerting the relevant authorities responsible for a response.
The MAS is responsible only for receiving and transmitting communications and
monitoring the situation. It serves as a point of contact between the master
and the coastal state concerned if the ship\'s situation requires exchanges of
information between the ship and the coastal State.
Situations where the MAS apply are as follows:
\- ship involved in an incident (loss of cargo, accidental discharge of oil,
etc.) that does impair its seakeeping ability but nevertheless has to be
reported;
\- ship in need of assistance according to the master\'s assessment, but not
in distress situation that requires the rescue of personnel on board; and
\- ship in distress situation and those on board have already been rescued,
with the possible exception of those who have remained aboard or have been
placed on board to attempt to deal with the ship\'s situation.
The MAS entails the implementation of procedures and instructions enabling the
forward of any given information to the competent organization and requiring
the organizations concerned to go through the MAS in order to make contact
with the ship.
# A.11 MSP 11: Nautical Chart Service
End-users of nautical chart service identified as MSP11 could be shore-based
users such as national hydrographic authority/organization and shipboard users
such as a ship master who has the access right to nautical chart service.
The aim of the nautical chart service is to safeguard navigation at sea by
providing information such as nature and form of the coast, water depth, tides
table, obstructions and other dangers to navigation, location and type of aids
to navigation.
The nautical chart service also ensures the distribution, update and licensing
of electronic chart to vessels and other maritime parties.
# A.12 MSP 12: Nautical Publications Service
End-users of nautical publications service identified as MSP12 could be shore-
based users such as national hydrographic authority/organization and shipboard
users such as a ship master who has the access right to nautical publications
service.
The aim of the nautical publication service is to promote navigation awareness
and safe navigation of ships. The nature of waterways described by any given
nautical publication changes regularly, and a mariner navigating by use of an
old or uncorrected publication is courting disaster. Nautical publications
include:
\- tidal currents, aids to navigation system, buoys and fog signals, radio
aids to marine navigation, chart symbols, terms and abbreviations, sailing
directions; and
\- a chart and publication correction record card system can be used to ensure
that every publication is properly corrected prior use by mariners.
# A.13 MSP 13: Ice Navigation Service
End-users of ice navigation service identified as MSP13 could be shore-based
users such as national competent authority/organization and shipboard users
such as a ship master or crew who has the access right to ice navigation
service.
The ice navigation service is critical to safeguard the ship navigation in
ice-infested waters, given how quickly the ice maps become outdated in the
rapid changing conditions of the ice-covered navigational regions. Such
services include:
\- ice condition information and operational recommendations/advice;
\- ice condition around a vessel;
\- vessel routing;
\- vessel escort and ice breaking;
\- ice drift load and momentum; and
\- ice patrol.
# A.14 MSP 14: Meteorological Information Service
End-users of meteorological information service identified as MSP14 could be
shore-based users such as national meteorological authorities/WMO/public
institutions and shipboard users such as a ship master or crew who has the
access right to meteorological information service.
The meteorological service is essential to safeguard the traffic at sea by
providing weather, climate digital forecasts and related information to
mariners who will use these types of information to support their decision
making. Such information includes:
\- weather routing, solar radiation and precipitation;
\- cold/hot durations and warnings;
\- air temperature, wind speed and direction; and
\- cloud cover and barometric pressure.
# A.15 MSP 15: Real-time Hydrographic and Environmental Information Service
End-users of real-time hydrographic and environmental information service
identified as MSP15 could be shore-based users such as national hydrographic
and meteorological authorities and shipboard users such as a ship master or
crew who has the access right to real-time hydrographic and environmental
information service.
The real-time hydrographic and environmental information service is essential
to safeguard navigation at sea and protect the environment. The services
provided are such as:
\- current speed and direction;
\- wave height;
\- marine habitat and bathymetry;
\- sailing directions (or pilots): detailed descriptions of areas of the sea,
shipping routes, harbours, aids to navigation, regulations, etc.;
\- lists of lights: descriptions of lighthouses and lightbuoys;
\- tide surge prediction tables and tidal stream atlases;
\- ephemerides and nautical almanacs for celestial navigation; and
\- notice to mariners: periodical (often weekly) updates and corrections for
nautical charts and publications.
# A.15 MSP 16: Search and Rescue Service
End-users of search and rescue (SAR) service identified as MSP16 could be
shore-based users such as competent authorities and SAR users such as maritime
police.
The SAR service is responsible for assisting, coordinating search and rescue
operations at sea. In maintaining a state of full readiness the maritime
rescue co-ordination centre (MRCC) may perform the following rescue functions:
\- survivors of any aircraft (not in an act of war) crashes or forced landings
at sea;
\- the crew and passengers of vessels in distress; and
\- survivors of maritime accidents or incidents.
The SAR services must also coordinate the evacuation of seriously injured or
ill person from a vessel at sea when the person requires medical treatment
sooner than the vessel would be able to get him or her to a suitable medical
facility.
MRCCs may also be pro-actively involved in activities such as:
\- information collection, distribution and coordination;
\- monitoring towing operations;
\- monitoring and evaluating levels of risk from Maritime Safety Information
(MSI) broadcasts to ensure an immediate response in case of life threatening
situations developing;
\- monitoring vessels not under command; and
\- pollution reports and vessels aground.
E-navigation can provide additional information such as number of persons on
board, type of ship, port of destination etc. and enable provision of
additional information such as available SAR resources on board ships etc.
Information on other vessels in the area can be crucial for an effective
rescue.
Communication solutions used for e-navigation will be able to exchange
information about SAR areas and allocate search patterns and provide
facilities for MRCCs to set up a common information sharing log or chatroom
for MRCCs, onscene coordinator and other resources to share and update
information during a SAR incident.
#