# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the use cases and potential requirements for an
optional capability allowing an operator to provide access to restricted local
operator services. Based on operator policy, access to these restricted local
operator services is allowed for unauthenticated UEs. In such cases, the
unauthenticated UE is restricted to only accessing a restricted local operator
service. Any other access attempts by the UE are subject to normal 3GPP
processing, including authentication.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 47;
https://www.fcc.gov/general/rules-regulations-title-47
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**restricted local operator services** : communication services provided by an
operator that involve either automated or human assistance (e.g., credit card
billing, directory assistance, customer care) for which successful
authentication is not necessary.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
URN Uniform Resource Name
# 4 Overview
Provision of restricted local operator services enables UEs to access operator
provided restricted local operator services without being authenticated. This
need is based on FCC regulations in the U.S. related to manual roaming as
noted in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 47 Chapter 1 Subchapter B
Part 20 Section 20.3 and the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 47
Chapter 1 Subchapter B Part 20 Section 20.12 (Resale and Roaming) Subparagraph
c [2].
The capability to access restricted local operator services, as mandated by
the FCC, can also be used to provide access to other operator specific
restricted local operator services. The services themselves are out of scope
of 3GPP. Access to any local services is completely under the operator\'s
control; the set of local services can be specified by the operator such that
no other service is allowed for these UEs. Three examples of restricted local
operator services are provided below.
Restricted local operator services can support a number of use cases. The
first example is the temporary manual roaming use case. An end user travels to
a region where their home operator does not have a roaming agreement with the
local service provider. The end user is able to contact the local service
provider's roaming care service and arrange for service in the region on a
temporary basis. The end user cannot access any other service until this
arrangement is established.
Another example of a restricted local operator service is customer care for
subscribers who have questions about their subscription. In this case, an end
user can access the operator's customer care center. The customer care center
service is able to answer questions for the end user.
A third example of a restricted local operator service is access to a local
service by an unlocked UE that contacts a customer subscription center in
order to initiate a subscription with the network operator. In this case, the
UE is not able to be authenticated in any network until the subscription has
been established with the local service provider.
An operator can choose to offer access to a specific set of restricted local
operator services. The operator can choose to allow unauthenticated UEs to
have access to these restricted local operator services.
The ability to provide access to such restricted local operator services has
been available to U.S. operators on a proprietary basis. However, the wide
deployment of LTE and corresponding introduction of VoLTE creates demand for a
standardized mechanism to allow a UE to access these restricted local operator
services (e.g., dialing a particular digit string, accessing a captive portal)
without being successfully authenticated for access. The leading provider of
these services today processes over 23 million such local service attempts
each month, indicating the widespread use of the capability.
Note: In the use cases addressed below, local services are not specific to the
access mechanism described. Different access mechanisms can be applied to the
local service.
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Access to restricted local operator service for customer care using
captive portal
### 5.1.1 Description
An operator has chosen to provide a set of restricted local operator services
to their customers. To ensure comprehensive support for their customers, these
services are accessible by unauthenticated UEs. In this case, the operator
provides a captive portal to which customer UEs that fail authentication can
be redirected. To ensure the security of the network, access to this service
is restricted to prevent any secondary call attempts. The call must be fully
disconnected, ensuring any other service access attempt follows normal access
procedures, including authentication.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The operator provides a customer care portal to which customer call attempts
that fail to authenticate can be redirected.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
The customer attempts to establish a data session using his UE. When
authentication fails, a session is established with the operator's customer
care portal.
The customer communicates with the customer service center and is able to
resolve the problem with the UE.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The UE is disconnected from the network.
The next origination attempt from the customer\'s UE goes through the normal
session set up process, including authentication.
### 5.1.5 Potential Requirements
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to configure set of addresses (e.g., phone number, secure
portal) for access to restricted local operator services.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support mechanisms to allow access to restricted local operator services by an
unauthenticated UE.
## 5.2 Access to restricted local operator service for manual roaming
### _5.2_.1 Description
An operator provides a service to establish temporary manual roaming service.
The information on how to access the services (e.g., phone number) is posted
on the operator website. A user whose home network operator does not have a
roaming agreement with this operator roams into the area. After a failed call
attempt, she finds the contact information for the temporary manual roaming
service and uses her UE to place a VoLTE call to the temporary manual roaming
service. Once the temporary manual roaming capability is activated, the call
must be fully disconnected, ensuring any other service access attempt follows
normal access procedures.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The operator provides information on their website on how to establish
temporary manual roaming service, including a local phone number or URL for a
secure portal.
A user who has roamed into the serving network looks up the information on the
website.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
The serving network provides an indication to the UE that restricted local
operator services are supported.
The user uses her UE to place a VoLTE call to the temporary manual roaming
service center. Even though the UE has failed on prior service attempts due to
the lack of a roaming agreement, the access attempt is allowed to complete.
The user communicates with the temporary manual roaming service center staff,
and establishes a temporary service for the duration of her stay in that
network.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The UE is disconnected from the network.
The next origination attempt from the customer\'s UE goes through the normal
session set up process.
### 5.2.5 Potential Requirements
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to indicate to UEs that restricted local operator services
are available.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to configure a set of addresses (e.g., phone number,
secure portal) for access to restricted local operator services.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support mechanisms to allow access to restricted local operator services by
unauthenticated UEs.
## 5.3 Access to restricted local operator service
### 5.3.1 Description
An operator has chosen to provide a set of restricted local operator services
to their customers. A UE manufacturer has pre-provisioned its UEs with
information for restricted local operator service access (e.g,, a set of
URNs). The operator that chooses to provide restricted local operator services
is aware of and uses the pre-provisioned information in the UEs for access to
its local services. When the user initiates a call attempt to one of these
services, the UE includes an indication in the call origination message that
this is for a local service. To ensure comprehensive support for their
customers, these services are accessible by unauthenticated UEs.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
A user has a UE that has been pre-provisioned with information for restricted
local operator services. How the services are presented to the user is not
subject to standardization, but as an example, the user may be presented with
a list of available local services.
The user selects one of the restricted local operator service offerings from
the UE.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
The UE initiates the access attempt, indicating that this is for a restricted
local operator service.
The network detects the indicator for a local service and establishes the
connection between the UE and the restricted local operator service.
Once the transaction with the service is completed, the UE disconnects.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
The next access attempt from the UE goes through the normal set up process,
including authentication.
### 5.3.5 Potential Requirements
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to indicate a restricted local operator service
origination attempt.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support mechanisms to allow access to restricted local operator services by
unauthenticated UEs.
## 5.4 Failed access to restricted local operator service
### 5.4.1 Description
An operator has chosen not to provide restricted local operator services to
their customers. When a user who is accustomed to restricted local operator
services in their home network roams into a network where restricted local
operator services are not available, they will not have access to those
services.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
A user with a UE containing a list of pre-provisioned restricted local
operator services roams into a network where restricted local operator
services are not supported.
The user selects a restricted local operator service from the list provided on
the UE.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
The service network is not providing an indication of support for restricted
local operator service.
The UE does not initiate the call attempt to that network.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
The UE remains disconnected from the network.
### 5.4.5 Potential Requirements
No additional requirements are needed in systems that do not support local
services.
## 5.5 Access to restricted local operator service for service establishment
### 5.5.1 Description
An operator provides a restricted local operator service to allow end users to
establish a subscription. A user purchases an unlocked UE. The information on
how to contact his preferred operator's subscription establishment service is
available on the operator's website. He places a VoLTE call to the customer
subscription center, establishes a subscription and activates his UE for use
with that subscription. The UE must be fully disconnected once the
subscription is established, ensuring any other service access attempt follows
normal access procedures.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The operator provides information on how to contact the customer subscription
center, including a local phone number or URL for a secure portal.
A user with an unlocked UE finds the customer subscription center access
information.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
The serving network provides an indication that restricted local operator
services are supported.
The user uses his UE to make a VoLTE call to the customer subscription center.
The customer subscription center is able to securely establish a subscription
for the user and securely activate the UE for service under that subscription.
NOTE: this use case assumes the operator has a means to provide the
subscription establishment service, however, the service is out of scope of
3GPP.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The UE is disconnected from the network.
The next origination attempt from the customer\'s UE goes through the normal
session set up process, including authentication.
### 5.5.5 Potential Requirements
A 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to indicate to UEs that restricted
local operator services are available.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to configure a set of addresses (e.g., phone number,
secure portal) for access to restricted local operator services.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support mechanisms to allow access to restricted local operator services by
unauthenticated UEs.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
Security measures to limit network access by unauthenticated UEs are required
(e.g., similar or identical measures as provided for unauthenticated access to
emergency services).
Security measures to protect from network attacks by unauthenticated UEs are
required (e.g., similar or identical measures as provided for unauthenticated
access to emergency services).
The level of security should not be less than that which is currently applied
to existing equivalent network access methods (e.g., unauthenticated emergency
calling).
Note: Security issues for restricted local operator services will be studied
in SA3.
## 6.2 Considerations on charging
Charging information shall be collected for access to a local service, when
available.
The operator may choose to provide access to restricted local operator
services at no additional charge to the calling party.
# 7 Potential Requirements
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to indicate to UEs that restricted local operator services
are available.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to configure a set of addresses (e.g., phone number,
secure portal) for access to restricted local operator services.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support mechanisms to allow access to restricted local operator services by
unauthenticated UEs.
Based on operator policy and regional regulations, the 3GPP system shall
support a mechanism to indicate a restricted local operator service
origination attempt.
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
The Feasibility Study on Provision of Access to Restricted Local Operator
Services by Unauthenticated UEs Technical Report analyses a number of use
cases for providing access to restricted local operator services to
unauthenticated UEs. The use cases address various ways to access the local
services, including dialled digits, secure portals, and captive portals. The
potential impact to the network and UEs is also covered in the use cases.
Taking into consideration the use cases in clause 5, the considerations in
clause 6 and the potential requirements in clause 7, it is recommended to
proceed with normative work.
The text of the present document will not be updated to align with normative
specifications.
#