# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
Emerging from the FS_SMARTER work [2], the present document aims to identify
and document the key families of use cases **and their consolidated potential
requirements, and to capture desired system requirements and capabilities to
enable 3GPP network operators to support the needs of new scenarios and
markets related to** network operation.
The focus of this work is on the use cases and requirements that cannot be met
with EPS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.891: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.861: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers for Massive Internet of Things; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TR 22.862: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers - Critical Communications; Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TR 22.863: \"Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
Enablers - Enhanced Mobile Broadband; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1]. Additionally, a number of 5G terms are used in this
document that are defined in 3GPP TR 22.861 [3].
**Satellite access:** Direct connectivity between the user terminal and the
satellite.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5G 5^th^ Generation
AVC Advanced Video Coding
BBU Baseband Unit
E2E End to End
eMBB enhanced Mobile BroadBand
FMSS Flexible Mobile Service Steering
FPS Frames Per Second
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
IoT Internet of Things
NFC Near Field Communication
PII Personally Identifiable Information
RIT Radio Interface Technology
RRH Remote Radio Head
SEES Service Exposure and Enablement Support
UHD Ultra High Definition
WLL Wireless Local Loop
# 4 Overview
Among the use cases developed in the SA1 FS_SMARTER study [2], there are a
group of use cases which are particularly related to network operation.
This group addresses the functional system requirements, including the
following aspects:
\- Flexible functions and capabilities
\- New value creation
\- Migration and interworking
\- Optimizations and enhancements
\- Security
Emerging from the SA1 FS_SMARTER work, the present document documents the key
families of use cases and consolidates the potential requirements for the
following families for network operation:
  * System flexibility
This family covers the use cases for building the network in a flexible manner
per diverse scenario demand, e.g., slicing the network for variant market
segments and verticals.
  * Scalability
This family covers the use cases for enabling the operators to support an
elastic and scalable network.
  * Mobility support
This family covers the use cases for optimizing use of mobility management for
diverse scenarios.
  * Efficient content delivery
This family covers the uses cases to support efficient content delivery.
  * Self-backhauling
This family covers the use cases for wireless self-backhauling.
  * Access
This family covers access related use cases including selection of the most
appropriate access for user traffic.
  * Migration and interworking
This family covers the coexistence of the FS_SMARTER system with the legacy
systems and the migration of services from early generations.
  * Security
> This family covers security requirements that are common to all building
> blocks as well as the ones that are specific to network operation.
# 5 Use case families
## 5.1 System flexibility
### 5.1.1 Description
Unlike previous 3GPP systems that attempted to provide a \'one size fits all\'
system, the 5G system is expected to be able to simultaneously provide
optimized support for different configurations through various means.
Flexibility and adaptability on network functionality and service is a key
distinguishing feature of a 5G system.
Flexibility enabler 1： Network slicing
One key concept to achieve the goal of flexibility is network slicing. Network
slicing allows the operator to provide dedicated logical networks with
customer specific functionality, without losing the economies of scale of a
common infrastructure. It allows services to be abstracted from the network
resources. As such, a variety of use cases with diverging requirements can be
fulfilled. For example, there will be different requirements on functionality
such as charging, policy control, security, mobility etc. The use cases will
also have differences in performance requirements e.g., lower latency, higher
mobility and higher data rate.
There is also a need to isolate the different slices from each other.
Terminals can be directed to appropriate network slices at the same time in
ways that fulfil operator or user needs, e.g., based on subscription, traffic
(e.g., voice, data), or terminal type.
Typically a set of end-user services are provided by one network slice of a
mobile network operator. Some UEs can access more than one network slice
simultaneously for services of more diverse characteristics, e.g., MBB and
critical communication. When accessing more than one network slice
simultaneously, the operator may choose to not duplicate certain signalling
procedures.
Network slices will consist of mainly 3GPP defined functions but could also
include proprietary functions that are provided by different operators or
3^rd^ parties. To guarantee a consistent user experience and support of
services in case of roaming, slices composed of the same network functions
should be available for the user in the VPLMN. Configuration of network slices
and provisioning of proprietary functions will be based on agreements between
operators.
Network slicing could also be used to provide a network configuration enabling
basic communications (e.g., voice, text messages) in case of natural
disasters. Another example of applying this concept could be to provide access
to the network in markets where there is a need for providing access to
essential services with a basic Internet access (e.g., basic broadband speeds,
relaxed latency requirements).
An operator often provides similar service to multiple 3^rd^ parties (e.g.,
enterprises) that require similar network functionalities, which should be
supported in an efficient manner.
Flexibility enabler 2: Efficient user plane
Immersive services such as interactive virtual reality have critical
requirements on transfer bandwidth and delay between terminals, and the users
hope to get consistent user experience even if they change their location
during communication.
In cooperation with 3^rd^ party service providers, the application server can
be deployed in an operator's network to provide 3^rd^ party services (e.g.,
UHD video), with critical requirements on bandwidth and delay for the users
nearby, and the operator network needs to ensure efficient data path between
end-user and server to address the service requirements on bandwidth and
delay. In critical communication scenarios such as localized real-time control
and industrial automation, an extremely restricted requirement of reliability
and latency is expected to guarantee the communication between e.g., a robot
and a local robot-control system, and an efficient data transfer is required
even if the robots move in the smart factory area. Traffic scenarios related
to critical communications are covered in more detail in 3GPP TR 22.862 [4].
As sensor and monitoring devices are deployed more extensively, there will be
a need to support devices that send data packages ranging in size from a small
status update in a few bits to streaming video. Similar need exists for the
smart phone with widely varying amounts of data. The network will need the
flexibility to provide efficient service to the device, regardless of when it
sends data and whether small or large amounts of data are sent in a given
transmission.
Specifically, to support short data bursts, the network will need the ability
to operate in a mode where there is no need for a lengthy and high overhead
procedure before and after small amounts of data are sent. The system will, as
a result, avoid both a negative impact to battery life for the device and
wasting signalling resources.
The same device may need to establish a connection when it needs to transmit a
large amount of data (e.g., video).
Flexibility enabler 3: Network capability exposure
Network capability exposure provides access to the network capabilities that
are in need by the 3^rd^ party ISP/ICP. Based on 3GPP SEES and FMSS, the
operator can provide network capabilities e.g., QoS policy to 3^rd^ party
ISPs/ICPs. However, with the advent of 5G, some new network capabilities need
to be considered for exposure to the 3^rd^ party, for example:
  * to allow the 3^rd^ party to dynamically customize a dedicated > network slice for diverse use cases, the network slicing > capability may allow 3^rd^ parties to create and manage a network > slice configuration via suitable APIs, within the limits set by > the operator.
  * to allow hosting of applications (including both MNO provided > applications and 3^rd^ party provided applications) closer to the > end user to improve user experience and save backhaul resources.
Flexibility enabler 4: Flexible broadcast service
A flexible broadcast service (e.g., an enhanced form of MBMS), allows the
users to receive linear time audio as well as audio and video programmes such
as 4k UHD. The user is able to select the expected broadcast program from the
broadcaster's management system. Another new possible broadcast service is a
truly ad-hoc video broadcast that interested parties want to see based on a
social web advert, and the video content may be live and may not ever be
stored on a video server in the network but may be only transmitted as a 'one-
off' by either a broadcast organisation or an individual.
Today, 3GPP specifications do not allow a stand-alone deployment of a
multicast/broadcast network. Additionally, the current implementation limits
the radio resources that can be allocated for multicast/broadcast service to
60%. It also limits the coverage size of the radio base station to a
relatively small value. In order to support a variety of linear video based
services for the users, deployment of the next generation of
multicast/broadcast capabilities will require significantly more flexibility
than what is available in the current network in terms of configuration,
resource allocation and network deployment to support broadcast/multicast
services. The flexibility required encompasses allocation of resources,
multicast/broadcast network design as well as simultaneous user access to
unicast data and broadcast service.
Flexibility enabler 5: Multi-network connectivity and service delivery across
operators
Given the multitude of use cases for new verticals and services, each
operator, based on its business model, may deploy capabilities to serve only a
subset of the vertical industries and services. However, this should not
prevent an end-user from accessing all new services and capabilities that will
be accessible via next generation 3GPP systems. Operators could contemplate a
variety of sharing business models and partnership between service providers
and other network operators, to enable users to access all services via
multiple networks simultaneously in order to provide a better user experience
with terminals capable of simultaneous network access.
Flexibility enabler 6: Markets requiring minimal service levels
A key aspect of 5G system flexibility is the ability to support both the very
high end markets as well as very low end markets. Some systems will be
deployed in areas where there are constraints on energy resources (e.g.,
sporadic access to power supplies) and lower end user expectations for
availability, reliability, and capacity. In such cases, the system needs
additional flexibility to adapt power consumption needs based on fluctuations
in power availability. The system should be efficient in order to provide
essential services in harsh environments (e.g., far remote rural areas, very
large territories) while taking into account the local constraints (adapting
resources consumptions to long distances, dealing with variable conditions and
possibly disconnections). Content delivery should be optimized in order to
reduce constraints on transport networks, on low-end user devices (e.g.,
limited screen size, limited energy consumption), variable network conditions,
and client profiles.
Flexibility enabler 7: Priority, QoS and Policy Control
The 5G network will be supporting many commercial (e.g., medical) and
regional/national regulatory specific (e.g., MPS, Emergency) critical
communications applications with requirements for priority treatment.
The network needs to support flexible means to make relative priority
decisions based on the state of the network (e.g., during disaster events and
network congestion) recognizing that the priority needs may change in time
during a crisis event. The priority of any given application may need to be
different (e.g., elevated) for a particular user of that application based on
operational needs and regional or national regulations. Therefore, the 3GPP
system should allow a flexible means to make and enforce relative priority
decisions among the different application services (e.g., MPS, Emergency,
medical) and amongst users of these application services.
The network must offer a means to provide the required QoS (e.g., high
reliability, latency, bandwidth, etc) for an application and the ability to
adapt and when necessary prioritize resources to meet specific service
requirements. Existing QoS and policy frameworks handle latency and improve
reliability by traffic engineering. In order to support diverse 5G service
requirements, it is necessary for the network to offer QoS and policy control
for reliable communication with latency required for an application and enable
the resource adaptations as necessary.
Also, as 5G network is expected to operate in a heterogeneous environment with
multiple access technologies, multiple types of devices, etc., it should
support a QoS and policy framework that applies across multiple accesses.
Further, for existing EPC, QoS control only covers RAN and core network, but
for 5G network E2E QoS (e.g., RAN, backhaul, core network, backbone) is needed
to achieve the 5G user experience (e.g., ultra low latency, ultra high
bandwidth).
Flexibility enabler 8: 3rd party services
In addition to 3rd party control of network slicing described above, the
system should also support separation of access and 3rd party service
credentials to provide a new method for 3rd parties and MNOs to cooperate. In
this model, which may be termed 3rd party service authorization, MNO
credentials are used for network access and for MNO services. 3rd party
service credentials authenticate and authorize the UE's connectivity for 3rd
party data, and may be leveraged to obtain MNO services for QoS etc. The MNO
in this model continues to be in full control of access control and mobility
management. The 3rd party service provider can provide information on their
traffic flows to assist the MNO for traffic processing.
### 5.1.2 Potential Requirements
#### 5.1.2.1 Network Slicing
[PR 5.1.2.1-001] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to compose and
manage network slices. A network slice consists of a set of network functions
(e.g., potentially from different vendors), the resources to run these network
functions as well as policies and configurations.
[PR 5.1.2.1-002] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to dynamically
create a network slice to form a complete, autonomous and fully operational
network customised for different market scenario.
[PR 5.1.2.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to associate specific services,
devices, UEs, and subscribers with a particular network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-004] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE to simultaneously access
services from one or more network slices of one operator e.g., based on
subscription or terminal type.
[PR 5.1.2.1-005] The 3GPP system shall support mechanisms to enable the
operator to operate and manage network slices that fulfil required criteria
for different market scenarios.
[PR 5.1.2.1-006] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to simultaneously
operate network slices in a manner that prevents a service in one slice from
negatively impacting services offered by other slices.
[PR 5.1.2.1-007] The 3GPP system shall have the capability to conform to
service-specific security assurance requirements in a single network slice,
rather than the whole network.
[PR 5.1.2.1-008] The 3GPP system shall have the capability to provide a level
of isolation between network slices which confines a potential cyber-attack to
a single network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-009] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to authorize 3^rd^
parties to create and manage a network slice via suitable APIs, within the
limits set by the network operator.
[PR 5.1.2.1-010] The 3GPP system shall support the elasticity of a network
slice in terms of capacity with minimal impact on the services of this slice
or other slices.
[PR 5.1.2.1-011] The 3GPP system shall be able to support modifications to
network slices (e.g., adding, deleting, modifying network slices) with minimal
impact to active subscriber services.
[PR 5.1.2.1-012] The 3GPP system shall be able to support E2E (e.g., RAN, CN)
resource management in a network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-013] The 3GPP system shall enable operators to use the network
slicing concept to efficiently support multiple 3^rd^ parties (e.g.,
enterprises) that require similar network characteristics.
[PR 5.1.2.1-014] The 3GPP system shall enable operators to define and identify
network slices with common functionality to be available for home and roaming
users.
[PR 5.1.2.1-015] The 3GPP system shall enable operators to specify the network
functionalities that a network slice is required to provide.
[PR 5.1.2.1-016] The 3GPP system shall support the inclusion of 3GPP defined
functions as well as proprietary 3^rd^ party or operator provided functions in
a network slice, including
  * Hosting multiple 3^rd^ parties (e.g., enterprises) or MVNOs.
  * Serving home and roaming user
  * Supporting diverse market scenarios.
NOTE: The specific functional areas for which the system should support
proprietary or operator provided functions should be identified.
[PR 5.1.2.1-017] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for the VPLMN to
assign a UE to a network slice with the required functionality or to a default
network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-018] The 3GPP system shall be able to change the network slices to
which UEs are connected.
[PR 5.1.2.1-019] A network slice shall support a set of end-user services as
defined by the network operator.
[PR 5.1.2.1-020] The 3GPP system shall enable the operator to assign a UE to a
network slice based on services provided by the network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-021] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for an operator to
authorize a UE to receive service on a specific slice in response to a request
from a 3^rd^ party.
#### 5.1.2.2 Efficient User Plane
[PR 5.1.2.2-001] Subject to operator's policy and/or based on application
needs, the 3GPP network shall support efficient user-plane paths between UEs
attached to the same network, even if the UEs change their location during an
active communication.
[PR 5.1.2.2-002] Subject to operator's policy and/or based on application
needs, the 3GPP network shall support efficient user-plane paths between a UE
attached to the mobile network and communication peers outside of the mobile
network (e.g., Internet hosts).
[PR 5.1.2.2-003] Subject to the service agreement between the operator and the
service provider, the 3GPP network shall enable hosting of services (including
both MNO provided services and 3^rd^ party provided services) closer to the
end user to improve user experience and save backhaul resources.
[PR 5.1.2.2-004] The 3GPP network shall be able to support routing of data
traffic to the entity hosting services closer to the end user for specific
services.
[PR 5.1.2.2-005] The 3GPP network shall support efficient user-plane paths
between a UE and the entity hosting the service closer to the end user even if
the UE changes its location during an active communication.
[PR 5.1.2.2-006] The 3GPP network shall be able to support charging, QoS, and
Lawful Interception (LI) for services hosted closer to the end user.
[PR 5.1.2.2-007] The 3GPP system shall be efficient and flexible for both low
throughput short data bursts and high throughput data transmissions (e.g.,
streaming video) from the same device.
[PR 5.1.2.2-008] The 3GPP network shall support efficient user-plane paths
between a UE and the entity hosting the service closer to the end user.
[PR 5.1.2.2-009] Subject to the service agreement between the operator and the
service provider, the 3GPP network shall support changing user-plane paths
between a UE and entities hosting a service during an active communication
(e.g., when a UE's location changes).
[PR 5.1.2.2-010] The 3GPP network shall maintain user experience when the UE
changes the connection to a different entity hosting the service.
[PR 5.1.2.2-011] The 3GPP network shall be able to interact with the entity
hosting the service for network optimization.
#### 5.1.2.3 Network Capability Exposure
[PR 5.1.2.3-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the existing network
capability exposure.
[PR 5.1.2.3-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support exposure of 3GPP
network information and capabilities to 3^rd^ parties, such as the network
slicing capability and network status information.
NOTE: The specific network slicing capability which is needed to be exposed
should be defined after the slicing definition is completed.
#### 5.1.2.4 Flexible Broadcast Service
[PR 5.1.2.4-001] The 3GPP system shall enable deployment of a stand-alone
3GPP-based broadcast/multicast system over a wide geographic area in a
spectrally efficient manner.
[PR 5.1.2.4-002] The 3GPP system shall have the flexibility to enable the
operator to reserve 0% to 100% of radio resources of a radio carrier for the
delivery of broadcast/multicast content.
[PR 5.1.2.4-003] Depending on the capability of the device or UE and the
services subscribed, the 3GPP system shall allow the user to receive content
via a broadcast/multicast radio carrier while a concurrent data session is
ongoing over another radio carrier.
[PR 5.1.2.4-004] The 3GPP based broadcast/multicast system shall efficiently
utilize the available resources to maximize the amount of content that can be
delivered over a stand-alone multicast/broadcast network with individual cell
coverage radius of up to 50 km.
[PR 5.1.2.4-005] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism to expose
broadcasting capabilities to 3^rd^ party broadcasters' management systems.
[PR 5.1.2.4-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to reserve groups of resources
for broadcast channels
[PR 5.1.2.4-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support broadcast of video
streams such as 4k/8k UHD.
[PR 5.1.2.4-008] A 3GPP device or UE shall be able to request a specific video
quality for a received broadcast (e.g., reduced quality for display on a small
screen or high quality for display on a larger screen.
[PR 5.1.2.4-009] The 3GPP system shall allow the UE to receive broadcasts
selected by the user (from the broadcaster's management system) in accordance
with any appropriate authorisations by the broadcaster.
NOTE: 4k UHD: 3840 x 2160, 50FPS, HEVC, 20\~30Mbit/s (Medium quality), 4k UHD:
3840 x 2160, 50FPS, HEVC, \~75Mbit/s (High quality), 4kUHD: 3840 x 2160,
50FPS, AVC \~ 150Mbit/s (High quality), 8K 7680*4320, 50FPS, HEVC, \~300Mbps
(High quality).
[PR 5.1.2.4-010] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism to expose
broadcasting capabilities to a3^rd^ party broadcast management system.
[PR 5.1.2.4-011] The 3GPP system shall be able to temporarily reserve groups
of resources for scheduled broadcasts.
[PR 5.1.2.4-012] The 3GPP system shall allow a UE to receive broadcasts
selected by the user (from a broadcast management system) in accordance with
any appropriate authorisations.
[PR 5.1.2.4-013] The 3GPP system shall allow the MNO to implement a network
supporting downlink only broadcasting based on a set of functionalities and
entities which are required for content delivery.
#### 5.1.2.5 Multi-network Connectivity and Service Delivery across Operators
[PR 5.1.2.5-001] The 3GPP system shall enable the operators to deploy networks
for a specific set of services.
[PR 5.1.2.5-002] Based on the service policy information, the 3GPP system
shall dynamically allow the device or UE to simultaneously access services
from more than one operator networks.
[PR 5.1.2.5-003] For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of
multiple serving networks operated by different operators shall be under the
control of the home operator.
[PR 5.1.2.5-004] In the event of the same service being offered by multiple
operators, unless directed by the HPLMN, the UE shall be prioritized to
receive subscribed services from the home operator.
NOTE: If the service is unavailable (e.g., due to lack of network coverage)
from the home network, the UE shall be able to receive the service from
another operator's network.
[PR 5.1.2.5-005] The 3GPP system shall enable the home operator to configure
service policy information for a UE or device to access services offered by
different operator networks.
[PR 5.1.2.5-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to maintain the user experience
when a user accesses services from multiple operator networks simultaneously.
NOTE: Multiple operator networks need to have an agreement and the same
service needs to be offered by those operator networks.
#### 5.1.2.6 Markets requiring minimal service levels
[PR 5.1.2.6-001] The following requirements apply for markets requiring
minimal service levels.
[PR 5.1.2.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support very efficient use of the
control plane (e.g., minimizing signalling overhead, limiting mobility
support).
[PR 5.1.2.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support efficient use of the data plane
(e.g., minimizing power consumption, consolidating data transmissions to 1
larger rather than many smaller, adaptation of resource consumption based on
the availability of limited resources (e.g., use of the appropriate
layer/interface, or use several layers, possibly based on disjoint multiple
paths, if more resources are available), local services).
[PR 5.1.2.6-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to expose network status
information to applications (e.g., to allow applications to use network
resources efficiently).
NOTE: Applications may be frugal at periods when resources are rare and should
compensate and anticipate as much as they can otherwise. Applications may be
able to handle disconnections in case of user mobility.
[PR 5.1.2.6-005] The 3GPP system shall minimise the amount of wireless
backhaul traffic (e.g., consolidating data transmissions to 1 larger rather
than many smaller, when applicable).
[PR 5.1.2.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support a minimal level of service
efficiently for all (e.g., user experienced data rate of 100kbps, E2E latency
of 50 ms, lower availability of 0,95).
[PR 5.1.2.6-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support very large cells
(e.g., relaxed timing on random access and other procedures to enable very
long range beyond 100km).
[PR 5.1.2.6-008] The base station shall support an energy saving mode with the
following characteristics:
  * The energy saving mode can be activated/deactivated either manually or automatically.
  * Service can be restricted to a pre-defined set of users (e.g., public safety, emergency callers).
NOTE: when in energy saving mode the transmit power may be reduced or turned
off (deep sleep mode), latency and jitter may be increased.
[PR 5.1.2.6-009] The 3GPP system shall be able to adapt power consumption to
fluctuations in power supply.
[PR 5.1.2.6-010] The 3GPP system shall support operations that minimize UE
power consumption (e.g., minimize push information, adjust transmission
power).
[PR 5.1.2.6-011] The 3GPP system shall support centralized network automation
and management in order to reduce local management tasks.
[PR 5.1.2.6-012] The data rate transfer should be reduced at the cell edge for
very large coverage area (e.g., 100 kbps for more than 100km cell coverage,
1Mbs for 100km cell coverage).
[PR 5.1.2.6-013] The 3GPP system shall be able to give priority to critical
services (e.g., e-health) when resources are limited.
#### 5.1.2.7 Priority, QoS and Policy Control
[PR 5.1.2.7-001] The 3GPP system shall allow flexible means to make and
enforce relative priority decisions among the different application services
(e.g., MPS, Emergency, medical).
NOTE 1: Relative priority between different application services is subject to
regional or national regulatory and operator policies.
[PR 5.1.2.7-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide the required QoS
(e.g., reliability, latency, bandwidth) for an application and support
prioritization of resources when necessary for that application.
[PR 5.1.2.7-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a QoS and policy
framework for multiple accesses.
[PR 5.1.2.7-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support E2E (e.g., UE to UE)
QoS for a service.
NOTE 2: E2E QoS needs to consider QoS in RAN, backhaul, core network, and
backbone.
#### 5.1.2.8 3rd party services
[PR 5.1.2.8-001] The 3GPP system shall enable authorization by 3^rd^ party
service providers of connectivity to the 3^rd^ party services via the MNO
network, subject to bilateral agreements between 3^rd^ parties and MNOs.
[PR 5.1.2.8-002] The 3GPP system shall include means by which 3^rd^ party
service providers can provide information relating to the traffic
corresponding to 3^rd^ party services to the MNO, in order to assist the MNO
in determining how to handle that traffic, e.g. for QoS.
## 5.2 Scalability
### 5.2.1 Description
It is understood that traffic varies under different conditions (e.g.,
different times, different location and in the same location when an event
(e.g., a football match) begins or ends).
It is important that the mobile network is able to automatically and
dynamically control and allocate network resources, such as setting up,
capacity expansion/contraction and removal of a network function. The capacity
of network elements should be flexibly adjustable based on the variation in
demand. Moreover, the existing mechanisms (e.g., load balancing, network
function selection) which are closely related to the network scalability need
to be enhanced. Resiliency against congestion and disasters would be enhanced
by such flexibility.
For flexibly scalable network, context awareness including network condition,
application's user characteristics (e.g., different mobility types, expected
traffic over time, location), information gathered by smart phone's sensors
and connectivity technologies (e.g., Bluetooth, WLAN, NFC, etc) can be very
useful for rapid network configuration and efficient resource scheduling.
### 5.2.2 Potential Requirements
**System elasticity**
[PR 5.2.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to adjust the network capacities
dynamically based on variations in demand.
[PR 5.2.2-002] Subject to operator policy, the 3GPP system shall support
dynamic utilization of resources (compute, network and storage resources) in
more than one geographic area in order to serve the differing needs of the
users in each geographic area.
[PR 5.2.2-003] Use of resources (compute, network and storage resources) in
more than one geographic area by the system shall be supported without
requiring manual re-configuration of neighbouring nodes, without service
disruption, and while avoiding additional signalling due to unnecessary UE's
re-attachments (e.g., due to loss of call state information in the network).
[PR 5.2.2-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide an increase in
signalling and user plane capacity within 5 minutes of the need to do so being
detected.
> NOTE: The lead time of 5 minutes stems from the most severe and unplanned
> use case i.e. the disaster use case, where the average time until call
> attempts surge after a disaster occurs is considered 5 minutes.
[PR 5.2.2-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to maintain service when
performing a network scaling and automation operation.
[PR 5.2.2-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the enhancement on the
existing mechanisms (e.g., load balancing, network function selection), which
are highly related to the network scalability and automation operation.
**System information collection**
[PR 5.2.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support elastic configuration of the
network based on system information, including:
\- Instantaneous network conditions, such as serving RATs (e.g., 5G, E-UTRA,
WLAN), cell type (macro cell, small cell), network load information and
congestion levels;
\- Application's user characteristics, such as mobility type (high mobility,
low mobility, no mobility), expected traffic over time, location;
\- When allowed by a user, UE context information, such as sensor-level
information (e.g., direction, speed, power status, display status, other
sensor information installed in the UE), application-level information (e.g.,
foreground applications, running background application, application data,
user settings)
[PR 5.2.2-008] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to collect
system information while ensuring end-user and application privacy (e.g.,
application level information such as application usage information is not to
be related to an individual application user identity or subscriber identity
and UE level information such as UE location is not be related to an
individual subscriber identity).
[PR 5.2.2-009] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to collect system
information in a timely manner (e.g., network operation may be optimized based
on contextual information).
## 5.3 Mobility support
### 5.3.1 Description
Next generation systems are expected to address very different requirements on
mobility support. Some UEs will access the network while moving at very high
speeds, other UEs will be nomadic, with perhaps known patterns of movement,
and others will be entirely stationary when accessing the network. A case in
point, many IoT devices will be stationary, or have very low mobility. For
example, devices may be embedded in consumer products intended to remain
stable in a home or office setting. Once activated in the appropriate setting,
the device will always access the network from the same location.
The requirements for mobility support also vary based on the applications and
services used. While some services require the network to hide mobility events
from the application layer to avoid interruptions in service delivery, other
applications have application specific means to ensure service continuity.
Hiding mobility events includes aspects such as minimizing interruption time
and packet loss or maintaining the same IP address during intra- or inter-RAT
cell changes. Different applications may require different levels of mobility
handling support. Some applications may not require the network to maintain
the same IP address during mobility events because they have application-
specific means of addressing the mobility. But these applications may still
require the network to minimize interruption time to ensure that their
application-specific means to ensure service continuity work effectively. With
the ever-increasing multimedia broadband data volumes, it is also important to
enable the offloading of IP traffic from the 3GPP network onto traditional IP
routing networks via an IP anchor node close to the network edge. As the UE
moves, changing the IP anchor node may be needed in order to reduce the
traffic load in the system, reduce end-to-end latency and provide a better
user experience.
Taking these factors into consideration, mobility management procedures can be
optimized in future 3GPP systems.
### 5.3.2 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.3.2-001a] The 3GPP system shall enable operators to define different
levels of mobility support for different UEs.
[PR 5.3.2-001b] An operator can choose to support none, any one or some
combination of the following:
\- The 3GPP system shall enable mobility support where packet loss is
minimized during inter- and/or intra-RAT cell changes for some or all packet
data connections (e.g., APNs) associated with a UE.
\- The 3GPP system shall enable mobility support where IP address assigned to
a UE is maintained across different cells and RATs for some or all packet data
connections (e.g., APNs) associated with a UE.
\- The 3GPP system shall enable mobility support where the impact to the user
experience is minimized (e.g., minimization of interruption time) when
changing the IP address and IP anchoring point for some or all packet data
connections (e.g., APNs) associated with a UE.
[PR 5.3.2-002] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity when changing
the IP address and/or IP anchoring point for some or all packet data
connections associated with a UE.
[PR 5.3.2-003] The 3GPP system shall enable operators to update the level of
mobility support provided for a UE (e.g., during packet data connection
establishment).
[PR 5.3.2-004] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling needed for
mobility management of stationary UEs.
[PR 5.3.2-005] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling needed for
mobility management of UEs that participate in mobile-originated communication
scenarios only.
[PR 5.3.2-006] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling needed for
mobility management of UEs with known patterns of mobility (e.g., movement
only within a limited geographic area).
## 5.4 Efficient content delivery
### 5.4.1 Description
Video based services, personal data storage applications have been
instrumental for the massive growth in mobile broadband traffic.
Simultaneously, advances in the semiconductor technologies have driven down
the volume of storage devices, thereby allowing for a flexible and effective
deployment of in-network content caching entities at the edge of the network,
e.g., the terminals, radio site, local aggregation point, and distributed
personal cloud over 3GPP network. The operation of in-network caching and
storage may include flexibly deploying content caching entities within the
network and efficiently delivery content from/to the appropriate content
caching entities. For example: delivering popular video content from a content
caching entity via broadcast, and securely storing the personal data/files of
a user in distributed caching entity. Such a service could also provide a
student wireless backpack, where students can resume their work through the
same or a different device at a time convenient to them, with very fast
response times from the network. The benefits of in-network caching and
storage include:
1) Provides a better user experience (lower latencies and channel switching
times) for the end-user,
2) Allows the operators to dimension their network and backhaul more
efficiently and
3) In some scenarios, efficiently utilize limited radio resources.
A significant and growing fraction of the traffic uses the HTTPS protocol
which is encrypted. It is important that the 3GPP core network be able to
efficiently cache this type of contents.
Future 3GPP networks should natively support protocols that would allow the
discovery, routeing and dynamic intelligent caching of named content. This
would offer benefits in terms of latency reduction, bandwidth savings,
flexible caching, and security.
### 5.4.2 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.4.2-001] The 3GPP system shall enable efficient delivery of content from
an appropriate content caching entity under the control of the operator, e.g.,
a cache located close to the user.
[PR 5.4.2-002] The 3GPP system shall provide charging, Lawful Interception
(LI) and QoS differentiation for content delivered from an in-network caching
entity.
[PR 5.4.2-003] The 3GPP system shall enable a flexible deployment of content
caching entities located at multiple locations within the network (e.g., at
various radio sites and local aggregation points).
[PR 5.4.2-004] The 3GPP system shall support a content caching entity that is
capable of being integrated within a device or UE under the control of the
operator.
[PR 5.4.2-005] A UE shall be able to receive cached content broadcasted by a
content caching entity.
[PR 5.4.2-006] The 3GPP system shall provide the means for caching of
encrypted content (e.g., using HTTPS) with at least similar performance
benefits to those obtained for unencrypted content (e.g., in latency
reduction, bandwidth savings, flexible caching).
[PR 5.4.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to store in-
network cached data.
[PR 5.4.2-008] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to access an
in-network data cache.
[PR 5.4.2-009] The 3GPP system shall support efficient protocols for in-
network caching and storage.
## 5.5 Self-backhauling
### 5.5.1 Description
A dense urban area will serve both indoor and outdoor users. Access nodes will
be increasingly dense, both indoor and outdoor. Backhaul availability would be
one of the key issues in this scenario. Network planning is another issue.
Precise network planning would be difficult, considering the deployment
concerns, backhaul capacity and scalability etc.
The increasingly high densification of access nodes needed to meet future
performance objectives poses considerable challenges in deployment and
management. The use of wireless backhaul for such access nodes helps to
address some of the challenges. Wireless self-backhauling may be particularly
useful for higher frequency bands.
Wireless self-backhauling can enable simpler deployment and incremental
rollout by reducing reliance on the availability of wired backhaul at each
access node location. Network planning and installation efforts can be reduced
by leveraging plug and play type features---self-configuration, self-
organizing, and self-optimization. Wireless self-backhauling can enable
incremental growth planning by adapting deployment of managed backhaul
capacity to the increase of traffic demand as the number of users within the
service grows over time.
Network sharing can also imply sharing of fronthaul/backhaul network resources
by using an emerging 5G method (e.g., network slicing) or by proprietary
means. Fronthaul/backhaul networks can be deployed by multiple operators. This
will allow network operators to benefit by providing better Quality of Service
(QoS), and optimally sharing network resources with other operators when
considering traffic conditions, peak hours, etc.
NOTE: Fronthaul network is referred to e.g., the network between Remote Radio
Head (RRH) and Baseband Unit (BBU) whereas backhaul network is referred to the
network e.g., between BBU and the core network.
### 5.5.2 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.5.2-001] Radio Interface Technology (RIT) of the 3GPP system shall be
designed with features and optimizations to provide a backhaul function.
[PR 5.5.2-002] The 3GPP system shall support flexible and efficient backhaul
for both indoor and outdoor access nodes.
[PR 5.5.2-003] The 3GPP system shall support flexible partitioning of
resources between access and backhaul functions when supported in a common
band.
[PR 5.5.2-004] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic, autonomous configuration
of integrated access and backhaul nodes.
[PR 5.5.2-005] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic adaptation on wireless
backhaul network topologies to minimize service disruptions.
[PR 5.5.2-006] The 3GPP system shall allow a network operator to provide
fronthaul/backhaul network sharing information and capabilities to other
network operators.
[PR 5.5.2-007] The 3GPP system shall allow network operators to be able to
share fronthaul/backhaul network resources.
## 5.6 Access
### 5.6.1 Description
The 5G system has the following characteristics related to access:
  1. **Multiple Access Support**
> Multiple RAT connectivity is beneficial for increasing throughput. A
> capability to select which data flow goes over which RAT provides additional
> benefits. These capabilities will require that the UE has full dual radio
> capability, e.g., can handle both uplink and downlink radio transmissions on
> both a 5G RAT and an E-UTRA RAT simultaneously. This is expected to be
> commonly supported by UEs used as e.g., smart phones. Due to the expected
> large diversity of market segments and type of UEs for the new system, it is
> also expected that some UEs will target lower complexity segments where
> single radio capability is preferred.
  1. **Optimized Connection per Traffic Type**
> When the user is in the coverage area of multiple cells, the best cell for
> the given application should be used, so that the traffic is routed in
> optimal manner. Moreover, traffic routing within the network should also be
> optimized, i.e., some of the traffic may be offloaded locally while other
> traffic may be routed to or from an operator core network.
  1. **3GPP/Non-3GPP Access Integration**
> The 5G system will connect to multiple non-3GPP and 3GPP access networks in
> order to allow the operator to efficiently use the network infrastructure
> and to provide the best capabilities to an end-user.
>
> The 5G system is expected to support at least the following capabilities:
  * mobility between 3GPP and non-3GPP networks,
  * capability for the UE based on network control to select the access > to connect to,
  * simultaneous connection to different accesses, capability to access > services provided by a 5G network to the UE connected to a > non-3GPP access,
  * authentication for accessing 3GPP network through a non-3GPP access > using 3GPP credential, etc.
  * **Access from less trusted networks**
> In order to enable more flexible deployments, operators will support access
> and connectivity via less trusted networks. For example, current core
> network functions are expected to be deployed nearer the edge and multiple
> parties may own the network equipment traversed. In these networks, privacy
> across access network elements cannot be assumed and the user\'s identity
> should be protected.
  1. **Enhanced access control**
> In case of disasters, operators need to provide communication services to
> users. To protect the network from overload, the use of the communication
> services should be limited by operator's policy. For this purpose, 3GPP
> system is expected to support an enhanced access control mechanism.
  1. **Temporary Service for Users of Other Operators**
> 3GPP system is expected to support temporary service in emergency case which
> may require cooperation between operators. The temporary service in
> emergency case is a limited set of communication services provided by an
> operator for users from other operators.
  1. **Energy Efficiency**
> As 5G network is likely to utilize higher spectrum compared to legacy 3GPP
> RAT, including mmWave, it is expected that more basestations are needed to
> cover the same area covered by legacy 3GPP networks. This would cause higher
> operational complexity for operators which may be a big burden for the
> operators in developing countries where power is limited. A 5G network
> should maximize energy efficiency.
  1. **Satellite Access**
> Satellites are ideal in covering areas that cannot be covered by terrestrial
> networks. In fact, there are several use cases that can only be served by
> satellites based wireless connectivity, and there are other use cases for
> which satellites provide a more efficient solution. The use cases specified
> span eMBB, IoT and Critical Communications services. Therefore,
> accessibility to the next generation 3GPP system via satellites by the users
> can ubiquitously deploy services being contemplated as part of 5G. The
> satellite can either be in geo-stationary, medium or low earth orbit.
> Additionally, satellite can either serve as a relay between the user
> terminal and the 3GPP RAN or as a 3GPP radio node.
  1. **Residential Access**
> In urban and rural areas residents are accustomed to fast wired Internet
> access. To compete with wired offerings (e.g., cable), and to offer home
> offices sufficient data rates, the 3GPP system must support peak data rates
> of tens of Gbps and experienced data rates of up to 1 Gbps for residential
> users. To simplify network planning and deployment, it should be possible to
> limit the coverage for each subscription. Such approach is known as WLL
> (Wireless Local Loop), where the last mile is delivered wirelessly.
  1. **3GPP in-network roaming**
> 5G network deployments are expected to range from large-scale macro networks
> to small-scale residential deployments, including medium-scale networks
> covering industrial and commercial properties. These networks will need to
> be identified is such a way as to enable an operator to define policy
> enabling roaming/redirection onto specific networks for enhanced user
> services and operator traffic management. This policy will need to enable
> enhanced steering of the UEto ensure cost-effective utilisation of operator
> resources and the establishment of partnerships.
### 5.6.2 Potential Requirements
  1. **Multiple Access Support**
[PR 5.6.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide data transmission by
using both a 5G RAT and E-UTRA RAT simultaneously, i.e., in this case dual
radio UE capability is required.
[PR 5.6.2-002] When a UE is using both the 5G RAT and E-UTRA RAT
simultaneously, the 3GPP system shall be able to select a radio access
technology (either a 5G RAT or E-UTRA RAT) to assign each data flow, taking
into account e.g., service, traffic characteristics, radio characteristics,
and UE's moving speed.
[PR 5.6.2-003] The 3GPP system shall support UEs with dual radio capability as
well as UEs with single radio capability, i.e. a UE that cannot transmit on
the 5G RAT and the E-UTRA RAT simultaneously.
  1. **Optimized Connection per Traffic Type**
[PR 5.6.2-004] Based on operator policy, the 3GPP system shall provide a
mechanism such that one type of traffic (from a specific application or
service) to/from a UE can be offloaded towards a network close to the UE\'s
point of attachment to the access network, while not impacting other traffic
type to/from that same UE.
[PR 5.6.2-005] Based on operator policy, the 3GPP network shall provide a
mechanism such that a specific traffic type (from a specific application or
service) to/from a UE can be routed via a partnership 3^rd^ party network.
[PR 5.6.2-005a] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a capability for the
UE to select a PLMN based on extensive operator policy including network
supported services /slices, specific traffic type (from a specific application
or service), multiple radio capability, level of trust and preferred partners.
  1. **3GPP/Non-3GPP Access Integration**
[PR 5.6.2-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide 3GPP services to a UE
that is connected via 3GPP or non-3GPP access networks (e.g., WLAN, fixed
broadband access, Bluetooth).
[PR 5.6.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support mobility between 3GPP and
non-3GPP access networks.
[PR 5.6.2-008] The 3GPP system shall support a capability for a UE to select
3GPP or non-3GPP access networks, based on operator policy.
[PR 5.6.2-010] The 3GPP system shall support authentication allowing a UE to
access the 3GPP network through a non-3GPP access network using 3GPP
credentials.
[PR 5.6.2-011] The 3GPP system shall enable the UE to simultaneously connect
to the network via different accesses, both non-3GPP and 3GPP for one or more
applications.
[PR 5.6.2-012] The 3GPP system shall be able to manage the addition or
dropping of the various accesses dynamically during a session according to the
quality of the individual connections.
[PR 5.6.2-013] The 3GPP system shall support data transmissions optimized for
different access technologies (e.g., 3GPP, non-3GPP) for UEs that are
simultaneously connected to the network via different accesses (both non-3GPP
and 3GPP).
[PR 5.6.2-014] The 3GPP system shall be able to aggregate the UE data transfer
via one access or a combination of accesses.
[PR 5.6.2-015] The 3GPP system shall be able to aggregate the UE data transfer
via one access or a combination of accesses to provide the best user
experience during an ongoing data transmission.
[PR 5.6.2-016] The 3GPP system shall support interworking with a fixed
broadband access network.
NOTE: The specification of fixed broadband access network is outside the scope
of 3GPP.
[PR 5.6.2-017] The 3GPP system shall be able to differentiate charging a
subscriber for the same 3GPP service if it is provided to a UE over different
3GPP and non-3GPP accesses.
[PR 5.6.2-018] The 3GPP system shall be able to dynamically offload part of
the traffic from 3GPP RAT to non-3GPP RATs and vice versa, taking into account
traffic load and traffic type.
[PR 5.6.2-019] The 3GPP system shall be able to integrate fixed and wireless
service access management and provide an efficient provision of services over
3GPP and non-3GPP accesses.
  1. **Access from less trusted networks**
[PR 5.6.2-020] Subject to regulatory requirements, the UE may use a temporary
identifier for initial attach that hides its long-term identity. The home
network shall be able to associate this temporary identifier to the long-term
identity.
  1. **Enhanced access control**
[PR 5.6.2-021] The 3GPP system shall support an enhanced service access
control mechanism (e.g., based on the subscriber PLMN, the access class, the
device type (UE or IoT device), the service type (e.g., Voice, SMS, specific
data application) and the communication type (e.g., emergency call, signalling
and/or service origination)).
[PR 5.6.2-022] The enhanced service access control mechanism shall be able to
provide access to a limited set of services determined by an operator's
policy.
  1. **Temporary Service for Users of Other Operators**
[PR 5.6.2-023] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policies, the
3GPP system shall support access security for temporary services in emergency
cases.
[PR 5.6.2-024] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policies, the
3GPP system shall support service authorization for subscribers of PLMNs other
than the home PLMN.
NOTE: See also clause 5.8.1.4.
  1. **Energy Efficiency**
[PR 5.6.2-025] The 3GPP system shall be capable of achieving [1000] times
energy efficiency compared to legacy system.
  1. **Satellite Access**
[PR 5.6.2-026] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide services to the UE
using satellite access.
[PR 5.6.2-027] The 3GPP system shall support an air-interface with one-way
latency of up to 275 ms when satellite connection is involved.
[PR 5.6.2-028] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity between land
based and satellite based access networks owned by the same operator or by an
agreement between operators.
  1. **Residential Access**
[PR 5.6.2-029] The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with a
service limited to a pre-defined geographic area.
[PR 5.6.2-030] The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with peak
data rates of [10s of Gbps] and experienced data rates of up to [1 Gbps].
[PR 5.6.2-031] The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with a
latency of [10 ms].
## 5.7 Migration and interworking
### 5.7.1 Description
A 5G system is expected to support many new types of UEs and services. In
order to efficiently support these new UEs and services, it is expected that
the 5G system will include one or more RATs optimized for different purposes
(e.g., support for high reliability/low latency vs support for low
mobility/higher latency). In the 5G timeframe of 2020 and beyond, it is also
anticipated there will be a need to support co-existence of 5G RAT(s) and
E-UTRAN.
In addition to new services derived from the new use cases envisioned for the
5G system, there exist already today a large number of services in the
cellular networks of the current generations. It is envisioned that most of
these existing services could be deemed as required for support in a 5G system
while others are not.
### 5.7.2 Potential Requirements
#### 5.7.2.1 Interworking between 5G systems
[PR 5.7.2.1-001] The 3GPP system shall provide support for a UE with a 5G
subscription roaming into a 5G Visited Mobile Network which has a roaming
agreement with the UE\'s Home Mobile Network. A 5G Visited Mobile Network
shall be able to provide support for establishing home network provided data
connectivity as well as visited network provided data connectivity. A 5G
Visited Mobile Network shall be able to provide support for services provided
in the home network as well as provide services in the visited network.
Whether a service is provided in the visited network or in the home network is
determined on a service by service basis.
[PR 5.7.2.1-002] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism for a network
operator to limit access to its services for a roaming subscriber with a 5G UE
and subscription, e.g., based on a specific service logic agreement in a
roaming agreement.
[PR 5.7.2.1-003] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism for a network
operator to direct a UE onto a partnership network for routing all or some of
the UE user plane traffic over the partnership network, subject to a bilateral
agreement between the operators being in place.
#### 5.7.2.2 Interworking between 5G and 4G
[PR 5.7.2.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support seamless handover
and Inter System Mobility between5G RAT(s) and E-UTRA.
#### 5.7.2.3 Migration aspects
[PR 5.7.2.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support all services supported in a 4G
system, with the following exceptions:
\- CS voice service continuity and/or fallback to GERAN or UTRAN,
\- Seamless handover between the 5G RAT(s) and GERAN or UTRAN, and
\- Access by a GERAN or UTRAN RAT to a 5G core network.
## 5.8 Security
### 5.8.1 Description
#### 5.8.1.1 Device Theft Prevention
Smartphones and other high value devices such as drones and unmanned aerial
vehicles potentially lead to increased numbers of devices with communications
capability being stolen and modified to prevent tracing and recovery by civil
authorities. This use case applies to devices that law enforcement requires to
be traceable.
There are two facets employed for reducing device theft rates: theft
prevention and stolen device recovery. Theft prevention involves disabling
normal smartphone operation, preventing its illegal reuse, repurpose or
resale, and deleting user sensitive data. Stolen device recovery involves
identifying a recovered smartphone (by the user or civil authorities),
verifying that it is stolen, and potentially restoring the smartphone to
normal operation.
Unique device identifiers in the 5G system are needed that are stored in a
secure and tamper resistant manner on the device. When a stolen device is
recovered, the civil authority has a need to retrieve the device identity but
may not have sufficiently detailed knowledge of the specifics of the device\'s
user interface. These protected device identifiers can then be used to
reliably identify a recovered smartphone as stolen as well as support the
tracing of illegal reuse, repurpose or resale of stolen smartphones.
#### 5.8.1.2 Protection of user identity and location information
There is a growing need to provide a user with protection of identity and
location information.
In order to enable more flexible deployments, operators will support access
and connectivity via less trusted networks while preserving the privacy of
Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and protecting user location
information. For example, multiple parties may own the network equipment
traversed. In these networks, privacy across access networks elements and
interfaces cannot be assumed.
Information provided over the air during initial attach may allow a passive
eavesdropper to obtain user personal identifying information or location or
both. In addition, rogue NW elements (i.e., not part of the legitimate mobile
network) may request and receive such information.
Both user identity and location need to be protected in 5G networks.
#### 5.8.1.3 Efficient security mechanisms for small bursts of data
Some devices spend most of the time sending small bursts of data. The current
security approach has the same overhead when establishing a bearer regardless
of the amount of data it will be used for. Reducing security overhead,
especially for small data transmissions, is beneficial.
#### 5.8.1.4 Security for temporary service in emergency case
Temporary service in emergency case (see clause 5.6) is needed in disaster
situation where users cannot be authenticated by their home operator on a
visited network. From this aspect, 5G system is expected to support access
security mechanism without access to the users' home network (e.g., IOPS for
commercial use, emergency services enhanced for temporary service in emergency
case).
#### 5.8.1.5 Legal and regulatory obligations
Lawful Interception is a general condition of operator licences and
authorisations.
In many countries, Lawful Interception is a technology neutral obligation that
applies to all fixed and mobile network operators (local loop service
providers) and is fully applicable to 5G Networks.
Lawful Interception capabilities must be provided to intercept all
communications placed when they are using the 5G public network of a country.
In particular these capabilities must prevent detection and usage by any
unauthorized entities.
### 5.8.2 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.8.2-001] Subject to regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system shall
support a secure mechanism allowing an authorized entity to disable from
normal operation of a device reported as stolen.
[PR 5.8.2-002] Subject to regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system shall
support a secure mechanism allowing an authorized entity to re-enable a
recovered stolen device to normal operation.
[PR 5.8.2-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to protect subscriber identity
and other user identifying information from attacks by a passive listener.
[PR 5.8.2-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to protect subscriber identity
and other user identifying information from active attacks.
[PR 5.8.2-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to protect user location
information from attacks by a passive listener.
[PR 5.8.2-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to protect user location
information from active attacks.
[PR 5.8.2-007] Subject to regulations, the 3GPP system shall be able to
protect the user identity from an attack by a roamed-to network.
[PR 5.8.2-008] The 3GPP system shall minimize signalling overhead for security
without compromising the security level of the 3GPP system.
[PR 5.8.2-009] Subject to regulatory requirements, 3GPP system shall be able
to provide temporary service in an operator's network in emergency case for
users from other operators without access to their home network (e.g., IOPS
for commercial use, emergency services enhanced for temporary service in
emergency case and so on).
[PR 5.8.2-010] Subject to national regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system
shall support a mechanism to provide Lawful Interception. Existing Lawful
Interception are applicable without restrictions.
[PR 5.8.2-011] Subject to national requirements, the 3GPP system shall comply
with Lawful Interception Requirements.
[PR 5.8.2-012] The 3GPP system shall provide appropriate mechanisms to enable
Lawful Interception.
NOTE: The appropriate solution will be defined in 3GPP SA3_LI.
[PR 5.8.2-013] Devices shall store device identities in a secure and tamper
resistant way in order to prevent device identification tampering, when
required.
[PR 5.8.2-014] Devices shall display the device identity in a consistent
manner, not requiring detailed knowledge of the device\'s user interface, when
required.
[PR 5.8.2-015] The 3GPP system shall be able to support identification of
subscriptions independently of identification of devices.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on charging
### 6.1.1 Charging considerations from TR 22.861 [3]
This section describes the requirements for collecting charging data for a
device. The requirements also apply in the roaming case.
[PR 6.2-001] The 3GPP core network shall support online and offline charging
for a device, whether the device is in direct 3GPP connection mode or indirect
3GPP connection mode.
[PR 6.2-002] The 3GPP core network shall be able to separately identify the
charging data of a device from the charging data of a relay UE, when the
device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode via the relay UE.
[PR 5.1.3.5-002a] The 3GPP system shall be able to support enhanced charging
mechanisms to support various types of connectivity (e.g., subscribed,
connectivity), with or without the presence of operator credentials in the
device.
[PR 5.1.3.5-005] Enhanced charging mechanism shall enable an operator to
collect charging-related information for enhanced authentication mechanism and
enhanced authorization mechanism.
### 6.1.2 Charging considerations from TR 22.864
The 3GPP core network shall support a mechanism to collect charging
information associated with each serving MNO when multi-network connectivity
is under the control of the home operator.
[PR 5.1.2.2-006b] The 3GPP core network shall be able to support charging for
services hosted closer to the end user.
[PR 5.4.2-002b] The 3GPP core network shall be able to support charging for
content delivered from an in-network caching entity.
[PR 5.6.2-017] The 3GPP core network shall be able to collect information to
be used for charging and network planning for a 3GPP service based on the
access type (e.g., 3GPP, non-3GPP).
## 6.2 Considerations on security
### 6.2.1 Security considerations from TR 22.861 [3]
#### 6.2.1.1 General
[PR 6.1-001] The 3GPP network shall support end-to-end integrity protection
and confidentiality for data transmitted between the core network and a
device, when the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR 6.1-001a] The 3GPP network shall support end-to-end integrity protection
and confidentiality for signalling transmitted between the core network and a
device, when the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR 6.1-002] The 3GPP network shall support a resource efficient mechanism to
authenticate a device when the device is in indirect 3GPP connection mode.
[PR 6.1-002a] The 3GPP network shall support a resource efficient mechanism to
authorize a device to use an indirect 3GPP connection.
[PR 5.2.3-004] A device shall determine the relay UE is authorized to serve as
a relay before the device uses the indirect connection to the 3GPP network via
the relay UE.
[PR 5.2.3-005] Devices shall determine they are authorized to engage in direct
device communication with each other upon establishing a direct device
communication using a 3GPP RAT.
[PR 5.2.3-006] Before establishing a direct device communications using a
non-3GPP RAT, devices may use 3GPP credentials to determine if they are
authorized to engage in direct device communication.
[PR 5.1.3.2-001] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to remotely
provision a device that has not been pre-provisioned, with its 3GPP
subscription credentials.
[PR 5.1.3.3-001] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling for security
that is required prior to user data transmission.
[PR 5.1.3.5-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support enhanced
authentication and authorization mechanisms to support various types of
connectivity (e.g., subscribed, connectivity), with or without the presence of
operator credentials in the device.
[PR 5.1.3.5-003] Enhanced authentication mechanism shall enable an operator to
provide efficient means to authenticate a user and a device (e.g., using
biometric information).
[PR 5.1.3.5-004] Enhanced authorization mechanism shall be able to provide a
user and a device with on-demand connectivity based on operator policy.
[PR 5.1.3.6-001] The 3GPP system shall provide a capability for users,
applications and devices to register, identify, address and reach other
devices, regardless of how each device is connected to 3GPP network.
#### 6.2.1.2 Group based security
[PR 5.3.3.1-005] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism which provides an
appropriate and efficient authentication mechanism for groups of devices.
[PR 5.2.3-020] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to transmit
the same information to multiple devices.
### 6.2.2 Security considerations from TR 22.862 [4]
The 3GPP system owned by a 3^rd^ party (e.g., factory owner) shall support
network access using identities, credentials, and authentication that is
provided and managed by that 3^rd^ party.
The 3GPP system owned by a 3^rd^ party (e.g., factory owner) shall allow
confidentiality and integrity protection managed by that 3^rd^ party.
The 3GPP system shall support an authentication process that can handle
alternative authentication methods with different types of credentials to
allow for different deployment scenarios such as industrial factory
automation.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to verify whether a UE is
authorized to use prioritized access for transport of data for critical
service.
The 3GPP system shall support confidentiality and end-to-end integrity
protection for user data.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide at least message integrity
protection.
### 6.2.3 Security considerations from TR 22.863 [5]
The 3GPP system shall minimize security signalling overhead needed for
transmission of small amounts of data without reducing its level of security.
The 3GPP system shall support the option for Operators to provide the same
level of security over fixed broadband access link as is provided over the
Next Generation Radio access link.
The 3GPP system shall support regulatory requirements in the combined use of
Next Generation Radio and fixed broadband access.
### 6.2.4 Security considerations from TR 22.864
[PR 5.1.2.1-007] The 3GPP system shall have the capability to conform to
service-specific security assurance requirements in a single network slice,
rather than the whole network.
[PR 5.1.2.1-009] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to authorize 3^rd^
parties to create and manage a network slice via suitable APIs, within the
limits set by the network operator.
[PR 5.1.2.2-006a] The 3GPP core network shall be able to support Lawful
Interception (LI) for services hosted closer to the end user.
[PR 5.2.2-008] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to collect
system information while ensuring end-user and application privacy (e.g.,
application level information such as application usage information is not to
be related to an individual application user identity or subscriber identity
and UE level information such as UE location is not be related to an
individual subscriber identity).
[PR 5.4.2-002a] The 3GPP system shall support Lawful Interception (LI) for
content delivered from an in-network caching entity.
[PR 5.4.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to store in-
network cached data.
[PR 5.4.2-008] The 3GPP system shall support a secure mechanism to access an
in-network data cache.
[PR 5.6.2-010] The 3GPP system shall be able to support authentication
allowing a UE to access a 5G network through a non-3GPP RAT using 3GPP
credentials.
[PR 5.6.2-020] Subject to regulatory requirements, the UE may use a temporary
identifier for initial attach that hides its long-term identity. The home
network shall be able to associate this temporary identifier to the long-term
identity.
[PR 5.6.2-023] [PR 5.6.2-024] Subject to regulatory requirements, 3GPP system
shall be able to support temporary service in emergency case which has the
following features:
  * service authorization for users of other than home operators by serving operator policy,
  * access security for temporary service in emergency case.
[PR 5.8.2-001] Subject to regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system shall
support a secure mechanism allowing an authorized entity to disable from
normal operation of a device reported as stolen.
[PR 5.8.2-002] Subject to regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system shall
support a secure mechanism allowing an authorized entity to re-enable a
recovered stolen device to normal operation.
[PR 5.8.2-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to protect subscriber identity
and other user identifying information from attacks by a passive listener.
[PR 5.8.2-004] Subject to regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system shall be
able to protect subscriber identity and other user identifying information
from active attacks.
[PR 5.8.2-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to protect user location
information from attacks by a passive listener.
[PR 5.8.2-006] Subject to regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system shall be
able to protect user location information from active attacks.
[PR 5.8.2-008] The 3GPP system shall minimize signalling overhead for security
without compromising the security level of the 3GPP system.
[PR 5.8.2-009] Subject to regulatory requirements, 3GPP system shall be able
to provide temporary service in an operator's network in emergency case for
users from other operators without access to their home network (e.g., IOPS
for commercial use, emergency services enhanced for temporary service in
emergency case and so on).
[PR 5.8.2-010] Subject to national regulatory requirements, the 3GPP system
shall support mechanisms to provide Lawful Interception.
NOTE: The appropriate solution will be defined in 3GPP SA3_LI.
[PR 5.8.2-013] 5G devices shall store device identities in a secure and tamper
resistant way in order to prevent device identification tampering, when
required.
[PR 5.8.2-014] 5G devices shall be able to display the device identity in a
consistent manner that does not require detailed knowledge of the device\'s
user interface.
[PR 5.8.2-015] The 3GPP system shall be able to support identification of
subscriptions independently of identification of devices.
## 6.3 Considerations on cross TR dependencies
While the four TRs, 22.861, 22.862, 22.863, and 22.864 separately address
certain characteristics of a 5G system, they cannot be viewed as providing
entirely standalone sets of potential requirements. In addition to the
charging and security considerations, there are a number of other cross TR
dependencies that must be accounted for. These include specifically
requirements related to 5G devices, identities, and access types which may
appear in one or more TR, but apply equally across others.
For example, use of the different access modes defined in TR 22.861 may apply
as well for the automation and drone scenarios found in TR 22.862. Similarly,
the KPIs defined in TR 22.862 are applicable for other IoT scenarios such as
those described in TR 22.861. The broadband metrics defined in TR 22.863 are
relevant to many scenarios in the other three TRs. And of course, the
functionality such as network slicing, scalability, in-network caching defined
in TR 22864, can be useful in meeting the KPIs for latency reduction and user
density defined in TRs 22.862 and 22.863.
The cross TR dependencies need to be taken into account in developing
normative requirements based on the studies.
# 7 Consolidation of Potential Requirements
## 7.1 Network Slicing
[PR 5.1.2.1-001] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to compose and
manage network slices. A network slice consists of a set of network functions
(e.g., potentially from different vendors), the resources to run these network
functions as well as policies and configurations.[PR 5.1.2.1-002] The 3GPP
system shall allow the operator to dynamically create a network slice to form
a complete, autonomous and fully operational network customised for different
market scenarios.
[PR 5.1.2.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to associate specific services,
devices, UEs, and subscribers with a particular network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-004] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE to simultaneously access
services from one or more network slices of one operator.
[PR 5.1.2.1-006] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to simultaneously
operate network slices in a manner that prevents a service in one slice from
negatively impacting services offered by other slices.
[PR 5.1.2.1-010] The 3GPP system shall support the elasticity of a network
slice in term of capacity with minimal impact on the services of this slice or
other slices.
[PR 5.1.2.1-011] The 3GPP system shall support modifications to network slices
(e.g., adding, deleting, modifying network slices) with minimal impact to
active subscriber services.
[PR 5.1.2.1-012] The 3GPP system shall be able to support E2E (e.g., RAN, core
network) resource management for a network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-016] The 3GPP system shall support the inclusion of 3GPP defined
functions as well as proprietary 3^rd^ party or operator provided functions in
a network slice, including
  * Hosting multiple 3^rd^ parties (e.g., enterprises) or MVNOs.
  * Serving home and roaming user
  * Supporting diverse market scenarios.
NOTE: The specific functional areas for which the system should support
proprietary or operator provided functions should be identified.
[PR 5.1.2.1-017] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for the VPLMN to
assign the UE to a network slice with the needed functionality, or to a
default network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-018] The 3GPP system shall be able to change the network slices to
which UEs are connected.
[PR 5.1.2.1-019] A network slice shall support a set of end-user services as
defined by the network operator.
[PR 5.1.2.1-020] The 3GPP system shall enable the operator to assign a UE to a
network slice based on services provided by the network slice.
[PR 5.1.2.1-021] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for an operator to
authorize a UE to receive service on a specific slice in response to a request
from a 3^rd^ party.
## 7.2 Efficient User Plane
[PR 5.1.2.2-001] Subject to operator's policy and/or based on application
needs, the 3GPP system shall support efficient user-plane paths between UEs
attached to the same network, even if the UEs change their location during an
active communication.
[PR 5.1.2.2-002] Subject to operator's policy and/or based on application
needs, the 3GPP system shall support efficient user-plane paths between a UE
attached to the mobile network and communication peers outside of the mobile
network (e.g., Internet hosts).
[PR 5.1.2.2-003] 3GPP network shall enable hosting of services (including both
MNO provided services and 3^rd^ party provided services) closer to the end
user.
[PR 5.1.2.2-004] The 3GPP network shall be able to support routing of data
traffic to the entity hosting services closer to the end user for specific
services.
[PR 5.1.2.2-006] The 3GPP core network shall be able to support QoS for
services hosted closer to the end user.
[PR 5.1.2.2-007] The 3GPP system shall be efficient and flexible for both low
throughput short data bursts and high throughput data transmissions (e.g.,
streaming video) from the same device.
[PR 5.1.2.2-008] The 3GPP network shall support efficient user-plane paths
between a UE and the entity hosting the service closer to the end user.
[PR.5.1.2.2-009] Subject to the service agreement between the operator and the
service provider, the 3GPP network shall support changing user-plane paths
between a UE and entities hosting a service during an active communication
(e.g., when a UE's location changes).
[PR 5.1.2.2-010] The 3GPP network shall maintain user experience when the UE
changes the connection to a different entity hosting the service.
[PR 5.1.2.2-011] The 3GPP network shall be able to interact with the entity
hosting the service for network optimization.
[PR 5.6.2-004] Based on operator policy, the 3GPP system shall provide a
mechanism such that one type of traffic (from a specific application or
service) to/from a UE can be offloaded towards a network close to the UE\'s
point of attachment to the access network, while not impacting other traffic
type to/from that same UE.
[PR 5.6.2-005] Based on operator policy, the 3GPP network shall provide a
mechanism such that a specific traffic type (from a specific application or
service) to/from a UE can be routed via a partnership 3rd party network.
## 7.3 Network Capability Exposure
[PR 5.1.2.6-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to expose network status
information to applications (e.g., to allow applications to use network
resources efficiently).
NOTE: Applications may be frugal at periods when resources are rare and should
compensate and anticipate as much as they can otherwise. Applications may be
able to handle disconnections in case of user mobility.
[PR 5.1.2.1-009] The 3GPP system shall allow a 3rd party to create, manage a
network slice configuration (e.g., scale slices) via suitable APIs, within the
limits set by the network operator.
[PR 5.1.2.4-005] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism to expose
broadcasting capabilities to 3^rd^ party broadcasters' management systems.
[PR 5.1.2.4-006] The 3GPP network shall a standardized interface to allow a
3rd party to support trusted 3rd party owned application(s) in the operator\'s
hosting service environment, subject to operator policy.
## 7.4 Flexible Broadcast Service
[PR 5.1.2.4-001] The 3GPP system shall enable deployment of a stand-alone
3GPP-based broadcast/multicast system over a wide geographic area in a
spectrally efficient manner.
[PR 5.1.2.4-002] The 3GPP system shall have the flexibility to enable the
operator to reserve 0% to 100% of radio resources of a radio carrier for the
delivery of broadcast/multicast content.
[PR 5.1.2.4-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to manage groups of resources
for broadcast channels.
[PR 5.1.2.4-003] Depending on the capability of the device or UE and the
services subscribed, the 3GPP system shall allow the user to receive content
via a broadcast/multicast radio carrier while a concurrent data session is
ongoing over another radio carrier.
[PR 5.1.2.4-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support broadcast of
streaming video (e.g., 4k/8k UHD).
NOTE: Taking into account the bandwidth needs for different streaming video
resolution.
[PR 5.1.2.4-008] The 3GPP device shall be able to request a specific video
quality for a received broadcast (e.g., reduced quality for display on a small
screen or high quality for display on a larger screen).
[PR 5.1.2.4-004a] The 3GPP system shall allow the operator to deploy a stand-
alone 3GPP based broadcast/multicast system with minimal interruption in the
delivery of the content to the device or UE.
## 7.5 Multi-network Connectivity and Service Delivery across Operators
[PR 5.1.2.5-001] The 3GPP system shall enable the operators to deploy networks
for a specific set of services.
[PR 5.1.2.5-002] The 3GPP system shall enable users to obtain services from
more than one network simultaneously on an on-demand basis.
[PR 5.1.2.5-003] For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of
multiple serving networks operated by different operators shall be under the
control of the home operator.
[PR 5.1.2.5-004] In the event of the same service being offered by multiple
operators, unless directed by the HPLMN, the device or UE shall be prioritized
to receive subscribed services from the home operator.
NOTE: If the service is unavailable (e.g., due to lack of network coverage)
from the home network, the device or UE could be able to receive the service
from another operator's network.
## 7.6 Markets requiring minimal service levels
[PR 5.1.2.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support very efficient use of the
control plane (e.g., minimizing signalling overhead, limiting mobility
support).
[PR 5.1.2.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support efficient use of the data plane
(e.g., minimizing power consumption, consolidating data transmissions to 1
larger rather than many smaller, adaptation of resource consumption based on
the availability of limited resources (e.g., use of the appropriate
layer/interface, or use several layers, possibly based on disjoint multiple
paths, if more resources are available), local services).
[PR 5.1.2.6-005] The 3GPP system shall minimise the amount of wireless
backhaul traffic (e.g., consolidating data transmissions to 1 larger rather
than many smaller, when applicable).
[PR.5.1.2.6-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a minimal user
experience for all (e.g., user experienced data rate of 100kbps, E2E latency
of 50 ms, lower availability of 0,95).
[PR 5.1.2.6-008] The base station shall support an energy saving mode with the
following characteristics:
  * The energy saving mode can be activated/deactivated either manually or automatically.
  * Service can be restricted to a pre-defined set of users (e.g., public safety, emergency callers).
NOTE: When in energy saving mode the transmit power may be reduced or turned
off (deep sleep mode), latency and jitter may be increased.
[PR 5.1.2.6-010] The 3GPP system shall support operations that minimize UE
power consumption (e.g., minimize push information, adjust transmission
power).
[PR 5.1.2.6-011] The 3GPP system shall support centralized network automation
and management in order to reduce local management tasks.
[PR 5.1.2.6-013] The 3GPP system shall be able to give priority to critical
services (e.g., e-health) when resources are limited.
## 7.7 Priority, QoS and Policy Control
[PR 5.1.2.7-001] The 3GPP system shall allow flexible means to make and
enforce relative priority decisions among the different application services
(e.g., MPS, Emergency, medical).
NOTE 1: Relative priority between different application services is subject to
regional or national regulatory and operator policies.
[PR 5.1.2.7-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide the required QoS
(e.g., reliability, latency, bandwidth) for an application and support
prioritization of resources when necessary for that application.
[PR 5.1.2.7-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a QoS and policy
framework for multiple accesses.
[PR 5.1.2.7-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support E2E (e.g., UE to UE)
QoS for a service.
NOTE 2: E2E QoS needs to consider QoS in RAN, backhaul, core network, and
backbone.
## 7.8 System elasticity
[PR 5.2.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to adjust the network capacities
dynamically based on variations in demand.
[PR 5.2.2-002] Subject to operator policy, the 3GPP system shall support
dynamic utilization of resources (compute, network and storage resources) in
more than one geographic area in order to serve the differing needs of the
users in each geographic area.
[PR 5.2.2-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide an increase in
signalling and user plane capacity within 5 minutes of the need to do so being
detected.
> NOTE: The lead time of 5 minutes stems from the most severe and unplanned
> use case i.e., the disaster use case, where the average time until call
> attempts surge after a disaster occurs is considered 5 minutes.
[PR 5.2.2-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to maintain service when
performing a network scaling and automation operation.
## 7.9 System information collection
[PR 5.2.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support elastic configuration of the
network based on system information, including:
\- Instantaneous network conditions, such as serving RATs (e.g., 5G, E-UTRA,
WLAN), cell type (e.g., macro cell, small cell), network load information and
congestion levels;
\- Application's user characteristics, such as mobility type (high mobility,
low mobility, no mobility), expected traffic over time, location;
\- When allowed by a user, UE context information, such as sensor-level
information (e.g., direction, speed, power status, display status, other
sensor information installed in the UE), application-level information (e.g.,
foreground applications, running background application, application data,
user settings)
[PR 5.2.2-009] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to collect system
information in a timely manner (e.g., network operation may be optimized based
on contextual information).
## 7.10 Mobility support
[PR 5.3.2-001a] The 3GPP system shall enable operators to define different
levels of mobility support for different UEs.
[PR 5.3.2-001b] An operator can choose to support none, any one or some
combination of the following:
\- The 3GPP system shall enable mobility support where packet loss is
minimized during inter- and/or intra-RAT cell changes for some or all packet
data connections (e.g., APNs) associated with a UE.
\- The 3GPP system shall enable mobility support where IP address assigned to
a UE is maintained across different cells and RATs for some or all packet data
connections (e.g., APNs) associated with a UE.
\- The 3GPP system shall enable mobility support where the impact to the user
experience is minimized (e.g., minimization of interruption time) when
changing the IP address and IP anchoring point for some or all packet data
connections (e.g., APNs) associated with a UE.
[PR 5.3.2-002] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity when changing
the IP address and/or IP anchoring point for some or all packet data
connections associated with a device or UE.
[PR 5.3.2-003] The 3GPP system shall enable operators to update the level of
mobility support provided for a UE, (e.g., during packet data connection
establishment).
[PR 5.3.2-004] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling needed for
mobility management of stationary UEs.
[PR 5.3.2-005] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling needed for
mobility management of UEs that participate in mobile-originated communication
scenarios only.
[PR 5.3.2-006] The 3GPP system shall minimize the signaling needed for
mobility management of UEs with known patterns of mobility (e.g., movement
only within a limited geographic area).
## 7.11 Efficient content delivery
[PR 5.4.2-001] The 3GPP system shall enable efficient delivery of content from
an appropriate content caching entity under the control of the operator, e.g.,
a cache located close to the device or UE.
[PR 5.4.2-002c] The 3GPP system shall provide QoS differentiation for content
delivered from an in-network caching entity.
[PR 5.4.2-003] The 3GPP system shall enable a flexible deployment of content
caching entities located at multiple locations within the network (e.g., at
various radio sites and local aggregation points).
[PR 5.4.2-004] The 3GPP system shall support a content caching entity that is
capable of being integrated within a device/UE under the control of the
operator.
[PR 5.4.2-005] A device or UE shall be able to receive cached content
broadcasted by a content caching entity.
[PR 5.4.2-006] The 3GPP system shall provide the means for caching of
encrypted contents (e.g., using HTTPS) with at least similar performance
benefits to those obtained for unencrypted contents (e.g., in latency
reduction, bandwidth savings, flexible caching).
## 7.12 Self backhaul
[PR 5.5.2-001] Radio Interface Technology (RIT) of the 3GPP system shall be
designed with features and optimizations to provide a backhaul function.
[PR 5.5.2-002] The 3GPP system shall support flexible and efficient backhaul
for both indoor and outdoor access nodes.
[PR 5.5.2-003] The 3GPP system shall support flexible partitioning of
resources between access and backhaul functions when supported in a common
band.
[PR 5.5.2-004] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic, autonomous configuration
of integrated access and backhaul nodes.
[PR 5.5.2-005] The 3GPP system shall support dynamic adaptation on wireless
backhaul network topologies to minimize service disruptions.
## 7.13 Support for multiple access technologies
### 7.13.1 LTE access support
[PR 5.6.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide data transmission by
using both a 5G RAT and E-UTRA RAT simultaneously, i.e., in this case dual
radio UE capability is required.
[PR 5.6.2-002] When a UE is using both the 5G RAT and E-UTRA RAT
simultaneously, the 3GPP system shall be able to select a radio access (either
a 5G RAT or E-UTRA RAT) to assign each data flow, taking into account e.g.,
service, traffic characteristics, radio characteristics, and UE's moving
speed.
[PR 5.6.2-003] The 3GPP system shall support UEs with dual radio capability as
well as UEs with single radio capability, i.e., a UE that cannot transmit on
the 5G RAT and the E-UTRA RAT simultaneously.
[PR 5.6.2-021] The 3GPP system shall be able to support an enhanced service
access control mechanism with the following conditions:
  * target subscribers (e.g., per PLMN),
  * subscriber class (e.g., access class),
  * device type (e.g., Smart phone or IoT device),
  * service type (e.g., Voice, SMS and/or specific data applications),
  * communication type (e.g., emergency call, signalling and/or service origination).
[PR 5.6.2-022] The enhanced service access control mechanism shall be able to
provide access to a limited set of services determined by an operator's
policy.
### 7.13.2 3GPP/non-3GPP access integration
[PR 5.6.2-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide 3GPP services to the
UE using various 3GPP and non-3GPP access networks (e.g., WLAN, fixed
broadband access, Bluetooth).
[PR 5.6.2-007] [PR 5.6.2-008] The3GPP system shall be able to support at least
the following 3GPP/non-3GPP access interworking capabilities:
  * Inter-system mobility between 3GPP and non-3GPP access networks,
  * Capability for the UE to select the 3GPP or non-3GPP access based on operator policy,
  * Simultaneous connection to different accesses, and capability for the UE to access the 3GPP services provided by the core network using non-3GPP access (e.g., FMSS).
[PR 5.6.2-011] The 3GPP system shall enable the UE to simultaneously connect
to the network via different accesses, both non-3GPP and 3GPP, for one or more
applications.
[PR 5.6.2-012] The 3GPP system shall be able to manage the addition or
dropping of the various accesses dynamically during a session according to the
quality of the individual connections.
[PR 5.6.2-013] The 3GPP system shall be able to support data transmissions
optimized for different access technologies (e.g., 3GPP, non-3GPP) for UEs
that are simultaneously connected to the network via different accesses (both
non-3GPP and 3GPP).
[PR 5.6.2-016] The 3GPP system shall be able to support interworking with a
fixed broadband network.
NOTE: The specification of fixed broadband access network is outside the scope
of 3GPP.
[PR 5.6.2-018] Based on operator policy, the 3GPP system shall be able to
dynamically offload part of the traffic from 3GPP RAT to non-3GPP RATs and
vice versa, taking into account traffic load and traffic type.
[PR 5.6.2-019] The 3GPP network shall be able to integrate fixed and wireless
service access management and provide an efficient provision of services over
3GPP and non-3GPP accesses.
### 7.13.3 Satellite access
[PR 5.6.2-026] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide services to the UE
using satellite access.
[PR 5.6.2-028] The 3GPP system shall support service continuity between land
based and satellite based access networks owned by the same operator or by an
agreement between operators.
### 7.13.4 Residential access
[PR 5.6.2-029] The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with a
service limited to a pre-defined geographic area.
### 7.13.5 Access from less trusted networks
[PR 5.6.2-020] Subject to regulatory requirements, the device or UE may use a
temporary identifier for initial attach that hides its long-term identity. The
home network shall be able to associate this temporary identifier to the long-
term identity.
### 7.13.6 Energy Efficiency
[PR 5.6.2-025] The 3GPP system shall be capable of achieving [1000] times
energy efficiency compared to legacy system.
### 7.13.7 Performance
These performance related requirements can apply to different scenarios
including eMBB, mIOT and CriC.
[PR 5.1.2.4-004b] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a stand-alone
multicast/broadcast network comprising of individual cells whose coverage
radius spans up to 50km.
[PR 5.1.2.6-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support very large cells
(e.g., relaxed timing on random access and other procedures to enable very
long range beyond 100km).
[PR 5.6.2-027] The 3GPP system shall support an air-interface with one-way
latency of up to 275 ms when satellite connection is involved.
[PR 5.6.2-030] The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with peak
data rates of [10s of Gbps] and experienced data rates of up to [1 Gbps].
[PR 5.6.2-031] The 3GPP system shall support residential deployment with a
latency of [10 ms].
## 7.14 Migration and interworking
### 7.14.1 Interworking between 5G systems
[PR 5.7.2.1-001] The 3GPP system shall provide support for a device or UE with
a 5G subscription roaming into a 5G Visited Mobile Network which has a roaming
agreement with the device or UE\'s Home Mobile Network.
[PR 5.7.2.1-001a] The 3GPP system shall enable a Visited Mobile Network to
provide support for establishing home network provided data connectivity as
well as visited network provided data connectivity.
[PR 5.7.2.1-001b] The 3GPP system shall enable a Visited Mobile Network to
provide support for services provided in the home network as well as provide
services in the visited network. Whether a service is provided in the visited
network or in the home network is determined on a service by service basis.
[PR 5.7.2.1-002] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism for a network
operator to limit access to its services for a roaming subscriber with a 5G
device or UE and subscription, e.g., based on a specific service logic
agreement in a roaming agreement.
[PR 5.7.2.1-003] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism for a network
operator to direct a UE onto a partnership network for routing all or some of
the UE user plane traffic over the partnership network, subject to a bilateral
agreement between the operators being in place.
### 7.14.2 Interworking between 5G and 4G
[PR 5.7.2.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support seamless handover
and Inter System Mobility between 5G RAT(s) and E-UTRA.
### 7.14.3 Migration aspects
[PR 5.7.2.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support all services supported in a 4G
system, with the following exceptions:
> CS voice service continuity and/or fallback to GERAN or UTRAN,
>
> Seamless handover between the 5G RAT(s) and GERAN or UTRAN, and
>
> Access by a GERAN or UTRAN RAT to a 5G core network.
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendations
The Feasibility Study for NEO TR **identifies and documents 8 key families of
use cases and potential requirements of new scenarios and markets related to**
network operation.
The potential requirements have been summarised as a set of consolidated
potential requirements as captured in clause 7 and considerations on charging
and security in clause 6.
It is recommended that the consolidated potential requirements and
considerations identified in this TR are considered as a basis for the
development of normative requirements.
#