# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this document is to identify use cases and potential service
requirements to enhance 3GPP support for V2X service in the following areas:
\- Support for non-safety V2X services (also, referred to as \"comfort
service\") (e.g. connected vehicle, mobile high data rate entertainment,
mobile hot-spot/office/home, dynamic digital map update)
\- Support for safety-related V2X services (e.g. autonomous driving, car
platooning, priority handling between safety-related V2X services and other
services)
\- Support for V2X services in multiple 3GPP RATs (e.g. LTE, New RAT (NR)) and
networks environment, including aspects such as interoperability with non-3GPP
V2X technology (e.g. ITS-G5, DSRC, ITS-Connect)
In this document, V2X-related use cases and potential requirements already
included in TR 22.891 are considered and new ones are introduced.
The identification of use cases and potential requirements covers both evolved
LTE RAT and new 3GPP RAT (e.g. NR) and also covers V2X operation using 3GPP
RATs where there are non-3GPP V2X technologies (e.g. ITS-G5, DSRC, ITS-
Connect) in use.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 5G-PPP-White-Paper-on-Automotive-Vertical-Sectors.
[3] ETSI TR 103 299 (V0.0.10): \"Intelligent Transport System, Cooperative
Adaptive Cruise Control (CACC)\".
[4] ADASIS, http://adasis.org
[5] ETSI TR 102 863 (V1.1.1): \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Vehicular
Communications; Basic Set of Applications; Local Dynamic Map (LDM); Rationale
for and guidance on standardization\".
[6] Draft ETSI EN 302 895 (V1.0.0): \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS);
Vehicular Communications; Basic Set of Applications; Local Dynamic Map (LDM)
Concept for Local Dynamic Maps\".
[7] ISO/TS 18750:2015 Intelligent transport systems -- Cooperative systems --
Definition of a global concept for Local Dynamic Maps.
[8] Nan Hu, Hamid Aghajan, Tianshi Gao, Jaime Camhi, Chu Hee Lee and Daniel
Rosario \"Smart Node: Intelligent Traffic Interpretation\", World Congress on
Intelligent Transport Systems, New York, 2008.
[9] TNO, \"Truck Platooning; driving the future of transportation\" TNO
Whitepaper, 2015.
[10] S. Shladover, \"PATH at 20 - History and Major Milestones,\" Inteligent
Transportation Systems, vol. 8, 2007.
[11] \"Multi channel operation\", ETSI ITS Workshop 2016,
https://docbox.etsi.org/Workshop/2016/201603_ITS_WORKSHOP/S02_ITS_NEXT_CHALLENGES/MULTI_CHANNEL_OPERATION_spaanderman_paulsconsultancy.pdf
[12] Bergenhem C., Shladover S., Coelingh E., Englund C., andTsugawa S.,
\"Overview of platooning systems,\" in Proceedings of the 19th ITS World
Congress, Oct 22-26, Vienna, Austria (2012), 2012.
[13] V2V Communication Quality: Measurements in a Cooperative Automotive
Platooning Application, Carl Bergenhem Qamcom Research and Technology AB, Erik
Coelingh Volvo Car Corp..Rolf Johansson SP Technical Research Inst of Sweden,
Ali Tehrani Qamcom Research & Technology,
https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Carl_Bergenhem/publication/262451443_V2V_Communication_Quality_Measurements_in_a_Cooperative_Automotive_Platooning_Application/links/0f317537c05258c754000000.pdf
[14] S. W. Kim et al., \"Multivehicle Cooperative Driving Using Cooperative
Perception: Design and Experimental Validation,\" in IEEE Transactions on
Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 663-680, April 2015.
[15] A. Rauch, F. Klanner and K. Dietmayer, \"Analysis of V2X communication
parameters for the development of a fusion architecture for cooperative
perception systems,\" Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV), 2011 IEEE, Baden-
Baden, 2011, pp. 685-690.
[16] METIS-II_D1.1_v1.0 Refined scenarios and requirements, consolidated use
cases, and qualitative techno-economic feasibility assessment.
[17] L. Licciardi, M. P. Galante : \"5G CRITICAL COMMUNICATION USE CASES\",
ETSI 5G: \"From Myth to Reality\", 2016, http://www.etsi.org/news-
events/events/1025-2016-04-5g-from-myth-to-reality
[18] Ford: From Autonomy to Snowtonomy: How Ford Fusion Hybrid Autonomous
Reasearch Vehicle can Navigate in Winter,
http://www.at.ford.com/SiteCollectionImages/2016_NA/March/From%20Autonomy%20to%20Snowtonomy.pdf
[19] 5G Infrastructure Public Private Partnership (5G-PPP) (2015): 5G
automotive vision, 65 p., https://5g-ppp.eu/, September 2015.
[20] NGMN Perspectives on Vertical Industries and Implications for 5G,
https://www.ngmn.org/uploads/media/160610_NGMN_Perspectives_on_Vertical_Industries_and_Implications_for_5G_v1_0.pdf
[21] ITS Japan,
http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/it2/senmon_bunka/douro/dai2/siryou4_8.pdf
[22] NEDO\'s Energy ITS Project in Japan for Automated Truck Platooning,
http://www.nedo.go.jp/content/100541227.pdf
[23] NHTSA Human Factors Evaluation of Level 2 and Level 3 Automated Driving
Concepts,
http://www.nhtsa.gov/DOT/NHTSA/NVS/Crash%20Avoidance/Technical%20Publications/2015/812182_HumanFactorsEval-L2L3-AutomDrivingConcepts.pdf
[24] M. Althoff, O. Stursberg, and M. Buss, \"Safety assessment of driving
behavior in multi-lane traffic for autonomous vehicles,\" in Proc. IEEE
Intelligent Vehicles Symposium, pp. 893-900, June 2009.
[25] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[26] P. Gomes, F. Vieira and M. Ferreira, \"The See-Through System: From
implementation to test-drive,\" Vehicular Networking Conference (VNC), 2012
IEEE, Seoul, 2012, pp. 40-47.
[27] J. Choi, N. González-Prelcic, R. Daniels, C. R. Bhat, and R. W. Heath,
Jr., \"Millimeter Wave Vehicular Communication to Support Massive Automotive
Sensing,\" submitted to IEEE Communications Magazine, Jan. 2016.
[28] N. Andersen, C2C-Consortium \"Towards Accident Free Driving\", ETSI
Summit \"5G from Myth to Reality\", 2016.
[29] M. Amoozadeh, H. Deng, C.-N. Chuah, H. M. Zhang, and D. Ghosal, \"Platoon
management with cooperative adaptive cruise control enabled by VANET,\"
ELSEVIER Vehicular Communications, vol. 2. no. 2, pp. 110-123, Apr. 2015.
[30] R. Alieiev, A. Kwoczek and T. Hehn, \"Automotive requirements for future
mobile networks,\" Microwaves for Intelligent Mobility (ICMIM), 2015 IEEE
MTT-S International Conference on, Heidelberg, 2015, pp. 1-4.
[31] M. Düring, K. Franke, et al., \"Adaptive cooperative manoeuvre planning
algorithm for conflict resolution in diverse traffic situations,\" 2014
International Conference on Connected Vehicles and Expo (ICCVE), Vienna, 2014,
pp. 242-249.
[32] 3GPP TR 22.885: \"Study on LTE support for V2X services\".
[33] DOT HS 811 492B, Vehicle Safety Communications -- Applications (VSC-A)
Final Report: Appendix Volume 1, System Design and Objective Test, pp C-2-4
and C-2-5.
[34] A. Kwoczek (Volkswagen AG), \"Automotive Requirements for Future
Networks\", Information Technology Society (ITG), Communication Technology,
May, 2016.
[35] Void
[36] 5G-PPP Project on \"5G Air Interface Below 6 GHz\", Deliverable D2.1:
\"Air interface framework and specification of system level simulations\",
http://fantastic5g.eu/wp-
content/uploads/2016/06/FANTASTIC-5G_D2_1_final_modified.pdf.
[37] ETSI TS 102 894-2 V1.2.1, \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Users
and applications requirements; Part 2: Applications and facilities layer
common data dictionary\".
[38] SAE International, \"AUTOMATED DRIVING LEVELS OF DRIVING AUTOMATION ARE
DEFINED IN NEW SAE INTERNATIONAL STANDARD J3016\"; US Homeland Security
Digital Library, \"Self-Driving Cars: Levels of Automation\", March 2017
https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=801463.
[39] U.S. Department of Transportation, \"Federal Automated Vehicles Policy\",
Sept. 2016. [https://one.nhtsa.gov/nhtsa/av/av-policy.html]{.underline}
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**End-to-end latency:** time it takes to transfer a given piece of information
from a source to a destination, measured at the application level, **from the
moment it is** transmitted by the source to the moment it is received at the
destination.
**Road Side Unit:** A stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X
applications that can exchange messages with other entities supporting V2X
applications.
NOTE: RSU is a term frequently used in existing ITS specifications, and the
reason for introducing the term in the 3GPP specifications is to make the
documents easier to read for the ITS industry. RSU is a logical entity that
supports V2X application logic using the functionality providedby either a
3GPP network or an UE (referred to as UE-type RSU).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> CACC Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control
LoA Level of Automation
RSU Road Side Unit
V2I Vehicle to Infrastructure
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
# 4 Overview
A basic set of requirements for EPS to support V2X applications have been
specified in [25]. These requirements are considered sufficient for vehicles
(i.e., UEs supporting V2X applications) to exchange their own status
information, such as position, speed and heading, with other nearby vehicles,
infrastructure nodes and/or pedestrians. Also, these requirements fulfil the
need to disseminate imminent warning messages to nearby entities in time. The
capability of EPS to support these requirements will expedite the adoption of
3GPP connectivity by vehicles.
Despite the basic set of requirements for 3GPP system to support V2X service,
it is considered growingly important among telecommunication industry and
automotive industry that its evolution is necessary. Because automotive
industries have begun to see V2X applications beyond unidirectional
distribution of status information of vehicles, the 3GPP system needs to
increase its capability enough to meet KPIs that emerging V2X applications
require. That is, as V2X applications advance, transmission of short messages
about vehicles' own status data will be complemented with transmission of
larger messages containing raw sensor data, vehicles' intention data,
coordination and confirmation of future manoeuvre and so on. For these
advanced applications, the expected requirements to meet the needed data rate,
reliability, latency, communication range and speed are made more stringent.
A relevant aspect of advanced V2X applications is the Level of Automation
(LoA), which reflects the functional aspects of the technology and affects the
system performance requirements. In accordance with the levels from SAE [X1]
and NHTSA [X2], the LoA are: 0 -- No Automation, 1 -- Driver Assistance, 2 --
Partial Automation, 3 -- Conditional Automation, 4 -- High Automation, 5 --
Full Automation. A distinction is drawn between Levels 0-2 (Driver Control)
and 3-5 (Vehicle Control) based on whether the human operator or the automated
system is primarily responsible for monitoring the driving environment.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 eV2X support for vehicle platooning
### 5.1.1 Description
Platooning is operating a group of vehicles in a closely linked manner so that
the vehicles move like a train with virtual strings attached between vehicles.
To maintain distance between vehicles, the vehicles needs to share status
information such as speed, heading and intentions such as braking,
acceleration, etc. By use of platooning, the distances between vehicles can be
reduced, overall fuel consumption is lowered, and the number of needed drivers
can be reduced.
Following aspects need to be supported for platooning.
[Join/Leave]{.underline}
To form a platoon, vehicles need to exchange intent such as interest to form a
platoon, intention to be a leader or follower of the platoon. And when a
vehicle reaches a destination or has to leave the platoon, this intent should
be also exchanged among vehicles of the platoon. This exchange of intent can
occur at any time while the platoon is active.
[Announcement/Warning]{.underline}
When a platoon is formed and operational, a vehicle which do not belong to the
platoon should aware the existence of the platoon. Otherwise, the vehicle may
move into the middle of the platoon and disrupt the operation of the platoon.
Thus, the platoon should be known to other vehicles beyond the communication
range among vehicles of the same platoon.
[Group communication]{.underline}
There are several messages that are exchanged for platoon management. E.g.,
vehicles of the platoon need to exchange information regarding when to take
which road, whether to brake or accelerate and when, etc. At least, 30 CAM
messages/seconds needs to be supported. [3]. In addition, the lead vehicle
consume more fuel than other vehicles, sometime lead vehicle may request next
vehicle to be a leader. This kind of communication can be done between the two
vehicles without other vehicles' involvement.
To prevent potential security threats such as revealing of the route, these
messages should be supported with confidentiality and be deciphered only by
the vehicles of the platoon. In addition, due to the private nature of the
messages, the communication range of these messages is from the lead vehicle
to the last vehicle of the platoon, and typically line-of-sight. Because the
size of the platoon can differ even on the move, resource-efficient
distribution of messages for platooning and dynamic control of the
distribution area of the messages should be supported.
Two sets of Platooning performances requirements are supported:
\- Set 1: According to [11][2], the distance between vehicles for normal
density platooning may be larger than 2 meters. When the platoon moves at
100km/h, vehicles move 1 meter in 36ms. Considering the round-trip-time and
processing delay, message transmission frequency up to 40Hz, translating into
25ms end-to-end latency with message sizes of around 300-400 bytes should be
supported.
\- Set 2: According to [2], the distance between vehicles for high density
platooning is 1 meter. When the platoon moves at 100 km/h, vehicles move 1
meter in 36 ms. Considering round-trip-time and processing delay, message
transmission frequency up to 100 Hz, translating into at least 10 ms latency
with message sizes of around 50-1200 bytes should be supported.
If the platoon is too long, it will sometimes interrupt the operation of other
vehicles and traffic management authority. So, there should be limit on how
many vehicles can be included in a platoon. This is especially true
considering that a truck can span more than 15 m.
### 5.1.2 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
KPIs common for set 1 and set 2:
[PR.5.1-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the communication range
for a message based on the characteristic of the messages transmitted by a UE
supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support in a periodic manner at
least 30 message per second broadcast by a UE supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to create/destroy a group for UEs
supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support up to 5 UEs for a group
of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to add/remove a UE supporting V2X
application into a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support at least in a periodic
manner [28] message transfer per second among a group of UEs supporting V2X
application.
[PR.5.1-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer among a
group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-008] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
two UEs belonging to the same group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-009] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
KPIs for set 2:
[PR.5.1-010] The 3GPP system shall be able to support 10 ms end-to-end latency
for message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.1-011] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages among a
group of UEs supporting V2X application with variable message payloads of
50-1200 bytes, not including security-related message component.
KPIs for set 1:
[PR.5.1-012] The 3GPP system shall support communication latency no larger
than [25] ms.
[PR.5.1-013] The 3GPP system shall support [90] % reliability.
[PR.5.1-014] The 3GPP system shall support triggered and periodic transmission
of small data packets (e.g. 300-400 bytes).
## 5.2 Information exchange within platoon
### 5.2.1 Description
#### 5.2.1.1 General
When the vehicles are travelling on the road, they can dynamically form a
platoon. The platoon creator is responsible for platoon management. The
manager should real-time updates surrounding traffic data reported by group
members, and reported it to RSU; At the same time, the platoon manager should
real-time receive RSU messages which include road conditions and traffic
information far away from them, and share them with platoon members. All the
platoon members can also share the information within the group through V2V.
All the platoon members can obtain information through two ways. One is within
platoon through V2V. Another is come from RSU which based on the platoon
manager relay. All the information obtains will be used to build high-
precision dynamic driving maps. Information exchange between vehicles can be
the new type of \"ask-response\".
#### 5.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
All the vehicles support V2V communication and the platoon manager should
support V2V and V2I communication. Each vehicle has a unique label for
identification when interacting with others.
The platoon has more than 1 active vehicle which is driving in the same lane.
All the platoon members are within the communication range with its direct
neighbour which also is the platoon member.
The platoon management is responsible for platoon management and information
exchange with the RSU.
#### 5.2.1.3 Service flows
Vehicle A/B/C/D are within the same platoon, and vehicle A is the team
manager.
Vehicle A/B/C/D sharing the surrounding real-time traffic and road information
within the platoon. Vehicle A reports all the information to RSU.
Vehicle A receives traffic and road information from RSU, found there are road
congestion caused by traffic accidents in the front corner of the road which
are out of their V2V communication range.
Vehicle A sharing the information to vehicle B/C/D. Vehicle B/C/D update the
driving map in real time and the platoon slow down and change the route.
#### 5.2.1.4 Post-conditions
Vehicles within platoon can build the high-precision dynamic driving map by
real-time sharing information with platoon members which can provide reliable
protection for traffic safety and efficiency.
Vehicles which only support V2V can obtain dynamic information out of the V2V
communication range through platoon information exchange.
Also the vehicles without HD camera and radar can obtain the surrounding
information from other platoon members.
### 5.2.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a maximum latency of
[500] ms for the transport of V2X messages between a UE supporting V2X
application and a RSU via another UE supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.2-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the maximum transport of
[2] V2X messages per second between a UE supporting V2X application and a RSU
via another UE supporting V2X application..
[PR.5.2-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the transport of V2X
messages with variable payload of [50-1200] bytes between a UE supporting V2X
application and a RSU via another UE supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.2-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a maximum latency of
[10] ms for V2V communications.
## 5.3 Automotive: sensor and state map sharing
### 5.3.1 Description
#### 5.3.1.1 General
Sensor and state map sharing (SSMS) enables sharing of raw or processed sensor
data to build collective situational awareness. The concept is an extension of
the Local Dynamic Map embodied in ETSI and ISO technical reports and standards
[4], [5], [6], [7] with the primary difference being higher spatio-temporal
fidelity, low latency and ability to transition from hyper-local to
transportation link to network area of \"state map\" awareness. Sensor and
state map sharing would leverage properties of highly-reliable transmission
and system resiliency. This enables services such as low latency communication
for precision positioning and control; such properties can enable mission
critical applications such as cooperative driving (vehicle platooning),
intersection safety of all road users to include pedestrians and emergency
vehicle communication. For these use cases, highly resolved sensor images do
not necessarily need to be transmitted (see [8] where smart nodes perform on-
board processing and data exchange for a shared or fused situational
awareness, whereupon vehicles autonomously perform reasoning or tactical
manoeuvre planning operations); however, because of the plethora of disparate
connected sensors, it is anticipated that significant data bandwidth would be
needed for SSMS.
Requirements:
\- High bandwidth
\- High reliability for fusion confidence
\- Short latency to allow highly dynamic automated vehicle operation and
emergency vehicle response
\- High density of transmitting devices
\- Large messages
\- Integration of network and cloud-based information (e.g. local dynamic
map.)
High precision positioning techniques should also be supported (either via
local sharing, ranging or from the mobile network) because GPS may not
available in dense urban scenario.
#### 5.3.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B and C are SSMS-enabled. Infrastructure appurtenances
(constituting roadside equipment or RSE) X, Y and Z are SSMS-enabled.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B and C and RSE X, Y and Z are in
communication range
3\. At least two entities within A, B, C, X, Y or Z offers SSMS services,
effectively creating a SSMS group.
#### 5.3.1.3 Service flows
1\. SSMS group members (A, B, C, X, Y, Z) share messages with common data
exchange format (e.g, future extended Local Dynamic Map). This information
would include the vehicle trajectory, its planned trajectory and some
combination of raw or processed/abstracted data from on-board perception
sensors.
2\. SSMS group member develops individual state map.
3\. SSMS group member makes tactical or manoeuvre decision based on state map.
4\. SSMS group member broadcasts manoeuvre decision to all others in SSMS
group.
5\. SSMS group member conducts manoeuvre decision.
6\. Other SSMS group members incorporate manoeuvre decision broadcast and
their sensors' perception of group member manoeuvre into their state maps.
#### 5.3.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Enhanced state information: SSMS group members (A, B, C, X, Y, Z) are
enabled to perform their individual movement (A, B, C) and system and roadway
(X, Y, Z) operations and control functions with high degree of individual and
shared situational awareness.
2\. System coordination: Enables SSMS group members to perform joint
operational instructions.
3\. Improved safety and operational performance.
### 5.3.2 Potential requirements
All requirements are for end to end performance, defined as communications
sent by source and communication received by target.
[PR.5.3-001] The 3GPP system shall support less than 10 ms latency between V2X
applications.
[PR.5.3-002] The 3GPP system shall support message reliability of 90 % between
V2X applications.
[PR.5.3-003] The 3GPP system shall support peak data rate up to [25] Mbps per
UE for occasional transmissions.
[PR.5.3-004] The 3GPP system shall support efficient coordination of radio
resources used for V2X communication to maximize the utilisation of the
available spectrum and to ensure the required reliability.
[PR.5.3-005] The 3GPP system shall support high connection density for
congested traffic.
NOTE: An example of estimate is for worst case US Freeway scenario that does
not include arterial roads (i.e. onramps): 5 lanes in each direction or 10
lanes total per highway, for up to 3 highways intersecting = around 3,100 --
4,300 cars per square kilometer.
## 5.4 eV2X support for remote driving
### 5.4.1 Description
Remote driving is a concept in which a vehicle is controlled remotely by
either a human operator or cloud computing.
While autonomous driving needs a lot of sensors and sophisticated algorithm
like object identification, remote driving with human operators can be
realized using less of them. For example, if on-board camera of the vehicle
feeds the live video to remote human operator, human operator can easily
understand the potential hazard of the vehicle without assistance of any
sophisticated computing. Based on this video, the remote operator sends
commands to the vehicle.
Remote driving can different use case than autonomous driving. Buses follow
pre-defined static routes and a specific lane, and stop at pre-defined bus-
stops. Thus, the characteristic of operating these buses are somewhat
different from what is required for operating autonomous vehicles. For these
buses, live video stream includes not only outside-bus image but also inside-
bus image, so remote operators additionally need to react to more diverse
scenario such as passengers getting on/off the bus.
Also, when cloud computing replaces human operators, coordination between
vehicles can be achieved. For example, if all the vehicles feed their schedule
and destination, the cloud can coordinate which route each vehicle will take.
This coordination will reduce potential traffic congestion, overall travel
time, leading to better fuel efficiency.
### 5.4.2 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
[PR.5.4-001] The 3GPP system shall support user experienced data rate up to 1
Mbps at DL and 20 Mbps at UL for UE supporting V2X application for an absolute
speed of up to 250 km/h.
NOTE: The assumption is that H.265/ HEVC HD stream is up to 10 Mb/s and two
video streams are delivered to a remote driver.
[PR.5.4-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the UL and DL
reliability of V2X communication, depending on the requirement of V2X
application.
[PR.5.4-003] The 3GPP system shall support ultra-high UL and DL reliability
(99.999 % or higher) for UE supporting safety-related V2X application for an
absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
[PR.5.4-004] The 3GPP system shall support end-to-end latency 5 ms between V2X
application server and UE supporting safety-related V2X application for an
absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
## 5.5 Automated cooperative driving for short distance grouping
### 5.5.1 Description
#### 5.5.1.1 General
Cooperative driving allows a group of vehicles to automatically communicate to
enable lane changing, merging, and passing between vehicles of the group and
inclusion/removal of vehicle in the group in order to improved safety and fuel
economy.
This use case is pushed by automotive industry because the reduced aerodynamic
drag would result in greater fuel economy and a reduction in greenhouse gas
emission. For all vehicle classes, close following from vehicle-to-vehicle
communication and coordination allow more efficient use of the roadway,
alleviating congestion and enhancing safety. It is foreseen, that the gap
between vehicles will become much smaller, exceeding the response capability
of the driver while improving the consumption of gasoline and improving the
utilisation of the roads even more.
Automated Cooperative Driving requires far more automation than Cooperative
Adaptive Cruise Control (CACC) described in Rel-14 V2X. CACC provides
longitudinal control of vehicle motions, while the driver remains responsible
for the steering control. CACC is an instantiation of Level 1 automation on
both the SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) [38] and NHTSA (The National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration) scales [39] of automated driving;
alternately, it is called \"Assisted Driving\" by BASt.(German Federal Highway
Research Institute) and similarly, \"Driver Assistance\" by SAE. Automated
Cooperative Driving provides 'tighter' or lower latency longitudinal control
to enable a leader to communicates and coordinates with a group of vehicles,
which enables close following. Moreover, Automated Cooperative Driving may in
add lateral control, or higher levels of automation. The Automated Cooperative
Driving conceptual framework allows innovative use of communications access in
solving complex road traffic scenarios without driver intervention. Automated
Cooperative Driving therefore enables SAE Level 2 through 5 automation ([10],
[38])
The Basic Safety Message broadcast and similar uses of the Cooperative
Awareness Message for V2V safety generally allow a nominal 100 ms latency,
since the control loop to alert humans is long. Additionally, the V2V safety
warning applications allow for reliability (PER) as low as 20 %. ([33])
In contrast, Automated Cooperative Driving requires:
\- Very much lower latency for message exchange
\- Higher reliability of message exchange: communication links must operate
extremely reliably to mitigate risk of vehicular crashes.
\- Higher density of transmitting UEs
\- Larger messages exchanged
Cooperative Short Distance Grouping (CoSdG) refers to the scenario where the
distance between vehicles such as trucks are extremely small -- creating a
desirable form of legal tailgating. The gap distance translated to time can
equivalently be as low as 0.3s or even shorter, which at 80km/h leads to
almost 6.7m distance between the vehicles [10]. Driving such closely is made
possible by advanced automated cooperative driving technology, in combination
with a highly reliable wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communication system that
enables data transmission with low latency.
CoSdG is different than current platooning implementations summarized in [12],
where ITS-G5 has been successfully used at a wide range of transmission rates
(10 -- 50 Hz). CoSdG envisions closer spacings and lower latency that what can
reliably accomplished with alternative technologies. CoSdG would therefore
enable a marked improvement in string stability, efficiency, and ultimately
safety.
\- Reliable wireless communications are required among the vehicles in a
cooperative group. Messages are exchanged between the leading vehicles and all
cooperating vehicles in order to execute control actions at the same time.
CoSdG may not only be operated by vehicle-to-vehicle communication, but may
also be vehicle-to-infrastructure and vehicle-to-backend communication to
ensure most efficient utilisation of available resources and the required
reliability.
\- CoSdG may be used together with video transmission as explained in [9]. A
display panel in any vehicles share forward-facing data, while drivers of the
other cooperatively communicating group are able to display the video gathered
by the camera mounted on other vehicles.
\- CoSdG enables direct control intervention in mission critical scenarios.
Information loss might lead to vehicle crashes. Messages must be transmitted
reliably and delivered with very low latency. The jitter must be extremely
low, as the electronic control unit operates usually on data provided
periodically. Multiple vehicles must be linked to the leading vehicle by the
wireless connection. When considering the mix of vehicles on the road, the
number of vehicles can exceed 10,000 vehicles in scenarios with multiple lanes
and multiple levels and types of roads.
There would be two phases for CoSdG:
\- In Phase I, a baseline is proposed with a group of vehicles driving
together with a lead vehicle are driven normally by a trained professional
driver, and several following vehicles driven fully automatically by the
system with information exchanged between the leader and other cars allowing
with small distance (longitudinal gaps) between them. The typical required
transmission frequency among the vehicles is up to 40Hz, [11], translating
into 25ms end-to-end latency. Initial consideration of message exchange
between vehicles in a platooning is based on CAM extension, which is around
300-400 bytes [11].
\- In Phase II, all vehicles, the lead vehicle as well as following vehicles
are driven fully automatically by the system. This will, compared to Phase I,
allow smaller distance (longitudinal gaps) between them, leading to further
reduction of fuel consumption. This requires in Phase II a higher transmission
frequency compared to Phase I. The transmission frequency is 100Hz to
coordinate the driving manoeuvre. The end-to-end latency is 1ms [13]
In addition, high precision positioning techniques should be supported by the
mobile network to ensure the V2X information can be used even when GPS is not
available, e.g. in very dense urban scenarios.
#### 5.5.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B & C are V2V enabled
2\. Vehicle A, B & C are traveling in close proximity and in V2V communication
range
3\. Vehicle A is traveling outside of a group and wants to join the group
which includes Vehicles B & C.
#### 5.5.1.3 Service flows
1\. Vehicle B and other group members (e. g. C) share a message with the group
information (i.e. size, speed, gap policies, their positions in the group,
planned trajectory, etc.).
2\. Vehicle A receives messages from the group members and identifies
acceptable groups based on certain criteria (i.e. speed and gap policies,
size).
3\. Vehicle A sends a message to members of the group requesting to join
group.
4\. Vehicle B decides that Vehicle A or C can join the group ahead of it and
responds with a confirmation and provides a gap (if necessary).
5\. All other members of the group receive messages from Vehicle A and update
the group information.
6\. Vehicle A, B & C are traveling in close proximity
7\. Vehicle A, B & C continuously exchange their on-board information, which
when shared constitutes actual group information. This enables keep the
optimal distance between all of the group members and to ensure safety. Each
vehicle sends a state information V2X message to the vehicle right behind it.
8\. Subsequently, the driver of Vehicle A decides to leave the group and
assumes control of Vehicle A.
9\. Vehicle A broadcasts a message indicating it will leave group to other
members of the group.
10\. Vehicle B receives the message from Vehicle A and updates the group
information
#### 5.5.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Vehicle A leaves the group
> 2\. Distance between vehicles has to be corrected based on updated group
> information
### 5.5.2 Potential requirements
All requirements are for end to end performance, defined as communications
sent by source and communication received by target.
[PR-5.5-003a] The 3GPP system shall support less than 5 ms communication
latency for transport of messages between two UEs supporting V2V applications,
that are part of a group of UEs supporting V2V applications.
NOTE: The determination of group membership may be done at the upper layers
and/or lower layers (application and/or Layer 2).
The 3GPP system shall support 1^st^ set of KPIs in Phase I:
[PR.5.5-001] The 3GPP system shall support communication latency for data
packets 300-400 bytes no larger than 25 ms.
[PR.5.5-002] The 3GPP system shall support over 90 % target packet delivery
reliability rate.
[PR.5.5-003] The 3GPP system shall support triggered and periodic transmission
of data packets 300-400 bytes.
The 3GPP system shall support 2^nd^ set of KPIs in Phase II:
[PR.5.5-004] The 3GPP system shall support less than 10 ms communication
latency for transport of V2X messages between two UEs supporting V2X
application in proximity guaranteed in highly loaded network.
[PR.5.5-005] The 3GPP system shall support over [99.99] % target packet
delivery reliability rate within 80 m range.
[PR.5.5-006] The 3GPP system shall support transmission of one data packet up
to 1200 bytes every 25 ms within 80 m range.
[PR.5.5-007] The 3GPP system shall support relative lateral position accuracy
of 0.1 m.
[PR.5.5-008] The 3GPP system shall support relative longitudinal position
accuracy of less than 0.5 m for UEs supporting V2X application in proximity.
[PR.5.5-009] The 3GPP system shall support to ensure sufficient reliability
metrics are reached.
[PR.5.5-010] The 3GPP system shall support high connection density for
congested traffic.
> Note: An example of estimate is for worst case US Freeway scenario that does
> not include arterial roads (i.e. onramps): 5 lanes in each direction or 10
> lanes total per highway, for up to 3 highways intersecting = around 3,100 --
> 4,300 cars per mile.
## 5.6 Collective perception of environment
### 5.6.1 Description
#### 5.6.1.1 General
Vehicles can exchange real time information (based on vehicle sensors
information or sensor data from a capable UE-type RSU) among each other in the
neighbour area. This kind of information exchange leads to Collective
Perception of Environment (CPE), which can enhance the perception of
environment of vehicles to avoid accidents [15].
9.840 cars are considered per kilometre in the scenario with high vehicle
density related to congested traffic road on US Freeway with 5 lanes in each
direction (or 10 lanes total per highway), and up to 3 highways intersecting.
The information exchange has following characteristics:
\- The information traffic should at least consist of 1600 payload byte to
enable transmission of information related to 10 detected objects in order to
support information from local environment perception and the information
related to the actual vehicle status [16].
\- The information shall be able to track changes in the environment by many
other cars, with repetition rate of at least 5-10 Hz [16]. The update rate is
chosen high enough such that the vehicle velocity vector does not change too
much between updates. The information generated by each vehicle has to be
delivered to all the neighbouring vehicles within the specified range (urban
50 m, rural 500 m, highway 1000m) [16].
Both traffic types (periodic and event driven) can exist at the same time.
There will be two Phases in Collective Perception of Environment (CPE), we can
have two sets of KPIs for the two Phases, 1st Set of KPIs for Phase I and 2nd
Set of KPIs for Phase II:
\- Phase I: CPE addresses the use case where road users not able to
periodically transmit messages for ITS services are detected and classified by
other road users already equipped with 3GPP technology for ITS. These road
users periodically transmit the information like object classification, speed,
direction etc. detected with the local sensors. The pre-processed sensor
information is used to enhance the environment perception with the overall
goal to increase the benefit from 3GPP technology for ITS even in a not fully
developed market. Requirements on 3GPP [15]: Packet size 1600 byte, end-to-end
latency 100ms, 99% reliability [16].
\- Phase II: CPE lays down the baseline for a set of cooperative automated
driving use cases (e.g. automated forward collision avoidance, overtaking and
lane changing) [14]. Phase II goes beyond road users' detection and
classification [15], the aim is to achieve an all-around view [14]. Sensor
data information is shared to increase the limited sensor horizon to detect
objects and obstacles in areas not visible to the local sensors e.g. behind
crests, curves or objects behind the corner of houses [14]. These sensor data
are used to control the vehicle without the human driver. Sensor data must be
sent either in low resolution as pre-processed data or high resolution as raw
data dependant on the scenario. Raw data are needed for liability reasons in
case of accidents, for distributed verification of local and remote sensor
data, furthermore to achieve accurate map merging as well as object
localization [14]. Mobile communication performance significantly impacts the
accurate environment modelling [15]. Requirements on 3GPP: Pre-processed data
50Mb/s, raw data 1Gb/s [17], [18], packet size 1600 byte, end-to-end latency
3ms [14] [17], reliability (emergency 99.999%) [5], otherwise 99.99% [19].
{width="6.044444444444444in" height="2.6013888888888888in"}
Figure 5.6.1.1-1: Collective Perception of Environment
#### 5.6.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicle A is not V2X enabled, Truck B and Vehicles C are V2X enabled.
2\. Vehicle C is following the Truck B on the lane from east to west. Vehicle
A is travelling on the lane from west to east, on the opposite direction of
Truck B and Vehicle C.
3\. Vehicle A, B & C are travelling in close proximity and in V2V
communication range.
4\. Vehicle C wants to overtake the Truck B.
#### 5.6.1.3 Service flows
1\. At the beginning of the overtake manoeuvre, the Vehicle C is not able to
perceive the Vehicle A.
2\. Truck B detects the Vehicle A with its head sensor system and sends this
environmental information via V2X Communication to Vehicle C.
3\. The overtaking Vehicle C analyses the received information and gives the
driver a warning of the danger.
4\. The driver interrupts his overtaking manoeuvre because of the warning.
#### 5.6.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. The potential accident has been avoided.
2\. Vehicle C tries overtaking again later when the vehicle A is travelling
through and the next information shared by the Truck B shows that the traffic
is safe.
### 5.6.2 Potential requirements
The 3GPP system shall support 1^st^ set of KPIs in Phase I:
[PR.5.6-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [100] ms end-to-end
latency for message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.6-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support over [99] % target
packet delivery reliability rate in [1000] m.
[PR.5.6-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support periodic transmission of
data packets (e.g. [1600] bytes).
The 3GPP system shall support 2^nd^ set of KPIs in Phase II:
[PR.5.6-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [3] ms end-to-end
latency and [99.999] % reliability for message transfer among a group of UEs
supporting V2X application within [200] m communication range.
[PR.5.6-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [10] ms end-to-end
latency and [99.99] % reliability for message transfer among a group of UEs
supporting V2X application within [500] m communication range.
[PR.5.6-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support [50] ms end-to-end
latency and [99] % reliability for message transfer among a group of UEs
supporting V2X application within [1000] m communication range.
[PR.5.6-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support peak data rate of [1]
Gbps for a single UE for a short period of time in range of [50] m, in case of
imminent collision.
> NOTE: Only one of the requirements [PR.5.6-004], [PR.5.6-005], [PR.5.6-006],
> and/or [PR.5.6-007] need to be fulfilled at the same time.
## 5.7 Communication between vehicles of different 3GPP RATs
### 5.7.1 Description
Depending on the choice of OEMs, while some vehicles are equipped with modules
supporting only LTE, other vehicles may be equipped with modules supporting NR
(New Radio). If a vehicle of NR cannot talk to a vehicle supporting LTE, the
vehicle supporting LTE can be regarded as another vehicle of no V2X
capability.
The following figure 5.7.1-1 shows the scenarios to be considered.
{width="5.629166666666666in" height="3.00625in"}
Figure 5.7.1-1: Example scenario of mixed 3GPP RATs deployment
[]{.underline}
[No coverage]{.underline}
In this area, neither E-UTRAN nor NR access network is found. Because there is
no network support for the communication among vehicles, direct Prose
communication based on LTE and/or NR is the only option available for the
communication between the vehicles.
For communication toward other NR-based vehicle, it seems straight-forward for
a NR-based vehicle to use direct Prose communication based on NR. Performance
of NR-based direct Prose communication will surpass that of LTE-based direct
Prose communication.
However, considering that the average lifespan of the vehicles is longer than
10 years, it is likely that LTE-based vehicle exists near the NR-based
vehicle. Because LTE-based vehicle cannot understand NR-based Prose direct
communication, one choice is that the NR-based vehicle can communicate with
the LTE-based vehicle using LTE-based communication. With thisdirect
communication between vehicles can be supported.
By the way, this does not necessarily mean that enhancement in NR-based Prose
direct communication is limited to what LTE-based Prose direct communication
can provide. For the basic safety service, LTE compatible Prose direct
communication is used and NR-optimized direct communication can be used for
advanced V2X service such as platooning.
[LTE only coverage]{.underline}
Because there is no NR-based Access Network, NR-based vehicle is not provided
with any network support and the only choice for the NR-based vehicle is to
use Prose direct communication.
On the other hand, within LTE coverage, LTE-based vehicle can be controlled by
the network, i.e. whether to use LTE-based direct communication or not. Based
on the network's decision, V2X-related traffic generated by LTE-based vehicle
can be routed through the V2X application server. In this case, LTE-based
vehicle does not use direct Prose communication and the direct communication
between NR-based vehicle and LTE-based vehicle is not possible.
However, in this area, if a NR-based vehicle behaves in a same way as in the
area of no LTE/NR coverage, the transmission from the NR-based vehicle may
generate interference to E-UTRAN. Thus, impact to E-UTRAN can be minimized by
NR-based vehicle.
[LTE/NR coverage]{.underline}
Because both LTE-based vehicle and NR-based vehicle are within coverage of
networks, communication between the vehicles are possible indirectly via the
network, regardless of whether the vehicles can use direct Prose communication
or not, or whether they use same radio access technology or not.
### 5.7.2 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are derived from this use case:
[PR.5.7-001] Void
[PR.5.7-002] Impact to E-UTRA(N) by UE supporting only 5G RAT(s) based V2X
communication shall be minimized.
[PR.5.7-003] Impact to 5G RA(N) by UE supporting only E-UTRA based V2X
communication shall be minimized.
## 5.8 Multi-PLMN environment
### 5.8.1 Description
#### 5.8.1.1 General
Although required communication condition, e.g. for immediate message
transfer, is set high for some of eV2X use cases, such condition needs to be
met regardless of whether or not all the involved UEs and UE-type RSUs are
subscriber of the same PLMN.
#### 5.8.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A and B and UE-type RSU X are subscriber of PLMN P. Vehicle C is
subscriber of PLMN Q.
2\. A, B, C and X support V2X communication.
3\. Any combination of A, B, and X are in communication range.
#### 5.8.1.3 Service flows
1\. C comes into the communication range of A, B, and X.
2\. Each vehicle shares its detected objects and/or coarse driving intention
with other vehicles. Each UE-type RSU shares its detected objects with
vehicles. Each vehicle obtains the information of surrounding objects that
cannot be obtained only from local sensors and also obtains the driving
intention of the other vehicles in proximity.
3\. A recognizes no service degradation of the message transfer between with B
and with C.
#### 5.8.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Each vehicle utilizes the received information of detected objects and/or
coarse driving intention of other vehicles as predictive information for its
driving.
2\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved. Having C does not degrade
that.
### 5.8.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.8-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
UEs or between a UE and a UE-type RSU, regardless of whether or not they are
subscribers of the same PLMN supporting V2X communications. In case they are
subscribers to different PLMNs, there shall be no service degradation of the
message transfer.
## 5.9 Cooperative collision avoidance (CoCA) of connected automated vehicles
### 5.9.1 Description
#### 5.9.1.1 General
To enable vehicles to better evaluate the probability of an accident and to
coordinate manoeuvres in addition to usual CAM, DENM safety messages, data
from sensors, list of actions like braking and accelerating commands, lateral
as well as longitudinal control are exchanged amongst vehicles to coordinate
in the application the road traffic flow through 3GPP V2X communication.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs):
\- Throughput of 10 Mbps [36] to exchange CoCA application messages between
UEs in proximity to perform coordinated driving manoeuvre at intersections.
\- Message size up to 2 kByte [37] depending on the number of involved
vehicles, to exchange pre-planned trajectories between vehicles.
\- Less than 10 ms [2] latency for regular manoeuvre coordination within the
CoCA application time limit.
\- 99.99 % [2] reliability for safety coordinated driving manoeuvre.
#### 5.9.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- Vehicles A, B, C support message exchange via 3GPP V2X communication.
\- Vehicles A, B, C support basis for V2X safety application (CAM, DENM etc.)
so they already know their relative positions.
\- With relative positions, Vehicles A, B, C are able to operate CoCA
application.
#### 5.9.1.3 Service flows
\- Vehicle A, B or C detects the risk of collision.
\- V2X application of vehicle A detects a risk of collision. Vehicle A\'s
application exchanges CoCA related messages (trajectories, sensor data, brake
commands etc.) via 3GPP V2X communication service.
\- Vehicles B and C confirm on application layer to vehicle A the coordinated
manoeuvre for CoCA by transmitting messages via 3GPP communication service.
#### 5.9.1.4 Post-conditions
\- Vehicles A, B and C perform coordinated manoeuvre.
### 5.9.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.9-001] The 3GPP network shall enable communication between UEs to
support message exchange with [10] Mbps data throughput with less than [10] ms
latency.
[PR.5.9-002] The 3GPP network shall enable UE's message exchange with [99.99]
% reliability and message sizes in range up to [2] kByte.
## 5.10 Information sharing for partial/ conditional automated driving
### 5.10.1 Description
#### 5.10.1.1 General
This use case is interpreted as an automated driving at the level of e.g. SAE
Level 3 automation and SAE Level 2 automation [38], where non-short inter-
vehicle distance (e.g. >2sec * vehicle speed) is assumed and abstracted/coarse
data exchange is sufficient.
The following applies for aspects of cooperative perception and cooperative
manoeuvre.
NOTE 1: Cooperative perception is defined in general as sharing local
perception data (abstracted data and/or high resolution sensor data) using V2X
communication to expand detectable range of on-board sensor capability. Here,
each vehicle and/or RSU shares its own perception data obtained from its local
sensors (e.g., camera, LIDAR, radar, etc.), with vehicles in proximity.
NOTE 2: Cooperative manoeuvre is defined in general as sharing driving
intention information (coarse and/or high resolution) using V2X communication
for cooperative manoeuvre. Here, each vehicle shares its driving intention
with vehicles in proximity.
\- Cooperative perception: This use case requires sharing detected objects
(e.g., abstracted object information detected by local sensors) among vehicles
in the same area.
\- Cooperative manoeuvre: This use case requires sharing coarse driving
intention (e.g., changing lanes or moving/ stopping/ parking in T sec at
[x,y,z]) for changing lanes, merging at highway and roundabout, crossing at
4-way stop and have consensus among all involved vehicles via V2X.
The following requirements apply for KPIs.
\- Data rate: [0.5] Mbps per link for cooperative perception. [0.05] Mbps per
link for cooperative manoeuvre.
NOTE 3: [0.5] Mbps is derived from: 60 byte/object, 100 objects, [10]
messages/sec. [0.05] Mbps is derived from: few 100 bytes (e.g., 500 byte)
/message, [10] messages/sec. (cf. [20]) The message transmission rate [10]
messages/sec comes from assumption that a transmitter vehicle and RSU generate
a new message every [100] ms. (cf. [22])
NOTE 4: Broadcast or multicast, periodic (or event-triggered) is assumed.
\- End-to-end latency: low
NOTE 5: Low application-layer end-to-end latency is required (e.g. [100] ms)
(cf. [20]).
\- Reliability: High reliability
\- Communication range: [10] sec * (maximum relative speed [m/s]) (cf. [21])
NOTE 6: In SAE Level 3 automation [38], the driver is expected to be available
for taking full control when the automated driving system is no longer able to
support automation, with sufficiently comfortable transition time (e.g., [10]
sec). To this end, the vehicle needs to obtain predictive information of
environments sufficient ahead. (cf. [23])
NOTE 8: In general, between UEs, the following mobility [km/h] (Relative
vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-100] km/h, Sub-urban: [0-200] km/h,
Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). Between UE and RSU, the following
mobility [km/h] (Relative vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-50] km/h, Sub-
urban: [0-100] km/h, Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). (cf. [2])
\- Density of connection devices: High density
#### 5.10.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z support V2X communication for
information sharing for limited automated driving.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z are in
communication range.
3\. Vehicles A, B, and C are travelling in proximity, where inter-vehicle
distance is not short (e.g. >2sec * vehicle speed).
#### 5.10.1.3 Service flows
1\. Each vehicle shares its detected objects (e.g., abstracted object
information detected by local sensors) and/or coarse driving intention with
other vehicles. Each RSU shares its detected objects with vehicles A, B, and
C.
2\. Each vehicle obtains the information of surrounding objects that cannot be
obtained only from local sensors and also obtains the driving intention of the
other vehicles in proximity.
#### 5.10.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Each vehicle utilizes the received information of detected objects and/or
coarse driving intention of other vehicles as predictive information for its
driving.
2\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved.
### 5.10.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.10-001] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [0.55] Mbps between UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.10-002] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [0.5] Mbps between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU.
[PR.5.10-003] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring periodic
broadcast/multicast messages between two UEs supporting V2X application with
message payloads of [6500] bytes, not including security-related message
component.
[PR.5.10-004] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring periodic
broadcast/multicast messages between a UE supporting V2X application and an
RSU with message payloads of [6000] bytes, not including security-related
message component.
[PR.5.10-005] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a maximum
frequency of [10] messages per second per transmitting UE.
[PR.5.10-006] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between two UEs supporting V2X application, directly or via an RSU, with a
maximum application-layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.10-007] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU with a maximum application-
layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.10-008] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting high reliability
without requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[PR.5.10-009] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a communication
range sufficient to give the predictive information to the vehicles in
proximity (e.g. [10] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s]).
NOTE: In each mobility scenario, [10] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s] is
equal to: [278] m for the maximum relative speed of [100] km/h in urban, [556]
m for the maximum relative speed of [200] km/h in sub-urban, and [694] m for
the maximum relative speed of [250] km/h in Autobahn (same direction).
[PR.5.10-010] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a high connection
density.
## 5.11 Information sharing for high/full automated driving
### 5.11.1 Description
#### 5.11.1.1 General
This use case is interpreted as an automated driving at the level of e.g. SAE
Level 4 and Level 5 automation [38], where non-short inter-vehicle distance
(e.g. >2sec * vehicle speed) is assumed and high-resolution data exchange is
required.
The following applies for aspects of cooperative perception and cooperative
manoeuvre.
\- Cooperative perception: This use case requires sharing high resolution
perception data (e.g., camera, LIDAR, occupancy grid) among vehicles in the
same area.
\- Cooperative manoeuvre: This use case requires sharing detailed planned
trajectory among all involved vehicles via V2X for collaborative manoeuvre.
The following requirements apply for KPIs.
\- Data rate: [50] Mbps per link for cooperative perception. [3] Mbps per link
for cooperative manoeuvre.
NOTE 1: [50] Mbps is derived from: H.265/ HEVC HD camera \~10 Mbps + LIDAR
\~35 Mbps (6 vertical angles, 64 elements, [10] Hz horizontal rotation) +
other sensor data. [3] Mbps is derived from: Planned trajectory \~2.5 Mbps (32
byte/coordinate, 10 ms resolution, 10 sec trajectory, [10] messages/sec) +
other intention data. (cf. [20]) The message transmission rate of [10]
messages/sec for the purpose of calculation comes from assumption that a
transmitter vehicle and RSU generate a new message every [100] ms. (cf. [22])
\- End-to-end latency: low
NOTE 2: Low application-layer end-to-end latency is required (e.g. [100] ms)
(cf. [20]).
\- Reliability: High reliability
\- Communication range: [5] sec * (maximum relative speed [m/s]) (cf. [21])
NOTE 3: In SAE Level 4 and Level 5 automation (cf. [23] [38]), the automated
driving system is expected to be available for control without human
intervention. To this end, the vehicle needs to obtain predictive information
of environments sufficient ahead (e.g., [5] sec ahead). (cf. [24])
NOTE 4: In general, between UEs, the following mobility [km/h] (Relative
vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-100] km/h, Sub-urban: [0-200] km/h,
Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). Between UE and RSU, the following
mobility [km/h] (Relative vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-50] km/h, Sub-
urban: [0-100] km/h, Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). (cf. [2])
\- Density of connection devices: High density
#### 5.11.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z support V2X communication for
information sharing for full automated driving.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B, and C and RSUs X, Y, and Z are in
communication range.
3\. Vehicles A, B, and C are travelling in proximity, where inter-vehicle
distance is not short (e.g. >2 sec * vehicle speed).
#### 5.11.1.3 Service flows
1\. Each vehicle shares its high resolution perception data (e.g., camera,
LIDAR, occupancy grid) and/or detailed planned trajectory with other vehicles.
Each RSU shares its high resolution perception data with vehicles A, B, and C.
2\. Each vehicle obtains the information of the surrounding environment that
cannot be obtained only from local sensors and also obtains the planned
trajectory of the other vehicles in proximity.
#### 5.11.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Each vehicle utilizes the received information of high resolution
perception data and/or planned trajectory of other vehicles as predictive
information for its driving.
2\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved.
### 5.11.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.11-001] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [53] Mbps between UEs supporting V2X application.
[PR.5.11-002] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting user experienced
data rate of [50] Mbps between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU.
[PR.5.11-003] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between two UEs supporting V2X application, directly or via an RSU, with a
maximum application-layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.11-004] The 3GPP system shall be capable of transferring messages
between a UE supporting V2X application and an RSU with a maximum application-
layer end-to-end latency of [100] ms.
[PR.5.11-005] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting high reliability
without requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[PR.5.11-006] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a communication
range sufficient to give the predictive information to the vehicles in
proximity (e.g. [5] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s]).
NOTE: In each mobility scenario, [5] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s] is
equal to: [139] m for the maximum relative speed of [100] km/h in urban, [278]
m for the maximum relative speed of [200] km/h in sub-urban, and [347] m for
the maximum relative speed of [250] km/h in Autobahn (same direction).
[PR.5.11-007] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a high connection
density.
## 5.12 Information sharing for partial/ conditional automated platooning
### 5.12.1 Description
#### 5.12.1.1 General
This use case is interpreted as an automated platooning at the level of e.g.
SAE Level 3 automation [38], where short inter-vehicle distance (e.g. \ NOTE 5: Low application-layer end-to-end latency is required (e.g. [20] ms)
> (cf. [20]).
\- Reliability: High reliability
\- Communication range: [10] sec * (maximum relative speed [m/s]) (cf. [21])
NOTE 6: In SAE Level 3 automation [38], the driver is expected to be available
for taking full control when the automated driving system is no longer able to
support automation, with sufficiently comfortable transition time (e.g., [10]
sec). To this end, the vehicle needs to obtain predictive information of
environments sufficient ahead. (cf. [23])
NOTE 8: In general, between UEs, the following mobility [km/h] (Relative
vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-100] km/h, Sub-urban: [0-200] km/h,
Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). Between UE and RSU, the following
mobility [km/h] (Relative vehicle speed) is assumed: Urban: [0-50km/h], Sub-
urban: [0-100] km/h, Autobahn: [0-250] km/h (same direction). (cf. [2])
\- Density of connection devices: High density
#### 5.12.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A, B, C, D, E, and F and RSUs X, Y, and Z support V2X
communication for information sharing for limited automated platooning.
2\. Any combination of vehicles A, B, C, D, E, and F and RSUs X, Y, and Z are
in communication range.
3\. Vehicles A, B, and C are travelling as a platoon group ABC. In proximity
to the platoon group ABC, vehicles D, E, and F are travelling as another
platoon group DEF. For vehicles in the same platoon group, inter-vehicle
distance is short (e.g. \ \- Vehicles A, performs the lane change with the cooperation of Vehicles B
> and C.
### 5.23.2 Potential requirements
KPIs for set 1:
[PR.5.23-001] The 3GPP network shall support message exchange between UEs of
message with less than [25] ms latency, [90] % reliability and message size
[300-400] Bytes with semi-automated driving.
KPIs for set 2:
[PR.5.23-003] The 3GPP network shall support message exchange between UEs with
less than [10] ms latency, with [99.99] % reliability and maximum message size
of [12] KBytes with full automated driving.
## 5.24 Proposal for secure software update for electronic control unit
### 5.24.1 Description
#### 5.24.1.1 General
A car Electronic Control Unit (ECU) is a generic term for a software module
that controls the electronics within a car system; this could be anything from
the steering wheel to the brakes and with automated car driving and this
becomes a key part of the car that will possibly need regular software
updates. These updates are subject to major security checks and as expected
this is an important topic within the automotive industry.
#### 5.24.1.1 Pre-conditions
None.
#### 5.24.1.2 Service flows
The diagram below considers the case when an UE is using eV2X to support
automated driving and there is an update required to the ECU. The procedural
flow is described as follows:
\- UE is synchronised e.g. via Bluetooth to an ECU.
\- Suppose a scenario where a car stops in a filling station and connects
following a registration procedure to a nearby RSU.
\- When connected, the RSU detects the software module version of the ECU in
the car via communication with the UE and detects that an update is needed.
This is based on the list available to the RSU from a broadcast message from a
car manufacturer cloud server.
\- The RSU will notify the UE that an update is required to the ECU and with
the list of updates required. The User will be able to choose the update
required from the list of updates for example. Also the user should be able to
reject/defer the update required to ECU.
\- If the user chooses an update to the ECU, then additional security
procedures should take place so the software download is definitely not from a
wrong source and it's actually the correct version.
{width="6.652777777777778in" height="3.263888888888889in"}
Figure 5.24.1.2-1: secure software update for electronic control unit
#### 5.24.1.3 Post-conditions
None.
### 5.24.2 Potential requirements:
[PR.5.24 -001] The 3GPP System shall provide a secure mechanism to update V2X
applications (e.g. an Electronic Control Unit (ECU)).
## 5.25 3D video composition for V2X scenario
### 5.25.1 Description
This use case consists of multiple UEs supporting V2X application moving in an
area. The UEs may belong to the same PLMN or different PLMNs. The UEs may also
be camped in different cells.
Those UEs have a camera and they take a video of the environment, and send
this video to a server. The server can be in the cloud or in the near the UE
point of attachment (i.e., mobile edge compute (MEC)). The server/MEC will
then post-process the videos received and combine the information in order to
create a single 3D video of the environment. The 3D video can then be used for
analysis in different scenarios, such as sharing the video with end-users in a
car race, evaluation of possible accident by law enforcement, etc.
The UEs location information, allows the server to accurately represent the
location, relative speed and distance of vehicles, pedestrians, and any
objects in that area.
### 5.25.2 Potential requirements
[PR.5.25-001] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism so that a server
outside the 3GPP domain is able to time-synchronize different videos received
from different UEs, each UE having a maximum absolute speed of 250 Km/h.
[PR.5.25-002] The 3GPP system shall support a data rate of [10] Mbps in the
uplink per UE (to support 4K/UHD video).
[PR.5.25-003] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for UEs to be able to
calculate [50] absolute location fixes per second, with [TBD] meters of
accuracy for each location fix.
NOTE: This requirement is to support 250 Km/h (69 meters per second), so 50
location fixes per second implies one location fix every 1.4 meters.
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on network slicing
As vehicles can drive without human involvement, human inside the vehicle will
engage in other activities such as media consumption (e.g. web browsing, or
video streaming). When safety-related V2X applications are concerned,
consideration should be given to that the abnormal situation in other
applications does not negatively affect the QoS of such V2X applications.
When, different network slices are used to support different characteristic of
applications for V2X and other applications, consideration should be given to
that the isolation of network slice for V2X applications from other network
slices is supported.
## 6.2 Considerations on deployment and mobility
Initially, the coverage area provided by NR radio access network will be
smaller than that provided by E-UTRAN. To support service continuity and to
meet QoS requirements for e.g. eMBB services, inter-system mobility will be
used in general. However, performance achieved by the use of NR is expected to
surpass the performance of E-UTRA, and some advanced V2X applications is
supported only by NR. In this case, handover to E-UTRAN has impact on the
proper operation of such advanced V2X applications. Thus, inter-system
mobility needs to consider separate handling of V2X applications and other
applications.
## 6.3 Considerations on relation to requirements of LTE V2X
All the requirements applied to LTE V2X, shown in [25], are applied to eV2X as
well, unless otherwise stated.
# 7 Potential requirements
## 7.1 General
Different V2X scenarios require the transport of V2X messages with different
performance requirements for the 3GPP system.
Vehicles Platooning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a platoon
travelling together. All the UEs in the platoon obtain information from the
leading vehicle to manage this platoon. These information allow the vehicles
to drive closer (short time or distance inter-vehicle gap) than normal in a
coordinated manner, going to the same direction and travelling together. These
are expected to be a set of sophisticated application. The requirement on the
communication latency is directly related to the assumed inter-vehicle gap
(distance between successive vehicles and equivalent to vehicle density),
which can be specified in meter or seconds.
Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video images among vehicles, road site units,
devices' of pedestrian and V2X application servers. The vehicles can increase
the perception of their environment beyond of what their own sensors can
detect and have a more broad and holistic view of the local situation. High
data rate is one of the key characteristics.
Advanced driving enables semi-automated or full-automated driving. Longer
inter-vehicle distance is assumed. Each vehicle and/or RSU shares its own
perception data obtained from its local sensors with vehicles in proximity and
that allows vehicles to synchronize and coordinate their trajectories or
manoeuvres. Each vehicle shares its driving intention with vehicles in
proximity, too. The benefits of this use case group are safer traveling,
collision avoidance, and improved traffic efficiency.
Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive by themselves or remote
vehicles located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. Also, access to cloud-based back-end
service platform can be considered for this use case group. High reliability
and short low latency are the main requirements.
## 7.2 Consolidated requirements
Editor\'s Note: Potential requirements out of new use cases agreed in SA1#76
will be consolidated at SA1#76bis.
### 7.2.1 General requirements
Some requirements in this section are applicable to all V2X scenarios.
[CPR.G-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the communication range
for a message based on the characteristic of the messages transmitted by a UE
supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to optimize the communication
between UEs supporting V2X application belonging to the same group and in
proximity.
[CPR.G-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the message transfer for
group management operations as requested by the application layer.
[CPR.G-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer among a
group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
two UEs belonging to the same group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-007] The 3GPP system shall support relative lateral position accuracy
of 0.1 m between UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-008] The 3GPP system shall support mechanisms to ensure sufficient
reliability metrics are reached.
[CPR.G-009] The 3GPP system shall support high connection density for
congested traffic.
NOTE: An example of estimate is for worst case US Freeway scenario that does
not include arterial roads (i.e. onramps): 5 lanes in each direction or 10
lanes total per highway, for up to 3 highways intersecting = around 3,100 to
4,300 cars per square kilometer.
[CPR.G-010] The 3GPP system shall support efficient coordination of radio
resources used for transport of V2X communications to maximize the utilisation
of the available spectrum and to ensure the required reliability.
[CPR.G-011] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the UL and DL reliability
of transport of V2X communications, depending on the requirement of V2X
application
[CPR.G-012] Impact to E-UTRA(N) by UE supporting only NR based V2X
communication shall be minimized.
[CPR.G-013] Impact to NR by UE supporting only E-UTRA based V2X communication
shall be minimized.
[CPR.G-014] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
UEs or between a UE and a UE-type RSU, regardless of whether or not they are
subscribers of the same PLMN supporting V2X communications. In case they are
subscribers to different PLMNs, there shall be no service degradation of the
message transfer.
[CPR.G-015] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting high reliability
without requiring application-layer message retransmissions.
[CPR.G-016] The 3GPP system shall enable discovery and communication between
UEs supporting the same V2X application.
[CPR.G-017] The 3GPP system shall be able to support for the operator to
select which 3GPP RAT to use for a V2X application.
[CPR.G-018] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
obtain network access via another UE supporting V2X application.
[CPR.G-019] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
discover another UE supporting V2X application that can offer access to the
network.
[CPR.G-020] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
switch the network access from direct 3GPP connection to an indirect 3GPP
connection via another UE supporting V2X application that is connected via
3GPP access to the 3GPP core network, and vice versa.
[CPR.G-021] The 3GPP system should provide integrity and confidentiality
protection (end to end) for the network access traffic of a V2X UE via another
such UE.
[CPR.G-022] The 3GPP system shall allow UEs supporting V2X application to use
5G RAT for direct communication when the UEs are not being serviced by a 5G
cell.
[CPR.G-023] An RSU shall be able to communicate with up to 200 UEs supporting
a V2X application.
[CPR.G-024] The 3GPP system shall support less than 5 ms communication latency
for transport of V2V messages between two UEs supporting V2V applications,
that are part of a group of UEs supporting V2Vapplications.
NOTE: The determination of group membership may be done at the upper layers
and/or lower layers (application and/or Layer 2).
[CPR.G-025] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer between a UE supporting V2X application and a
V2X application server.
### 7.2.2 Requirements for platooning
[CPR.P-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support up to 5 UEs for a group
of UEs supporting V2X application.
[CPR.P-002] For Vehicle Platooning, the 3GPP system shall be able to support
reliable V2V communications between a specific UE supporting V2X applications
and up to 19 other UEs supporting V2X applications.
NOTE: For group of heavy goods vehicle platooning, the number of UEs in a
platoon can be smaller, due to communication range, the length of truck,
inter-truck distance, etc.
[CPR.P-003] The 3GPP system shall support relative longitudinal position
accuracy of less than 0.5 m for UEs supporting V2X application for platooning
in proximity.
Table 7.2.2-1 Performance requirements for platooning
Communication scenario | Payload (Bytes) | Tx rate (Message/ Sec) | Max end-to-end latency (ms) | Reliabi-lity (%) | Data rate (Mbps) | Commu-nication range (meters) |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Section  
# | Description | CPR # |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.1 | Among a group of UEs (or two UEs) supporting V2X application | [CPR.P-004] | 50-1200 (NOTE 1) | 30 | 10 |  |  |  |   
|  | [CPR.P-005] | 300-400 | 30 | 25 | 90 |  |  |   
5.2 | Between UE supporting V2X application and RSU via another UE supporting V2X application | [CPR.P-006] | [50-1200] | 2 | 500 |  |  |  |   
5.5 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Driver control | [CPR.P-007] | 300-400 (NOTE 2) |  | 25 | 90 |  |   
|  | Fully automated driving | [CPR.P-008] | 1200 |  | 10 | 99.99 |  | 80  
5.12, 5.13 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Conditionally automated driving | [CPR.P-009] | [6500] | 50 | [20] |  |  | [10] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly/fully automated driving | [CPR.7.P-010] |  |  | [20] |  | [65] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
5.12, 5.13 | Between UE supporting V2X application and RSU | Conditionally automated driving | [CPR.7.P-011] | [6000] | 50 | [20] |  |  | [10] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly /Fully automated driving | [CPR.7.P-012] |  |  | [20] |  | [50] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
NOTE 1: This value does not including security related messages component. NOTE 2: This value is applicable for both triggered and periodic transmission of data packets. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 7.2.3 Requirements for advanced driving
Table 7.2.3-1 Performance requirements for advanced driving
Communication scenario | Payload (Bytes) | Tx rate (Message/Sec) | Max end-to-end latency (ms) | Reliabi-lity (%) | Data rate (Mbps) | Commu-nication range (meters) |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Section  
# | Description | CPR # |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5.9 | Between UEs supporting V2X applications Fully automated driving | [CPR.A-001] | [2000] |  | [10] | [99.99] | [10] |  |   
5.10, 5.11 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Partially/conditional ly automated driving | [CPR.A-002] | [6500] | 10 | [100] |  |  | [10] sec * (maximum relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly automated driving | [CPR.A-003] |  |  | [100] |  | [53] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
5.10, 5.11 | Between the UE supporting V2X application and the RSU | Partially/conditional ly automated driving | [CPR.A-004] | [6000] | 10 | [100] |  |  | [10] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
|  | Highly automated driving | [CPR.A-005] |  |  | [100] |  | [50] | [5] sec * (max. relative speed) [m/s]  
5.20 | Between UEs supporting V2X application Fully automated driving | [CPR.A-006 |  |  | [3] | [99.999] | [30] | [500] |   
5.22 | Between RSU and UE supporting V2X application | [CPR.A-007] | 450 | 50 |  |  | DL: [0.5] UL: [50] |  |   
5.23 | Between UEs supporting V2X application | Driver control/ Limited automated driving | [CPR.A-008] | [300-400] |  | [25] | [90] |  |   
|  | Full automated driving | [CPR.A-009] | [12000] |  | [10] | [99.99] |  |   
5.25 | Between a UE supporting V2X application and a V2X application server | [CPR.A-010] |  |  |  |  | UL: [10] |  |   
### 7.2.4 Requirements for extended sensors
Table 7.2.4-1 Performance requirements for extended sensors
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Com | Pa | Max | Re | Data | Com | | | | | munic | yload | end-t | liabi | rate | munic | | | | | ation | (B | o-end | -lity | ( | ation | | | | | sce | ytes) | | (%) | Mbps) | range | | | | | nario | | la | | | (me | | | | | | | tency | | | ters) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (ms) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sec | D | CPR | | | | | | | | tion\ | escri | # | | | | | | | | # | ption | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5.3 | Be | [C | | 10 | 95 | Peak | | | | | tween | PR.E- | | | | data | | | | | UEs | 001] | | | | rate | | | | | suppo | | | | | \ | | | | | rting | | | | | [25] | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Fully | | | | | | | | | | auto | | | | | | | | | | mated | | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5.6 | Be | D | [C | [1 | 100 | 99 | | 1000 | | | tween | river | PR.E- | 600] | | | | | | | UEs | co | 002] | | | | | | | | suppo | ntrol | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Fully | [C | | 3 | 9 | | 200 | | | | auto | PR.E- | | | 9.999 | | | | | | mated | 003] | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | [C | | 10 | 99.99 | | 500 | | | | | PR.E- | | | | | | | | | | 004] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | [C | | 50 | 99 | | 1000 | | | | | PR.E- | | | | | | | | | | 005] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | [C | | | | 1000 | 50 | | | | | PR.E- | | | | | | | | | | 006] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5.16 | Be | D | [C | | \ | 90 | \ | [ | | | tween | river | PR.E- | | [50] | | [10] | 100] | | | UEs | con | 007] | | | | | | | | suppo | trol/ | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | Li | | | | | | | | | a | mited | | | | | | | | | pplic | auto | | | | | | | | | ation | mated | | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Fully | [C | | \ | 99.99 | [ | [ | | | | auto | PR.E- | | [10] | | 700] | 500] | | | | mated | 008] | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 7.2.5 Requirements for remote driving
[CPR.R-001] The 3GPP system shall support user experienced data rate up to 1
Mbps at DL and 20 Mbps at UL for UE supporting V2X application between V2X
application server and UE for an absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
[CPR.R-002] The 3GPP system shall support ultra-high UL and DL reliability
[99.999 or higher] % for UE supporting safety-related V2X application.
[CPR.R-003] The 3GPP system shall support end-to-end latency 5 ms between V2X
application server and UE supporting safety-related V2X application for an
absolute speed of up to 250 km/h.
Table 7.2.5-1 Performance requirements for remote driving
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | Com | Pa | Max | Re | Data | Com | | | | munic | yload | end-t | liabi | rate | munic | | | | ation | (B | o-end | -lity | ( | ation | | | | sce | ytes) | | (%) | Mbps) | range | | | | nario | | la | | | (me | | | | | | tency | | | ters) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (ms) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | Sec | D | CPR | | | | | | | tion\ | escri | # | | | | | | | # | ption | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | 5.21 | Be | [C | | \ | [99. | UL: | | | | tween | PR.R- | | [20] | 999] | 25 | | | | a UE | 004] | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | DL: 1 | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | & V2X | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | rver. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | river | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
# 8 Conclusion and recommendations
This document analyses a number of use cases of V2X for both safety use and
non-safety use which the prior work on LTE support for V2X services [32] does
not cover or is not able to support.
It is recommended that the consolidated potential requirements identified in
this TR are considered for the development of normative requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Mapping of use cases to use case group
Table A-1: Mapping of use cases to use case group
* * *
Use case group Section number Use case name Platooning 5.1 eV2X support for
Vehicle Platooning 5.2 Information exchange within platoon 5.5 Automated
Cooperative Driving for Short distance Grouping 5.12 Information sharing for
limited automated platooning 5.13 Information sharing for full automated
platooning 5.17 Changing Driving-Mode Advanced Driving 5.9 Cooperative
Collision Avoidance (CoCA) 5.10 Information sharing for limited automated
driving 5.11 Information sharing for full automated driving 5.20 Emergency
Trajectory Alignment 5.22 Intersection Safety Information Provisioning for
Urban Driving 5.23 Cooperative lane change (CLC) of automated vehicles 5.25 3D
video composition for V2X scenario Remote driving 5.4 eV2X support for Remote
Driving 5.21 Teleoperated Support (TeSo) Extended Sensor 5.3 Automotive:
Sensor and State Map Sharing 5.6 Collective Perception of Environment 5.16
Video data sharing for automated Driving General 5.7 Communication between
vehicles of different 3GPP RATs 5.8 Multi-PLMN environment 5.15 Use case on
Multi-RAT 5.19 Use case out of 5G coverage 5.14 Dynamic Ride Sharing 5.18
Tethering via Vehicle 5.24 Proposal for secure software update for electronic
control unit
* * *
###### ### Annex B: Mapping table between PRs and CPRs
Table B-1 Mapping between CPRs and PRs
+-----------+------------------+ | CPR # | PR # | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-001 | [PR.5.1-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-002 | [PR.5.1-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-003 | [PR.5.1-005] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-004 | [PR.5.1-007] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-005 | [PR.5.1-008] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-006 | [PR.5.1-009] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-007 | [PR.5.5-007] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-008 | [PR.5.5-009] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-009 | [PR.5.5-010] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-010 | [PR.5.3-004] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-011 | [PR.5.4-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-012 | [PR.5.7-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-013 | [PR.5.7-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-014 | [PR.5.8-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-015 | [PR.5.10-008] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-016 | [PR.5.14-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.14-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-017 | [PR.5.15-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-018 | [PR.5.18-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-019 | [PR.5.18-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-020 | [PR.5.18-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-021 | [PR.5.18-004] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-022 | [PR.5.19-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-023 | [PR.5.22-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-024 | [PR.5.5-003a] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.G-025 | [PR.5.24-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-001 | [PR.5.1-004] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-002 | [PR.5.17-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-003 | [PR.5.5-008] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-004 | [PR.5.1-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-010] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-011] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-005 | [PR.5.1-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-012] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-013] | | | | | | [PR.5.1-014] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-006 | [PR.5.2-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.2-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.2-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-007 | [PR.5.5-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-008 | [PR.5.5-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-005] | | | | | | [PR.5.5-006] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-009 | [PR.5.12-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-005] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-009] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-010 | [PR.5.13-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-006] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-011 | [PR.5.12-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-007] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-005] | | | | | | [PR.5.12-009] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.P-012 | [PR.5.13-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.13-004] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-001 | [PR.5.9-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.9-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-002 | [PR.5.10-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-006] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-009] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-005] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-003 | [PR.5.11-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.11-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.11-006] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-004 | [PR.5.10-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-004] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-007] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-009] | | | | | | [PR.5.10-005] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-005 | [PR.5.11-002], | | | | | | [PR.5.11-004], | | | | | | [PR.5.11-006], | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-006 | [PR.5.20-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-007 | [PR.5.22-003] | | | | | | [PR.5.22-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-008 | [PR.5.23-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-009 | [PR.5.23-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.A-010 | [PR.5.25-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-001 | [PR.5.3-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.3-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.3-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-002 | [PR.5.6-001] | | | | | | [PR.5.6-002] | | | | | | [PR.5.6-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-003 | [PR.5.6-004] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-004 | [PR.5.6-005] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-005 | [PR.5.6-006] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-006 | [PR.5.6-007] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-007 | [PR.5.16-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.E-008 | [PR.5.16-002] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.R-001 | [PR.5.4-001] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.R-002 | [PR.5.4-003] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.R-003 | [PR.5.4-004] | +-----------+------------------+ | CPR.R-004 | [PR.5.21-001] | +-----------+------------------+
###### ### Annex C: Other considered use cases
## C.1 Interoperability with other V2X schemes
### C.1.1 Description
#### C.1.1.1 General
As the automotive industry already started adopting non-3GPP V2X technologies
(e.g., 760 MHz ITS Connect in Japan, 5.9 GHz DSRC in the US, and 5.9 GHz
ITS-G5 in Europe), it is essential that vehicles with eV2X capability are also
interoperable with "legacy" vehicles with only a current non-3GPP V2X
capability (cf. [20]). This being "essential" comes from the understanding
that "_realizing the full extent of benefits from cooperative driving depends
on the availability of a critical mass of capable and compatible vehicles on
the road_ " and that "_the long product lifecycle in the automotive market
(i.e., 10 -- 14 years)_ " (cf. [20]).
As the objective of the WID already suggests, interoperability with non-3GPP
V2X technologies should be ensured at the application level, understanding NR
could be quite different from e.g. IEEE 802.11p.
An interpretation of this "interoperability" is as follows. Considering early
adoption of non-3GPP V2X technologies in some regions, for years to come there
exist vehicles with only a non-3GPP V2X device. In this circumstance, some V2X
messages (e.g., Basic Safety Messages or Cooperative Awareness Messages /
Decentralized Environmental Notification) are to be transmitted using non-3GPP
V2X technologies. eV2X capability is to be used to convey at least additional
V2X messages (e.g., high-resolution perception data and/or detailed planned
trajectory) to complement non-3GPP V2X technologies. In this way, all vehicles
with V2X capability, whether having an eV2X UE or not, can make the best use
of their outfit.
#### C.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Vehicles A and B are equipped with both an eV2X UE and a non-3GPP V2X
device. Vehicle C is equipped with only a non-3GPP V2X device. Vehicles A, B,
and C are in the communication range.
#### C.1.1.3 Service flows
1\. Vehicles A and B share their Basic Safety Messages or Cooperative
Awareness Messages / Decentralized Environmental Notification (and their
detected objects and/or coarse driving intention) with Vehicle C using the
non-3GPP V2X technology, and vice versa.
2\. Vehicle C uses the above information received from Vehicles A and B for
its driving.
3\. Vehicle A shares its high-resolution perception data and/or detailed
planned trajectory with Vehicle B using the eV2X technology, and vice versa.
Vehicles A and B obtain information of surrounding environments that cannot be
obtained only from their local sensors.
4\. Vehicle A combines the above information received from Vehicles B and C,
and uses it for its driving. The same applies to Vehicle B.
#### C.1.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. Road safety and traffic efficiency is improved. For Vehicles A and B,
having an eV2X capability as well further improves those.
#