# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In the past, operators within a country or a region deployed single system
networks and, consequently, users got service from a single system terminal.
Multi mode terminals were sometimes deployed to maximise coverage,
particularly during times of transition between radio access technologies
(e.g. cdma/AMPS), but the same core network was always used.
In the future it is likely that operators will operate more than one system
and the core networks will be different. This may happen either through choice
or company merger/acquisition. There will be cases where operators have
different systems in the same geographic area and cases where operators use
different systems in different regions. It is also likely that there will be
roaming agreements between operators of different systems. Therefore, the
market for multi system terminals will increase and consideration is needed in
3GPP if new standardisation will be required or not.
_Leaving system selection unspecified could lead to differences between vendor
implementations. Whereas this may in itself not be a problem, it needs to be
ensured that 3GPP specifications are followed by multi system terminals with
3GPP capability and that no harm to 3GPP networks is caused._
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the behaviour of a multi system terminal that
supports both 3GPP and non-3GPP systems. Particular issues handled include,
but are not restricted to:
  * Whether the system selection or PLMN selection should take higher priority in a multi system terminal.
  * Criteria for system change.
  * Interaction between the user\'s and the operator\'s preferences.
  * Support of automatic and manual system selection mode.
  * Different methods of system selection and their impact on 3GPP specifications.
  * _Some areas for possible standardization, to ensure 3GPP compliance and protection of 3GPP networks._
_The present document treats non-3GPP networks in a generic way but it applies
mainly to the case of 3GPP2/3GPP compliant terminals._
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Multi mode terminal: Terminal which supports multiple access technologies
and accesses 3GPP core network (e.g. GSM/UMTS).**
**Multi system terminal:** Terminal which supports both the 3GPP system and
non-3GPP system(s).
**Non-3GPP system** : Mobile telecommunications system, having non-MAP core
network, with specifications which are outside the control or influence of
3GPP.
**3GPP system** : MAP core network and various access networks.
**3GPP2 system** : IS-41 core network and various cdma access network .
Other definitions are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
PRL Preferred Roaming List
GAIT GSM/ANSI-136 Interoperability
R-UIM Removable User Interface Module (a 3GPP2 abbreviation)
Further abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Categories of multi system terminals
## 4.1 Common characteristics
\- 3GPP and non-3GPP system(s) in the same terminal.
[Benefit to the user]{.underline}
Increased coverage area.
Wider range of services
Can use one terminal for both systems.
## 4.2 Category 1 - Manual switching
\- The user manually selects system.
\- Separate 3GPP and non-3GPP identities (e.g. USIM and R-UIM).
\- When in 3GPP system, terminal does not scan non-3GPP systems and vice
versa.
## 4.3 Category 2 - Automatic switching by an overlay function
\- When in 3GPP system, terminal scans non-3GPP systems and vice versa.
\- Terminal does not suspend operation on a system while it scans for the
other (i.e. dual transceivers).
\- Scanning information is passed to an overlay function which decides if to
change system.
\- System is changed by selecting USIM or R-UIM in the case of 3GPP2
[depending on user and/or operator's preferences].
## 4.4 Category 3 - Selection method of one system to extended to another
### 4.4.1 Example A, extended PLMN list
\- The 3GPP network selection mechanism could be extended to non-3GPP
networks.
\- Non 3GPP entries (e.g. cdma2000, SSID) could be contained in the 3GPP
Preferred PLMN+RAT List.
Note 1: Significant work would be needed in 3GPP and GSM-A to allow non-3GPP
network information to be contained in the PLMN list. However, one
implementation specific solution may be for a dummy entry "switch to PRL" to
be placed in the preferred PLMN list.
### 4.4.2 Example B, extended PRL
\- The 3GPP2 network selection mechanism could be extended to non-3GPP2
networks.
\- GSM/W-CDMA or SSID information could be contained in the 3GPP2 PRL.
Note 2: Work is being done in 3GPP2 on this method.
## 4.5 Category 4 -- Multiple systems operational simultaneously
\- User can access the internet directly via WLAN while the terminal is
connected to the cellular network at the same time.
Note 1: While connected to the 3GPP network, the terminal will follow 3GPP
specifications.
\- 3GPP and 3GPP2 parts of the terminal may be active at the same time (e.g.
for different applications).
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Roaming cases
Example 1: Luke, who has a multi system terminal, uses the services of his
3GPP operator A. While on vacation in another country, the available networks
are the 3GPP network of operator B, offering very basic 3GPP functionalities,
and the non 3GPP network of operator C, offering equivalent services compared
to operator A. Ideally, Luke would like his device to select the non-3GPP
operator C to be able to take advantage of the similarity of services. If his
device selects operator B, Luke can select operator C manually if he wishes.
Example 2: Andrew, who has a multi system terminal, uses the services of his
3GPP operator A. While on vacation in another country, the available networks
are the 3GPP network of operator B, offering a wide range of 3GPP
functionalities, and the non 3GPP network of operator C, offering equivalent
services compared to operators A and B. Ideally, Andrew would like his device
to select 3GPP operator B because services should generally work better in the
same system (e.g. no transcoding). If his device selects operator C, Andrew
can select operator B manually if he wishes.
Example 3: Leia, who has a multi system terminal, uses the services of her
3GPP operator A. While on vacation in another country, the available networks
are the 3GPP network of operator B, and the non 3GPP network of operator C.
Operator A and C have a commercial alliance. Therefore, operator A would
prefer that the non 3GPP operator C will be selected. Leia can select operator
B manually if she wishes.
Example 4: Harry, who has a multi system terminal, uses the services of his
3GPP operator A. While on vacation in another country, the available networks
are the 3GPP network of operator B, and the non 3GPP network of operator C.
Operator A and C are in fact owned by the same company. Therefore, operator A
would like to be sure that the non 3GPP operator C will be selected. Harry can
select operator B manually if he wishes.
Note: In the above examples it is assumed that there are roaming agreements
between operators A, B and C.
## 5.2 Non-roaming cases
Example 5: Ana, who has a multi system terminal, uses the services of operator
A. Operator A operates both 3GPP and a non-3GPP system in the same area.
Operator A wishes to control when Ana uses each system for reasons of load
sharing and to ensure that Ana gets the best possible user experience. Ana can
manually select either system.
Example 6: Paul, who has a multi system terminal, uses the services of
operator A. Operator A operates a 3GPP system. Paul's terminal is capable of
accessing the internet via WLAN (not I-WLAN), e.g. for web browsing and VoIP.
Paul has a tariff with operator A that allows him to connect to the internet
via WLAN and use the services of an ISP.
# 6 Considerations for multi system terminals
## 6.1 General categorization of usage
Multi system terminals will be used:
> a) When an operator deploys more than one system in the same geographic
> area.
>
> b) When an operator operates different systems in different geographic
> areas, or has roaming agreements with operators of other systems in
> different geographic areas.
## 6.2 Subscription aspects
There are two kinds of subscription from a user's perspective: single
subscription to an operator and multiple subscriptions to multiple operators.
In the single subscription case, a user subscribes only to a single operator
and either
\- the operator deploys several systems, or
\- the operator deploys one of the systems and has a roaming agreement with
operators deploying other systems.
An interworking function is required because of the different core networks
used. A practical example of this scenario is GAIT.
In the multiple subscriptions case, a user could select operators for each
system by himself and subscribe to them all, or one operator could organise
other subscriptions on his behalf and take care of call forwarding. The latter
is more likely. For example, in an early deployment of multi system terminals,
there is a subscription with a cdma1x operator who also provides a GSM
subscription (SIM) and deals with call forwarding but there is a close
commercial link between the two operators and the user only deals with one of
them.
Multiple subscriptions to one operator is another possible combination.
## 6.3 MMI aspects
A user should be able to configure the multi system terminal to any one system
manually.
One possible implementation would display the system name along with the
network name.
No new standardisation for MMI is expected.
## 6.4 Charging aspects
The charging mechanisms associated with each system will be used.
Handover between systems may require a review of charging specs (anchor
principle).
## 6.5 Security aspects
The security mechanisms associated with each system will be used.
## 6.6 Target time to select system
The time taken to do network and system selection may be longer than it
already is for a single system terminal.
## 6.7 System preference settings
User experience is important issue of system selection. Multi system terminal
should use the most suitable access system for services (e.g. PS for internet
access) while considering the cost.
The operator preference settings (parameters, default behaviour for system
selection) will be important. The three reasons that influence the operator's
preference are (in order of importance):
1\. Commercial. In roaming situations, commercial factors will also determine
the home operator's preference for selection of system. For example, when a
partner network is found in another system and non-partner networks in the
same system, preference will be towards the former. This case could be handled
by defining default behaviour (e.g. \"always select home network\") or
detailed multi system preference lists.
2\. Load sharing. If an operator operates more than one system in the same
geographic area, loadsharing factors will determine the operator's preference
for system selection.
3\. Customer experience. Services provided by the home operator (e.g. SS, MMS,
MBMS, LCS, IMS, PoC, etc) may work better when the terminal roams in networks
of the same system that the home operator has. This may be because of
transcoding. Therefore the home operator may be interested in preferring the
same system if there are no over-riding commercial factors.
New methods for setting and updating the system selection parameters should
not require new heavy machinery. Mechanisms that reuse the already existing
mechanisms (e.g. SIM toolkit, OMA device management) should be preferred.
Update and setting of system parameters is duty of the operator.
## 6.8 System selection
### 6.8.1 Overview
System selection could be divided into 3 cases: switch-on or recovery from
lack of coverage, user reselection and system switching.
In the case of an overlay functionality, that overlay functionality should
contain a mechanism to indicate a user and/or an operator preference to decide
which system (i.e. GSM/UMTS or CDMA) to choose to access, i.e. which
application (R-UIM or USIM) will be selected in priority. This mechanism
should occur before the identity module of either technology is selected. The
existing network-specific selection procedure will then control the initial
network selection.
### 6.8.2 Switch-on or recovery from lack of coverage
Operator defined default rules are needed.
### 6.8.3 User reselection
Manual reselection should be possible.
An application should not initiate reselection without the permission of the
user.
### 6.8.4 System switching
The overlay function is supposed to make decisions on when to switch from one
system (e.g. 3GPP) to another system (e.g. 3GPP2). It also should have
possibility to return to other systems.
Background scan could be allowable or not, and if allowable, could be
automatic or manual. The result of a background scan could be displayed to the
user or used for automatic reselection of system.
The need for automatic or manual scan will depend on the situation. In the
case where an operator deploys multiple systems in the same area, it will be
acceptable for operators to allow the automatic scan, because after the search
the terminal will still be connected to the same operator.
In roaming cases, background scans could lead to display or attempted
connection to a system that the user can not access. Roaming agreements
between operators could be reflected in the system list resulting from a
background system scan.
Unless system and network priorities are specified, there will be cases when
the terminal stays in a visited network even though the home network is
available in another system. The home operator will need to determine which is
most important, to be in the same system or the home network.
Background scan should naturally be done in both directions.
Background scanning must not lead a "ping-pong" situation.
Whether, and for how long, user manual preference settings are retained is
also an issue. Further consideration will be required for the length of time
that user preferences can override operator preferences, and if user
preference settings are retained after an event (recovery from lack of
coverage, power-off).
# 7 Conclusion
## 7.1 Overview
In this study there are four different categories defined,
\- Category 1- Manual Switching,
\- Category 2 - Automatic switching with an overlay function,
\- Category - 3 Extending the selection of one system to another, and
\- Category - 4 Multiple systems operating simultaneously.
The different categories have increasing level of interaction between the 3GPP
and non-3GPP systems starting with category 1 which does not have any
interaction at all and the selection between the systems is done manually.
There are, and will be even more, terminals supporting both 3GPP
specifications and non-3GPP specifications and it is important that the 3GPP
specifications do not prohibit the use of these terminals.
It is not important that different categories of Multi System terminal are
implemented as long as they behave as the home network operator wants them to.
It is important that Multi System terminals with 3GPP capability must be
compliant with 3GPP specifications when in 3GPP mode and that there are no
adverse affects on networks due to different categories.
There are requirements in TS 22.011 Release-7 to cover categories 1 and 2\.
Categories 3 and 4 may require closer co-operation between standardization
bodies. Functionality beyond system selection, such as interworking or
handover between different systems would also require close co-operation. No
further standardization in 3GPP is envisaged at the moment.
It is recognised that other standardisation bodies may do work on
specifications for multi system terminals when in non-3GPP mode.
It should not be the intention of one standardization group to impose
requirements of its system on the other.
## 7.2 General requirements for system selection
The method of system selection must provide means for the operator to set
system preferences. It may also allow user to set system preferences but more
consideration is needed in this area.
The method of system selection must, having switched to a different system, be
capable of switching back to the original system.
The method of system selection should allow manual system selection as this is
likely to be a regulatory requirement in some regions.
#