# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the service requirements associated with series
of value-added features for short message service (SMS). Specifically, the
objective of this document is to study potential new value-added services for
SMS in 3GPP that need to be standardized.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[3] ITU-T E.164 (1997): \"The International Public Telecommunications
Numbering Plan\".
[4] IETF STD 0011 (RFC 2822): \"Internet Message Format\"\ URL:
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2822.txt.
[5] 3GPP TS 23.204: \"Support of Short Message Service (SMS) over generic 3GPP
Internet Protocol (IP) access\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[1] and the following apply:
**Short Message Forwarding:** The service permits the network to send all
incoming short messages addressed to the called mobile subscriber\'s directory
number to another directory number.
**Short Message Filtering:** The service permits the network to filter certain
short messages on behalf of a called party based on the called party's
preferences.
**Short Message Receipt:** The service permits the network to send one or more
receipts to inform a calling party the status of sent message.
**Short Message Network Storage:** The service permits the network to help the
subscriber store messages that the subscriber has sent or received.
**SMS VPN service enables exchange of SMS messages between VPN (Virtual
Private Network) members by using a short number, usually similar to the
receiver fixed extension number, instead of using the full mobile number of
the recipient.**
**SMS Auto Reply:** **The SMS Auto Reply service enables the subscriber to
activate an automatic SMS reply in response to incoming SMS messages, both
from in network subscribers as well as from foreign networks subscribers
(incoming MT messages from foreign networks).**
**SMS Personal Signature** : The service **allows the end user to personalize
its outgoing messages either with a personal remark or a business title. The
service enables a user to pre-define a text that will automatically be added
to all outgoing SMS messages**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply in
addition to [1]:
SMS-SC Short Message Service - Service Centre
SM Short Message
VAS-SMS Value-added Services for SMS
# 4 Use cases
## 4.1 Short Message forwarding
### 4.1.1 Short description
This use case describes a scenario where a called mobile subscriber forward
incoming messages to another mobile phone.
### 4.1.2 Actors
Joe is an SMS user of Operator A.
Sally is an SMS user of Operator B.
Note: Operator A and Operator B may be the same
#### 4.1.2.1 Actor specific issues
Joe wants to send an SM to Sally.
Sally is roaming outside of Operator B. She brings another mobile phone with
her.
#### 4.1.2.2 Actor specific benefits
Sally can take advantage of Short Message Forwarding Service.
### 4.1.3 Pre-conditions
Joe is an SMS subscriber.
Sally is subscribed to the Short Message Forwarding Service on her home
network.
She sets the SM forwarding number for her original mobile phone, and wants to
use another mobile phone to receive incoming SM.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
All incoming messages addressed to Sally's original mobile phone number are
forwarded to another mobile phone.
### 4.1.5 Normal flow
\- Sally prepares to travel outside coverage of Operator B.
\- She sets the SM forwarding number of her original mobile phone.
\- Joe sends an SM to Sally with receiving number as Sally's original number.
\- Sally receives the message by using another mobile phone.
### 4.1.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
It shall be supported that users can set certain conditions (e.g., different
time periods) for message forwarding. There are no significant delays to any
part of the service.
## 4.2 Short Message forwarding multiple subscriptions
### 4.2.1 Short description
This use case describes a scenario where an SM to a mobile subscriber may be
forwarded to an alternative address, depending on the original delivery
address being registered on the network or not.
### 4.2.2 Actors
Joe is an SMS user with home operator A.
Sally is an SMS user with home operator B.
#### 4.2.2.1 Actor specific issues
Joe wants to send an SM to Sally.
Sally can use two different subscriptions with different MSISDNs[3], and she
wants to receive SMs on the subscription that is in use (active). She may use
two different phones or two different subscriptions from the same operator.
#### 4.2.2.2 Actor specific benefits
The called party will have the SM delivered to the phone/subscription that is
in use.
### 4.2.3 Pre-conditions
Joe is an SMS subscriber.
Sally has subscribed to the Short Message Forwarding (\"multiple
subscriptions\") Service.
Sally has activated SM forwarding from her first phone/subscription to the
second phone/subscription.
Sally's second phone/subscription is in use. The first phone/subscription is
switched off/not active.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
All incoming messages addressed to Sally's first mobile phone number are
forwarded to her second phone/subscription.
### 4.2.5 Normal flow
\- Joe sends an SM addressed to Sally's first number.
\- Sally receives the message on the phone/subscription that is in use.
### 4.2.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
It may be supported that an operator can set a group of subscriptions for
which SM are forwarded to the active/last activated subscription of that
group, under the condition that the delivery address of the SM is associated
to a subscription of that group and that address is not registered on the
network.
## 4.3 Short Message filtering
### 4.3.1 Short description
The users do not want to receive trash or malicious messages. Some users are
not allowed to send messages to premium numbers.
This use case describes how a network can help the user filter SM based on the
users' (called/calling party) preferences (e.g. calling/called party's number,
time to send message etc.).
### 4.3.2 Actors
Alice is an SMS user of Operator A. Bob is an SMS user of Operator A.
Sally is an SMS user of Operator B.
Tom is an SMS user. He is a youngster.
#### 4.3.2.1 Actor specific issues
Alice sends an SM to Sally at 13:30PM.
Bob sends an SM to Sally.
Sally doesn't want to receive any messages from Bob and these are identified
as \"not wanted\". Neither does she want to receive any messages from 13:00 to
14:00. Any messages sent during this period and that are not marked as \"not
wanted\" should be stored and/or sent to Sally after the period defined by
Sally. She sets the SMS filtering function via her mobile phone.
Tom is not allowed to send SMS to pre-defined numbers
#### 4.3.2.2 Actor specific benefits
The called party, Sally can take advantage of SM Filtering Service.
The calling party, Tom takes advantage of SMS filtering service
### 4.3.3 Pre-conditions
Alice and Bob are SMS subscribers.
Sally is subscribed to the SM Filtering Service.
Sally adds Bob's phone number to the black list for the SM Filtering Service.
Tom's parents subscribed Tom to the SMS filtering services.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
Sally doesn't receive any messages from Bob.
Sally doesn't receive any messages during time period from 13:00 to 14:00.
Tom is not able to send SMS to pre-defined numbers
### 4.3.5 Normal flow
\- Sally doesn't want to receive Bob's messages.
\- Sally adds Bob's phone number to her black list for the SM Filtering
Service.
\- Bob sends SMs to Sally.
\- Sallys\' home network doesn't forward Bobs messages to Sally.
### 4.3.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
It shall be supported that users can set certain conditions for message
filtering.
## 4.4 Short Message receipt
### 4.4.1 Short description
This use case describes a scenario where Joe receives two SM Receipts after he
sent an SM to Sally. One message receipt (aka. caller message receipt) is
requested by Joe to indicate the transmit status of the message; the other
message receipt (aka. callee message receipt) is from Sally, customized for
Joe.
### 4.4.2 Actors
Both Joe and Sally are SMS users.
#### 4.4.2.1 Actor specific issues
Joe sends an SM to Sally.
#### 4.4.2.2 Actor specific benefits
Joe can know the sent messages' transmitting status (e.g., successful,
failure, temporarily failure) in time. Sally can set a specific quick response
for messages from Joe.
### 4.4.3 Pre-conditions
Joe is an SMS subscriber.
Joe is subscribed to the SM Receipt (caller message receipt) Service on his
home network.
Sally is subscribed to the SM Receipt (callee message receipt) Service on her
home network and sets a callee message receipt for Joe.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
Joe can obtain the status of all messages he has sent.
### 4.4.5 Normal flow
\- Joe sends a message to Sally.
\- Joe receives a caller message receipt: Your message sent to Sally is
successful.
\- Sally receives the message Joe has sent.
\- The network sends the receipt to Joe with the following content: \"Joe, I
am now in the meeting, and I will phone you later\". No interaction with Sally
(or her UE) is required.
\- Joe receives Sally's callee message receipt.
### 4.4.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
It shall be supported that the callee can set different content of the receipt
for different callers.
**The SMS receipt can be accompanied by a newly generated SM with the content
provided by the operator.**
## 4.5 Short Message network storage
### 4.5.1 Short description
Users want to store their daily messages (either sent or received), but there
is limited storage in their mobile phone. The network helps to store the
users' messages. The network duplicates the users' certain messages to message
depository, and the users can manage the messages stored via WWW/WAP portal
and so on.
### 4.5.2 Actors
Both Joe and Sally are SMS users.
#### 4.5.2.1 Actor specific issues
Joe wants to store his messages in the network storage.
#### 4.5.2.2 Actor specific benefits
Joe can utilize the network-based storage capability.
### 4.5.3 Pre-conditions
Joe is an SMS subscriber.
Joe subscribed to the SM Network Storage Service on his home network.
Joe sets Sally's phone number for storing messages from or to her.
### 4.5.4 Post-conditions
Joe's messages sent to or received from Sally's phone will be stored in the
network depository, and Joe can manage these messages.
### 4.5.5 Normal flow
\- Joe sends the messages to Sally.
\- The messages are sent to Sally; they are also duplicated and stored in the
Message depository.
\- Joe manages messages stored in the Message depository via web portal.
### 4.5.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
It shall be supported that user can pre-set certain conditions for storage.
The storage condition includes all sent messages, all received messages,
messages sent to or received from one or more special phone numbers and so on.
It should be possible for the operator to prevent storage of configuration SM,
notifications (e.g. voice mail, SM delivery notifications).
It shall be supported that users can transfer the messages stored in the
message depository to any other mobile phone.
It shall be supported that users can inquire the messages stored in the
message depository according to certain query conditions (e.g., short message
receiver, short message sender, key words etc.).
It shall be supported that users can manage the stored messages via a website,
and it shall be possible for the user to set access right for other users (
e.g. read only , read and download etc), in this way, other users are able to
inquire his stored messages through a link to the website after valid
authentication.
In case of multiple delivery attempts SM will be copied only once regardless
of the number of delivery attempts.
## 4.6 Short Message to multiple destinations
### 4.6.1 Short description
When a user composes a message and sends it to N destinations, then the
originating entity (MS) will send N messages to the SMS-SC and the SMS-SC will
deliver N individual messages to the N destinations. Each Individual receiving
entity can only know the originating address and can only reply back to the
originating entity. So in the existing system, when the same message is sent
to N different individuals, there is no way for each individual to know who
else received the same message and no way for them to reply to 'all'. The SM-
Multiple Destinations Service will allow all addressees to be visible (normal
condition) and selected addressees to be invisible (privacy condition) to
recipients of an SM sent to multiple destination addresses.
### 4.6.2 Actors
Alice, Bob, Joe and Sally are SMS users.
#### 4.6.2.1a Actor specific issues
Joe wants to send a message to Alice, Bob and Sally.
#### 4.6.2.1b Actor specific issues (recipients privacy protection)
Joe does not want Alice know that the same message is sent to other persons.
#### 4.6.2.2a Actor specific benefits
Joe can utilize multiple destination address feature to send a single message
to all the recipients.
Alice, Bob and Sally will be able to reply to everyone who received the
initial message from Joe.
#### 4.6.2.2b Actor specific benefits (recipients privacy protection)
Joe can set the recipient addresses displaying information to prevent Alice
know that the same message is sent to other persons.
Alice does not know the initial message from Joe is also received by Bob and
Sally.
Bob and Sally do not know the initial message was received by Alice
### 4.6.3 Pre-conditions
Joe is an SMS subscriber.
Joe subscribed to the SM Multiple Destination service on his home network.
Joe sends the message to Alice, Bob and Sally's phone number.
The distribution list has been pre-defined in VAS-SMS.
### 4.6.4a Post-conditions
Joe's message is received by Alice, Bob and Sally.
Alice, Bob and Sally know who the message has been sent to.
Alice, Bob and Sally can use the information in the received message to reply
to everyone who received the message and to Joe.
### 4.6.4b Post-conditions (recipient privacy protection)
Joe's message is received by Alice, Bob and Sally.
Bob and Sally know the message has been sent from Joe to Bob and Sally
Bob and Sally can use the information in the received message to reply to all
- this does not include Alice
### 4.6.5a Normal flow
\- Joe sends the messages to Alice, Bob, and Sally.
\- A single message is sent from Joe's mobile to the SMS-SC.
\- The SMS-SC sends the message to Alice, Bob and Sally.
\- Alice, Bob and Sally each receive a copy of the message.
\- Alice, Bob and Sally have information on all the recipients of the message.
\- Alice decides to reply to the received message and is able to reply to all
(that is Bob, Joe, and Sally). So a message is sent to Bob, Joe and Sally.
\- Bob decides to reply to the received message but only to Joe and Sally. So
a message is sent to Joe and Sally.
\- Sally just replies to Joe. So a message is sent to Joe
### 4.6.5b Normal flow (recipient privacy protecting)
\- Joe sends a message to Bob, and Sally，it is blind copied to Alice
\- A single message is sent from Joe's mobile to the SMS-SC.
\- The SMS-SC processes the message base on the recipient displayed address
information status and delivers the message to Alice, Bob and Sally.
\- Alice, Bob and Sally each receive a copy of the message.
\- Bob and Sally have information on all the recipients of the message except
blind copied recipients, i.e. Alice in this case.
### 4.6.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
It shall be supported that a user can include multiple destination addresses
in a message. The recipient except whose addresses displaying information is
blocked shall receive information on all recipients of the message.
It shall be supported that each recipient of the message can send a message
back to all recipients of the original message.
4.7 Short Message Virtual Private Network (VPN)
4.7.1 Short description
This use case describes a scenario where short message is being send to a
short number (identical to the destination fixed extension number) and
received on mobile phone
4.7.2 Actors
Joe and Sally are SMS users of Operator A, belonging to Organization X
4.7.2.1 Actor specific issues
Joe wants to send a short message to Sally. Joe is familiar with Sally\'s
fixed extension number only.
4.7.2.2 Actor specific benefits
The calling party, Joe will take advantage of SM VPN service.
Organization X may have reduced price agreement with operator A for short
message exchange between its employees
4.7.3 Pre-conditions
Operator A associated Joe and Sally to organization X and enabled their SM VPN
service
4.7.4 Post-conditions
Outgoing message sent to Sally\'s short number by Joe will be received on
Sally\'s mobile phone
4.7.5 Normal flow
> \- Joe sends a short message to Sally\'s short number (e.g. 4 digit fixed
> extension number).
>
> \- The short fixed number is being replaced by Sally's Mobile number by the
> home network SM VPN service.
>
> \- Sally receives the message on her mobile phone.
4.7.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
There shall be no significant delays to any part of the service.
4.8 Short Message auto reply
4.8.1 Short description
This use case describes a scenario where a called mobile subscriber activate
an automatic SMS reply in response to incoming SMS messages.
4.8.2 Actors
Joe is an SMS user
Sally is an SMS user with SM Auto Reply Service
4.8.2.1 Actor specific issues
Joe wants to send a short message to Sally.
Sally currently is not reachable via her mobile or does not want to receive
any SMS from Joe.
4.8.2.2 Actor specific benefits
The called party, Sally can take advantage of SM Auto Reply Service either for
specific MO subscriber (in this case Joe) or unconditional auto reply
capabilities, which means that once Sally activates the service, all messages
sent to her (all incoming messages) will be automatically responded by SM Auto
Reply Service
4.8.3 Pre-conditions
Joe is anl SMS subscriber.
Sally subscribed to the SM Auto Reply Service on her home network.
She sets the short message auto reply configuration to YES with preconfigured
text to the SMS originator (in this case Joe).
4.8.4 Post-conditions
All incoming messages addressed to Sally's mobile phone number from specific
MO number (or all incoming messages) are answered by the SM Auto Reply
Service.
4.8.5 Normal flow
> \- Sally activates the SM Auto Reply Service with predefined text message.
  * Sally optionally may receive a confirmation message upon successful activation.
> \- Joe sends a short message to Sally.
>
> \- Joe receives an auto reply message with predefined text.
4.8.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
It shall be possible that users can activate the SM Auto Reply Service to be
active for different time periods. In addition it shall be possible to
configure the system to reply only once to each sender in a predefined period
of time.
It shall be possible for users to configure and manage their Automatic Reply
messages, e.g. edit and delete the content of the message.
It shall be possible for users to set different Automatic Reply messages to
different senders.
4.9 Short Message personal signature
4.9.1 Short description
This use case describes a scenario where a pre-defined personal signature is
being appended to outgoing short message.
4.9.2 Actors
Joe is an SMS user of Operator A.
Sally is an SMS user (her location is not relevant)
4.9.2.1 Actor specific issues
Joe wants to send a short message to Sally with his personal signature.
4.9.2.2 Actor specific benefits
The calling party, Joe will take advantage of SM Personal Signature Service.
The called party, Sally will receive a short message with additional valuable
content, Joe\'s personal signature
4.9.3 Pre-conditions
Joe subscribed to the SM Personal Signature Service on his home network
He enables the service for every outgoing short message and sets his unique
personal signature.
4.9.4 Post-conditions
All outgoing messages originated by Joe will include his personal signature.
4.9.5 Normal flow
> \- Joe enables the SM Personal Signature Service and sets his personal
> signature .
>
> \- Joe sends a short message to Sally.
>
> \- The Personal Signature is appended to the original short message by the
> home network SM Personal Signature Service
>
> \- Sally receives the message.
>
> \- Sally opens and reads the message which includes the original text plus
> Joes personal signature
4.9.6 Operational and quality of experience requirements
The SM Personal Signature Service shall support certain conditions configured
by users or control system wide (e.g., append personal signature depending on
the original short message length, append personal signature to certain
destinations). There shall be no significant delays to any part of the
service.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Suggested high level requirements
The VAS-SMS shall be implemented without influencing the existing SMS service.
The VAS-SMS shall be implemented without depending on the terminal's
capability.
Users shall be able to register, activate, deactivate, withdraw and
reconfigure VAS-SMS via the UE, or web portals.
The VAS-SMS shall be designed and implemented in a way to provide users who
joined the services one coherent and identical user experience, regardless of
the SM flow and SM scenario (e.g. messages to and from applications, MO-MT in
an in network and MT from Foreign Network).
## 5.2 Overall system requirements
### 5.2.1 Management of service information
\- Capabilities provided to the user
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request from an application to
query/change the choice of services for a subscriber.
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request from an application to
query/change the subscriber's preferences for a certain service, for example:
i) To add or delete or modify a subscriber's filtering conditions by which
VAS-SMScan refuse some of the subscriber's incoming messages.
ii) To modify a subscriber's signature that will be appended to an SM sent
from the subscriber.
**iii)** To modify a subscriber's forwarding address that substitutes for the
subscriber's original receiving address.
\- Capabilities provided to the network
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request to query/change the
subscriber's information, for example:
i) To get the detail information about the subscriber's service.
ii) To add or delete a subscriber's service information.
The VAS-SMS shall be able to support a request to query the handling results
of the subscription service.
### 5.2.2 Short Message processing
The VAS-SMS should be able to deal with the content of an SM, for example:
i) To insert content (as agreed with the subscriber) into the original SM and
form a new SM (e.g. append the signature to the SM).
ii) To compile an SM by containing operator's information (e.g. construct a
delivery report).
**iii)** To use certain words in an SM as the filtering criteria.
The VAS-SMS should be able to convert the format of an SM into other formats
(e.g. email, WAP message, etc).
### 5.2.3 Short Message forwarding
With the advent of SM forwarding there is also the issue of how to handle the
situation when a user by mistake sets forwarding to wrong number (a number
that is in use). Ideally a recipient should be capable of stopping the
delivery of such SM to its own address. As a minimum the recipient's operator
should be capable of identifying forwarded SM and stop delivery.
Infinite forwarding loops needs to be prevented.
### 5.2.4 Short Message network storage
It should be possible for the operator to support Short Message Network
Storage to allow users to store the messages in the network.
It should be possible for users to store the messages in the network based on
their personal settings (e.g. store all sent & received messages, store the
messages from/to particular users, store the messages sent & received in a
specified period of time etc).
It should be possible for users to store and manage the messages for their
preference (e.g. users can set different folders to store different sort of
messages, therefore it is convenient to inquire the stored messages based on
message sort or key words).
It should be possible for the operator to ensure all relevant information of
the messages stored in the network are consistent with that displayed to
users, e.g. content of the messages, sender/recipient, sending/receiving time,
etc.
### 5.2.5 Short Message to multiple destinations
It shall be able to support inclusion of multiple recipients in a message when
a user sends a single message to multiple individuals.
It should be possible for all recipients of the message to be aware of other
recipients.
It should be possible for a recipient to choose to whom the reply message is
sent, i.e. to the original sender and to other recipients of the original
message.
### 5.2.6 Management and control of network based repository
VAS-SMS should be able to provide following capabilities to support network
based repository:
\- The VAS-SMS should allow configuring in such a way that certain sent or
received messages of a particular user can be stored persistently in a network
based repository.
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from SMS-SC to persistently
store a sent message in a network based repository at the time of sending.
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from an application to
upload certain messages into a network based repository for persistent
storage.
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from an application to
retrieve/delete certain messages stored in a network based repository
\- The VAS-SMS should be able to support a request from an application to view
the list of messages and related attributes (e.g. sender, recipient,
date/time, etc) in a network based repository
### 5.2.7 Addressing
The VAS-SMS should support different addressing formats to identify the sender
and recipient; it should support both MSISDN[3] and e-mail addressing
schemes[4].
The VAS-SMS should support an alpha-numeric addressing format (similar to
specified in [2]).
The VAS-SMS should be able to submit one message to multiple recipients.
The VAS-SMS should be able to support the request to hide the sender's or
other recipients' addresses.
# 6 Requirements for service priority and interaction
The different rules of VAS-SMS priority and interaction are provided by
operator. For example, the priority order maybe as following:
\- SM Filtering
\- SM Network Storage
\- SM Forwarding
\- etc.
The VAS-SMS should be classified by priority and triggered according to
priority order.
The VAS-SMS should provide the capability to configure certain priority.
Caller SMS receipt has higher priority than Callee SMS Receipt service.
# 7 Quality of service
The quality of basic SMS service should not be affected by introducing the
VAS-SMS.
The following key performance for quality of VAS-SMS shall be kept consistent
with basic SMS. For example:
\- SMS delivery successful rate
\- authentication successful rate
\- end to end data loss rate
\- end to end data delay
\- charging successful rate
\- reliability of network and service
# 8 Charging aspects for VAS-SMS
The VAS-SMS shall provide accounting rules for accurate accounting. It shall
be able to support following charging aspects.
\- Charging Model
The VAS-SMS charging includes basic communication fee and special service fee.
Basic communication fee is paid for usage of network resource. CDR is
generated by SMSC. Special service fee is paid for usage of the VAS-SMS. CDR
is generated by the VAS-SMS system. Charging models of special service fee
shall include but not limit to the following items:
i) charging per VAS-SMS
ii) monthly basis
Per each service category, different charging models and rates should be
configurable for the special service fee.
\- Charging principle
The following principles shall be supported according to different service
categories:
i) VAS-SMS triggered by sending party -- basic communication fee and special
service fee are paid by the sending party.
ii) VAS-SMS services triggered by recipient -- basic communication fee is paid
by the sending party, whilst special service fee is paid by the recipient.
**iii) Charging only happens after** the status report has been received by
the SMSC.
\- Charging Scheme
The VAS-SMS shall support a standardized interface to transfer CDRs and other
charging related information between the VAS-SMS and the billing system for
prepaid and post-paid billing solutions.
# 9 Security
Security of the VAS-SMS services shall be consistent with basic SMS service.
The user shall be able to use and access the VAS-SMS services in a secure
manner.
VAS-SMS should support Lawful Interception as required by Regional
Regulations.
# 10 Interworking
Interworking with existing messaging technologies and messaging services
should be supported.
The VAS-SMS should be able to send the content of an SM to a reachable
address, for example:
i) To send an email to email severs after converting the SM into an email.
ii) To send a WAP message to a WAP Push Gateway after converting the SM into a
WAP message.
**iii)** To send an SM to a subscriber by sending an SM to SMSC.
iv) To send an SM via IMS. Refer to MESSIW[5].
**v)** To send a delivery report .
# 11 Roaming
General roaming requirements should be compliant with roaming function of SMS.
The user should be able to experience the consistent VAS-SMS services whether
in home network or roaming.
# 12 Conclusions
The current TR is to study the requirements of value-added services for SMS,
which are the enhancement (or supplement) of normal GSM short message service
requirements.
It is proposed that after finalization of the present TR 22.942, 3GPP should
be asked to take the responsibility to create the stage 1 technical
specification
The architecture and protocol of various value-added services listed in TR
22.942 shall be consistent with each other. This should be followed by Stage 2
work on VAS4SMS in 3GPP.
#