# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The 3GPP system currently supports GERAN and UTRAN based Access Networks in
conjunction with Circuit-Switched and Packet-Switched Core Network domains and
IP Multimedia CN subsystem. The All-IP concept was initially introduced within
3GPP in Rel-4 with the standardisation of the MSC Server - MGW split core
network architecture for the CS domain and extended from Rel-5 by the
standardisation of the IP Multimedia CN sub-system. WLAN as an alternative
access system to access services of the mobile core network is recognized from
Rel-6 onwards.
In order for the 3GPP system to cope with the rapid growth in IP data traffic,
the packet-switched technology utilised within 3G mobile networks requires
further enhancement. A continued evolution and optimisation of the system
concept is also necessary in order to maintain a competitive edge in terms of
both performance and cost. It is anticipated that the progression towards an
All-IP Network (AIPN) may enable leverage of information technology (IT)
hardware and software with general-purpose, and mobile network specific
software that should provide cost reduction (CAPEX and OPEX) for
infrastructure equipment and applications of 3GPP based mobile networks.
Moreover, it is important to ensure compliance with Internet protocols within
future developments of the 3GPP system.
Additionally, the following aspects identified within TR 21.902 "Evolution of
3GPP System" [2] are considered relevant to the long-term evolution of the
3GPP system:
_\- A seamless integrated network comprising a variety of networking access
systems connected to a common IP based network supported by a centralised
mobility manager_
_\- A similarity of services and applications across the different systems is
beneficial to users_
_\- 3GPP should focus on the inter-working between 3GPP Mobile Networks and
other Networks considering mobility, high security, charging and QoS
management_
Taking the above into consideration it is necessary to further define the All-
IP Network (AIPN) concept, **explore user, business and technological
drivers** and evaluate the feasibility of evolving the 3GPP system towards an
All-IP Network (AIPN). Furthermore, aspects of the 3GPP system requiring
enhancement need to be identified and developed in accordance with this common
vision.
This report discusses the concept of an \"All-IP\" network. In the context of
this report the term \"All-IP\" does not just refer to the transport protocol
used within the 3GPP network. 3GPP Release 5 and Release 6 network can already
be implemented just using IP transport and could in that sense be said to be
\"All-IP\". In this report the term \"All-IP\" refers to the general concept
of a network based on IP and associated technologies which provide an
enhanced, integrated service set independent as far as possible to the access
system used.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the feasibility of the progression of the 3GPP
system to an AIPN. More specifically, this document:
a) Identifies and describes the objectives and user, business and
technological drivers for progression of the 3GPP system to an AIPN:
i) Investigates the High Level Objectives
ii) Investigates Motivations and Drivers
iii) Investigates impacts upon current models (e.g. business/charging/service
models)
b) Defines and develops the end-user and AIPN operator aspects of an AIPN:
i) Produces an AIPN vision, taking into account the special requirements for
the mobile community e.g. carrier grade, optimisation for the radio
environment, recognizing support of multiple access system scenarios.
ii) Investigates needs and requirements associated with the evolution of the
3GPP System to an AIPN _._
iii) Investigates requirements associated with the reuse of legacy
infrastructure and support of legacy terminals
iv) Investigates migration and cost effective introduction of new technology.
c) Identifies the capability expansion required to introduce the AIPN concept
into the 3GPP system (migration and co-existence)
d) Evaluates whether an AIPN should be standardised within 3GPP, and in the
case of a positive conclusion identifies the subsequent steps to be taken to
achieve this by defining the scope, target, and roadmap for work to be
undertaken within Rel-7 and future 3GPP releases.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.902: \"Evolution of 3GPP system\".
> [3] 3GPP TS 22.234: \"Requirements on 3GPP system to Wireless Local Area
> Network (WLAN) interworking\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
> multimedia core network subsystem; Stage 1\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 23.125: "Overall high level functionality and architecture
> impacts of flow based charging"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**All-IP Network** (**AIPN):** A collection of entities that provide a set of
capabilities for the provision of IP services to users based on IP technology
where various access systems can be connected. The AIPN provides a set of
common capabilities (including mobility, security, service provisioning,
charging and QoS) which enable the provision of services to users and
connectivity to other external networks. An AIPN requires one or more
connected access systems to allow users to access the AIPN.
**Access system:** An entity or collection of entities that provides the user
the capability to connect to the AIPN.
**AIPN operator:** An operator of an AIPN. It is assumed that the AIPN
operator will also be a network/PLMN operator as defined within [1].
**Integrated Service:** A service, which is perceived by user as a single
service, composed by a combination of different independent services.
**IP service:** A service using an IP bearer provided by an IP service
provider. For IP services data traffic is routed according to the IP addresses
of the sender and receiver(s).
**IP service provider:** A service provider that provides IP services. This
may or may not be a network operator e.g. the operator of an IMS would be an
IP service provider according to this definition.
**IP service subscriber:** A subscriber to an IP service provider that uses IP
services.
**Seamless:** A user experience that is unaffected by changes in the
mechanisms used to provide services to a user.
Note: The determination of whether something satisfies the requirement for
being seamless or not is dependent on the user\'s (e.g., human end-user,
protocol, application, etc.) perception of the service being received and not
necessarily the technology used to provide the service.
**Seamless service:** Services provided across access systems and terminal
capabilities. Provisioning of this service is continued between and within
access systems and between terminals with minimal degradation in the service
as seen by the user.
**_Seamless session: A session that is maintained during a change in access
system, with no perceivable interruption from a user perspective, while
adapting to the capabilities of each access system._**
**End-user mobility:** The ability for the subscriber to communicate using the
device or devices of his/her choice
**Terminal mobility:** The ability for the same UE to communicate whilst
changing its point of attachment to the network. This includes both handovers
within the same access system, and handover from one access system to another.
**Session mobility:** The ability for a communication session to be moved from
one device to another under the control of the user.
**Ad-hoc Network:** A dynamically organized network of mobile terminals that
are able to communicate with each other via some means (e.g. using IEEE 802.15
or WLAN in ad-hoc mode). An Ad-hoc Network may contain terminals that are
capable of connection to a variety of access systems. In the context of AIPN,
it is assumed that every terminal in the Ad-hoc Network is under the control
of a separate user, each able to independently access the AIPN. The Ad-hoc
Network routes their consolidated traffic towards the AIPN, to an access
system through one or more terminals in the Ad-hoc Network. The Ad-hoc Network
may change the terminal carrying the consolidated traffic dynamically
according to rules set up by the users. The Ad-hoc Network may move throughout
the geographic coverage area. (For further details see use cases in Annex E)
**Moving Network:** A group of user devices (terminals) that move together,
e.g. as part of a vehicular network. The user devices (terminals) are
interconnected in a way that their consolidated traffic towards the AIPN is
routed through a well-defined system (gateway). The elements of the
consolidated traffic may originate from PAN and Ad-hoc Networks within a
Moving Network. (For further details see use cases in Annex E)
**Personal Network:** In the context of an AIPN, a Personal Network (PN)
consists of more than one device (terminal or server provided by the AIPN
operator) under the control of one user providing access to the AIPN. These
devices are interconnected by the AIPN such that the user perceives a
continuous secure connection regardless of their relative locations. The user
controls the PN using facilities provided by the AIPN. (For further details
see use cases in Annex E)
**Personal Area Network:** In the context of an AIPN, a Personal Area Network
(PAN) consists of more than one device (terminal) controlled by, and
physically close to, the same user (person). All the devices within a PAN use
the same USIM. These devices are connected together using internal PAN means.
The user obtains services from the AIPN using his multiple devices which all
access the users USIM through the PAN to gain access to the AIPN. The user
controls the PAN directly. (For further details see use cases in Annex E)
For further definitions see [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAA Authentication, Authorisation and Accounting
AIPN All-IP Network
CAPEX CAPital EXpenditure
OPEX OPerational Expenditures
SSO Single Sign-On
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
GAA General Authentication Architecture
GBA General Bootstrapping Architecture
MR Mobile Router
PAN Personal Area Network
PN Personal Network
SC Session Control
For further abbreviations see [1].
# 4 Objectives and Drivers for progression to an AIPN
The high level objectives of the move to an AIPN and the drivers that are
forcing this change are elaborated in the following sub-clauses.
## 4.1 High Level Objectives
The following are the high level objectives that the introduction of an AIPN
should fulfil:
**\- Universal seamless access** \-- an AIPN should allow users to connect to
services from a variety of device-types and access systems. This should come
about through the use of common protocols, addressing schemes and mobility
management mechanisms. The users may not need to know the access system used.
Access systems may be selected and changed according to service needs and
availability.
**\- Improved User Experience** \-- an AIPN should provide users with better
quality. This should include rapid network selection, rapid call or session
set-up times, low voice-call delay and fast data transmission.
**\- Reduction of cost** \-- an AIPN should deliver a cost reduction in both
the CAPEX and the OPEX for AIPN operators in relation to the cost of existing
networks.
**\- Flexibility of deployment** \-- AIPN operators should be able to build
and dimension their network according to the needs of their users. The AIPN
design should be scaleable and should not preclude the option to use and
inter-work with 3GPP defined Circuit Switched domains and legacy handsets as
appropriate. Also, the AIPN design should provide an evolution path from
previous releases of the 3GPP system. This will ensure that AIPN operators can
introduce an AIPN and continue to make best use of existing network elements.
## 4.2 Motivations and Drivers
The current feasibility study aims at clarifying the notion of an \"All-IP
Network\" (AIPN) within the context of 3GPP and to define requirements for an
AIPN within 3GPP. There seems to be a common understanding in the mobile
communications industry that the technical and commercial evolution of this
industry sector points towards an AIPN. The term \"All-IP Network\"(AIPN),
however, is not (yet) clearly defined and -- depending on one's view of the
future -- can mean many different aspects of anticipated communication systems
that are based on IP.
It should be noted that the 3GPP system standardised up to and including Rel-6
already provides the basis for introduction of an AIPN in 3GPP. Building on
the foundations provided in previous 3GPP releases it is possible to leverage
and build upon existing capabilities to evolve the 3GPP system towards an
AIPN.
In order to justify the development and evolution of the 3GPP system it is
essential to have an understanding of the motivations for evolving the 3GPP
system in a particular direction.
In doing so it seems worthwhile to collect and list trends and drivers of the
mobile telecommunications industry that now or in the future can be expected
to have significant impact on the industry. This is provided in the following
sub-clauses. An assessment of these trends and drivers with respect to the
evolution of IP-based network and access systems, terminals and service
provisioning will make it easier to create a vision of what an AIPN will look
like.
### 4.2.1 User related and social drivers
#### 4.2.1.1 Consumer trend demanding diversification of mobile services
> **Diversification as service specialisation:** \ As the market for mobile
> services grows there is an increased need to be able to offer diversified
> and flexible services to satisfy the varied needs of users. As the service
> market becomes more diversified services will become more specialised in
> order to satisfy the specific needs of users. With this there is a need for
> AIPN operators to be able to offer flexible services quickly without a large
> amount of capital expenditure.
>
> **Diversification in terms of usage patterns:\** In addition to the current
> pattern of mainly server-to-person services there will be a diversification
> of mobile services to include person-to-person, person-to-server, server-to-
> server service scenarios with a variety of different subdivisions and
> combinations. Users will also desire the ability to be able to integrate the
> various services to which they subscribe. In the future mobile networks will
> need to be able to provide these varied and integrated service environments
> and enable this to be achieved in a flexible and efficient manner.
>
> **Diversification in terms of service quality:** \ Different services will
> have different user expectations placed upon them e.g. in terms of service
> quality. The demands for the same service may also differ according to
> specific user of that service at a given time.
>
> **Diversification regarding access to services:** \ With the increase in the
> diversity of the access systems available, as well as the increase in the
> number of terminals that a single user possesses it will be desirable to
> have the ability to use services seamlessly across different access systems
> and different terminals. Users will also desire the ability to use services
> `anywhere` at `anytime`. This leads to the conclusion that the provision of
> `seamless` and `ubiquitous` services will gain great prominence within
> future mobile services.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN would provide the ability to offer enhanced and flexible mobile
services, quickly and cost effectively. An AIPN can also support the
diversification of mobile network services, support service integration and
would enable the provision of seamless and ubiquitous services across a
variety of different access systems and terminals.
\- IP technology that enables advanced service control (e.g. QoS/session
control) is already used within 3GPP and elsewhere and could be further
utilised and enhanced within and between mobile networks in order to enhance
service provision.
#### 4.2.1.2 Human need to be able to interact with his personal environment
The mobile subscriber base has grown from a small number of high-end users to
the mainstream in which the number of mobile phone subscribers exceeds 70% of
the population in some countries. However, in the future mobile subscribers
will not be limited to just human beings and the association with mobile
devices will spread to other living things, such as pets, as well as machinery
and household electronics. It can be foreseen that in the future there will be
a ubiquitous mobile communication environment in which very many objects
within a particular area may be associated with a mobile terminal and hence
require the ability to connect to a mobile network. This will result in a
substantial increase in the number of users and terminals that need to be
accommodated by mobile networks. However, in this scenario a large number of
terminals will be data-only and hence not require the ability for traditional
speech communication from person-to-person. Due to the limited amount of
available MSISDN numbering capacity it would be desirable to be able to
accommodate new users and terminals without the need to associate an MSISDN
with each terminal.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN would enable the accommodation of a vast number of users and
terminals.
#### 4.2.1.3 Social behaviour and the need to understand one\'s environment
Futurologists have identified some basic human behaviour patterns that have
become increasingly important in modern societies. Two of them have been named
\"cocooning\" and \"clanning\". \"Cocooning\" describes a behaviour in which
an individual tries to isolate itself for a while from the surrounding
society. It essentially expresses the wish for privacy with respect to
permanent over-stimulation. \"Clanning\" describes the opposite phenomenon. It
is the need of an individual to become integrated into a \"clan\", a group of
similar minded people. This is mainly observed with young people and is a well
known finding in group dynamics.
A third social factor that becomes strongly apparent is the need for the
individual to better understand their environment. While an ever growing data
stream permanently pours over the individual it becomes increasingly difficult
to filter out the relevant information content. This results in
disorientation, the difficulty of self-organisation and the feeling of
uneasiness about one\'s environment. Also, the capability to quickly filter
out important information from that which is unimportant is a competitive
advantage of the individual. [ ]{.underline}
A fourth social factor is that individuals spend their days and nights in many
different roles (e.g. family person (me\@personal.net), worker
(me\@company.com), sports club official (official\@sportsclub.com)). Depending
on their roles, time of day, and location, they may wish to be reachable via
these different publicly known user IDs on certain specific systems or
devices. By arrangement with the AIPN operator for terminating calls to the
Public ID, the recipient of calls directed towards a Public Identity may
change on a temporary basis (e.g. a sports club official is temporarily
unavailable and wishes calls to that Public Identity to be answered by an
alternate individual).
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN will need to provide means that respect and ensure a user\'s need
for privacy.
\- The basic human wish to become integrated within social groups could be a
good basis for services in an AIPN. Good examples are chat-rooms and the like.
\- An All-IP system that offers services which allow an individual to gain a
better orientation within their environment (geographic, social, business)
will provide significant added value to its users.
\- An AIPN system should offer the users the ability to be reachable by
several different publicly known IDs in a flexible manner.
#### 4.2.1.4 The social trend of increasing differences in income within
societies.
As a result of economic liberalism and globalisation societies in the western
world undergo slow but significant changes. An important aspect of these
changes is that differences in individual income increase. Any industry needs
to take this kind of social trend into account when formulating their business
strategies.
This implies that the market split into an (expensive) high end market and an
(inexpensive) low end market will become even more pronounced than today.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN will need to provide at the same time very cheap low-end services
and high priced high-end services for different customer types. For the same
kind of service (e.g. voice) the respective QoS may be the differentiating
criterion.
\- Quality of Service needs to be regarded as a chargeable feature.
#### 4.2.1.5 The need to satisfy user experience of 'early-adopters'
The adoption of new technology is heavily dependent upon the experience of
this technology, through the services that are delivered over it, by its users
as well as the general public that comprise the potential market for this new
technology. Therefore, it is important that new technologies clearly
demonstrate advantages over those that are already prevalent. The perception
of users toward a new technology at its early phase of introduction is mainly
determined by the experience of initial users, sometimes termed 'early-
adopters', when using this new technology. In terms of mobile
telecommunications, in addition to the general ability to utilise more
advanced functionalities and feature-rich services using a mobile phone,
factors such as perceived communication delay, communication quality,
connection set-up time and data transmission speed are highly visible to users
experiencing new technology. Hence, factors that demonstrate the basic
performance of the new system play an important role in demonstrating the
benefits of new technology compared to those already available. Consideration
of these factors clearly indicates that it is essential for future
developments of the 3GPP system to clearly demonstrate to users the benefits
of the enhanced capabilities compared to those already available.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN shall not degrade user experience. Additionally, it would be
desirable for an AIPN to demonstrate to users improvements in basic system
performance compared to the pre-existent capabilities of the 3GPP system.
\- Factors such as perceived communication delay, communication quality and
connection set-up time are important considerations for users when
experiencing an AIPN as a new technology.
### 4.2.2 Drivers from a Business perspective
#### 4.2.2.1 Mobile industry anticipating PS traffic to surpass CS
In the future it is thought that the amount of non-voice traffic, i.e. IP
traffic within the PS domain, carried by mobile networks will equal and then
surpass that of traditional CS voice traffic. Therefore, in the future mobile
networks will need to be able to handle substantially increased volumes of IP
traffic in a cost effective manner.
Additionally, in the future it is very likely that the there will be a variety
of different traffic patterns for IP traffic including user-to-user and user-
to-multicast, that needs to be optimally routed within mobile networks.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN will need to handle substantially increased volumes of IP traffic
in a cost effective manner,.
\- An AIPN will need to support optimised transport for user-to-user and user-
to-multicast traffic.
#### 4.2.2.2 Desire of AIPN operators to encompass various access systems that
are not specified by 3GPP
Although 3GPP is primarily concerned with the UTRAN and GERAN-based access
systems other access systems can be utilised by the 3GPP system and used to
provide mobile services. This has been recognised from 3GPP Rel-6 with the
standardisation of 3GPP-WLAN Inter-working [3]. In the future network
operators will desire the ability to provide services to their subscribers
optimised to the user's environment using a variety of diversified access
systems. Although the access system utilised at a particular time within this
environment may vary, it is likely that the services provided will have
significant commonalities. Hence, in order to realise a multiple access system
environment in an efficient and cost effective manner it is desirable that the
replication of network functionality be minimised. This clearly indicates that
there is a need for a common network to be able to accommodate a variety of
access systems.
When accommodating various access systems it is desirable that this is
achieved with a minimum impact upon the access systems themselves. It is
assumed that most new access systems that are developed will incorporate IP
technology and be optimised to carry IP traffic. Hence, in order to maintain a
high level of compatibility it is necessary for the network accommodating
these access systems to also be based upon IP technology and be optimised to
carry IP traffic.
Based on the reasoning presented above it can be concluded that in order to
design a future proof system that is able to efficiently accommodate a variety
of different access systems it is necessary that the 3GPP system be designed
as a common network that is based upon IP technology and optimised to carry IP
traffic.
Furthermore, the development of new access systems will not necessarily be in
line with the development of the network, therefore there is a need to be able
to develop different areas of the network independently, e.g. develop the
network independently to the development of the access systems.
In addition, it is desirable that a common IP network supports a centralised
and common network control to enable the AIPN operator to control how the AIPN
is accessed and how the resources of the AIPN are used whilst accommodating
these access systems. This will enable the AIPN operator to be the focus for
the provision of mobile services and ensure that the user's expectations
regarding the quality of the services provided by the AIPN are fulfilled.
Additionally, the provision of control over the usage of the AIPN at a common
point within the AIPN will enable the AIPN operator to protect and leverage
their investment in AIPN infrastructure as much as possible.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN would provide the ability to incorporate a variety of different
access systems with a minimum impact upon the non 3GPP specified access
systems to be accommodated.
\- Using IP as the basis for a common network enables prevalent and low cost
IP technology to be utilised. This allows the network to be deployed cost-
effectively with the ability to provide common services using a common IP
bearer throughout all the diversified access system environments.
\- An AIPN should support a centralised and common network control to enable
the AIPN operator to control how the AIPN is accessed and how the resources of
the AIPN are used whilst accommodating a variety of different access systems.
#### 4.2.2.3 Marriage of IT- and telecom world
[The influence of broadband Internet]{.underline}
With the emergence of broadband internet services there has been a rapid
increase in the number of subscribers to IP services in recent years. Most
notable is the growth in the number of subscribers to IP telephony services.
This is expected to grow further and at an increasing pace as the broadband
internet services of ISPs become more prevalent. This presents 2 points of
major interest.
\- [Competition with broadband Internet]{.underline}\ The first is the need
for network operators deploying the 3GPP system to offer competing services
and so match this emerging trend.
\- [Inter-working with broadband Internet]{.underline}\ The second is that as
the number of IP service providers and hence IP service subscribers become
more prevalent the need to interwork with these IP service providers will
emerge in order to offer services between 3GPP subscribers and IP service
subscribers of other networks. This must include easy mechanisms for roaming
and settlement operations, so end-users can leverage the benefits of each
network without incurring the high overhead of setting up separate
subscriptions with each service provider.
[Service creation with the support of the IT industry]{.underline}
While in 2G systems the IT world played only a minor role - everything was
standardised by GSM. 3GPP - and even more so OMA - allowed more diversity by
defining service enablers (e.g. \"Presence\") instead of standardized
services, enabling the IT world to create services that can rely on these
capabilities.
The main reason to do so was speed of service introduction. The IT industry is
capable to provide IP-based services based on defacto standards in a much
shorter time than it can be done by standardisation. Also, the mechanisms of
the market - adopting these services according to market need and user
acceptance - are more effective.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN would enable AIPN operators to offer IP-based services and provide
appropriate inter-working methods with IP service providers.
\- The AIPN should be able to support applications designed based on the
capabilities of the AIPN without the need for explicit standardisation of the
applications themselves.
Note: The standardisation of AIPN capabilities should allow non-standardised
applications to be created whilst maintaining interoperability. However, care
should be taken within the standardisation of AIPN capabilities to ensure that
interoperability is maintained.
#### 4.2.2.4 Need for increased system efficiency leading to substantial cost
reduction in terms of both equipment (CAPEX), and operational (OPEX) costs.
In the future it is foreseen that there will be increasing pressure to
decrease the investment costs for mobile network equipment and the cost per
bit for traffic carried by mobile networks. The reasons for this are twofold.
Firstly, the increase in IP traffic carried by mobile networks will lead to a
general need to further decrease the cost of handling this traffic both in
terms of equipment and transmission costs. Secondly, in the future there will
be increased competition for AIPN operators not only from mobile network
operators using different radio access systems, but also from IP service
providers providing broadband IP services using access and transmission
technologies other than those of traditional mobile network operators, e.g.
ISPs providing services using xDSL, Cable and/or WLAN without 3GPP inter-
working. The business and charging models, e.g. flat-rate charging, deployed
by these IP service providers are not those common to traditional network
operators implementing the 3GPP system and will probably not be applied by
AIPN operators. However, they do encourage heavy usage of IP services and as
such AIPN operators need to be able to deploy a cost effective network for IP
services in order to compete in the wider market place.
The cost of general-purpose equipment targeted for a wide-ranging general
market is in general much less than that of specialised technology whose
market is limited by specific criteria. An AIPN would enable the use of
general-purpose IP technology with some modifications to tailor
functionalities to the needs of network operators to provide mobile services.
The ability to undertake large-scale deployment of general-purpose IP
technology provided by an AIPN is foreseen to enable significant improvements
in system efficiency and overall reduction in the equipment (CAPEX) and
operational (OPEX) costs for future mobile networks designed to handle a large
amount of IP traffic.
**CAPEX point of view:**
\- The adoption of a common network system enables capital investment to be
made independent to the number of access systems supported. Also, when a new
access is added, the equipment costs are suppressed to a necessary minimum.
\- Over capacity can be avoided by sharing the system, and the equipment costs
are reduced (including redundant equipment costs).
\- The development and the equipment costs of mass produced general-purpose
devices are generally lower compared to dedicated devices.
**OPEX point of view**
\- The variety of maintained devices can be reduced by introducing a common
system, hence maintenance costs are reduced.
\- The training costs of maintenance engineers are reduced.
\- Due to the availability of general purpose platforms the cost of
replacement hardware can be suppressed.
**Deductions**
\- The AIPN should be designed to enable AIPN operators to take advantage of
the increased efficiency and OPEX/CAPEX reductions offered by IP technology.
#### 4.2.2.5 Trend of the industry to align along the structure: access /
transport / control / services
There seems to be a tendency in the industry for mobile telecommunication to
adopt a horizontal structure into business units, which are mainly concerned
with access, transport, control and services. This reflects the view of parts
of the industry that these areas can be viewed as - more or less -
economically independent fields. This view applies to AIPN operators as well
as to manufacturers.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN should provide an architectural structure that allows a
decomposition of the added value according to access, transport, control and
services. In particular charging capabilities will need to take this into
account.
#### 4.2.2.6 Fixed/Mobile network convergence
Some service providers are enabling fixed/mobile converged services for their
subscribers. This is being driven by a number of factors, including (but not
limited to) company mergers/demergers, the maturity of available VoIP
solutions and the proliferation of service bundling (e.g. mixture of voice,
video, data and mobility services) by service providers to reduce churn and
increase ARPU. An AIPN should ensure that AIPN operators wanting to provide
fixed/mobile converged services can do so within the IMS framework.
**Deductions:**
\- An AIPN needs to take into account Fixed/Mobile network convergence issues.
\- An AIPN should ensure that new/enhanced services follow the IMS framework,
so the service will be applicable to fixed/mobile converged networks.
### 4.2.3 Drivers from a Technology perspective
#### 4.2.3.1 Evolution of next generation radio access systems (3GPP
specified)
Similar to the transition from 2G (GSM) to 3G (UMTS) it is expected that
future radio access systems will allow for a significant higher data rate of
user traffic than today. However, there is a trade-off between data rate and
user mobility. In other words, a user, who is moving at a high speed, cannot
expect the same high data rate as a user that is standing still. In addition
it may be envisaged that radio access systems can be optimised to particular
user requirements (e.g. in terms of data rate, mobility, QoS) such that
multiple different radio access systems could be used by the same network
operator simultaneously, even within the same geographical area.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN shall take into account the capability of next generation radio
access systems to provide significantly higher data rates to the user
\- An AIPN shall allow for multiple radio access systems, optimised to
particular user requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Progress of broadband wireless IP-based networks (non-3GPP
specified)
Recently IP-based wireless technology has received a strong technological and
economical boost. This has been fostered by industry alliances as well as
standards development organizations (e.g. Bluetooth, IEEE 802.11x, 802.16x,
802.20x). Partially these technologies have already found their use in
commercially available off-the-shelf products (WLAN cards, access points),
which provide relatively high data rates at low prices. These technologies are
currently evolving towards higher -- broadband -- data rates and/or support of
continuous mobility in wide service areas. Currently there are competing
standards at different stages of their hype cycles in this field. These
systems generally provide only part of the functionality of full-blown mobile
networks (e.g. they do not allow sophisticated charging models). However, the
need to provide 3GPP inter-working with these technologies / networks has been
shown already for 3GPP Rel-6 with the work item for 3GPP - WLAN inter-working.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN shall be able to provide means to ease inter-working with a
multitude of broadband wireless IP-based networks.
#### 4.2.3.3 Progress in ad-hoc networking for user defined services.
Ad-hoc Networks denote particular kinds of networks that may establish
themselves automatically - \"ad-hoc\" - (i.e. without explicit administration)
between mobile terminals. From today\'s perspective, generally all the
activity concerning development in the field of Ad-hoc Networks (radio
spectra, terminal communication and mechanisms to create Ad-hoc Networks) is
happening outside 3GPP. However, AIPN operators may benefit from letting Ad-
hoc Networks interact with the AIPN, thereby creating traffic in the AIPN;
e.g. there could be Ad-hoc Network access to public networks via AIPN by at
least one of the Ad-hoc Network members serving as a kind of wireless
connectivity gateway.
Examples for such Ad-hoc Networks could be Personal Networks, as described
later in the present document, or CB-type radio communications amongst
listeners to a pop concert. In the case of Personal Networks an AIPN may
provide connectivity to a server in an AIPN operator's network, in the pop
concert example an AIPN may provide the capability for remote listeners to
join.
Technically, an Ad-hoc Network is defined as a self-organizing and self-
managing network of autonomous mobile terminals _without any infrastructure
support_. In fact, it is this property which essentially characterizes Ad-hoc
Networks, and as a consequence, no centralized radio resource management for
ad-hoc networking necessarily exist.
Important aspects of Ad-hoc Networks which may impact an AIPN are:
\- Identification, addressing and routing: If an Ad-hoc Network interacts with
the AIPN, the AIPN may need to know about identities of individual members of
the Ad-hoc Network (not only the \"connectivity gateway\"), be able to address
them and route traffic to them.
\- Authentication, security: in an Ad-hoc Network neither SIM resp. USIM/ISIM
based identification and authentication nor ciphering on the air interface
derived from authentication parameters can be assumed. In the case of at least
one Ad-hoc Network member serving as a wireless connectivity gateway to the
AIPN it should be ensured that this node can not compromise AIPN security.
**Deductions**
\- Appropriate mechanisms for identification, authentication, addressing,
ciphering and charging of members of an Ad-hoc Network inter-working with an
AIPN have to be established.
#### 4.2.3.4 Dawning of new, radio based services (e.g. Personal Networks,
RFIDs, multi-hop access networks)
Currently there is a lot of activity (research projects) on new services that
are utilizing different kinds of IP-based radio networks. Examples of such
services could be:
\- Personal (portable) Networks, that allow inter-working of different
personal sensors/terminals
\- RFIDs, that allow goods, to which a RFID is attached, to broadcast
information about themselves,
\- Multi-hop access networks, that allows a user\'s terminal to act as a radio
relay station for another user
Many of these new services are capable to create revenue for an AIPN operator
if they can easily inter-work with (or be integrated into) an AIPN
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN would benefit from a capability to facilitate inter-working with
(or integration of) these new radio based services.
#### 4.2.3.5 Reconfigurable Radio (Software Defined Radio - SDR)
Reconfigurable radio interfaces allow terminals to adapt/optimise its radio
properties to the currently available radio network. This could allow an
increase of spectrum efficiency. However, the network would need to support
such a functionality of the terminal.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN would benefit from a support of reconfigurable radio interfaces in
the terminal.
#### 4.2.3.6 Web services
While not being specific to mobile networks Web Services are becoming
increasingly important as a standardised interface to provide IP-based
services. There is a general trend towards Web services within the industry.
For example, in OMA a working group is dedicated to the evolution of web
services in mobile networks and in many respects they are seen as a
replacement (rather than an addition) of traditional service enabler
interfaces such as CAMEL and the CORBA version of OSA/PARLAY.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN will need to support Web Service interfaces for service
provisioning.
#### 4.2.3.7 Multi-access
The introduction of multiple access systems within the same coverage area
raises new AIPN operator and user requirements; the user may wish to influence
the selection of the access system for use based on such aspects as supported
QoS, mobility, pricing, coverage, etc. and the AIPN operator may wish to
influence the access system selection by setting policies. Optionally, a user
may even wish to use simultaneous multi-access as well.
Note that the selection of the access system must be easy for the end-user,
e.g. it could be based on some preferences and the actual process can be
partly or completely hidden.
It is expected that users using multiple access systems will require an
appropriate service continuity experience as they switch from one access
system to another. This means that their sessions remain in operation, with
minimal interruption. In addition, the services provided should be made access
aware (e.g. choose video quality based on the available bandwidth).
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN shall make use of the multiple access systems by providing support
for appropriate handover between access systems, reachability over multiple
access systems, access system-aware services, and optionally simultaneous
multi-access.
\- An AIPN shall provide support for access system selection based on
combinations of AIPN operator policies, user preferences and access system
conditions.
#### 4.2.3.8 Progress of advanced Traffic Engineering Technologies
As the number of users accessing multimedia and data services from 3G networks
will continue to increase, huge amounts of IP traffic are expected to be
handled by AIPN operators. Due to the increase of the IP traffic, network
bottlenecks may also appear in an AIPN operator's IP backbone, therefore, new
challenges will be faced by the AIPN to provide guaranteed QoS to end-users
for different types of services (real-time, non real-time) and also ensure
that the transport network resource is used efficiently. This would enable
e.g. over-provisioning in IP transport network to be avoided in order to save
CAPEX for AIPN operators.
Traffic engineering technologies, e.g. MPLS, advanced QoS routing algorithms,
and dynamical load balancing among network entities are potential solutions to
achieve this within an AIPN.
**Deductions**
\- An AIPN will need to be able to guarantee QoS for different types of
services (real-time, non real-time) and ensure efficient use of network
resources. Traffic engineering technologies within the IP transport network
may provide appropriate methods to achieve this within an AIPN.
## 4.3 Impacts to current models for the 3GPP System
The introduction of an AIPN will impact the current models upon which the
design of the 3GPP system has been based. However, there is a legacy of
success within the models that have been utilised up to now. Therefore, it is
necessary that some consistency is maintained between the past and future
aspects of the 3GPP system with the addition of the ability to adapt to the
future environment in which system enhancements will be introduced.
Whilst there is a need to maintain current models, future enhancements in the
3GPP system, specifically the introduction of an AIPN should also enable
introduction of new models and the creation of new opportunities for
development of new functionalities and the provision of new services.
### 4.3.1 Impacts to current charging models
Users are aware and understand the current charging models such as flow based
charging and event based charging where a user pays for each time he/she uses
a specific service, hence the possibility to provide these with an AIPN should
be maintained. However, as the environment in which the 3GPP system is
utilised adapts an AIPN should also provide the capabilities for and provide
the necessary improvements in efficiency and cost reduction to enable new
charging models to be introduced.
An AIPN should be flexible enough to support the different pricing models that
are needed. Many Internet users expect that services such as email, news and
search engines are free of charge and that they should pay only for the access
via a flat rate pricing model. Other users will instead have to pay an
additional amount according to the "calling party pays" principle. Therefore
AIPN operators will need to use sophisticated pricing models, including event
based charging. AIPNs should support those models. What pricing model to
utilize at a given time is dependant on the circumstance of the AIPN operator
e.g. based on different strategies such as Cost Leadership or Differentiation.
An AIPN needs to support a cost effective charging system in order to be able
to quickly launch new services but yet be as flexible such that an AIPN
operator can use price models such as:
\- Charge extra for guaranteeing a QoS
\- Charge extra for "Calling Party Pays"
\- Charge for the transport
\- Charge for the event
\- Additional charge (positive or negative) for the simultaneous use
(combination) of services
\- Adjust the price for different reasons e.g. to reward certain users, enable
subscription bands (e.g. gold, silver, bronze)
\- Charge for the content
Further the charging system for an AIPN shall contribute to minimizing the
credit risks for the AIPN operator. The charging system in an AIPN shall in a
cost efficient manner support various access systems with minimal impact on
the terminal from a charging point of view. Further the AIPN shall from a
control and charging point of view support different type of services e.g.
RealTime and Bursty traffic such as PoC. Both real-time and none real-time
schemes must be supported by an AIPN
In a multi-access system environment the current charging and policy control
architecture needs to be enhanced in order to allow for the business models
defined in 4.3.2 e.g.
\- The service provider having a relationship with the AIPN operator provides
rating information and minimal QoS he assessed (as well as other content
related polices) that apply for different access systems a service should
have.
\- For seamless handover between access systems in a multi-access system
environment the subscription class/credit availability may allow service
continuity or may not allow it. Hence based on subscription class different
redirection points are applied e.g. for top up or to initiate a subscription
such that credit are given for a service in a new access system.
There is a need to support flexible charging models between operators so that
it is possible to charge roaming subscribers according to the different
charging models identified above.
### 4.3.2 Impacts to current business models
The current business model for network operators and manufacturers
implementing the 3GPP system is comprised of a value chain of users to network
operators to equipment manufacturers. This current business model is the
foundation for the success of the 3GPP community. Hence, the essence of this
model should be maintained. This includes the need to maintain the focus upon
network operator considerations and the need to maintain the core \"mobile\"
aspects of the system. This requires maintenance of factors such as the
provision of network operator control at a common point within the network and
the ability to utilise the wireless interface as efficiently as possible.
With the cost reductions provided by an AIPN there will be greater freedom for
AIPN operators to apply varied business models within various environments.
**Support for business models with distinct AIPN/access/service separation**
More than today an AIPN will need to support business models that allow
operation of AIPN, access systems and services by the different stakeholders.
Often, a network operator will be the only stakeholder operating all three,
AIPN, access systems and services, or these stakeholders will be individual
business parts of a single network operator company, e.g. one company branch
operating the AIPN, another one the access systems, while a third branch is
concerned with end-user services, irrespective of the connectivity.
However, it should also not be precluded, that individual companies are able
to operate AIPN, access systems and services in cooperation, but separately.
An example of such a situation could be an AIPN operator, who has a business
agreement with the operator of a particular access system (e.g. WLAN or shared
UTRAN-based access system)) and allowing a third party service provider to
offer services to their own customers.
It is understood, that the user is \"owned\" by the AIPN operator in the sense
that the AIPN operator controls access of the user to the public network and
has the prime commercial relationship with the user.
Therefore, an AIPN will need to follow architectural principles that
facilitate operation of AIPN, access system and services by separate
stakeholders. However this should not preclude the capability to efficiently
operate all three domains by a single stakeholder, i.e. a network operator.
### 4.3.3 Impacts to current service models
**Impact on models for development and provisioning of services**
Even if the 3GPP system already allows the flexibility of IP based services
through the PS domain today, the introduction of AIPN may bring the model for
the development and provisioning of services one step further. The current
model for the introduction of new services into 3GPP systems, often comprising
standardisation of capabilities within 3GPP, followed by development by
vendors and deployment by network operators, is rather cumbersome and has
difficulties in quickly responding to changing market trends. Whilst also
maintaining the traditional aspects of the 3GPP service model, it should be
important to leverage new possibilities for service provisioning which may be
enabled by the introduction of an AIPN. There is a potential demand for an
extremely wide variety of mobile services. To meet this demand new models for
service provisioning are essential.
Historical side note: An interesting comparison is the evolution of software
applications within the computer industry. Only two decades ago software
applications were limited in variety and cost was high. The emergence of a few
de facto standards for software application environment propelled an
unparalleled explosion of all foreseeable and unforeseen kinds of software
applications. The economy of scale has also made it possible for them to be
provided at a much lower cost level.
**Outlook on potential new models for development and provisioning of
services**
The introduction of AIPN can similarly be an enabling factor for developing
new models for easier, more flexible and more cost efficient introduction of
mobile services. Today there exist several good examples where simplified
service models have brought forward a wide variety of mobile services. But to
meet the potential demand of mobile services, models must continue to be
developed that allow services to be jointly provided by multiple stakeholders.
Most likely the broadest range of mobile services will be possible when
responsibility for service provisioning is opened for third party service
providers e.g. via web services. Using policy and control frameworks, applying
flow based charging concepts, establishing the IMS framework, and providing
different sorts of open interfaces, will be important tools for AIPN operators
to control how third party providers can provide their services. Changed
business models must go hand in hand with this to give all parties incentive
to put efforts into it. As in the software application domain, it is by
releasing the innovative force of a larger group of creative people and
companies that we can meet the demand for mobile services in the coming
decades.
**New usage- and traffic patterns for mobile services**
Different service models also need to exist for different categories of mobile
services. Person-to-content, person-to-person, and machine-to-machine type of
services should for example require different service models to enable faster,
more flexible and more cost efficient service provisioning.
The work within 3GPP will allow an evolution of the 3GPP system to enable
these more advanced service models and to keep AIPN operators in control at
their selected level.
# 5 End-user and AIPN operator aspects of an AIPN
## 5.1 AIPN Vision
An AIPN would enable the convergence of access systems and services onto a
common network. In this emerging area users will demand more from their
services and interaction with their technologies. Instead of the islands of
capabilities that currently exist it is desirable to bring these capabilities
under one umbrella whilst offering session continuity across multiple access
systems. This seamless offering will be characterised by the provision of an
effective management of mobility that consists of offering users a
telecommunication service, continuously and transparently when the user's
terminal moves between various access systems or various services, whatever
type of communication and wherever communication has been initiated. One of
the key enablers within an AIPN will be the seamless mobility across terminals
and access systems supported by a mobility manager that unobtrusively manages
these interactions.
Delivering an AIPN will address these needs, extend the reach of 3G
technologies and maintain a relationship with the user in each context.
Multiple connected devices will enjoy interactivity, adopting principles
including single sign on, seamless mobility, context sensing and the
unobtrusive device management.
### 5.1.1 Key aspects of an AIPN
The following are the key aspects of an AIPN:
#### 5.1.1.1 Common IP-based network
\- IP-based network control
\- Non-access system specific mobility control equivalent to that provided by
cellular networks i.e. mobility control within the AIPN under the control of
the AIPN operator, across the same and different access systems, that is not
dependent upon specific access or transport technologies or IP version.
\- IP-based routing and addressing
\- IP transport
\- Communication quality, i.e. QoS, equivalent to or greater than already
provided
\- Inter-working with IP networks
\- Inter-working with legacy networks
\- Functionality at the edge of the network to support different access
systems, legacy equipment.
{width="0.7479166666666667in" height="0.6in"}
{width="0.3020833333333333in" height="0.375in"}
Figure 1: Visual representation of the key aspects of an AIPN
#### 5.1.1.2 Support of a variety of different access systems (existing and
future)
\- Service provision across different access systems
#### 5.1.1.3 Take advantage of convergence of telecommunications and IT
industries towards IP technology
\- An AIPN should aim to provide common capabilities independent to the type
of service being provided (i.e. independent of whether it is a \"traditional\"
telecomm service or a \"traditional\" data service).
\- Convergence with IP technology should be considered within the AIPN system
design from the perspective of the system as a whole (i.e. network and mobile
terminals) to ensure that complexity is avoided within specific elements e.g.
avoidance of complexity in mobile terminals due to a misalignment between
technology convergence in the network and mobile terminals.
#### 5.1.1.4 Advanced mobility management:
\- Mobility across access systems.
\- Support fast handover and/or lossless handover across different access
systems
\- Provision of Seamless services and handover across different access
systems.
\- Support the capability to apply handover mechanisms based on quality of
service requirements of applications and capabilities of the access systems
involved.
\- Multiple dimensions of mobility
> The AIPN shall support several dimensions to provide mobility:
\- An end-user shall be able to use different devices ("end-user mobility").
\- The terminal shall be able to communicate while moving. This includes both
handover from one radio cell to another in the same access system, or
switching from one access system to another in a multi-access system
environment. ("terminal mobility").
\- The user may be able to move some or all of his active communication
sessions from one of his devices to another. ("session mobility") E.g., a user
may wish to move a video streaming session from the handset to a car mounted
TV screen.
Note that certain aspects of services may change as a result of mobility, but
they must remain useful to the end-user.
To address these needs, advanced naming and addressing schemes are necessary
that provide reachability for a given user or particular session.
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN shall incorporate naming and addressing schemes that address a
given user or session.
\- The AIPN shall support end-user mobility.
\- The AIPN shall support terminal mobility.
\- The AIPN shall support session mobility.
#### 5.1.1.5 Enhanced session management:
\- Service adaptation to terminal capabilities, user preferences, subscriber
priorities, network conditions or other operator-defined criteria. Service
adaption shall be under the control of the operator.
> The services provided to users should be, as much as possible, independent
> of the terminal used and the condition of the network. An AIPN should be
> able to adapt the service (e.g. information rendering) to the capabilities
> of the terminal being used and the condition of the network with minimum or
> no user interaction.
Note: this may not be feasible in all cases (e.g. some services will require
\"minimum terminal capabilities\" to be able to be accessed, with these
\"minimum capabilities\" being service dependent), but an AIPN will be
designed to enable this property in as many cases as possible.
\- Session mobility: seamless mobility of sessions between terminals.
> It should be possible to move sessions from one terminal (or a set of
> terminals) to another according to the preferences of the user e.g.
> automatically with minimum user involvement or based upon a specific user
> request/pre-determined user preference settings.
\- An end-user shall be able to select how calls and services directed towards
her through each of her public IDs will be treated. For example, for a given
public ID, she may set which of her terminal device(s) is used and with what
priority, through which access system(s), and whether calls are automatically
answered by the network at certain times of day.
Care needs to be taken to ensure there is no burden on the user to interact in
a complex way.
#### 5.1.1.6 Access system selection
In an AIPN the applications are based on IP and will evolve towards access
system independence. An AIPN is expected to support multiple access systems.
The selection of the access system may need to take into account several
aspects of an AIPN, e.g. service requirements of an application, load balance
of the network, and charging & billing.
#### 5.1.1.7 Enhanced services
\- Support for advanced application services
\- Support for group communication services, e.g. voice group call, instant
group messaging, and multicast delivery. In some cases, a group may include a
large number of participants.
\- Support for integrated services, e.g. a service including a mixture of
services among SMS/MMS/Instant Message, or a service including voice
call/video call/voice mail.
\- Provision of seamless services (e.g. transparent to access systems,
adaptable to terminal capabilities, etc)
Users should be able to move transparently and seamlessly between access
systems and to move communication sessions between terminals.
\- Support ubiquitous services (e.g. associations with huge number of sensors,
RF tags, etc.)
Figure 2: Support of ubiquitous services
\- Improve disruption-prone situations when network connectivity is
intermittent.
> Disruption-free network connectivity may not be cost effective, or even
> feasible, in all cases (e.g. cell planning for full radio coverage for all
> services, disruption-free inter-access system handovers, disruption-free IP
> connectivity in all network links). An AIPN should consider solutions for
> making services as resilient to temporary lack of connectivity as possible.
#### 5.1.1.8 Enhanced network performance
\- Ability to efficiently handle a variety of different types of IP traffic
including user-to-user and user-to-multicast traffic models
\- Optimized routing of IP traffic
#### 5.1.1.9 Network extensibility/composition
\- Facilitate integration of networks with different administrative domains
(e.g. handle negotiation of administrative issues, security, trust, etc).
\- Solutions should be studied for facilitating the integration of different
networks of the same or different AIPN operators in order to enhance the
services provided to their customers, and enable the introduction of new
services. This includes, but it is not limited to, the sharing of some parts
of the network.
\- Allow dynamic and flexible integration of "Ad-hoc Networks at the edge
(e.g. Personal Area Networks, sensor networks, etc).
#### 5.1.1.10 Network management
Introduction of self-managing technologies (e.g. Plug-and-Play) should be
considered for faster deployment and reduction of operational cost. In
particular, an AIPN should be designed from an early phase to include:
\- Plug-and-play components to ease the setup and operation of the AIPN.
#### 5.1.1.11 Maintenance and improvement of the level of security and privacy
functionality
\- Security equivalent to or greater than that already provided including the
hiding of internal network elements
\- Support for user privacy, e.g. location privacy, identity privacy
#### 5.1.1.12 Quality of Service
\- AIPN operators should be able to guarantee QoS within their networks.
\- The QoS mechanisms used by an AIPN should be able to guarantee end to end
QoS for a unicast and multicast traffic when all network segments (including
access, core network and inter-connecting networks) are able to provide the
requested QoS.
Note: Business agreements for QoS guarantees between the parties (e.g.
operators, national- and international carriers, corporate customers) are
today regularly based on static agreements. These types of agreements may need
to be re-considered in order to reflect the advanced means to guarantee QoS
between AIPNs.
#### 5.1.1.13 Terminal, Subscription and User identification
\- Terminal identification in an AIPN should be scalable enough to cover a
very large population of diverse terminals (e.g. huge number of mobile
terminals which main purpose is to include a sensor or an RF tag, as well as
more conventional mobile terminals).
{width="5.457638888888889in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Figure 3: Terminal and User identification within an AIPN
\- It should be possible to identify and address terminals, subscriptions, and
users.
\- It should be possible that more than one user can have active sessions on a
single terminal at the same time (e.g. in the case of an Ad-hoc Network,
several users may use a single terminal to gain access to the AIPN).
Note: It is for further study which of these identities are routable
identities.
#### 5.1.1.14 Flexible future development
\- Extensibility
\- Modularity of AIPN functions and commoditization of AIPN components. Open
interfaces between appropriate network layers
\- Ability to evolve individual AIPN entities independently
\- Evolution path from previous releases of 3GPP specifications i.e. Rel-6
#### 5.1.1.15 Identity Federation
In an AIPN a user may subscribe to services of many service providers.
Accordingly he may hold several accounts (i.e. business agreements) with these
service providers, some of these accounts providing the user with new
identities. These identities are the means to authenticate the user to the
service provider. Examples for identities could be the (U)SIM,
username/password combinations, a credit/debit card number in combination with
the PIN etc. Identity federation denotes the binding of two or more identities
for a given user.
Identity federation for example enables a user, once he has been authenticated
to a service provider through one identity, to be automatically authenticated
to another service provider through a different identity if this different
identity is federated to the first one. The latter process, the automatic
authentication to several service providers through a single identity by means
of identity federation, is often referred to as \"Single Sign On\".
Recommended requirement:
\- An AIPN should support Identity Federation and Single Sign On for the end
user. This would allow automatic authentication of the user to a multitude of
service providers once the user has been authenticated by the AIPN.
### 5.1.2 Continued support of 3GPP system key aspects within an AIPN
Together with the introduction of new functionalities to realise an AIPN
several key aspects of the existing 3GPP system need to be maintained in order
to ensure that an AIPN is developed in accordance with the needs of the 3GPP
community.
The following represent key aspects of the existing 3GPP system that are to be
continually supported within an AIPN.
#### 5.1.2.1 Efficiency of resource usage
\- Effective usage of power resources within mobile terminals shall be
maintained within an AIPN i.e. evolution to an AIPN should not have adverse
effects on the battery life of mobile terminals.
\- The scarcity of the radio resource shall be respected within an AIPN by
ensuring that radio resources are utilised as efficiently as possible.
#### 5.1.2.2 Charging
\- The capability to maintain support of existing charging models shall be
provided within an AIPN.
#### 5.1.2.3 Roaming
\- An AIPN shall provide functionality as appropriate to enable continued
support of international roaming with other AIPNs and legacy 3GPP systems.
## 5.2 Evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN
### 5.2.1 Requirements for the evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN
The following represent requirements for the evolution of the 3GPP system to
an AIPN:
Note: The term \"3GPP system\" used within this section refers to the 3GPP
system as specified up to and including Rel-6.
#### 5.2.1.1 Build upon existing 3GPP capabilities
\- Evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN shall leverage and build upon the
existing capabilities of the 3GPP system wherever possible. System performance
shall also be maintained and improved.
\- The primary focus of evolution to an AIPN shall be the realisation of
scenarios for a mobile network, including associated access systems, operated
by a network operator (which is also the AIPN operator) e.g. by maintaining
the provision of network control at a common point within the AIPN under the
control of the network operator.
\- In order for users to enjoy the full capabilities of an AIPN, enhancements
to GERAN and/or UTRAN may be required. End users may only receive a subset of
the available services or not be able to enjoy the full performance
enhancements provided by an AIPN if the access system belongs to a 3GPP
release that does not fully support AIPN.
#### 5.2.1.2 Access systems
\- Evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN shall not be limited to
consideration of only those access systems currently defined by 3GPP.
\- Extensibility to enable step-by-step implementation of the system without
adversely affecting basic system performance shall be provided within
evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN. Evolution of the 3GPP system to an
AIPN shall enable modularisation of the system as appropriate and provide an
architectural structure that allows decomposition of common layers of
functionality with open interfaces provided as appropriate.
\- Evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN shall enable the accommodation of
diverse devices.
#### 5.2.1.3 Security and Privacy
\- Evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN shall maintain and improve upon
existing security and privacy features of the 3GPP system.
#### 5.2.1.4 Network and mobility
\- An AIPN shall be designed as a common IP-based network system, hence
evolution of the 3GPP system to an AIPN shall be realised with minimum
duplication of network functionality wherever possible.
\- Evolution of mobility mechanisms
In the evolution towards an AIPN, the integration of the telecom and datacom
worlds, which has been discussed for a long time, materializes. The
integration of WLAN into 3GPP systems is already a good example of this. As
part of this trend, the mobility mechanisms must be evolved.
Nevertheless, new mobility mechanisms of AIPN must be introduced in such a way
that there is a migration path from current 3GPP systems (i.e., Rel-6). New
features, nodes or protocols should be introduced such that an incremental
introduction is facilitated.
Specifically, the large installed base of UTRAN and GERAN based access systems
must continue to be supported. In the AIPN, mobility mechanisms must be able
to co-exist with current PS core network mobility mechanisms in a cost-
efficient way.
**Recommended requirements:**
\- An AIPN mobility solution must support UTRAN and GERAN based systems as
possible access systems besides supporting alternative existing accesses such
as WLAN and other emerging new technologies.
\- An AIPN mobility solution must be able to co-exist with the current 3GPP PS
core network in a cost-efficient way.
\- An AIPN mobility solution should support seamless terminal mobility across
various access systems.
\- AIPN should support services handover between 3GPP CS services (e.g. CS
telephony) and AIPN equivalent services (e.g. Voice over IP).
#### 5.2.1.5 Evolution of 3GPP to keep current and facilitate new business
models
\- Requirements for support of business models with distinct AIPN/access
system/service separation
\- Standardised functional interface between the AIPN and access systems:\ To
support business models with a distinct AIPN/access system separation a
standardised functional interface between AIPN and access systems is required.
\- Evolution of IMS to control IP traffic of a user\ To support business
models, that allow separate handling of IP based user services from the
underlying transport system it could become necessary, that IMS is able to
control and create charging information for IP flows to and from the user\'s
terminal, that are currently not handled by IMS. An example would be FTP or
TELNET.
#### 5.2.1.6 Lawful Intercept
Even if the 3GPP system already today allows the capability to intercept IP
based services through the IMS/PS domains, it should be investigated whether
the introduction of AIPN requires further enhancements to lawful interception
capabilities already existing in the 3GPP system.
### 5.2.2 Relationship of the AIPN to existing capabilities
By the time AIPN deployment starts, a significant amount of R99/Rel-4/5/6
infrastructure will already be rolled out in many different networks. All
major areas will be covered, most of them with high-speed HSDPA / HSUPA
connectivity, and there will be many millions of subscribers with terminals
compliant to such releases. Therefore, AIPN can only be introduced in a non-
disruptive way by reuse of existing equipment as much as possible.
A way to maximize the amount of existing equipment that can be reused by AIPN
is to take 3GPP Rel-6 as the starting point for AIPN for stages 1, 2 and 3.
This does come with requirements on backward compatibility, which do put
restrictions on which solutions are possible for each given AIPN requirement
that needs to be fulfilled. However, it also sets the starting point as a well
known system, which is the only realistic way to proceed with AIPN.
Reuse of equipment is, however, not a well defined term, so it should not be
understood as a requirement for AIPN but more as a working assumption.
#### 5.2.2.1 Reuse of legacy infrastructure
The current R99/Rel-4/5/6 3GPP system includes two domains, CS and PS. The
focus for evolution for AIPN is the PS domain, including IMS, together with
areas such as I-WLAN. AIPN does not consider evolution of the CS domain but
should still be able to interwork with the CS domain (e.g. 3GPP CS domain,
PSTN). CS infrastructure will still be used in networks well after AIPN is
rolled out. As the AIPN becomes more and more widespread, the conditions for
the phasing out of the CS domain may be met. This could lead to an overall
simplification of the core network architecture as well as to a reduction of
OPEX costs. However, since this process will not happen overnight, the AIPN
should still be capable of handling access systems based on CS and the
necessary interworking with CS domains.
#### 5.2.2.2 Reuse of legacy terminals
AIPN will be backward compatible on all existing Rel-6 3GPP UNI interfaces
and, therefore, it will support all R99/Rel-4/5/6 terminals for all services
that these terminals get under Rel-6.
Compatibility with legacy terminals for all new services enabled by AIPN
should be considered on a case-by-case basis (e.g. it may be possible to
provide session mobility even to existing terminals), but it is not a
requirement for AIPN.
## 5.3 Migration and cost effective introduction of new technology
One of the primary motivations for the introduction of an AIPN is the ability
to realise significant cost reduction when deploying the 3GPP system. This
clause will describe how this can be achieved.
The introduction of an AIPN will enable further utilisation of general-purpose
equipment with some enhancements to tailor it to the needs of the mobile
community. This will further enable the commoditisation of mobile network
components and will not only make it possible for considerable portions of
mobile networks to be built `off the shelf` but will remove the need to
purchase wholly mobile network specific equipment that is expensive to
purchase as well as maintain. With a basis of general-purpose technology
equipment can also be maintained in a general manner and so the need for
specialised equipment maintenance is removed.
In order to achieve a high level of cost efficiency instead of replacing all
equipment it is necessary to enable old equipment that still performs
adequately to be accommodated and reused in the new system design. It is also
necessary to ensure that legacy terminals are still supported. This coupled
with the introduction of new technology providing equipment and operational
cost reductions should lead to a steady improvement in the cost effectiveness
of the network overall without wasting equipment, including legacy terminals,
that still provide adequate performance. Moreover, in the case legacy
terminals are still used by subscribers, support of these should be maintained
to enable continuation of service provision to the user and revenue generation
for the AIPN operator.
When an AIPN is introduced it should be designed to not only provide new
improved functionality and performance but the system should also be
extensible and if necessary it should be possible to deploy the system not in
one single large scale implementation but step-by-step. This requires that the
system be modularised and provide open interfaces between appropriate layers
of functionality so that new functionality can be added as needed, and from
the opposite point of view, functionality that is not required can be left out
without reducing the performance of the system or leaving substantial
deficiencies in the functionality of the deployed network.
The accommodation of a variety of access systems will enable an AIPN operator
to optimise their coverage for particular environments. For example radio
access that does not provide a particularly high speed connection but can
cover a wide area can be deployed nationwide, whilst an access system that
provides a high speed connection but has limited coverage can be provided in
an environment in which there are users with high demands for speed but only
require this over a limited area. This ability to optimise the access system
coverage enables AIPN operators to offer services in a cost efficient manner
which is not limited to just one or two methods for providing users with
access to services offered by an AIPN operator.
The ability to be able to develop different elements of the network
independently, for example the ability to develop the access system
independent to the AIPN enables investment to be focused on the area requiring
enhancement, not on the system as a whole. Therefore, it is possible to design
and develop the system efficiently and focus on specific aspects in order to
achieve maximum returns.
## 5.4 Security and Privacy considerations
User and network security and privacy issues, despite being a key concern in
today\'s networks, tend not to be in the top list of priorities when evolving
existing systems or designing new ones. The results of this tend to be that
security is added to the system instead of being native in the system, which
translates into insecure systems or unnecessarily complex security solutions
which are often very user unfriendly. For this reason security and privacy
considerations are considered within this Technical Report.
Note 1: The feasibility of \"user issues\" should be considered within the
regulation for lawful interception that exists in some countries i.e. it may
be required that some of the features above are disabled in some networks in
order to comply with local lawful interception regulations.
Note 2: Further information regarding security issues is provided within Annex
D.
### 5.4.1 Security Considerations
Transforming today's 3GPP system into an AIPN will introduce changes in the
threat environment, introducing new threats but also changes in risk levels of
already identified threats. Threats previously seen as having low risks may
need to be reassessed leading to new security requirements and the need for
new and/or improved security mechanisms. The changes in the threat environment
will mainly be due to qualitative and quantitative changes in e.g.
\- Threat environment (more and more severe attacks) but also increased risks
of particular threats (i.e., the impacts and probabilities that attacks occur
may increase as a result of the changed threat environment).
\- System heterogeneity and multi-access (GSM, UMTS, WLAN, new accesses, etc)
\- Fragmentation of security solutions
\- Usage patterns (many more users of existing services and many new services)
\- Requirements on user convenience (e.g. SSO, etc)
\- Use of trust establishment mechanisms (To counter threats and to enable
trusted transactions)
The changes in these areas will certainly motivate a review and revision of
currently employed security principles and solutions.
An important process will also be to collect the high-level principles and
requirements. Examples of proposed high-level requirements for an AIPN are:
\- Security shall be equivalent or better than with the current system i.e.
3GPP Rel-6.
> This includes support of:
>
> \- easy portability of subscriber identities to different UEs
>
> \- cost effective protection against unauthorized duplication of security
> related information such as keys for authentication purposes, key derivation
> purposes and protection of a session
>
> \- the possibility for an AIPN operator to control security algorithms (and
> level of security) that apply for particular services e.g. for
> authentication purposes
>
> \- AIPN operator controlled distribution of security information to devices
> used for the purpose of giving cost effective protection of access to the
> AIPN.
\- An AIPN shall be security-conscious from its early phase, not just have
security added later on. The shift to AIPN provides an opportunity to
introduce new security paradigms and enhancements/upgrades and optimizations
of current security solutions.
\- Usability: maximum transparency to the user i.e. high levels of security
should be provided with minimum user involvement.
\- Ensure authenticity so that the user can trust the information he is
receiving. This should cover private user to private user communications as
well as private user to service provider communications.
\- Networks shall be protected against attacks such as Denial-of-Service
attacks and unauthorised access.
\- Networks shall be able to authenticate each other and authorize services
that need signalling between servers.
\- Fast re-authentication shall be possible.
\- Hiding of internal network elements shall be provided by an AIPN.
\- It should be possible for the AIPN operator to select among several levels
of security (e.g. 3GPP Rel-6 equivalent security or better)
#### 5.4.1.1 Threat environment
The Internet is rapidly becoming a very hostile environment. Unless proper
countermeasures are installed, the threats found in the Internet will soon be
prevalent in mobile networks.
With 3G and upcoming extensions of it, many new players will enter the scene.
Small and very large AIPN operators and service providers will work together
to offer the services the users expect in a competitive way. At the same time,
the equipment of the end-users will become more complex and capable. Users
will connect PANs over multi-access links to the AIPN and users will act as
Ad-hoc Network extensions of the access system. In this environment, attacks
may occur in many different places and in many different ways.
#### 5.4.1.2 Network heterogeneity and traffic protection
AIPNs will become increasingly heterogeneous as more and more types of access
systems are tied into the cellular environment. To be able to handle new and
legacy systems in a uniform way some generic principles for traffic protection
have to be established. It is assumed that the existing principle that the
system should protect user traffic over the radio access and into the network
still holds. It is also assumed that user payload traffic is forwarded in
plaintext unless protection is provided as an application specific service.
### 5.4.2 Privacy considerations
\- User issues:
\- Location privacy. User location privacy should be guaranteed.
The location of a user has to be known by some instances in the AIPN to insure
reachability and delivery of packets. But only these instances shall know the
location to the necessary level of detail.
\- Communication confidentiality. Privacy of content and origin/destination of
information in all user communications should be guaranteed.
The information sent and received by the user should be protected in a way
that neither the content nor the origination or destination of this
information is accessible to non-authorised parties.
\- Non-disclosure of identity. Users should be allowed to hide their
identities from non-authorised parties.
Users should be able to have multiple identities from different providers with
the relationship between the identities hidden from particular providers (thus
supporting privacy).
Note: 2 use cases on this issue are described in Annex C.
# 6 Capability expansion required for the introduction of an AIPN
The AIPN vision provided in clause 5 of this Technical Report lists the
desired capabilities of an AIPN. This clause provides a detailed gap-analysis
between the existing capabilities of the 3GPP system and the capabilities of
an AIPN. Based on this analysis it will be possible to obtain a clear picture
of the work that needs to be undertaken within 3GPP to evolve to an AIPN.
## 6.1 Existing capabilities suitable for an AIPN
Note: The term \"3GPP system\" used within this clause refers to the 3GPP
system as specified up to and including Rel-6.
It should be possible to evolve the 3GPP system to an AIPN without degradation
in the capabilities [5] of the current 3GPP system whilst also maintaining the
3GPP system service principles [4]. More specifically, the following
capabilities provided within the 3GPP specifications are felt to be suitable
for an AIPN:
\- Provision of IMS services [6]
\- Support for IP multimedia sessions
\- IP Multimedia Session control [4]
\- QoS for IP multimedia sessions
\- Support of multiple UEs with a single IMS subscription.
\- Cost effective Control and Charging of IP Flows through FBC [7]
\- Identify IP flows for charging and policy control in a generic manner
\- Perform Real Time Charging
\- Support differentiated charging including zero rating of the bearer and
event charging
\- Authorization of IP Flows
\- Awareness of user identity, subscription class, time-of-day, roaming
status, QoS, Service input etc
## 6.2 New capabilities required for an AIPN
An AIPN will enhance the 3GPP system from the perspectives of providing
enhanced functionality as well as improvements in system performance (e.g.
communication delay, communication quality, connection set-up time).
### 6.2.1 Enhanced network performance
Together with the diversification of the services, requirements for network
resource utilization will become diversified. It is necessary that network
resources, especially the wireless resource, be used effectively and
efficiently, including selection of the access system used based on the
provided service.
The main traffic use case when defining the connection and routing methods of
the current PS domain has been user-to-server communication. However, user-to-
user communication is expected to increase more and more as services and
service usage diversifies. Therefore, it is necessary that an AIPN provides
the ability to efficiently handle a variety of different types of IP traffic
and has optimized routing mechanisms, in particular for user-to-user traffic.
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN shall provide the following features:
\- Ability to efficiently handle a variety of different types of IP traffic
including user-to-user and user-to-multicast traffic models
\- Optimized routing of IP traffic, in particular for user-to-user traffic.
\- Efficient usage of radio resources (e.g. signalling optimization,
compression), including selection of access system, based on the provided
service.
#### 6.2.1.1 IP-based routing and addressing
Due to future increases in the number of users and terminals accommodated by
mobile networks it is necessary to ensure that addressing and routing schemes
can accommodate a number of users and terminals significantly greater than the
present number of mobile subscribers. Due to the limited amount of available
MSISDN numbering capacity it would be desirable to be able to accommodate new
users and terminals without the need to associate an MSISDN with terminals for
which there are no need to receive calls addressed to E.164 numbers.
Moreover, adoption of 3GPP specific technology in existing 3GPP system results
in cost increases for network operators (which are subsequently passed on to
users) due to the need to deploy specialised network equipment. The use of
specialised equipment also makes flexible service expansion difficult.
The use of IP technology is widespread which results in low costs for
equipment based on IP technology. Moreover, the use of IP technology is
standard throughout both the telecommunications and IT industries and it is
necessary to enable the 3GPP system to be realised based wholly upon IP
technology in the future. In particular, the use of IP technology for
addressing and the routing technology within an AIPN is applicable.
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN shall enable the accommodation of a vast number of users and
terminals.
\- Based upon industry trends IP technology shall be applied to the addressing
and routing technology within an AIPN to enable accommodation of a vast number
of users and terminals.
### 6.2.2 Support of a variety of different access systems (existing and
future)
Wireless coverage is different depending on the radio technology and the radio
signals of each of the accesses used may not necessarily be available within a
particular area. Also, in the future it may be possible for AIPN operators to
realise cost reduction by efficiently introducing appropriate access systems
within different geographical areas. Therefore, in order to facilitate
efficient provision of services, an AIPN shall support accommodation of
several access systems (existing and future). The 3GPP system currently
provides access to the CS and PS domain via UTRAN and GERAN as well as access
to PS services over I-WLAN. However, currently there is no detailed
specification for accommodation of access systems other than those based on
UTRAN, GERAN and WLAN. Therefore, it is necessary that the accommodation of
access systems be expanded to include other different access systems within an
AIPN.
Concerning the provision of IP based services an AIPN shall support
provisioning of services over several access systems accommodated within an
AIPN. However, there will be some differences for the provision of IP services
over different access systems hence it shall be possible for an AIPN to
coordinate service provision across a variety of different access systems.
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN shall support accommodation of several access systems (existing and
future).
\- An AIPN shall support service provision across different access systems.
\- An AIPN shall support adaptation of service provision across different
access systems.
#### 6.2.2.1 Access system selection
The introduction of multiple access systems within the same coverage area
raises new AIPN operator and user requirements; the user may wish to influence
the selection of the access system for use based on such aspects as supported
QoS, mobility, pricing, coverage, etc. and the AIPN operator may wish to
influence the access system selection by setting policies. Optionally, a user
may even wish to use simultaneous multi-access as well.
Note that the selection of the access system needs to be easy for the end
user, e.g., it could be based on some preferences and the actual process can
be partly or completely hidden.
It is expected that users using multiple access systems will require an
appropriate service continuity experience as they switch from one access
system to another. This means that their sessions remain in operation, with
minimal interruption. In addition, the services provided should be made access
system aware (e.g., choose video quality based on the available bandwidth).
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN shall enable use of multiple access systems
\- It should be possible to reach a user over multiple access systems
simultaneously.
\- It should be possible to provide access system-aware services.
\- An AIPN shall provide support for access system selection based on
combinations of AIPN operator policies, user preferences, service requirements
of applications, access system conditions, and/or other AIPN operator-defined
criteria.
Note: The user preferences shall be respected as long as they do not
negatively effect the operation of the system.
### 6.2.3 Enhanced Mobility
#### 6.2.3.1 Heterogeneous Access Systems Mobility
An AIPN shall allow connectivity via a wide variety of access systems (both
fixed and wireless). Some of these systems are specified by 3GPP where others
are developed and specified by other organisations.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.772222222222222in"}
Figure 4: AIPN and Heterogeneous Access Systems
For the purpose of optimising the mobility among diverse access systems, the
AIPN shall provide open interfaces that allow the AIPN operator to direct the
terminal towards the most suitable access system. The decision to move a
terminal from one access system to another should be based on the information
available in the AIPN e.g. load balancing, subscriber's profile as well as on
the information provided by the terminal. Mobility within a given non-3GPP
access system is not under the responsibility of the AIPN.
The AIPN should provide common open interfaces to allow the AIPN to exercise
the control on the inter-access system mobility of the terminal. Furthermore,
an AIPN should also provide other open interfaces that allow the terminal to
access the other AIPN services needed for the management of the subscribers in
the AIPN, i.e. session control, AAA, policy control (see figure 4 above).
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN should provide open interfaces to AIPN services such as mobility
management in order to ease the terminal mobility across different access
systems.
#### 6.2.3.2 Heterogeneous mobility mechanisms
An AIPN shall support not only a heterogeneous set of access systems, but also
the inter-working of heterogeneous mobility mechanisms in the AIPN as well.
This is needed because the AIPN will have to provide an evolution from
currently deployed core network technologies. As an example, both legacy 3GPP
PS mobility and IP based mobility schemes may co-exist.
In principle, AIPN should aim to minimise the number of different mobility
solutions. However, adoption of multiple mobility solutions may be necessary
in the AIPN due to the following reasons:
> \- The access system, terminal technology, the services or roaming
> agreements provided may put varying requirements on the AIPN mobility
> solution.
>
> \- The mobility mechanisms must also satisfy security, QoS or other
> requirements, which may also vary.
>
> \- The AIPN may incorporate multiple administrative domains.
Heterogeneous mobility mechanisms allow local optimizations. For example,
parts of the AIPN may provide improved mobility performance by a solution that
is tailor-made for the particular network configuration.
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN must work with mobility mechanisms used by the specific networks it
connects, including legacy mobility mechanisms of the current 3GPP PS core
network.
#### 6.2.3.3 Frequent mobility
Since an AIPN shall allow for multiple access systems optimized to particular
user requirements, it will need to support access systems with highly varying
characteristics in terms of robustness, quality and throughput as well as
complexity and geographical coverage.
While 2G and 3G access systems provided a RAN with mobility support that can
cover a large geographical area, an AIPN may need to accommodate access
systems with RANs that provide mobility support only in a very limited area.
In the extreme case, the access system may consist of base stations that are
directly connected to the AIPN, or even access systems without any mobility
management procedures at all.
Consequently, while in 2G and 3G networks most of the terminal mobility was
handled in the radio access network and the core network had to handle only
infrequent mobility, an AIPN shall support new access systems where handovers
between AIPN nodes are also very frequent.
As a result, handover support in the AIPN has to provide a seamless user
experience. Note that the corresponding performance requirements for a
seamless user experience will depend on the service provided. This seamless
user experience must be maintained even with an increasing AIPN size and
increasing number of terminals.
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN must support procedures related to frequent terminal mobility
between AIPN nodes.
\- Whenever feasible, the AIPN mobility solution must support seamless user
experience for all services provided by the AIPN.
\- The mobility solution must scale with the number of terminals and size of
the AIPN.
\- An AIPN shall be able to support access systems with very limited or no
mobility management procedures.
### 6.2.4 Optimised IP session control
In principle it is assumed that session control within AIPN shall be optimised
for user-to-user communication, i.e. from one user's mobile terminal to
another user's mobile terminal, and for other traffic models such as those of
streaming services, and shall be extended beyond IMS functionalities that are
already provided. Some new session control mechanisms are introduced within an
AIPN e.g. session mobility, session adaptation to terminal capability, user
preferences, subscriber priorities, network conditions or other operator-
defined criteria. Session adaption shall be under the control of the operator.
The AIPN shall support session control for multicast sessions (e.g. user-to-
multicast) and the solution shall scale with the number of participants.
Additionally, it is necessary for an AIPN to ensure efficient use of wireless
resources and effective usage of power resources within mobile terminals
whilst maintaining the appropriate usability for a particular service.
Recommended requirements:
\- The IP session control mechanisms of AIPN shall be enhanced from the
functionalities of IMS to provide session mobility, session adaptation to
terminal capability, user preferences, subscriber priorities, network
conditions or other operator-defined criteria. Session adaption shall be under
the control of the operator. The AIPN shall support session control for
multicast sessions (e.g. user-to-multicast) and the solution shall scale with
the number of participants.
\- Users shall perceive continuous service whilst ensuring the efficient use
of wireless resources and the effective usage of power resources within mobile
terminals.
### 6.2.5 Enhanced support of IP traffic
An AIPN will provide a variety of new mechanisms to support IP traffic.
#### 6.2.5.1 Support of increased IP traffic demand
As the number of users accessing multimedia and data services from 3G networks
will continue to accelerate, huge amounts of IP traffic are expected to be
generated in the AIPN. Therefore, an AIPN must be able to accommodate a large
increase of IP traffic whilst being able to guarantee QoS for different
services, i.e. ensure that quality conditions for a particular communication
are fulfilled without deterioration between the communication end-points, and
ensure that network resources are used efficiently. This will enable the
additional cost to AIPN operators to be minimised.
Advanced QoS control mechanism and traffic engineering techniques are possible
methods to achieve better IP traffic performance and increase the efficiency
of the AIPN resource usage.
Recommended requirements:
\- An AIPN shall be able to provide guaranteed QoS for services and use AIPN
resources with high efficiency i.e. ensure that quality conditions for a
particular communication are fulfilled without deterioration between the
communication end-points.
> Possible methods to achieve this within an AIPN include:
a) The ability to control routing of IP traffic dynamically according to the
actual resource usage condition from an end to end point of view which
includes the end user devices, network entities and application servers. This
could be achieved by using intelligent QoS routing algorithms taking into
consideration of resource usage conditions.
b) The ability to be able to monitor the AIPN entities statistics in real
time, e.g. current reserved resources, un-used resource in order to route IP
traffic dynamically based on network conditions.
#### 6.2.5.2 Ability to effectively handle a variety of different types of IP
traffic
An AIPN is expected to handle different types of IP traffic: real-time (e.g.
VoIP), non-real time (e.g. Web browsing) and mission critical (e.g.
M-Commerce). However it is not easy to predict the traffic model in an AIPN.
Sometimes it will need to handle a large amount of IP traffic which requires
higher QoS class traffic and less traffic for lower QoS class traffic and vice
versa. This may result in a worst case scenario in which most of the AIPN
resources are used to handle higher QoS class IP traffic (e.g. guaranteed
services) and so lower QoS class IP traffic (e.g. best effort traffic) suffers
congestion and long delays.
It is believed that even under such situations, AIPN should still be able to
provide satisfactory QoS to lower QoS class traffic e.g. best effort traffic.
A possible method to achieve this could be to use dynamical load balancing
mechanisms in the AIPN to control the load in the AIPN entities in terms of
handling different type of traffic class according to the actual traffic model
in real time.
Recommended requirements:
\- AIPN shall be able to support different levels of QoS according the type of
the IP traffic.
\- Mechanisms should be available to the AIPN operator to enable AIPN
congestion for the lower QoS class IP traffic to be avoided when a large
amount of AIPN resource is used to handle higher QoS class traffic. A possible
method to achieve this could be by using dynamic load balancing among the AIPN
entities.
### 6.2.6 Enhanced Quality of Service
Though existing 3GPP systems guarantee end-to-end QoS for a session between
3GPP systems, a similar function is also needed for AIPNs. However, within an
AIPN, this functionality shall be enhanced to enable guarantee of end-to-end
QoS across a variety of different access systems. Also, it is required that
the continuation of QoS provision be possible whilst moving within an AIPN
including when moving across access systems during handover. It is also
required to provide QoS control for multicast (e.g. user-to-multicast)
traffic.
The QoS ensuring methods have to consider cost aspects. Therefore, it is very
important to support a variety of QoS ensuring methods, cost effective and
adapted to the operator needs. Different operators have different cost
structures, i.e. multiple QoS ensuring methods may need to be supported in the
end-to-end path. This may be also valid in a single operator case due to
different cost structures of the different network parts.
Recommended requirements:
\- It shall be possible to guarantee end-to-end QoS for a user-to-user or
multicast (e.g. user-to-multicast) session between AIPNs. This includes the
case where more than one network administration is involved in the provision
of the end-to-end service.
> \- It shall be possible to support different QoS ensuring methods within the
> same AIPN and between different AIPNs.
\- Interworking between different QoS ensuring methods in the end-to-end path
has to be supported.
\- QoS considerations need to be taken into account in handover decisions:
\- It shall be possible for AIPN to guarantee end-to-end QoS without
modification when the terminal or session moves from one access system to
another, if the target access system supports the required QoS.
\- It shall be possible for AIPN to guarantee end-to-end QoS, with QoS
modification, when the terminal or session moves from one access system to
another, if the target access system has a QoS mechanism but can not be
guaranteed to support the required QoS.
\- It should be possible for AIPN to provide mobility for a terminal or
session between an access system that provides QoS and one that does not.
However, in this case, seamless experience is not guaranteed, the
terminal/application/user may need to be notified via some means and the
network may need to adjust service setting for the session(s) accordingly to
the change (e.g. charging adjustments, etc).
\- It shall be possible for an AIPN to guarantee QoS of a multicast session
without modification to QoS of other terminals when one of the terminals moves
from one access system to another (e.g. for multimedia streaming with
adaptation to the conditions of each recipient).
> \- It shall be possible for an AIPN to guarantee QoS of a multicast session
> without modification to QoS of other terminals when one of the terminals
> moves from one access system to another, when the target access system for
> this terminal does not support the required QoS.
>
> \- It shall be possible for an AIPN to guarantee QoS of a multicast session
> with QoS modification to one of the terminals, when this terminal moves from
> one access system to another, if the target access system has a QoS
> mechanism but can not be guaranteed to support the required QoS. The QoS of
> the other terminals of the multicast session are unaffected by the
> modification of QoS of the terminal moving from one access system to
> another.
\- It shall be possible for an AIPN to control guarantee of QoS of a multicast
session with QoS modification to all of the terminals, when one of the
terminals moves from one access system to another, if the target access system
for this terminal has a QoS mechanism but can not be guaranteed to support the
required QoS (e.g. for a gaming application where the conditions are to be
equal for each of the players).
### 6.2.7 Personal Network, Personal Area Network (PAN), Ad-hoc Network and
Moving Network Support
An AIPN will offer users the services through Personal Networks, PANs, Ad-hoc
Networks and Moving Networks (see Annex E), which will encourage users to
utilize the 3GPP services. Therefore, it is required that AIPN shall support
Personal Networks, Personal Area Networks (PAN), Ad-hoc Networks and Moving
Networks.
Recommended requirements:
**Personal Networks:**
> \- AIPN shall support a wide variety of service capabilities with the
> different (U)SIMs from the same AIPN operator (e.g. twin (U)SIMs) associated
> with a single user.
>
> \- AIPN shall provide a connection between the terminal devices of a
> Personal Network that is reliable and provides adequate protection to the
> user's data to give confidence that his data is adequately protected.
**Personal Area Networks:**
> \- The AIPN shall support multiple simultaneous sessions originated from one
> or several devices using the same (U)SIM authority.
**Ad-hoc Networks:**
> \- The AIPN shall accept consolidated and distributed traffic from a group
> of users arriving through various access routes.
>
> \- The AIPN shall be able to re-route traffic to Ad-hoc Network devices via
> another gateway.
>
> \- The AIPN shall support changes in the access route for the consolidated
> traffic from an Ad-hoc Network. These changes may take place with no warning
> to the AIPN.
>
> \- Elements of the consolidated traffic from an Ad-hoc Network may originate
> from a PAN.
>
> \- Accurate charging records shall be created and maintained for the
> originating terminal when the traffic is routed through a terminal belonging
> to another subscriber.
>
> Requirements for devices (terminals):
\- A gateway device (terminal) must be able to route and forward packets to
other devices in the Ad-hoc Network
\- Ad-hoc Network UEs must be able to discover \'near by\' gateway devices
Note: Some type of incentives will need to be created for devices to act as
gateways (e.g. a reward scheme whereby a gateway can \"earn\" something)
**Moving Networks:**
> Use Case 1:
>
> \- The AIPN shall support a point of access to the access system that has
> full mobility throughout the geographic region that uses the 3GPP access
> system for backhaul.
>
> Use Case 2
\- The AIPN shall accept consolidated traffic from a 3GPP terminal mounted in
a vehicle with a router.
\- The AIPN shall support changes in the alternate access route as the
wireless access router moves throughout the service region.
\- Accurate charging records shall be created and maintained for the
originating terminal when the traffic created is routed through a Wireless
Access Router.
> Use Case 3:
\- The AIPN shall support a mobile router connected directly to the AIPN using
an alternate access route, e.g. via satellite.
\- The AIPN shall support handovers of whole Moving Networks; i.e. it must be
able to continuously route traffic for AIPN nodes of a Moving Network to a
mobile router travelling as part of the Moving Network
\- Accurate charging records shall be created and maintained for the
originating terminal when the traffic routed through a Mobile Router.
# 7 Conclusions
This clause describes the conclusions of this Technical Report.
## 7.1 Roadmap for work within Rel-7
### 7.1.1 New requirements for introduction to the 3GPP specifications in
Rel-7
New requirements for the 3GPP system that should be specified to enable
introduction of an AIPN have been identified in Clause 6.2 of this Technical
Report. It is therefore recommended that the content of this clause be used as
a basis for introducing AIPN service requirements in to the 3GPP Technical
Specifications in Rel-7. Additionally, the content of other clauses may be
considered within specification work for an AIPN as appropriate.
The introduction of new functionalities and the enhancement of existing
functionalities are necessary to achieve multiple access system accommodation
and the mobility across multiple different access systems which are the
fundamental key aspects of an AIPN. For this reason it is recommended that
these functionalities are captured by new service requirements for the 3GPP
system with the highest priority.
### 7.1.2 Impact on specifications in Rel-7
The following table lists the recommended requirements described within this
Technical Report and indicates the relevant existing SA1 Technical
Specifications. These requirements should be analysed and captured within SA1
Technical Specifications as appropriate.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Clause** | **Recommended |** Relevant Existing | | | requirement**| SA1 Technical | | | | Specification** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.1.1.4 | - An AIPN shall | TS 22.101 | | | incorporate naming | | | | and addressing | TS 22.129 | | | schemes that address | | | | a given user or | TS 22.228 | | | session. | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support end-user | | | | mobility. | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support terminal | | | | mobility. | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support session | | | | mobility. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.1.1.15 | - An AIPN should | TS 22.101 (possibly) | | | support Identity | | | | Federation and | Note 4 | | | Single Sign On for | | | | the end user. This | | | | would allow | | | | automatic | | | | authentication of | | | | the user to a | | | | multitude of service | | | | providers once the | | | | user has been | | | | authenticated by the | | | | AIPN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.2.1.4 | - An AIPN mobility | TS 22.101 | | | solution must | | | | support UTRAN and | TS 22.129 | | | GERAN based systems | | | | as possible access | | | | systems besides | | | | supporting | | | | alternative existing | | | | accesses such as | | | | WLAN and other | | | | emerging new | | | | technologies. | | | | | | | | - An AIPN mobility | | | | solution must be | | | | able to co-exist | | | | with the current | | | | 3GPP PS core network | | | | in a cost-efficient | | | | way. | | | | | | | | - An AIPN mobility | | | | solution should | | | | support seamless | | | | terminal mobility | | | | across various | | | | access systems. | | | | | | | | - AIPN should | | | | support services | | | | handover between | | | | 3GPP CS services | | | | (e.g. CS telephony) | | | | and AIPN equivalent | | | | services (e.g. Voice | | | | over IP). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.1 | - An AIPN shall | TS 22.101 | | | provide the | | | | following features: | TS 22.105 | | | | | | | - Ability to | | | | efficiently handle a | | | | variety of different | | | | types of IP traffic | | | | including | | | | user-to-user and | | | | user-to-multicast | | | | traffic models | | | | | | | | - Optimized routing | | | | of IP traffic, in | | | | particular for | | | | user-to-user | | | | traffic. | | | | | | | | - Efficient usage | | | | of radio resources | | | | (e.g. signalling | | | | optimization, | | | | compression), | | | | including selection | | | | of access system, | | | | based on the | | | | provided service. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.1.1 | - An AIPN shall | TS 22.101 | | | enable the | | | | accommodation of a | TS 22.105 | | | vast number of users | | | | and terminals. | | | | | | | | - Based upon | | | | industry trends IP | | | | technology shall be | | | | applied to the | | | | addressing and | | | | routing technology | | | | within an AIPN to | | | | enable accommodation | | | | of a vast number of | | | | users and terminals. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.2 | - An AIPN shall | TS 22.101 | | | support | | | | accommodation of | TS 22.105 | | | several access | | | | systems (existing | TS 22.011 | | | and future). | | | | | | | | - An AIPN shall | | | | support service | | | | provision across | | | | different access | | | | systems. | | | | | | | | - An AIPN shall | | | | support adaptation | | | | of service provision | | | | across different | | | | access systems. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.2.1 | - An AIPN shall | TS 22.101 | | | enable use of the | | | | multiple access | TS 22.105 | | | systems | | | | | TS 22.011 | | | - It should be | | | | possible to reach a | | | | user over multiple | | | | access systems | | | | simultaneously. | | | | | | | | - It should be | | | | possible to provide | | | | access system-aware | | | | services. | | | | | | | | - An AIPN shall | | | | provide support for | | | | access system | | | | selection based on | | | | combinations of AIPN | | | | operator policies, | | | | user preferences, | | | | service requirements | | | | of applications | | | | access system | | | | conditions, and/or | | | | other AIPN | | | | operator-defined | | | | criteria. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.3.1 | - An AIPN should | TS 22.101 | | | provide open | | | | interfaces to AIPN | TS 22.129 | | | services such as | | | | mobility management | TS 22.234 | | | in order to ease the | | | | terminal mobility | | | | across different | | | | access systems. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.3.2 | - An AIPN must work | TS 22.101 | | | with mobility | | | | mechanisms used by | TS 22.129 | | | the specific | | | | networks it | TS 22.234 | | | connects, including | | | | legacy mobility | | | | mechanisms of the | | | | current 3GPP PS core | | | | network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.3.3 | - An AIPN must | TS 22.101 | | | support procedures | | | | related to frequent | TS 22.129 | | | terminal mobility | | | | between AIPN nodes. | TS 22.234 | | | | | | | - Whenever | | | | feasible, the AIPN | | | | mobility solution | | | | must support | | | | seamless user | | | | experience for all | | | | services provided by | | | | the AIPN. | | | | | | | | - The mobility | | | | solution must scale | | | | with the number of | | | | terminals and size | | | | of the AIPN. | | | | | | | | - An AIPN shall be | | | | able to support | | | | access systems with | | | | very limited or no | | | | mobility management | | | | procedures. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.4 | - The IP session | TS 22.101 | | | control mechanisms | | | | of AIPN shall be | TS 22.228 | | | enhanced from the | | | | functionalities of | | | | IMS to provide | | | | session mobility, | | | | session adaptation | | | | to terminal | | | | capability, user | | | | preferences, | | | | subscriber | | | | priorities, network | | | | conditions or other | | | | operator-defined | | | | criteria. Session | | | | adaption shall be | | | | under the control of | | | | the operator. The | | | | AIPN shall support | | | | session control for | | | | multicast sessions | | | | (e.g. | | | | user-to-multicast) | | | | and the solution | | | | shall scale with the | | | | number of | | | | participants. | | | | | | | | - Users shall | | | | perceive continuous | | | | service whilst | | | | ensuring the | | | | efficient use of | | | | wireless resources | | | | and the effective | | | | usage of power | | | | resources within | | | | mobile terminals. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.5.1 | - An AIPN shall be | TS 22.105 | | | able to provide | | | | guaranteed QoS for | | | | services and use | | | | AIPN resources with | | | | high efficiency i.e. | | | | ensure that quality | | | | conditions for a | | | | particular | | | | communication are | | | | fulfilled without | | | | deterioration | | | | between the | | | | communication | | | | end-points. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.5.2 | - AIPN shall be | TS 22.105 | | | able to support | | | | different levels of | | | | QoS according the | | | | type of the IP | | | | traffic. | | | | | | | | - Mechanisms should | | | | be available to the | | | | AIPN operator to | | | | enable AIPN | | | | congestion for the | | | | lower QoS class IP | | | | traffic to be | | | | avoided when a large | | | | amount of AIPN | | | | resource is used to | | | | handle higher QoS | | | | class traffic. A | | | | possible method to | | | | achieve this could | | | | be by using dynamic | | | | load balancing among | | | | the AIPN entities. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.6 | - It shall be | TS 22.105 | | | possible to | | | | guarantee end-to-end | | | | QoS for a | | | | user-to-user or | | | | multicast (e.g. | | | | user-to-multicast) | | | | session between | | | | AIPNs. This includes | | | | the case where more | | | | than one network | | | | administration is | | | | involved in the | | | | provision of the | | | | end-to-end service. | | | | | | | | - It shall be | | | | possible to support | | | | different QoS | | | | ensuring methods | | | | within the same AIPN | | | | and between | | | | different AIPNs. | | | | | | | | - Interworking | | | | between different | | | | QoS ensuring methods | | | | in the end-to-end | | | | path has to be | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | - QoS | | | | considerations need | | | | to be taken into | | | | account in handover | | | | decisions: | | | | | | | | - It shall be | | | | possible for AIPN to | | | | guarantee end-to-end | | | | QoS without | | | | modification when | | | | the terminal or | | | | session moves from | | | | one access system to | | | | another, if the | | | | target access system | | | | supports the | | | | required QoS. | | | | | | | | - It shall be | | | | possible for AIPN to | | | | guarantee end-to-end | | | | QoS, with QoS | | | | modification, when | | | | the terminal or | | | | session moves from | | | | one access system to | | | | another, if the | | | | target access system | | | | has a QoS mechanism | | | | but can not be | | | | guaranteed to | | | | support the required | | | | QoS. | | | | | | | | - It should be | | | | possible for AIPN to | | | | provide mobility for | | | | a terminal or | | | | session between an | | | | access system that | | | | provides QoS and one | | | | that does not. | | | | However, in this | | | | case, seamless | | | | experience is not | | | | guaranteed, the | | | | termi | | | | nal/application/user | | | | may need to be | | | | notified via some | | | | means and the | | | | network may need to | | | | adjust service | | | | setting for the | | | | session(s) | | | | accordingly to the | | | | change (e.g. | | | | charging | | | | adjustments, etc). | | | | | | | | - It shall be | | | | possible for an AIPN | | | | to guarantee QoS of | | | | a multicast session | | | | without modification | | | | to QoS of other | | | | terminals when one | | | | of the terminals | | | | moves from one | | | | access system to | | | | another (e.g. for | | | | multimedia streaming | | | | with adaptation to | | | | the conditions of | | | | each recipient). | | | | | | | | > \- It shall be | | | | > possible for an | | | | > AIPN to guarantee | | | | > QoS of a multicast | | | | > session without | | | | > modification to | | | | > QoS of other | | | | > terminals when one | | | | > of the terminals | | | | > moves from one | | | | > access system to | | | | > another, when the | | | | > target access | | | | > system for this | | | | > terminal does not | | | | > support the | | | | > required QoS. | | | | > | | | | > \- It shall be | | | | > possible for an | | | | > AIPN to guarantee | | | | > QoS of a multicast | | | | > session with QoS | | | | > modification to | | | | > one of the | | | | > terminals, when | | | | > this terminal | | | | > moves from one | | | | > access system to | | | | > another, if the | | | | > target access | | | | > system has a QoS | | | | > mechanism but can | | | | > not be guaranteed | | | | > to support the | | | | > required QoS. The | | | | > QoS of the other | | | | > terminals of the | | | | > multicast session | | | | > are unaffected by | | | | > the modification | | | | > of QoS of the | | | | > terminal moving | | | | > from one access | | | | > system to another. | | | | | | | | - It shall be | | | | possible for an AIPN | | | | to control guarantee | | | | of QoS of a | | | | multicast session | | | | with QoS | | | | modification to all | | | | of the terminals, | | | | when one of the | | | | terminals moves from | | | | one access system to | | | | another, if the | | | | target access system | | | | for this terminal | | | | has a QoS mechanism | | | | but can not be | | | | guaranteed to | | | | support the required | | | | QoS (e.g. for a | | | | gaming application | | | | where the conditions | | | | are to be equal for | | | | each of the | | | | players). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.7 | Personal Networks: | TS 22.011 | | | | | | | - AIPN shall | Note3 | | | support a wide | | | | variety of service | | | | capabilities with | | | | the different USIMs | | | | from the same AIPN | | | | operator (e.g. twin | | | | USIMs) associated | | | | with a single user. | | | | | | | | - AIPN shall | | | | provide a connection | | | | between the terminal | | | | devices of a | | | | Personal Network | | | | that is reliable and | | | | provides adequate | | | | protection to the | | | | user's data to give | | | | confidence that his | | | | data is adequately | | | | protected. | | | | | | | | Personal Area | | | | Networks: | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support multiple | | | | simultaneous | | | | sessions originated | | | | from one or several | | | | devices using the | | | | same (U)SIM | | | | authority. | | | | | | | | Ad-hoc Networks: | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | accept consolidated | | | | and distributed | | | | traffic from a group | | | | of users arriving | | | | through various | | | | access routes. | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall be | | | | able to re-route | | | | traffic to Ad-hoc | | | | Network devices via | | | | another gateway. | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support changes in | | | | the access route for | | | | the consolidated | | | | traffic from an | | | | Ad-hoc Network. | | | | These changes may | | | | take place with no | | | | warning to the AIPN. | | | | | | | | - Elements of the | | | | consolidated traffic | | | | from an Ad-hoc | | | | Network may | | | | originate from a | | | | PAN. | | | | | | | | - Accurate charging | | | | records shall be | | | | created and | | | | maintained for the | | | | originating terminal | | | | when the traffic is | | | | routed through a | | | | terminal belonging | | | | to another | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | | | Requirements for | | | | devices (terminals): | | | | | | | | A gateway device | | | | (terminal) must be | | | | able to route and | | | | forward packets to | | | | other devices in the | | | | Ad-hoc Network | | | | | | | | Ad-hoc Network UEs | | | | must be able to | | | | discover \'near by\' | | | | gateway devices | | | | | | | | Moving Networks: | | | | | | | | Use Case 1: | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support a point of | | | | access to the access | | | | system that has full | | | | mobility throughout | | | | the geographic | | | | region that uses the | | | | 3GPP access system | | | | for backhaul. | | | | | | | | Use Case 2 | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | accept consolidated | | | | traffic from a 3GPP | | | | terminal mounted in | | | | a vehicle with a | | | | router. | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support changes in | | | | the alternate access | | | | route as the | | | | wireless access | | | | router moves | | | | throughout the | | | | service region. | | | | | | | | - Accurate charging | | | | records shall be | | | | created and | | | | maintained for the | | | | originating terminal | | | | when the traffic | | | | created is routed | | | | through a Wireless | | | | Access Router. | | | | | | | | Use Case 3: | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support a mobile | | | | router connected | | | | directly to the AIPN | | | | using an alternate | | | | access route, e.g. | | | | via satellite. | | | | | | | | - The AIPN shall | | | | support handovers of | | | | whole Moving | | | | Networks; i.e. it | | | | must be able to | | | | continuously route | | | | traffic for AIPN | | | | nodes of a Moving | | | | Network to a mobile | | | | router travelling as | | | | part of the Moving | | | | Network | | | | | | | | - Accurate charging | | | | records shall be | | | | created and | | | | maintained for the | | | | originating terminal | | | | when the traffic is | | | | routed through a | | | | Mobile Router. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note 1: The | | | | introduction of | | | | aspects relevant to | | | | Technical | | | | Specifications not | | | | under SA1 | | | | responsibility is to | | | | be determined by the | | | | appropriate 3GPP TSG | | | | WG. | | | | | | | | Note 2: The content | | | | of the column | | | | entitled \'Relevant | | | | Technical | | | | Specification\' is | | | | non-exhaustive, i.e. | | | | the introduction of | | | | requirements for an | | | | AIPN into Technical | | | | Specifications other | | | | than those stated | | | | may be considered if | | | | appropriate. | | | | | | | | Note 3: No SA1 | | | | Technical | | | | Specification | | | | appropriate to fully | | | | capture these | | | | requirements. | | | | | | | | Note 4: The relevant | | | | existing SA1 | | | | Technical | | | | Specification for | | | | this functionality | | | | is for further | | | | study. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 7.2 Overall conclusion
This Technical Report has analysed the vision and the key aspects of AIPN and
identified new capabilities to be specified for the 3GPP system to enable
evolution to an AIPN. It is concluded that the capabilities required for
introduction of an AIPN into the 3GPP system require new specification work
within 3GPP. The recommendation of this Technical Report is that the work be
undertaken as a single Feature. A new Technical Specification may be produced
to capture the service requirements for an AIPN. It is also recommended that
new requirements identified within this Technical Report relevant to existing
features of the 3GPP system, i.e. indicating that expansion of an existing
capability (e.g. IMS), be added to existing specifications where appropriate.
Note 1: When undertaking specification work for an AIPN care should be taken
to ensure that service requirements are not duplicated across multiple
Technical Specifications. This could be achieved by e.g. adding the text for a
new requirement to a single Technical Specification and referencing this
requirement within other Technical Specifications as appropriate.
###### ### Annex A: Mapping of AIPN Motivations to Key Aspects of an AIPN
This annex contains a matrix mapping the AIPN Motivations and Drivers (Clause
4) to the Key Aspects of an AIPN (Clause 5).
| Key Aspects of an AIPN |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|
> Common IP-based network
|
> Support of different access systems
|
> Convergence towards IP technology
|
> Advanced mobility management
|
> Session management
|
> Access system selection
|
> Enhanced services
|
> Enhanced network performance
|
> Network extensibility/composition
|
> Network management
|
> Security and privacy functionality
|
> Quality of Service
|
> Terminal and User identification
|
> Flexible future development
|
> Identity federation
|  |   
> Motivations and Drivers
|
> User related and Social Drivers
| Consumer trend demanding diversification of mobile services | Х | Х | Х | Х | Х | Х | Х | Х |  |  |  | Х | Х |  | X  
|  | Human need to be able to interact with his personal environment |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  | Х | Х |   
|  | Social behaviour and the need to understand one's environment |  |  |  | Х | Х | Х | Х | X |  |  | Х | X |  |  |   
|  | The social trend of increasing differences in income within societies |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |   
|  | The need to satisfy user experience of ‘early-adopters’ |  |  |  | Х |  |  | Х | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|
> Drivers from a Business Perspective
| Mobile industry anticipating PS traffic to surpass CS | Х |  | Х |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Desire of AIPN operators to encompass various access systems that are not specified by 3GPP | Х | Х | Х | Х |  | Х | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х | X  
|  | Marriage of IT- and telecom world | Х |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  | X  
|  | Need for increased system efficiency leading to substantial cost reduction | Х | Х | Х |  |  |  |  | Х |  | Х |  |  |  | Х |   
|  | Trend of the industry to align along the structure: access / transport / control / services |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  |  | Х |   
|  | Fixed/Mobile network convergence |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  |   
|
> Drivers from a Technology Perspective
| Evolution of next generation radio access systems (3GPP specified) | Х | Х |  | Х |  | Х | Х | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Progress of broadband wireless IP-based networks (non-3GPP specified) | Х | Х |  | Х |  | Х | Х | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Progress in ad-hoc networking for user defined services. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х | Х |  | Х |  |  |  |   
|  | Dawning of new, radio based services |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х | Х | Х |  |  |  | Х |  |   
|  | Reconfigurable Radio |  | Х |  | Х |  | Х |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Web services |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | X  
|  | Multi-access |  | Х |  | Х |  | Х | Х |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | Progress of advanced Traffic Engineering Technologies |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Х |  |  |  | Х |  |  |   
**Note1:** This matrix maps the sub-clauses of clauses 4.2 and 5.1.1 of this
Technical Report. In some cases the sub-clause headings have been abbreviated
to improve readability.
###### ### Annex B: Use cases for AIPN key aspects
## B.1 Resilience in the presence of network disruptions and intermittent
connectivity
**[Use case:]{.underline}**
This use case is illustrated in the figure below.
{width="4.345833333333333in" height="3.063888888888889in"}
The user is driving a car. While being under good radio coverage, he starts an
IMS session with several media. The car goes through a tunnel where there is
no radio coverage, and comes out of the tunnel into good radio coverage a
minute later. Connections using disruption resilient transport protocols are
automatically re-established and these protocols restore the communication to
the point they were before the interruption.
## B.2 Service adaptation to terminal capabilities
**[Use case:]{.underline}**
This use case is illustrated in the figure below.
EMBED Word.Picture.8 {width="6.010416666666667in" height="4.71875in"}
Alice has a mobile device and Bob has a fixed one. Both devices have equal
audio but different video capabilities in terms of screen size, number of
colors and video codecs supported. Alice establishes a multimedia connection
with audio and video components to Bob. The terminal capabilities are
discovered and it is realized that Bob\'s terminal has better video
capabilities than Alice. The terminal informs the network that it is unable to
support new the new video codec and the AIPN then introduces a video
transcoder in the path of the video media to adapt the video signal (stream,
codec, format, etc) to the video capabilities and bit rates available on each
side of the transcoder.
## B.3 Facilitate integration of networks with different administrative
domains (e.g. handle negotiation of administrative issues, security, trust,
etc)
**[Use case:]{.underline}**
The following picture illustrates this use case.
Bob has his own Personal Area Network (PAN). While at home, this network is
composed with the Home Area Network using WLAN, which in turn connects
externally with a local hotspot service, which in turn connects to a cellular
network. Bob\'s PAN, Bob's Home-WLAN, the local hotspot service and the AIPN
cellular access system are under different administrative domains. Still, if
Bob moves outside coverage of his Home-WLAN, his PAN will communicate with the
outside world via the local hotspot service. If he moves outside coverage from
the hotspot service, his PAN will communicate with the outside world via the
AIPN cellular access system.
###### ### Annex C: Use cases for Security
## C.1 User issues
### C.1.1 Ensure privacy and authenticity so that the user can trust the
information he is receiving. This should cover private user to private user
communications as well as private user to service provider communications
**[Use case:]{.underline}**
Using the AIPN operator as a certificate checking authority.
The figure below illustrates this case:
A user wants to access his medical records, stored in the hospital server,
with his mobile terminal. The user connects with the hospital and
authenticates itself. The hospital authenticates to the user by sending a
certificate CH signed by certification authority CA. The user, however, does
not recognize CA and asks the AIPN operator to check the validity of CH. The
AIPN operator checks the validity of CH and informs the user about the
positive result. At that point the user is sure that the information is really
coming from the hospital.
### C.1.2 Multiple user identities: Users should be able to have multiple
identities from different providers, with the relationship between identities
hidden to particular providers (thus supporting privacy)
**[Use case:]{.underline}**
The AIPN operator generates temporary identities for the user to be used
towards different providers.
The figure below illustrates this case:
The user wants to connect to two providers but keeping full privacy. The AIPN
operator enables this possibility by acting as a mediator. The AIPN operator
allows the user to gain access to the two providers with completely different
identities. Both identities are temporary ones and can not be correlated in
any sense by just looking at log records in Provider A and Provider B.
In order to enable this type of service, the providers have to establish a
\"trust relationship\" with the AIPN operator, so that he can perform
accounting towards that AIPN operator for the services provided to the AIPN
operator\'s subscribers.
The user already has a long term relationship with the AIPN operator, and will
be billed by the AIPN operator for services he accesses via external
providers.
The AIPN operator does know the user\'s real identity and the temporary
pseudonyms that he has given to the user to access services from external
providers. The AIPN operator can then correlate the real and temporary
identities for billing purposes.
**[Use case:]{.underline}**
The AIPN operator generates temporary identities for the user to be used
towards different providers. An identity broker, e.g. Liberty Alliance, acts
as the long term trust relation centre.
This use case is similar to the previous one, but in this case the AIPN
operator does not have a long term trust relationship with the providers,
instead the AIPN operator has a long term relationship with an identity
broker, e.g. Liberty Alliance, and the identity broker has a long term trust
relationship with the external providers. This case is illustrated in the
figure below:
The user wants to connect to two providers but keep full privacy. The AIPN
operator enables this possibility by acting as a mediator. The AIPN operator
allows the user to gain access to the two providers with completely different
identities. Both identities are temporary ones and can not be correlated in
any sense by just looking at log records in Provider A and Provider B.
The AIPN operator however, does not have a trust relationship with the
providers but has one with an identity broker e.g. Liberty Alliance. The
providers also have a trust relationship with the identity broker. So the
identity broker is used as the common trust point to for the providers to
offer services to the AIPN operator\'s subscribers. The AIPN operator can
offer these services fully protecting the privacy of its subscribers.
## C.2 Network issues
### C.2.1 Fast re-authentication shall be possible
**[Use case:]{.underline}**
Fast re-authentication in handovers between access systems.
The figure below illustrates this case:
The user is initially connected to Access System-A and has a session with
several media established. He moves towards Access System-B, which may be
under a different administrative domain than Access System-A. In this case
there are mechanisms for fast authentication to continue communication across
Access System-A and Access System-B.
Note: In this case the user's terminal needs to support each of the access
systems
###### ### Annex D: Security Issues
These issues are very high level and many aspects need to be investigated
further to be able to specify them more clearly. This could e.g., include:
\- Investigating how and where to realize policy enforcement functionality to
get the most general, efficient and secure solution to protect the end-users
and the AIPN operators\' networks.
\- Reviewing architectural and protocol features to get a better understanding
of how to protect the network against attacks such as denial-of-service.
\- Investigate how to develop a homogenous SSO concept taking privacy and
anonymity requirements into account.
\- Investigating the need for end-to-end security solutions.
In summary, the challenges will be in understanding the new risks to identify
any new or lacking security requirements, and of course finally ensuring that
the right mechanisms are in place.
To mitigate the problems and protect users and systems and to deter from
attacks different types of policy enforcement functions are needed to build
trusted domains. Policy enforcement should cover
\- Available network services. General purpose IP access may be restricted or
tunneled securely through the network.
\- Traffic/content inspection in the AIPN to stop download of malware and
intrusive content.
\- Spam control
\- Blocking of non-trusted services and service providers
\- Traffic separation
\- Traffic origin (e.g. prohibit source IP address spoofing).
There will be a need for policy enforcement controlled by end-users and by
AIPN operators and a need to investigate how and where to realize policy
enforcement functionality to get the most general, efficient and secure
solution.
End-user policy enforcement will become a very important function, which AIPNs
will have to provide. One particularly important area is to control
distribution of location information. However, presence information in general
could be just as sensitive.
For protection against denial-of-service attacks, architectural and protocol
features have to be reviewed**.**
## D.1 Trust domains
Often, the only means to deter attackers and mitigate threats are to build
logging and detection systems to make the risk of getting caught sufficiently
high. Thus, it will be critical to define trust domains, means to establish
trust, authenticate and authorize users and systems, and put requirements on
trusted hardware (especially end-user equipment). A key issue is if monolithic
mobile phones can become the trusted devices in which AIPN operators can
enforce different policies.
A specific issue is how to design the trust model when ad-hoc extensions of
access systems are offered by ordinary end-user equipment. Should all such
traffic just be tunneled through the ad-hoc extension or should there be some
policy enforcement performed. There is also the question of who is responsible
for the traffic from the Ad-hoc Network. Either the originating device of the
traffic or the relaying device (or both) has to be responsible. Since they
belong to different end-users, maybe having different AIPN operators, this may
pose a problem.
Another issue is how to enforce policies in multi-access system environments.
One threat scenario is that a user connects his device to two different
domains with different "trust levels".
## D.2 Trust establishment
There is a need for different trust establishment mechanisms e.g. for end-
users towards AIPN operators, end-users towards service providers, between
end-user and between service providers. These mechanisms may be identical but
could also be based on different principles if that would make them more
efficient.
The natural choice for authentication of end-users towards AIPN operators is
of course (X)SIM based. However, public key based systems may have advantages
for other situations. The DRM solutions also show the need for secure
authentication of trusted hardware.
A basic end-user requirement is that security mechanisms should be automatic
and invisible to the end-user. User authentication and authorization should be
able to be performed with a minimum of user interaction. At the same time,
legitimate requirements on user privacy and even anonymity should be able to
be catered for. Current work in SA3 (GAA/GBA) and Liberty show that there is a
need for simple and uniform trust establishment mechanisms for service
provisioning at different levels.
To increase user convenience, make systems less complex, simplify application
development a common, standardized, homogenous SSO system taking privacy and
anonymity requirements into account is needed. Today, we are moving towards a
situation in which we have a set of diverse user authentication and
authorization mechanisms tailored for different services.
## D.3 Network heterogeneity and traffic protection
Specific issues that need to be reviewed are
\- Location of the network point of trust. Network point of trust means the
first network point at which user payload traffic is available in plaintext
format. Simultaneous multi-access should be taken into account.
\- Should user authentication and key agreement be performed on layer 3 (IP-
layer) to enhance "portability".
\- Layer 2 protection is needed to protect system signaling and protect
against Denial of service attacks. How to establish keys?
\- How to handle the situation that in the future user payload traffic and
end-user equipment control signaling traffic may have different endpoints in
the AIPN
\- New means to derive and distribute keys based on an initial user
authentication.
## D.4 End-to-end protection
With the introduction of IP based conversational multi-media over an AIPN,
many users could feel a need for better end-to-end protection of their
communication. A natural first step would be to introduce end-to-end integrity
protection to guarantee the authenticity of data. Confidentiality of data may
also be required (e.g. government agencies). Thus, the AIPN should be designed
to allow efficient end-to-end protection of multimedia sessions. Here it might
be beneficial to deploy (new) generic protocols for key management and data
protection to limit signaling and computational load in the terminals. Lawful
intercept requirements have also to be considered.
###### ### Annex E: Use cases for Personal Network (PN), Personal Area Network
(PAN), Ad-hoc Network and Moving Network Support
The following use cases are intended to provide some examples of how the AIPN
is impacted by major categories of user networks. This should not be
considered an exhaustive list of possible use cases. Detailed consideration of
the networking of user terminals is for further study.
## E.1 Personal Network (PN)
### E.1.1 Use case 1: PN with the terminal away from the user
The AIPN provides a connection between the user's personal terminal and a
terminal connected to the PC in his home such that the user is provided with a
virtual secure Personal Network. Through this secure link, a user is able to
synchronise his 3GPP terminal with data contained on his PC at home or monitor
his heating or burgular alarm system while away from his home. Additional
devices would enable connection to the user's car or holiday home.
{width="6.75in" height="4.0in"}
## E.2 Personal Area Network (PAN)
### E.2.1 Use case 2: Multiple devices held by the same user
A user will carry a plurality of devices (PDA, music player, laptop, camera,
headset, etc.) as well as mobile terminals with him/her. Each of them has a
demand to access services provided by the AIPN or to communicate with another
entity through the AIPN, but they might lack a USIM and/or a means to directly
access to the AIPN.
A mobile terminal, containing a USIM, with short-range wireless connectivity
(e.g. IEEE 802.15) can connect to other devices with wireless access when they
are close to each other to form a small network called a _Personal Area
Network (PAN),_ which is controlled by the user of the mobile terminal.
A calling party may request a call indicating the particular terminal/device
within the PAN subject to service attributes and terminal/device capability.
#### E.2.1.1 Use case 2a: Subscription data within one device only
When only one device (mobile terminal 1) holds a USIM and another device
(mobile terminal 2) does not hold a USIM but has a means to access the AIPN,
mobile terminal 2 will be authorized to access the AIPN using the USIM in
mobile terminal 1. The data transfer channel (i.e. transport and session) can
be established and maintained through the access means of mobile terminal 2 as
long as mobile terminal 2 can access the USIM through the PAN. If the mobile
containing the USIM is removed from the PAN all service sessions, other than
those on the mobile containing the USIM, will be terminated immediately.
#### E.2.1.2 Use case 2b: Relationship between Personal Network and Personal
Area Network
Devices close to the user are connected using internal PAN means and share a
USIM authority for the devices so connected. A device containing an
independent USIM may be removed from the PAN yet still remains connected to
the user's Personal Network through the AIPN.
{width="3.6381944444444443in" height="2.207638888888889in"}
A user has a PAN consisting of a number of devices, including a personal
device, mobile terminal A, and a device that remains in the user's vehicle,
mobile terminal B. Mobile terminal A and mobile terminal B each contain a
USIM. While close to the user, and connected using the internal PAN means,
communication between mobile terminal A and B (e.g. synchronisation of a
database) is achieved directly via the PAN. When the user leaves his vehicle,
the PAN connection is lost and mobile terminal B continues to connect to the
Personal Area Network (e.g. to continue the synchronisation process) through
the users Personal Network by connecting through the AIPN using the USIM
contained in Terminal B.
### E.2.3 Impact on an AIPN:
For reliable billing information in all the PAN use cases it is essential that
the appropriate USIM is correctly associated with every request for services
from the AIPN. Possible causes of double counting, attributing a service
request to the wrong user, or other causes of incorrect billing, must be
eliminated.
## E.3 Ad-hoc Network
### E.3.1 Use Case 1: Formation of an Ad-hoc Network
In this use case, a number of users interconnect their terminal devices to
form an Ad-hoc Network. These terminal devices may be capable of connecting to
different access systems. The Ad-hoc Network enables its members to access the
AIPN through any of the terminal devices that are able to connect to a
suitable access system. Each member of the Ad-hoc Network uses their own USIM
to obtain whatever services they are individually entitled to use.
### E.3.2 Use Case 2: Movement of an Ad-hoc Network
The Ad-hoc Network may change the terminal device used to forward the
consolidated traffic to the AIPN as required. Reasons for change could be;
1) Movement of the connected terminal device within the Ad-hoc Network causing
it to loose service while another terminal device gains service (not
necessarily using the same access system).
2) It may be financially advantageous to the group of users for their
consolidated traffic to be routed through one particular access system
depending on their location or time of day. The users of the Ad-hoc Network
may cause their Ad-hoc Network to change access system simply to maintain
their fiscal advantage rather than for reasons of access system coverage
etc...
### E.3.3 Use case 3: Multiple users within the home
{width="7.7125in" height="3.598611111111111in"}
It is possible for a home network to have multiple users. For example, a
family may consist of a group of users who share the various devices on a home
network through the mechanisms described in Use Case 1 & 2\. From an AIPN
perspective they should be seen as independent users, each with capabilities
as defined in the use cases above. The AIPN need not be aware that they share
the same home network.
Note: The demands of this use case on the individual terminal devices is
considered beyond the scope of this document.
### E.3..4 Impact to an AIPN
The AIPN will see consolidated traffic from a group of separate users arriving
through an access system. The access system bearing the consolidated traffic
may change at any time with no warning to the AIPN. Elements of the
consolidated traffic could originate from a PAN.
## E.4 Moving Network
A Moving Network provides access to AIPN for a group of users that move
together (e.g. as part of a vehicular network). The devices (terminals) of a
Moving Network are connected to a well-defined system (gateway) through which
the user devices (terminals) in the Moving Network gain access to the AIPN.
Note: This is a key difference to Ad-hoc Networks, where access to the AIPN
can be gained through any device (terminal) that has access.
### E.4.1 Use case 1: Moving Base Station
A moving base station (e.g. a pico cell) is responsible to provide radio
access to user terminals in a Moving Network. The moving base station is part
of an access system and is owned by the AIPN operator providing the access
network. As the access system fully accommodates the Moving Network, it
dominates the wireless technology that can be used to connect the user
terminal to the AIPN.
In this use case, mobility for the Moving Network is provided by the access
system only.
Note: The AIPN may not see any impact resulting from a handoff of a Moving
Network in this use case. The particular impacts of this use case upon the
AIPN are for further study.
Advantages of this approach:
\- Low or potentially zero impact on the AIPN as mobility is completely
handled by the access system (which accommodates the Moving Network)
### E.4.2 Use case 2: Wireless Access Router
A wireless access router (e.g. a WLAN router), owned by a 3rd party network
provider (e.g. the train company), is equipped with a means to connect to an
AIPN. This connection can be established via any access system that is
supported by the wireless access router and for which the wireless access
router has a subscription. The wireless access router consolidates traffic
from users of the Moving Network towards the AIPN. A variety of wireless or
wired access technologies can be used to connect user terminals to the
wireless access router.
In this use case, mobility management is split between the AIPN and the access
systems. While the AIPN takes care of the handover when the Moving Network
changes the access system, the access system provides mobility for handoffs
between different cells of the access system.
Advantages of this approach:
\- The Moving Network is not tied to a single access system; i.e. this
approach provides more flexibilty, as it allows the Moving Network to choose
the best (e.g. most reliable, fastest, cheapest) access system at any time.
\- It enables 3^rd^ parties to offer access to an AIPN.
### E.4.3 Use Case 3: Mobile Router
A mobile router, which travels together with a Moving Network, is equipped
with some wireless technology that connects itself with the rest of the AIPN.
In contrast to the above use cases, the mobile router is considered a
component of the AIPN itself. The purpose of the mobile router is to provide
the user terminals access to the AIPN. As such it serves as gateway between
the Moving Network and the AIPN. A variety of wireless or wired access
technologies can be used to connect the user terminals to the mobile router.
In contrast to the above use cases, here mobility of the mobile router is
handled solely by the AIPN. The access system does not require any mobility
functions.
Advantages of this approach:
\- It allows simplification of the access system (i.e. single cell access
network)
\- Only a single mobility management component is required (i.e. mobility is
only handled by the AIPN -- not the access system)
\- The access system does not require support for Moving Networks
### E.4.4 Impact to an AIPN
The access system for the consolidated traffic may change with time (e.g. as
the train moves) in a manner that can reasonably be anticipated by the AIPN.
Elements of the consolidated traffic from a Moving Network may originate from
PANs or Ad-hoc Networks covered by the Moving Network.
###### ## Annex F (Informative): Use Cases for Session Mobility
## F.1 Use Case 1: Redirection of a video stream to the terminal away from the
user
A user has a PAN in close proximity and another terminal in his/her home some
distance away. A user can use any of their devices (terminals). In this use
case the AIPN manages multiple devices (terminals) in different locations as
belonging to the same user, and can redirect a session to another terminal.
Then, for example, when the user receives a video streaming session but does
not have enough storage resource in her terminal, the user is able to redirect
the session to the terminal in his/her home and store the video stream in her
PC.
{width="6.75in" height="4.0in"}
## F.2 Use case 2: Seamless mobility of sessions between terminals
This use case is illustrated in the figure below.
Alice and Bob are having a multimedia session with audio and video components
using two high-end multimedia terminals in their offices. Alice needs to leave
the office to take the car to visit a customer. She requests a session
transfer. AIPN then transfers the session to her mobile phone.
#