# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) Secretariat on behalf of the 3GPP Technical Specification
Groups (TSGs).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is based ISO/IEC Directives. Most clauses of the ISO/IEC
document have been retained, while some clauses have been modified or deleted.
Additional material has been inserted.
Items concerning word-processor specific layout and formatting matters when
using the Microsoft Word for Windows^^ based skeleton documents and templates
are shown with shaded background. Boiler plate text (i.e. text which shall be
directly used in 3GPP specifications) is represented by _italic_ characters.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report aims to present use cases in telecommunication services
that are developed by applying haptic technology. It also justifies accepting
haptic technology in telecommunication services by investigating readiness for
its use in the telecommunication system and the level of benefit for the user
experience.
For such purpose this document investigates following questions:
\- Provide the overview of current haptic technology which might be deployed
in telecommunication
\- Identify any adaption required for existing services enhanced by supporting
the delivery of haptic sense
\- Identify key aspects of new services built on capabilities provided by
haptic technology
\- Identify and specify general requirements for delivery of haptic sense in
telecommunication networks
\- Identify the scope and roles of 3GPP for mobile haptic services and consult
with OMA to coordinate on the development of mobile haptic services
Note that this Technical Report considers all types of telecommunication
networks within the scope of 3GPP, including mobile networks and IMS-based
fixed networks, etc.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
# 3 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Haptic (Haptic Sense):** Haptic is a sense perceived by touching an object.
It involves tactile senses, (from the Latin, _tangere_ , to touch), which
refers to the touching of surfaces, and kinaesthetic senses (from the Greek,
_kinesis_ , movement and aesthesis, perception), or the sensing of movement in
the body.
**Haptic Information** : Haptic Information is signal that is delivered over
telecommunication networks to generate Haptic Feedback in the UE. Haptic
Information may contain sender and receiver addresses, data types, haptic
feedback data, and others.
**Haptic Feedback** : Haptic Feedback is a haptic sense generated in the UE.
**Haptic Service:** A Haptic Service indicates any communication-related
services that involve delivering haptic. The haptic can be initiated either by
the network or the user.
**Local Party (Sender):** the local party is the entity that sends Haptic
Information.
**Remote Party (Receiver):** the remote party is the entity to which Haptic
Information is sent.
# 4 General description
## 4.1 Introduction
Telecommunication has evolved over time by expanding the variety of senses it
can deliver. Originally supporting voice calls, the telecommunication system
conveyed auditory sense stimulation. After SMS, and then MMS introduction,
users were provided visual sense stimulation by conveying messages in a
written and image/graphical form. Recent telecommunication systems have
extended the visual stimulation by adding motion video capabilities. In spite
of these service enhancements, telecommunication is yet to provide a full
range of sensory expression and input, used in human face to face
communication and activities.
One sense that has drawn attention rapidly is haptic. The word 'Haptic'
originated from Greek _haptesthai_ , which means "to touch." Haptic involves
tactile senses, (from the Latin, _tangere_ , to touch), which refers to the
touching of surfaces, and kinaesthetic senses (from the Greek, _kinesis_ ,
movement and aesthesis, perception), or the sensing of movement in the body.
Haptic has been one of major sources for human being to collect information in
the external environment and has also been used in communication between
people, such as expressing intimacy by touch. Recent development in haptic
feedback devices made it possible to provide haptic feedback to users and has
been applied in a wide range of fields. For example, game controllers such as
joysticks and steering wheels are able to provide haptic feedback that
simulates the tactile sense and/or kinaesthetic sense (i.e. force feedback) a
player in the game might experience in the virtual environment.
Contrary to the examples above, in telecommunication systems, haptic has been
neglected as the UEs are not ready for haptic services. Even though most
mobile devices support vibration, it was not programmable, and thus its use is
confined to playing silent ring tones. But recent devices are beginning to
adopt a more advanced haptic feature that supports programmable vibrations
varying in length, frequency and magnitude. Moreover, it is expected that in
the near future mobile devices is expected to adopt various haptic feedback
other than vibrotactile device enabling the delivery of temperature, texture
or electronic stimulus more apparent. With the introduction of haptic enabled
devices, it is now timely to evaluate the benefits of deploying haptic
services in telecommunication networks, and evaluate the feasibility and
efforts to implementing them.
## 4.2 Benefits
By supporting the delivery of haptic sense in telecommunication networks,
network operators can provide a more enhanced way of communication in terms of
information accessibility and receptiveness to subscribers.
From subscribers' point of view, haptic sense is an appropriate medium through
which distinctive and intuitive messages can be conveyed. Alert messages in
haptic sense can help reduce cognitive load and provide additional information
compared to the messages transferred via sound. Also, it can also be used in
distractive and loud environments. Moreover, when haptic sense combines with
auditory or visual sense, the multimodal feedback is known to reinforce the
receptiveness of messages. Such multimodal feedback can also help users with
visual or hearing disabilities understand messages more clearly.
From network operators' viewpoint, the most obvious benefit is that it enables
to provide new services built upon haptic sense, which has not been utilized
in previous telecommunication services. Note that in addition to providing new
services based solely on haptic sense, it is also possible to add haptic sense
to existing supplementary services. For example, warning, alert or
confirmation messages that have been delivered through audio channel can be
delivered with a combination of sound and haptic sense. By introducing new
services and/or extending existing services with haptic sense, operators can
have additional source of revenue. In summary, the addition of haptic sense
helps operators enrich existing services, as well as to develop new services.
## 4.3 Haptic technology
### 4.3.1 Overview
The prerequisite for providing mobile haptic service is that the UEs should be
able to generate appropriate haptic sense based on the haptic information
delivered through the network. To this end, three components should be
prepared: 1) UEs that generate haptic senses, 2) haptic information format
that both UEs and networks can understand, and 3) telecommunication networks
that deliver haptic information for haptic senses.
### 4.3.2 User equipments
A number of UEs already support the generation of haptic feedback due to the
rapid development of haptic components that are simple and small enough to be
adopted in mobile devices. Until now the most of available haptic devices are
those with high-fidelity vibration. Such devices usually include vibration
actuators that provide high-fidelity vibration effects and a vibration player
that controls the operation of the actuator. Moreover, given the trend of fast
developing haptic feedback devices such as thermal display, electrostatic
feedback device or tactile display, the number of UEs supporting haptic
service and the variety of senses they support are likely to increase quickly.
### 4.3.3 Haptic information format
While more and more handsets supporting haptic senses are available, a
standardized haptic information representation formats should be developed for
haptic services. The absence of standardized haptic information representation
formats has prevented possible applications from being developed in
telecommunication networks. While there are some standardization activities
outside 3GPP, efficient and clear representation for telecommunication
services need to be defined. [^1]
### 4.3.4 Telecommunication networks
Without the standardized haptic information format and the related protocols,
telecommunication networks are not yet ready support haptic service. Therefore
the haptic information representation formats and the protocols for their
delivery through telecommunication networks should be the main focus of
standardization.
## 4.4 Service Concept
Haptic service requires the delivery of haptic information from the sending
party, either user or the network, to the receiving party(s). An application
in the receiving party's UE converts haptic information to perceivable haptic
feedback.
The kind of haptic sense is not limited, as long as the UE is able to generate
the sense. Examples of haptic senses include, but are not limited to,
vibrotactile sense, shear sense, thermal sense, and pneumatic sense.
As haptic can be combined with other senses or can even replace other senses
that have been used in delivering messages, theoretically every service in
telecommunication can incorporate haptic.
Below several categorizations of haptic services are introduced.
1\. By the timing of haptic information delivery:
\- Asynchronous (alert message, SMS enriched with haptic information, ...)
\- Synchronous (haptic information shared in real time during communication
between two persons)
2\. By the entity that initiates the delivery of haptic information:
\- Network-initiated services
\- User-initiated services
3\. By the stage of communication:
Table 1: Category of Haptic Service
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Category | Description | Expected Needs | Examples | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1. Idle | Status when a | - Receive | | | Status | subscriber | relevant, but | | | | does not | not critical | | | | engage in any | information, | | | | communication | in not | | | | activity | intrusive way | | | | through | | | | | tel | | | | | ecommunication | | | | | network | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2. Connecting | The status | - Express | - Customized | | Status | when a calling | unique | alerting | | | subscriber is | identity when | haptic service | | | establishing | calling or | | | | connection to | identify the | | | | a receiving | caller without | | | | subscriber, | directly | | | | | checking the | | | | | screen or | | | | | sound through | | | | | speaker | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3. Calling | The status | - Express | - Haptic | | Status | when a | one's message | emoticon | | | subscriber is | and sentiment | delivery | | | engaged in a | in a richer | service | | | communication | and more | | | | activity | delicate way | - Call | | | through | through haptic | waiting haptic | | | tel | information | service | | | ecommunication | | | | | network, such | - Receive | | | | as voice call | important | | | | or SMS | signals from | | | | | the network | | | | | during the | | | | | call | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 5 Use Case
## 5.1 Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service
### 5.1.1 Description
The Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service is a service that delivers haptic
information or 'haptic emoticon' during communication. According to the type
of communication, the Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service can be divided into
synchronous service and asynchronous service. An example of synchronous
service is the Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service in a voice/video call, and
that of asynchronous service is the Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service in
messaging services, such as SMS, MMS, and IM service.
Firstly in a voice or video call, the Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service helps
the sending party to express a certain feeling, emotion, or other information
implicitly by the haptic feedback generated in the receiving party, while
talking during the voice or video call. The example of such haptic feedback
includes a heartbeat or laughter.
Secondly when a subscriber is communicating via SMS, MMS or IM service, the
Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service allows the sending party to express a certain
feeling, emotion, or other information implicitly by the haptic feedback
generated in the receiving party when the receiving party checks the message.
The example of such haptic feedback includes a heartbeat or laughter.
### 5.1.2 Procedure
For an illustrative purpose, suppose two subscribers, Joe and Sally, are
engaged in a voice or video call.
\- While talking, Joe wants to express his joy by generating haptic feedback
that represents 'laughter' in Sally's UE.
\- Joe initiates the intended Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service by shaking his
UE vertically for example.
\- An application in the Joe's UE recognizes the movement, and notifies the
network that it should deliver haptic information that represents laughter to
Sally's UE.
\- The network delivers the haptic information to Sally's UE.
\- When Sally's UE receives the incoming haptic information from the network,
the application in the Sally's UE generates haptic feedback based on the
haptic information.
\- As a consequence, Sally receives the haptic feedback representing Joe's
emotion while talking.
The service procedure in messaging is slightly different.
\- While sending SMS or MMS or talking through the IM service, Joe wants to
express his joy by generating haptic feedback that represents 'laughter' in
Sally's UE when Sally checks the message.
\- In order for the network to deliver to the Sally's UE the haptic
information that represents 'laughter', Joe attaches the text string such as
'/laughter/' within the message.
\- The network delivers the haptic information to Sally's UE.
\- When Sally checks the message, the application in the Sally's UE generates
haptic feedback based on the incoming haptic information from the network.
\- As a consequence, Sally receives the haptic feedback representing Joe's
emotion while receiving SMS, MMS, or IM message.
### 5.1.3 Requirements
When the sending party attempts to send haptic information to the receiving
party(s), for example by shaking the UE or mobile-initiated USSD operation,
the network should support the delivery of the haptic information.
When the sending party wants the receiving party's UE to generate haptic
feedback, the network should deliver the haptic information along with the
original message.
### 5.1.4 Benefits
In a voice or video call, the Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service helps to
express the sending party's feeling or emotion by the haptic feedback
generated in the receiving party's UE. Such implicit way of expression
supplements voice or visual call that they are engaged in, providing joyful
experience while delivering the speaker's intention more effectively.
When sending a message, the Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service helps to express
and deliver the sending party's feeling or emotion by the haptic feedback
generated in the receiving party's UE. It supplements SMS, MMS, or IM message
that the sending party is sending, by delivering the speaker's emotions more
clearly.
## 5.2 Customized Alerting Haptic Service
### 5.2.1 Description
The Customized Alerting Haptic Service enables a subscriber to replace the
default alerting ring back tone and customized alerting tone into customized
alerting haptic feedback, a multimodal tone that combines haptic with sound,
video and other senses altogether.
### 5.2.2 Procedure
The subscriber (either the called party or the calling party) subscribes and
activates the Customized Alerting Haptic Service to change his or her active
Customized Alerting Haptic feedback. Here it is assumed that the called party
has a priority in playing Customized Alerting Haptic feedback, but it is the
network operator's policy whether the called or the calling party has the
priority.
When the calling party tries to establish a call channel to the called party,
a Customized Alerting Haptic information is sent to the called party's UE,
along with the notification about the incoming call.
The called party's UE receives the Customized Alerting Haptic information from
the network and generates Customized Alerting Haptic feedback accordingly.
When the called party answers the call, the network stops sending Customized
Alerting Haptic information and the conversation begins.
### 5.2.3 Requirements
The calling party's operator should be able to configure from which party the
Customized Alerting Haptic should have the priority.
The Customized Alerting Haptic shall override the default set alerting tone
towards the calling subscriber.
The operator should provide the Customized Alerting Haptic library in the home
network to store subscriber's Customized Alerting Haptic information.
The Customized Alerting Haptic information that is sent to the calling party
or the called party can be chosen from the Customized Alerting Haptic library
according to the rules such as time, the identity and the location of each
party.
The network should store the User Profile including UE capability. Based on
the information, appropriate haptic information that the UE can interpret is
sent.
The network should send Customized Alerting Haptic information to the called
party's UE when the calling party tries to establish the call channel to the
called party.
The service subscriber can activate and de-activate their Customized Alerting
Haptic Service. For activation and de-activation, the service subscriber may
employ USSD commands, SMS, IVR or other means.
### 5.2.4 Benefits
If the calling party has the priority, the benefit is as follows.
\- While waiting for the called party to answer a call, the calling party can
enjoy the Customized Alerting Haptic feedback that he/she chooses.
\- The calling party can notice the exact moment when the call connection is
made to the called party simply by holding the UE and perceiving that the
haptic feedback stops generating. Such feature is useful for someone who is
reluctant to put the UE into his/her ear closely because of the concern about
the electronic wave, for example.
If the called party has the priority, the benefit is as follows.
\- The called party can express their individual character by sending the
haptic feedback to the calling party.
\- The calling party can notice the exact moment when the call connection is
made to the called party simply by holding the UE and perceiving that the
haptic feedback stops generating. Such feature is useful for someone who is
reluctant to put the UE into his/her ear closely because of the concern about
the electronic wave, or because of the willingness to avoid annoying sound of
ring back tone, for example.
## 5.3 Call Waiting Alerting Haptic Service
### 5.3.1 Description
The Call Waiting Alerting Haptic Service permits a subscriber to be notified
of an incoming call by haptic feedback when the subscriber is engaged in an
active or holding a call.
### 5.3.2 Procedure
For an illustrative purpose, let's suppose there are three subscribers: Joe,
Sally and Tom.
\- Joe is a subscriber who is provided by the network with the Call Waiting
Alerting Haptic Service and who reacts to Call Waiting.
\- Sally is a subscriber who originated a call to Joe which causes the Call
Waiting Alerting Haptic Service to be initiated.
\- Tom is a subscriber who is engaged in a call with Joe, either being the
calling or the receiving party.
Joe is subscribed to the Call Waiting Alerting Haptic Service and his UE
supports the play of haptic feedback
The normal flow for Call Waiting Alerting Haptic Service is as follows.
\- Joe is engaged in a call with Tom.
\- Sally calls Joe.
\- Joe is notified by haptic feedback that someone has called him.
\- If Joe responds to Sally's call, a new call between Joe and Sally is
established.
### 5.3.3 Requirements
The network should store haptic information that can generate haptic feedback
which notifies of an incoming call.
The network should store the User Profile including UE capability on whether
the UE can interpret the appropriate haptic information or not.
The network should be able to send haptic information to the UE.
The network sends haptic information to the UE only if the UE can interpret
the haptic information and generate haptic feedback accordingly.
The network should allow the subscribers to set different haptic information
to each potential caller, so that the subscriber can identify the caller
simply by holding the UE.
The service subscriber can activate and de-activate his Call Waiting Alerting
Haptic Service. For activation and de-activation, the service subscriber may
employ USSD commands, SMS, IVR or other means.
### 5.3.4 Benefits
Joe can perceive the Call Waiting Haptic Feedback much easier compared to the
current Call Waiting Service that relies on beeping, especially when Joe is
located in a noisy environment. In addition, it will not interrupt the current
conversation since the message does not include any sound. Therefore, the Call
Waiting Haptic Feedback enables seamless communication during the call even
when the network notifies that another call is waiting to answer.
Moreover, if it is supported that a subscriber can set a different form of
haptic information to each potential caller, then the subscriber can identify
the caller simply by holding the UE.
## 5.4 Accident or Health Crisis Haptic Service
### 5.4.1 Description
A UE may be dropped accidentally or the user may have a greater or lesser
health crisis that results in the user falling. Acceleration profiles may be
used to assess which of several possible scenarios have taken place and then
initiate appropriate action to verify the situation and to bring help if
needed.
### 5.4.2 Procedure
A user may elect to subscribe to a the "Accident or Health Crisis Haptic
Service" in which case the user may choose to indicate in the subscription
information on health conditions that may lead to a fall, and may also
indicate who is to be called should a fall occur.
Independent of the above subscription, a UE may experience downward
acceleration followed by sudden and possibly severe deceleration (the UE hits
the floor) or lesser deceleration (the user falling cushions the UE from the
more severe impact of the UE hitting the floor directly.) To distinguish among
possible alternative causes, the application in the UE assesses whether:
\- the UE was dropped (there is an upward vertical acceleration soon
afterwards (i.e., there is a "recovery" acceleration profile following the
"dropped UE" acceleration profile); or
\- the user had a lesser health crisis of some sort (the vertical deceleration
was not as severe as in the "dropped" case and there is a "recovery"
acceleration profile detected which may be delayed or slower or both compared
to the "dropped UE" profile); or
\- the user had a significant health crisis of some sort (possibly the
vertical deceleration was not as severe as in the "dropped" case and there was
no "recovery" acceleration detected.)
If the sequence of accelerations is clearly a "dropped UE" instance, do
nothing. Alternatively, the UE may indicate to the user that it has detected a
"dropped UE" instance and request verification that this is the case to avoid
a "false positive" interpretation as a health crisis.
If the sequence of accelerations appears to be a lesser health crisis (a
"recovery" is detected), alert the user with an appropriate indication and
await a response. If there is no response, treat as a significant health
crisis.
If the sequence of accelerations appears to be a significant health crisis (no
"recovery" is detected), consult the subscriber's profile and connect the user
to the appropriate response agency or authority indicating the reason for the
call and providing geographic position information. Interaction between the
user and the agency will determine whether help (e.g., an ambulance) is sent.
### 5.4.3 Requirements
The UE is fitted with accelerometers configured to detect sudden accelerations
and an application that can assess the severity and direction as inputs to a
decision process on the type of event that has occurred.[^2] The application
may be located in UE or the network. If in the network, appropriate data
transfer to the network entity where the application resides would be
required.
The network stores health crisis contact information for use when a health
crisis event is detected. This information should be stored as part of or be
associated with the user profile.
The subscriber should be able to cancel an instance of this haptic service
based on a response to the UE indicating it has detected what may be an event
that would cause it to alert appropriate assistance services.
### 5.4.4 Benefits
This service enables rapid response to a health crisis. It can initiate a
response even if the user is incapacitated by the crisis. This is especially
useful to individuals living alone as a health crisis might otherwise not be
discovered for some time.
# 6 High level service requirements
## 6.1 General requirements
General requirements for haptic services are as follows:
> \- Either the user or the network may initiate haptic services.
>
> \- The network may store a set of haptic information, among which one will
> be chosen and delivered to the remote party.
\- The network should deliver such haptic information within existing
communication services including both real time services (e.g. Multimedia
Call/Conferences) and non real time services (e.g. SMS, MMS).
In addition, it shall be supported for subscribers to activate or deactivate
the service.
\- Both the local and the remote party shall be able to activate and
deactivate the haptic service.
\- When the local party deactivates haptic service, the network should not
send haptic information.
\- When the remote party deactivates haptic service, the haptic information
should be ignored.
Finally, the haptic services shall not affect the service of other services.
\- If the haptic information cannot be delivered to the remote party, or the
haptic feedback cannot be generated in the remote party, the remaining
services except haptic service shall be provided
\- Even in case haptic service is unavailable for some reason (e.g. failure of
delivery of the haptic information, wrong delivery of haptic information to
the UE without haptic feedback capability, etc), the services other than
haptic service shall be still provided.
## 6.2 Network requirements
This section describes the network requirements for haptic service. The scope
of network includes both fixed and mobile networks.
\- The network shall be able to send haptic information for haptic services.
\- The network shall be able to decide the haptic service availability based
on the UE capabilities of the remote party.
\- The network shall deliver haptic information which the remote party
supports.
\- The network shall be able to generate haptic information based on a pre-
defined set of haptic actions and user created haptic actions.
\- The network shall not send haptic information if either the local party or
the remote party deactivates the haptic service.
\- The network shall generate and store data for charging. (e.g. CDR)
## 6.3 UE requirements
This section describes the UE requirements to provide haptic services.
\- The UE shall be able to provide the network with its capability information
such as what haptic sense it can send and receive.
\- The UE shall be able to send haptic information via the network.
\- The UE with haptic capability shall be able to generate haptic feedback
according to haptic information.
\- The UE may ignore the received haptic information when the haptic
information is out of its capability.
## 6.4 Interworking requirements
In case haptic services are provided via interworking between different
domains, (i.e. mobile networks, IMS mobile and fixed networks), the followings
should be supported.
  * UE capability should be exchanged between domains.
  * Haptic information may be transcoded to be delivered between domains.
## 6.5 Data description requirements
The network and UE shall have a standardized way of data description for
haptic information in common. This allows a standardized access and handling
of the data. The specific representation of such data is out of the scope of
3GPP specifications. For illustration purpose, an example of the data
description for haptic information is shown below.
\- Haptic Type (e.g. type of haptic sense such as vibration, thermal sense)
\- Haptic Feedback Data (parameters of haptic sense such as amplitude, length,
cycles etc)
## 6.6 Charging requirements
Depending on the network operator's policy various charging models can be
supported. Examples of charging models are presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Examples of charging models
* * *
Index Charging models Description 1 Flat rate Fixed (for example monthly) sum
is charged for the haptic service.The amount of usage may be limited by the
quota. 2 Fee for purchasing predefined haptic information A subscriber is
charged by the system when he purchases a predefined set of haptic
information. 3 Fee for sending haptic information A subscriber is charged when
he sends haptic information to the remote party. 4 Fee for changing service
configuration A subscriber may be charged when he changes or updates his
setting.
* * *
The network should generate the charging-related data such invocation date and
time, local and remote parties, haptic types, etc.
# 7 Relation to Open Mobile Allicance (OMA)
As mentioned above, a standardized representation of haptic information should
be developed for haptic service. Even though a common platform for haptic
services enables network operators and 3^rd^ party service providers to
deliver various haptic information, the absence of a standardized
representation of haptic information may prevent possible applications from
being developed in telecommunication networks.
Therefore, 3GPP should work closely with OMA in order to define a standardized
representation of haptic information. 3GPP should play a significant role in
defining architecture, protocols, and other requirements from the viewpoint of
network and service providers. But it should also work closely with OMA to
define what data format works best for the representation of various types of
input and outputs, and different UE capabilities.
# 8 Conclusion
This Technical Report aims to evaluate the benefits and the technical
feasibility of haptic services in telecommunication networks. Broadening the
type of human senses that telecommunications may bring in to play, haptic
services have the potential to enrich user experience as identified in the use
cases such as Haptic Emoticon Delivery Service and Haptic Customized Alerting
Tone Service.
This Technical Report identifies the potential requirements to implement
haptic services over telecommunication networks regarding network, UE, inter-
working, data description, and charging perspectives. This Technical Report
also recommends the collaboration with other standardization bodies such as
OMA or ISO TC 159, etc in defining application level haptic information. To
conclude, this study has identified potential requirements for haptic services
and their implementation that may lead to other TS or CRs.
#