# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The railway community is considering a successor communication system to
GSM-R, as the forecasted obsolescence of the 2G-based GSM-R technology is
envisaged around 2030, with first FRMCS trial implementations expected to
start around 2020.
The Future Railway Mobile Communication System (FRMCS) Functional Working
Group (FWG) of the International Union of Railways (UIC) have investigated and
summarised their requirements for the next generation railway communication
system in the Future Railway Mobile Communication User Requirements
Specification (FRMCS URS) [2]. **The present document is based on this input
given by the UIC/** ETSI TC-RT NG2R
# 1 Scope
**The present document** analyses FRMCS Use cases, system principles of FRMCS
and Interworking between GSM-R and FRMCS in order to derive potential
requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.213 V14.0.0, Technical Specification Group Radio Access
Network; Evolved Universal Terrestrial radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical layer
procedures, 2016.
[3] 3GPP TS 23.179 V13.3.0, Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Functional architecture and information flows to support mission
critical communication services; Stage 2. 2016.
[4] TTA PG905, TTAK.KO-06.0407: \"LTE based Railway Communication System
Requirements (Conventional and High Speed Railway)\", TTA, Apr. 2016
[5] 3GPP TS 36.305 v13.0.0: \" Stage 2 functional specification of User
Equipment (UE) positioning in E-UTRAN\", Dec. 2015
[6] TTAI.KO-06.407/R1: "LTE based Railway Communication System Requirements
(Conventional and High Speed Railway", December, 2016.
# 3 Definitions, and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
TRS Trunked Radio System
# 4 Overview
FRMCS will adapt 3GPP transport to provide communication to railway users. It
eventually will resemble GSM-R and will additionally provide communication
capabilities beyond what GSM-R was able to. It will provide higher data rates,
lower data latencies, multimedia communication and improved communication
reliability. FRMCS considers end-to-end use cases and also provides
application layer requirements that might or might not be in scope of 3GPP
work. To facilitate smooth migration from GSM-R to FRMCS interworking
requirements between GSM-R and FRMCS are provided.
{width="6.730555555555555in" height="3.2930555555555556in"}
Editor's Note: Explanation to be provided
# 5 Basic functionality use cases
Editor's Note: Some text needed explaining the general nature of the U/C
listed here
## 5.1 Device power on and shut-down related use cases
In this chapter the use cases related to the function Initialisation and shut-
down are defined.
  * Power on the UE
  * Access to the FRMCS system Controlled power down UE
  * Uncontrolled power down UE
Note: For examples of role management, like functional identities, FRMCS
equipment identities, etc. in the railway environment, see annex A.
Note: For details on these use cases please refer to Annex 2 "Background
Information on Basic Functionality use cases"
## 5.2 Use case: Power on the UE
### 5.2.1 Description
This use case provides the user with a powered on UE.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The UE is switched off.
Note: In this use case and all the following it is assumed the UE contains a
FRMCS application, thus an UE with FRMCS application is further referred to as
FRMCS equipment.
### 5.2.3 Service flows
**Successful self-test**
The user switches on the UE.
The FRMCS application performs a self-test. If the test is successful, the
user is informed about this.
**Unsuccessful self-test**
The user switches on the UE.
The FRMCS application performs a self-test. If the test is not successful, the
user is informed about this.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The UE is switched on and attached to a 3GPP network following normal 3GPP
defined network selection procedures but not logged into any FRMCS system. The
user is informed about the results of the self-test.
### 5.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-5.2.5-001] The FRMCS application shall be capable to perform a self-test
and inform the user about the results.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
## 5.3 Use case: Access to the FRMCS system to activate the FRMCS equipment
### 5.3.1 Description
This use case describes how the FRMCS equipment registers to the FRMCS system.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The UE is powered on and attached to a 3GPP network but is not registered to
the FRMCS system.
The UE has a subscriber identity.
### 5.3.3 Service flows
The FRMCS equipment selects an applicable FRMCS system and logs on to it
The FRMCS equipment is initialised by the FRMCS system according to its type.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS equipment capabilities are activated.
The FRMCS application(s) are running on the device.
The FRMCS equipment is logged in to the FRMCS system
### 5.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-5.3.5-001] When a FRMCS equipment registers to the FRMCS system, the FRMCS
equipment capabilities are activated and the FRMCS equipment shall be
reachable by its FRMCS equipment identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
## 5.4 Use case: Controlled power down of UE
### 5.4.1 Description
The UE is powered down.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The UE is switched on and the FRMCS equipment is registered to the FRMCS
system.
### 5.4.3 Service flows
The user / FRMCS-user initiates power-down of the UE.
If logged in a FRMCS-user is logged-out from the FRMCS system.
The FRMCS equipment will deregister all identities which are active.
The FRMCS equipment de-registers from the FRMCS system.
The UE is switched off.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
The UE is de-registered from the FRMCS system and switched off.
### 5.4.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-5.4.5-001] When the UE is about to be powered down, a FRMCS-user logged
into the FRMCS system shall be logged off first.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-5.4.5-002] By logging off the functional role of a FRMCS-user shall be
deregistered from the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-5.4.5-003] After logging off the FRMCS-user, the FRMCS equipment
capabilities shall be deactivated and the FRMCS equipment shall be removed
from the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
## 5.5 Use case: Uncontrolled power down UE
### 5.5.1 Description
This use case describes the case when the UE is powered down in an
uncontrolled way e.g. due to battery failure.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The UE is switched on, the FRMCS equipment is registered to the FRMCS system.
### 5.5.3 Service flows
The UE loses power probably without being able to notify the FRMCS system.
The UE is without power.
The FRMCS system will deregister all identities associated with the FRMCS
equipment.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The UE is de-registered from the FRMCS system and switched off.
### 5.5.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-5.5.5-001] When the UE is uncontrolled powered down, a FRMCS-user logged
into the FRMCS system shall be logged out from the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-5.5.5-002] By logging out the functional role of the FRMCS-user shall be
deregistered from the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
## 6 Critical communication applications related use cases
## 7 Performance communication applications related use cases
## 7.1 Use cases related to transmission of real time video
Editors Note:\ UIC FWG to check applicability of placement of use case to
section 7.3\ Latency requirement missing to specify real-time treatment by the
3GPP transport system.\ Clarification on multiple access towards the train to
stream the video.
### 7.1.1 Introduction
In this subclause, the use cases related to the function of transmitting video
in real time are defined.
\- An FRMCS user requesting another FRMCS user to transmit real time video
\- An FRMCS user receiving a request to transmit real time video
\- An FRMCS user accepting a request to transmit real time video
\- An FRMCS user rejecting a request to transmit real time video
\- An FRMCS user ignoring a request to transmit real time video
### 7.1.2 Use Case: An FRMCS user requesting another FRMCS user to transmit
real time video
#### 7.1.2.1 Description
An FRMCS user can request another FRMCS user to transmit real time video.
#### 7.1.2.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS user has a functional role entitled to request other FRMCS users to
transmit real time video.
The requested FRMCS user can be addressed by the assigned functional
identity(ies), FRMCS user identity, or FRMCS equipment identity.
The FRMCS equipment of the requested user is capable of providing video
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether the requested FRMCS user can be addressed by
a phone number of an external/public network.
#### 7.1.2.3 Service flows
**Requesting FRMCS user**
From a list of FRMCS users provided by the FRMCS system, or by entering an
unlisted identity, the requesting FRMCS user selects another FRMCS user to be
invited. The list may contain functional identities, FRMCS user identities,
FRMCS equipment identities, or phone numbers.
#### 7.1.2.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS user has been requested transmission of real time video.
#### 7.1.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-7.1.2.5-001] The FRMCS system shall enable an entitled FRMCS-user to
request another FRMCS user to transmit video in real time.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
[R-7.1.2.5-002] The FRMCS system shall provide a list of identities for the
requesting FRMCS user to select from. The list may contain functional
identities, FRMCS user identities, FRMCS equipment identities or E.164
numbers.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
[R-7.1.2.5-003] The real time video request shall either be based on the
functional identity, FRMCS user identity, FRMCS equipment identity or E.164
number.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is partly covered by MCCore requirements, new
types of identities need to be supported.]
### 7.1.3 Use Case: An FRMCS user receiving a real time video request to
transmit real time video
#### 7.1.3.1 Description
An FRMCS user will receive a real time video request originated by the
requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.3.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS user has a functional role that is entitled to receive real time
video request from other FRMCS users.
The FRMCS user's equipment has a capability to capture real time video.
NOTE: Examples of role management, like functional roles, functional
identities, FRMCS equipment identities, etc. in the railway environment are
covered by Annex A.
The FRMCS user may or may not be transmitting real time video to an FRMCS user
different from the requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.3.3 Service flows
**Requested FRMCS user**
The real time video request is indicated to the FRMCS user by audible and
visual notification. If the FRMCS user is not managed by a human, the audible
and visual notification is not necessary.
#### 7.1.3.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS user has received the real time video request.
Ongoing real time video transmission of the requested FRMCS user continues
unaffected.
#### 7.1.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-7.1.3.5-001] The FRMCS system shall be able to deliver requests for real
time video to a FRMCS user entitled to provide real time video independent of
the FRMCS user being involved in another ongoing real time video transmission
without excessively using radio resources.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
### 7.1.4 Use case: An FRMCS user accepting a request to transmit real time
video
#### 7.1.4.1 Description
An FRMCS user can accept the invitation sent by the requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.4.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS user has received a request to transmit real time video.
#### 7.1.4.3 Service flows
**Requested FRMCS user**
The FRMCS user accepts the request to transmit real time video.
**Requesting FRMCS user**
The FRMCS user receives a notification that the requested FRMCS user accepted
the request.
#### 7.1.4.4 Post-conditions
The requested FRMCS user captures and transmits video in real time to the
requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.4.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-7.1.4.5-001] The FRMCS user shall be able to accept to accept a real time
video transmission request.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
[R-7.1.4.5-002] If entitled to, a FRMCS user shall be able to provide real
time video captured by itself to the FRMCS user requesting the video.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
### 7.1.5 Use case: An FRMCS user rejecting a request to transmit real time
video
#### 7.1.5.1 Description
An FRMCS user can reject the invitation sent by the requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.5.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS user has received a request to transmit real time video.
#### 7.1.5.3 Service flows
**Requested FRMCS user**
The FRMCS user rejects the request to transmit real time video.
**Requesting FRMCS user**
The FRMCS user receives a notification that the requested FRMCS user rejected
the request.
#### 7.1.5.4 Post-conditions
The requested FRMCS user does not transmit video to the requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.5.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-7.1.5.5-001] The FRMCS user shall be able to reject a real time video
transmission request.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
[R-7.1.5.5-002] The FRMCS system shall automatically reject requests to FRMCS
users not entitled to provide video or not capable of providing video (e.g. no
camera in the FRMCS equipment).
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
[R-7.1.5.5-003] The requesting FRMCS user shall be notified of the reason for
rejection.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
### 7.1.6 Use case: An FRMCS user ignoring a request to transmit real time
video
#### 7.1.6.1 Description
An FRMCS user can ignore the invitation sent by the requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.6.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS user has received a request to transmit real time video.
#### 7.1.6.3 Service flows
The requested FRMCS user does not respond.
The timeout expires.
The requesting FRMCS user receives a notification that the invitation was
rejected due to a timeout.
#### 7.1.6.4 Post-conditions
The requested FRMCS user does not transmit video to the requesting FRMCS user.
#### 7.1.6.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-7.1.6.5-001] The FRMCS user shall be able to ignore a real time video
transmission request.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
[R-7.1.6.5-002] The requesting FRMCS user shall be notified accordingly.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
## 7.2 Transfer of CCTV archives related use cases
Editors Note: UIC FWG to check applicability of placement of use case to
section 7.2
### 7.2.1 Introduction
In this chapter, the use cases related to CCTV and the use of FRMCS are
defined.
  * Transfer of CCTV archives from Train to Ground
  * Massive Inter-carriage data transfer
### 7.2.2 Use Case: Bulk Transfer of CCTV archives from Train to Ground
#### 7.2.2.1 Description
This use case describes the bulk transfer of CCTV archives from the on-board
system to the ground system. This use case assumes the following:
  * The retention time for the recordings in the on-board system is seven days.
  * The minimum retention time for the CCTV recordings in the ground system is 31 days.
  * Bulk transfer of CCTV archives is performed only when train approaches stations in order to stop and at the depot.
An example calculation of the CCTV storage need during 31 days period is
provided in Figure.7.2.2.1-1.
{width="6.0625in" height="4.136805555555555in"}
Figure.7.2.2.1-1. Onboard CCTV storage sizes with different offload rates.
Next, an example estimation is provided to illustrate the offload performance
with different uplink speeds, when the train is commuting from Helsinki to
Kemijärvi. The parameters for the calculation are provided in Table 1, whereas
the offload results for uplink speeds of 400 Mbps, 750 Mbps and 1000 Mbps are
provided respectively in Figure 7.2.2.1-2, Figure 7.2.2.1-3 and in Figure
7.2.2.1-4.
* * *
**Station** **Arrives** **Departs** **Stop time** **Time between stations**
HELSINKI 18:52  
PASILA 18:57 19:00 0:03 0:08 TIKKURILA 19:41 19:44 0:03 0:44 RIIHIMÄKI 20:19
20:22 0:03 0:38 HÄMEENLINNA 20:46 20:48 0:02 0:26 TAMPERE 21:38 22:11 0:33
1:23 PARKANO 23:03 23:06 0:03 0:55 SEINÄJOKI 0:08 0:10 0:02 1:04 KOKKOLA 1:37
1:39 0:02 1:29 YLIVIESKA 3:10 3:12 0:02 1:33 OULU 4:42 5:00 0:18 1:48 KEMI
6:08 6:12 0:04 1:12 ROVANIEMI 7:47 7:55 0:08 1:43 MISI 8:31 8:32 0:01 0:37
KEMIJÄRVI 9:00 9:05 0:05 0:33
* * *
Table 7.2.2.1-1. The parameters for the offload calculation for the train
route between Helsinki and Kemijärvi.
{width="6.282638888888889in" height="3.584722222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1-2. The offload results with uplink speed of 450 Mbps.
{width="6.282638888888889in" height="3.53125in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1-3. The offload results with uplink speed of 750 Mbps.
{width="6.226388888888889in" height="3.498611111111111in"}
**Figure 7.2.2.1-4. The offload results with uplink speed of 1000 Mbps.**
#### 7.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
  * Bulk transfer of CCTV archives is performed only when the train stops at the stations.
  * Mobile communication infrastructure between train and ground system enables transfer of CCTV archives from train to the ground system while the train stops at the stations.
  * The ground system supports sufficient archiving system for the transferred recordings.
#### 7.2.2.3 Service flows
1\. The train approaches the station.
2\. Mobile communication system in train establishes connection dedicated for
the transfer of CCTV archives with the ground system at a priority level
allowing critical communication to continue in parallel
3\. The transfer of CCTV archives is started upon successful connection with
the ground system.
4\. The transfer of CCTV archives is stopped when the connection is no longer
available.
#### 7.2.2.4 Post-conditions
  * The on-board CCTV system may re-write over the seven days and older recordings that have been transferred.
  * The on-board mobile communication system remains monitoring the next approach of station.
#### 7.2.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-7.2.5.5-001] The FRMCS system shall be able to support that CCTV archives
can be transferred into the ground system in a time and resource efficient way
with a minimum of 1 Gbps in dedicated places such as stations or train depots
.
[R-7.2.5.5-002] Transferring CCTV archives shall not affect mission critical
communication .
NOTE: Transferring CCTV archives is not considered to be a mission critical
service.
## 7.3 Use Case: Massive Inter-carriage data transfer
### 7.3.1 Description
This use case describes the transfer of CCTV archives inside the train from
different storages and through Inter-carriage links into the FRMCS node
providing the uplink connection with the ground system.
### 7.3.2 Pre-conditions
  * Mobile communication infrastructure between train and ground system enables transfer of CCTV archives from train to the ground system while the train stops at the stations.
  * The ground system supports sufficient archiving system for the transferred recordings.
  * The Inter-carriage links support the same throughput speed as the FRMCS node providing the uplink.
### 7.3.3 Service flows
Mobile communication system in train establishes connection between carriages
of the train dedicated for the transfer of CCTV archives to a central node in
the train form which the uplink to the ground system will take place.
### 7.3.4 Post-conditions
  * Recording capacity is freed up in the carriages .
### 7.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-7.3.5-001] The FRMCS system shall facilitate the onboard CCTV communication
between carriages of a train, to collect CCTV content at one place on the
train for transfer to the ground system.
[R-7.3.5-002] The onboard CCTV communication between carriages of a train
shall not impact mission critical communication
NOTE: Transferring CCTV archives is not considered to be a mission critical
service.
## 8 Business communication applications related use cases
Editors Note: Grouping of the use cases below need to be reconsidered -- main
heading seems not suitable
# 9 Critical support applications related use cases
## 9.1 Overview
Editor\'s Note: GAP Analysis to be concluded and put into the right format
Critical applications are essential for train movements, safety, shunting,
presence, trackside maintenance, legal aspects such as emergency
communications, etc
## 9.2 Assured voice communication (AVC)
### 9.2.1 Introduction
In this chapter the use cases related to the function of assured voice
communication are defined. Assured Voice Communication (AVC) shall provide an
indication to FRMCS-users as soon as a voice communication link is
interrupted. It is invoked on an existing voice communication between two or
more FRMCS-users.
The following use cases are defined:
\- Invocation of AVC
\- Stopping AVC
\- Degradation of a communication link
\- Extension of AVC
### 9.2.2 Use case: Invocation of Assured Voice Communication
#### 9.2.2.1 Description
This use case describes the invocation of Assured Voice Communication.
#### 9.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
A FRMCS-user is part of a voice communication with one or more FRMCS-users for
which Assured Voice Communication can be invoked either automatically or
manually.
#### 9.2.2.3 Service flows
**Automatic Invocation**
Upon establishment of a voice communication for which automatic AVC is
activated, AVC will be invoked by the FRMCS system.
The involved FRMCS-users are informed about the successful activation of AVC.
**Manual Invocation**
The user invokes AVC in the FRMCS system.
The involved FRMCS-users are informed about the successful activation of AVC.
#### 9.2.2.4 Post-conditions
The voice communication links of all FRMCS-users involved in the communication
are supervised.
#### 9.2.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.2.2.5-001] Upon establishment of a voice communication for which
automatic AVC is activated, AVC shall be invoked by the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be covered yet by existing
3GPP requirements.]
[R-9.2.2.5-002] If entitled, a FRMCS-user shall be able to invoke AVC
manually.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be covered yet by existing
3GPP requirements.]
### 9.2.3 Use case: Stopping Assured Voice Communication
#### 9.2.3.1 Description
This use case describes the deactivation of the communication link
supervision.
#### 9.2.3.2 Pre-conditions
A FRMCS-user is part of a voice communication with one or more FRMCS-users for
which Assured Voice Communication was invoked.
#### 9.2.3.3 Service flows
**Automatic stopping**
If the ongoing voice communication is terminated by one of the involved users,
the Assured Voice Communication is stopped.
The involved FRMCS-users are informed about the successful stop of AVC.
**Manual stopping**
The FRMCS user who has previously manually invoked AVC may stop AVC.
The involved FRMCS-users are informed about the successful stop of AVC.
#### 9.2.3.4 Post-conditions
**Automatic stopping**
The FRMCS-user is no longer part of a voice communication with one or more
FRMCS-users.
**Manual stopping**
The FRMCS-user is still part of a voice communication with one or more FRMCS-
users.
#### 9.2.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.2.3.5-001] If the voice communication is terminated stopping of AVC shall
be done by the FRMCS system automatically.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be covered yet by existing
3GPP functionality.]
[R-9.2.3.5-002] Only the FRMCS-user who requested the end-to-end supervision
shall be able to stop AVC.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be [covered]{.underline} yet
by existing 3GPP functionality.]
### 9.2.4 Use case: -- Interruption of a communication link
#### 9.2.4.1 Description
Alternative 1: The FRMCS system provides a so called negative notification to
the FRMCS-users as soon as voice communication link is interrupted.
Alternative 2: A positive notification will be given by the FRMCS system as
long as the voice communication link is unaffected.
#### 9.2.4.2 Pre-conditions
A FRMCS-user is part of a voice communication with one or more FRMCS-users.
AVC is invoked on all links of the voice communication.
#### 9.2.4.3 Service flows
**Positive Notification**
The FRMCS system continuously checks whether the voice communication links are
unaffected.
The FRMCS system indicates to all FRMCS-users involved in the voice
communication service is working properly e.g.by a periodic audio signal.
If a interruption of at least one of the communication links is detected, the
positive notification is immediately stopped.
If AVC itself fails, the positive notification shall be stopped immediately.
Active speech transmission shall suppress the positive notification to all
FRMCS-users involved.
Optionally all FRMCS-users have to confirm their availability periodically
(e.g. by pressing a button or by talking). If this confirmation is not
received, AVC shall be stopped immediately.
A FRMCS user terminating his participation in the voice communication shall
immediately stop AVC.
When AVC is stopped the ongoing voice communication is continued. Assured
Voice Communication may be reinvoked for the remaining FRMCS-users of the
ongoing voice communication.
**Negative Notification**
The FRMCS system continuously checks whether the voice communication links are
unaffected.
If a degradation of a voice communication link is detected the FRMCS system
warns all involved FRMCS-users, e.g. by generating a warning audio signal. If
possible, the FRMCS-user with the interrupted communication link shall also be
warned.
If AVC itself fails, the negative notification shall be given immediately e.g.
by a warning tone.
A FRMCS user terminating his participation in the voice communication shall
stop AVC and a negative notification shall be given immediately e.g. by a
warning tone.
Optionally all FRMCS-users have to confirm their availability periodically
(e.g. by pressing a button or by talking). If this confirmation is not
received, AVC shall be stopped and a negative notification shall be given
immediately e.g. by a warning tone.
When AVC is stopped the ongoing voice communication is continued. Assured
Voice Communication may be reinvoked for the remaining FRMCS-users of the
ongoing voice communication.
#### 9.2.4.4 Post-conditions
The voice communication between the remaining FRMCS-users continues.
#### 9.2.4.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.2.4.5-001] The FRMCS system shall be able to continuously supervise the
voice communication links to all involved FRMCS-users.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be covered yet by existing
3GPP requirements.]
[R-9.2.4.5-002] If a degradation of a voice communication link is detected,
the remaining FRMCS-users shall be informed. The ongoing voice communication
among the remaining FRMCS-users shall continue.
A FRMCS-user quitting the communication shall cause the AVC to stop.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be [ ]{.underline} covered yet
by existing 3GPP requirements.]
[R-9.2.4.5-003] The FRMCS system shall be able to inform the FRMCS users of a
interrupted voice communication link by either positive or negative
notification.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be covered yet by existing
3GPP requirements.]
[R-9.2.4.5-004] In case of positive notification all FRMCS users shall receive
a periodic audio signal while no voice communication is ongoing. Active speech
transmission shall supress the positive notification.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be covered yet by existing
3GPP requirements.]
[R-9.2.4.5-005] In case of negative notification all FRMCS users shall receive
an audio signal when a interrupted voice communication link is detected, the
AVC has failed or a FRMCS terminated his participation in the voice
communication.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be covered yet by existing
3GPP requirements.]
[R-9.2.4.5-006] Negative notification shall be stopped after acknowledgement
by all remaining FRMCS users in the voice communication.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement doesn't seem to be [ ]{.underline} covered yet
by existing 3GPP requirements.]
### 9.2.5 Use case: Extension of Assured Voice Communication
#### 9.2.5.1 Description
The assured voice communication application shall provide the ability to
extend an assured voice communication to a user who has joined an ongoing
communication.
#### 9.2.5.2 Pre-conditions
The use of Assured Voice Communication is activated for the ongoing voice
communication.
#### 9.2.5.3 Service flows
If a user joins an ongoing assured voice communication, the initiator of the
assured voice communication is informed. The joining user is not supervised
yet but is part of the communication.
The initiator shall have the option to extend the assured voice communication
to this new user.
#### 9.2.5.4 Post-conditions
If the assured voice communication is extended, the new user is supervised by
the assured voice communication.
If the assured voice communication is not extended to the new user, the new
user is not supervised by the assured voice communication, but remains part of
the existing ongoing communication.
#### 9.2.5.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.2.5.5-001] The initiator shall be able to extend the AVC to a new FRMCS
user in the communication.
[Gap Analysis:This requirement doesn't seem to be [ ]{.underline} covered yet
by existing 3GPP requirements.]
## 9.3 Role management and presence
### 9.3.1 Introduction
In this chapter the use cases related to role management and presence are
defined:
  * Registration to a functional identity
  * Deregistration of a functional identity
  * FRMCS-user changing functional identity
  * User log-in to the system
  * User log-out from the system
  * Presentation of identities
  * Interrogation of identities within a certain context
Examples of role management, like functional roles, functional identities,
FRMCS equipment identities, etc. in the railway environment are covered by
annex A.
Note: The FRMCS equipment further referred to in this section consists of a
3GPP UE on which the FRMCS application resides.
Editor\'s Note:\ The note above needs to be moved to definitions section\ Also
definition of functional identity etc. needs to be added to definitions
section
### 9.3.2 General pre-conditions
In order to fully understand the uses cases in this chapter, Figure 9.3.2-1
illustrates the different steps required to complete the registration process.
Figure 9.3.2-1: Example of role management
In this definition it is needed to make a distinction between different types
of end user devices. The following are, as a principle, defined:
a) Equipment without MMI, without the possibility to be addressed via a
functional identity related to the equipment (e.g. sensor in the track or
simple modem operation)
b) Equipment that can be registered to a functional identity related to the
equipment (e.g. maintenance log collecting device connected to a power
station) but without other FRMCS user login
c) Equipment that can be registered to a functional identity and that allows a
FRMCS user to login and register to functional identities related to the user
(e.g. cab radio)
d) Equipment that cannot register to a functional identity, but that allows a
FRMCs user to login and to register to functional identities related to the
user (e.g. a generic handheld device)
Steps:
  1. [UE-Power on]{.underline}: The end user device has started up and is attached to the FRMCS network on telecoms level. The end user device is reachable via its subscriber identity address.
  2. [Start FRMCS application]{.underline}: On the end user device the applicable FRMCS application(s) start up and are ready for use.
  3. [FRMCS equipment login]{.underline}: The equipment is logging in into the FRMCS system on application level.
  4. [Initialise equipment type]{.underline}: the type of equipment used is identified. This can be changed at any time depending on the use.
At this stage of the user flow four different routes can be followed, based on
the determined equipment type of the end user device.
_[Type a) "sensor":]{.underline}_
  * No action required. The FRMCS equipment is now reachable via its subscriber identity address.
After this step the process of registration is completed.
_[Type b) "PA":]{.underline}_
  * [Register to a functional number]{.underline}: the equipment will request for a registration on a functional number. This functional number is related to the equipment and identifies the device, like a PA system on a train.
  * [Functional identity added]{.underline}: the request for a functional identity is granted by the FRMCS system. The end user device is now reachable via its functional identity (and its subscriber identity address).
After this step the process of registration is completed.
_[Type c) "cab radio":]{.underline}_
  * [Register to a functional number]{.underline}: the user will request for a registration on a functional number. This functional number is related to the user and identifies where the equipment is used, like a cab radio in a cabin of a train.
  * [Functional identity added]{.underline}: the request for a functional identity is granted by the FRMCS system. The FRMCS equipment is now reachable via its functional identity related to the equipment (and its subscriber identity address).
_[Type d) "Handheld":]{.underline}_
  * For an equipment type like a handheld, it is likely that a functional registration will not take place related to the position.
Next, for both the types c) and d) the following steps apply:
  * [User login dialog]{.underline}: the user is presented with a log-in MMI action. The user can now login into the end user device via his credentials. This can be functional or personal.
  * [FRMCS-User]{.underline}: The user is now identified by the FRMCS system. The FRMCS equipment is now reachable via its user identity (and its functional identity related to the equipment, and its subscriber identity address).
  * [Register to a functional number]{.underline}: the user will request for a registration on a functional number. This functional number is related to the user and identifies where the equipment is used, like a cab radio in a cabin of a train.
  * [Functional identity added]{.underline}: the request for a functional identity is granted by the FRMCS system. The FRMCS equipment is now reachable via its functional identity related to the user (and its functional identity related to the equipment, and its user identity, and its subscriber identity address).
After this step the process of registration is completed.
Note: Use cases related to power up the UE until complete initialisation of
the equipment type are covered in chapter 5.
#### 9.3.2.1 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.3.2.1-001] The FRMCS system shall be able to make use of the underlying
transport system\'s subscriber identities.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is fully covered by existing MCCore
requirements.]
[R-9.3.2.1-002] The FRMCS system shall support a FRMCS-user identity per
FRMCS-user.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is fully covered by existing MCCore
requirements.]
[R-9.3.2.1-003] The FRMCS system shall support functional identities.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is partly covered by MCCore, new types of
identities need to be supported.]
[R-9.3.2.1-004] The UE shall be reachable by its subscriber identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is fully covered by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.2.1-005] The FRMCS-user shall be reachable by its FRMCS-user identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is fully covered by existing MCCore
requirements.]
[R-9.3.2.1-006] The FRMCS-user shall be reachable by its functional
identity/ies.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is partly covered by MCCore, new types of
identities need to be supported.]
[R-9.3.2.1-007] At the time of initialisation the FRMCS-system shall be able
to determine the FRMCS equipment type.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered by existing 3GPP requirements.]
9.3.3 Use case: Registration to a functional identity
9.3.3.1 Description
A FRMCS-user or the FRMCS equipment shall be able to register to one or
multiple functional identities. A functional identity can therefore be
equipment related or user related.
9.3.3.2 Pre-conditions
The equipment type is identified.
or functional registration of the user, the Tuser is logged in into the FRMCS
system.
9.3.3.3 Service flows
**Requested functional identity is not in use**
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment selects the functional identity. The
identity can be selected from a list based on the location of the FRMCS-user,
operational schedules, etc. or the functional identity can be entered
manually.
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment requests the FRMCS system to register
the new functional identity.
The FRMCS system informs the FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment about the
outcome of the registration request.
**Requested functional identity that is in use**
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment selects the functional identity. The
identity can be selected from a list based on the location of the FRMCS-user,
operational schedules, etc. or the functional identity can be entered
manually.
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment requests the FRMCS system to register
the new functional identity.
The FRMCS-user is or the FRMCS-equipment informed of the functional identity
already in use.
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall be able to select from the
following options:
  * Cancel the registration
  * If the selected functional identity allows take over the functional identity.
  * If the selected functional identity allows register as an additional FRMCS-user to this functional identity.
The FRMCS system informs the FRMCS-user about the outcome of the registration
request.
In the case of taking over a functional identity, the FRMCS system deregisters
the other FRMCS-user or FRMCS-equipment from this particular functional
identity. The deregistered FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment gets informed
about the deregistration by the FRMCS system.
**Registration by the Railway Subsystem of the FRMCS system**
Based on the user identification, operational conditions, like schedules when
entering the train, location, time, recent activity etc., the Railway
Subsystem shall be able automatically register a FRMCS user or an FRMCS
equipment to a functional identity.
The FRMCS-user gets informed about the registration by the FRMCS system.
9.3.3.4 Post-conditions
n case of successful registration, the FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment can
be reached based on the functional identity. The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-
equipment can be registered to different functional identities. The FRMCS-user
or the FRMCS-equipment are also reachable by using the FRMCS equipment
identity, the FRMCS user identity (if logged in) and its subscriber identity.
If the FRMCS system has not accepted the registration, the FRMCS-user or the
FRMCS-equipment cannot be reached on a particular functional identity.
9.3.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.3.3.5-001] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall be able to
register to a functional identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.3.5-002] To select from, the FRMCS system shall provide the FRMCS-user
or the FRMCS-equipment a list of functional identities. The list contains
functional identities based on a certain context, like location of the user,
operational schedule, etc. The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall also be
able to perform a registration of an unlisted functional identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.3.5-003] The FRMCS system shall inform the FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-
equipment of the outcome of the registration request.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.3.5-004] In the case the functional identity is already in use, the
FRMCS system shall advise the FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment about options
to
  * cancel the registration,
  * take over the functional identity
  * register as an additional identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.3.5-005] The FRMCS system shall be able to register a FRMCS-user or the
Railway Subsystem without human intervention. For example, automatic
registration can be initiated by:
  * user identification
  * operational conditions, like schedules when entering the train (for example by using Near Field Communication, Smart Card etc.)
  * location
  * time
  * recent activity
  * Smart cards or RFID tokens in the vicinity of the UE
  * FRMCS equipment type
  * etc.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.3.5-006] The FRMCS system shall support multiple functional identities
per FRMCS user or FRMCS equipment.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
9.3.4 Use case: Deregistration of a functional identity
9.3.4.1 Description
A FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall be able to deregister from one or
multiple functional identities.
9.3.4.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user user or the FRMCS-equipment has at least one functional
identity.
9.3.4.3 Service flows
**Deregistration functional identity initiated by the FRMCS-user**
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment chooses the functional identities to be
deregistered among the list of currently registered functional identities by:
  * electing a sset of functional identities (the application may select the appropriate set of functional identities automatically)
  * selecting one functional identity
IThe FRMCS system informs the FRMCS user or the FRMCS-equipment about the
outcome of the registration request.
**Deregistration by the Railway Subsystem**
Based on certain criteria the FRMCS system deregisters a FRMCS-user or the
FRMCS-equipment from one or multiple functional identities and informs the
FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment about the de-registration.
For example, possible criteria are timer, location, operational schedules,
another FRMCS-user taking over the functional identity.
9.3.4.4 Post-conditions
If the FRMCS system has deregistered the functional identity, the previously
registered FRMCS-user(s) or FRMCS-equipment are not any longer reachable on
this particular functional identity.
If the FRMCS system was unable to deregister the functional identity, the
actually registered FRMCS-user or FRMCS-equipment remains active and can be
reached on this functional identity.
In addition, the FRMCS user is reachable using the FRMCS equipment identity,
its user identity (if logged in) and its subscriber identity.
9.3.4.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.3.4.5-001] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall be able to
deregister from a functional identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.4.5-002] During the deregistration process, the FRMCS system shall
provide a list of functional identities to the FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-
equipment, to select for deregistration.
[R-9.3.4.5-003] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall also be able to
perform a de-registration of a functional identity that might not be part of
the list provided by the FRMCS system. Then a manual input is required by the
FRMCS user.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.4.5-004] The FRMCS system shall inform the FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-
equipment about the outcome of a deregistration request.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.4.5-005] At any time, the the Railway Subsystem of the FRMCS system
shall be able to deregister any functional identity .
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
An automatic deregistration request can be based on:
  * user identification
  * operational conditions, like schedules when entering the train (for example by using Near Field Communication, Smart Card etc.)
  * location
  * time
  * recent activity
  * Smart cards or RFID tokens in the vicinity of the UE
  * FRMCS equipment type
  * etc.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
9.3.5 Use case: User log-in to the system
9.3.5.1 Description
The user is identified by the FRMCS system.
9.3.5.2 Pre-conditions
The equipment type is initialised.
The FRMCS equipment provides suitable means to the user to log in.
9.3.5.3 Service flows
The user performs the log-in procedure.
**Successful identification**
The user is informed about the successful log-in into the FRMCS system. The
user has now become a FRMCS-user identified by a FRMCS-user identity.
**Unsuccessful identification**
The user is informed about the unsuccessful log-in to the FRMCS system. The
user is redirected to the log-in procedure.
9.3.5.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS-user is identified in the FRMCS system and can register a functional
identity.
The FRMCS-user is reachable by the FRMCS-user identity.
9.3.5.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.3.5.5-001] The FRMCS system shall allow a user to log into the FRMCS
system to make use of the services provided by the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.5.5-002] The FRMCS system shall provide service only to FRMCS-users
logged in into the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.5.5-003] Additionally, after logging in, the FRMCS-user shall be able
to register a functional identity in the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
9.3.6 Use case: User log-out from FRMCSsystem
9.3.6.1 Description
AThe FRMCS-user is logged out of the FRMCS system.
9.3.6.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS user is logged-in the FRMCS system..
9.3.6.3 Service flows
The FRMCS-user performs the log-out procedure.
**Successful log-out**
The FRMCS system deregisters all functional identities of the FRMCS-user.
The FRMCS system logs out the FRMCS-user.
The FRMCS-user is informed about the successful log-out from the FRMCS system.
**Unsuccessful log-out**
The FRMCS-user is informed about the unsuccessful log-out to the FRMCS system.
9.3.6.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS-user is logged out of the FRMCS system. The FRMCS equipment is still
registered to the FRMCS system.
The FRMCS equipment is reachable by the subscriber identity.
9.3.6.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.3.6.5-001] The FRMCS system shall provide a notification to the FRMCS-
user when the FRMCS-user is logged-out of the FRMCS system
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.6.5-002] The FRMCS system shall provide the FRMCS-user the necessary
means to log out of the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.6.5-003] By logging out all functional identities of a FRMCS-user are
deregistered from the FRMCS system.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.6.5-004] After logging out the FRMCS-user, the FRMCS equipment shall be
reachable via the subscriber identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
9.3.7 Use case: Presentation of identities
9.3.7.1 Description
A FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall be able to be identified by the
functional identity (ies) to other FRMCS-users
9.3.7.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment is registered to at least one functional
identity.
9.3.7.3 Service flows
**During call initiation**
The identities of the initiating entity (functional identity of a user,
functional identity of equipment, user identity and subscriber identity) are
to be passed and presented to the other FRMCS-users during communication.
The FRMCS system passes the appropriate functional identity(ies) based on a
certain context (like location, destination, time, local configuration,
selection from the initiating entity, etc.).
If the functional identity is not available, the FRMCS-user identity is to be
presented.
If the functional identity and the FRMCS-user identity are not available, the
subscriber identity is to be presented.
**During a call**
fThe identities of the connected FRMCS-user(s) (functional identity of a user,
functional identity of equipment, user identity and subscriber identity) are
forwarded to the FRMCS-users participating to the call.
The FRMCS system passes the appropriate functional identity(ies) based on a
certain context (like location, destination, time, local configuration, etc.).
If the functional identity is not available, the FRMCS-user identity is to be
presented.
If the functional identity and the FRMCS-user identity are not available, the
subscriber identity is to be presented.
he Tfunctional identity(ies) of the talking FRMCS-user is/are to be indicated
to the listening FRMCS-user(s).
If the functional identity is not available, the FRMCS-user identity is to be
presented.
If the functional identity and the FRMCS-user identity are not available, the
subscriber identity is to be presented.
9.3.7.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS-users are informed about the FRMCS-user initiating the communication
initiator.
The FRMCS-user is informed about who is participants of the call.
The FRMCS-user has at least one functional identity.
9.3.7.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.3.7.5-001] During communication initiation, the identities of the
initiating entity (functional identity of a user, functional identity of
equipment, user identity and subscriber identity) shall be passed to the
FRMCS-user(s) of the receiver(s) of the call.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is partly covered by MCCore, new types of
identities need to be supported.
[R-9.3.7.5-002] During a communication, the identities of the connected FRMCS-
user(s) (functional identity of a user, functional identity of equipment, user
identity and subscriber identity) shall be sent to the FRMCS-user(s)
participants of the call.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is partly covered by MCCore, new types of
identities need to be supported.
[R-9.3.7.5-003] The FRMCS-user(s) shall be presented with the appropriate
functional identity(ies) based on a certain context (like location,
destination, time, local configuration, etc.).
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.7.5-004] If the functional identity is not available, the FRMCS System
shall present the FRMCS-user identity .
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.7.5-005] If both the functional identity and the FRMCS-user identity
are not available, the FRMCS system shall present the subscriber identity .
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
9.3.8 Use case: Interrogation of identities within a certain context
9.3.8.1 Description
A FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment is able to recognize which other
functional identities are present within a certain context (for example train,
region, communication group, Railway Emergency Communication, all drivers on a
station, etc.).
9.3.8.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-equipment is initialised.
9.3.8.3 Service flows
**Interrogation of functional identities**
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment can interrogate the FRMCS system to
recognize the own functional identity(ies) or the functional identity of other
FRMCS-users or FRMCS-equipment based on a FRMCS-user identity or a subscriber
identity.
The FRMCS system returns the functional identity(ies) of the particular FRMCS-
user or FRMCS-equipment.
**Interrogation of FRMCS-user identities**
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment can interrogate the FRMCS system to
recognize the own or other FRMCS-user identity of FRMCS-user(s) based on a
functional identity or a subscriber identity..
The FRMCS system returns the FRMCS-user identity of the particular FRMCS-
user(s).
**Interrogation of a subscriber identity**
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment can interrogate the FRMCS system to
recognize the own or other FRMCS equipment identity based on a functional
identity or a FRMCS-user identity.
The FRMCS system returns the particular subscriber identity.
**Interrogation of functional identity(ies) in a certain context**
The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment can interrogate the FRMCS system to
recognize the functional identities of own or other FRMCS-users within a
certain context.
The FRMCS system returns to the FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment a set of
functional identities (own or other) within the certain context.
9.3.8.4 Post-conditions
The requesting FRMCS-user or FRMCS-equipment is informed about the own or
other FRMCS-users / FRMCS-equipment with a functional identity within a
certain context, for example train, region, communication group, Railway
Emergency Communication, all drivers on a station, etc.
9.3.8.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.3.8.5-001] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall be able to
interrogate the FRMCS system to provide the functional identity(ies)
registered to a certain FRMCS-user identity.
The FRMCS system shall return the functional identity(ies) of the FRMCS-user.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.8.5-002] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment shall be able to
interrogate the FRMCS system to provide the functional identity(ies) based on
a subscriber identity.
The FRMCS system shall return the functional identity(ies) of a subscriber
identity.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.8.5-003] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment, shall be able to
interrogate the FRMCS system to provide the FRMCS-user identity registered to
a functional identity.
The FRMCS system shall return the FRMCS-user identity/identities.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.8.5-004] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment, shall be able to
interrogate the FRMCS system to provide the FRMCS-user identity based on a
subscriber identity.
The FRMCS system shall return the FRMCS-user identity/identities.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
[R-9.3.8.5-004] The FRMCS-user or the FRMCS-equipment, shall be able to
interrogate the FRMCS system to provide the subscriber identity based on a
functional identity
The FRMCS system shall return the subscriber identity(ies).
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered yet by existing 3GPP
requirements.]
## 9.4 Location services related use cases
### 9.4.1 Introduction
In this chapter the use cases related to location services are defined. The
following use cases are defined:
  * Provide location information
  * Request for location information
  * Request for identities based on location
### 9.4.2 Use Case: Provide location information
#### 9.4.2.1 Description
The FRMCS equipment provides its location information to the FRMCS system for
further processing e.g. for automatic train operation. External systems can be
supported in providing additional location information with or without
functional identity reference to the FRMCS system for further processing.
The location information may be shared directly with other applications on the
same FRMCS equipment without the involvement of the FRMCS system.
#### 9.4.2.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS equipment supports some mechanisms to obtain its location.
#### 9.4.2.3 Service flows
The FRMCS equipment determines its current location in a periodic or an event-
triggered manner. The frequency of the location reporting may change according
to the application requirements.
The FRMCS equipment reports location information that may include its
applicable FRMCS equipment identity. At any time, upon request, the FRMCS
equipment shall be able to report its location information.
External systems can provide additional information to the FRMCS system in
order to improve location accuracy of an FRMCS equipment.
The received location information is stored by FRMCS system.
In case of periodic location reporting, the FRMCS system supervises the
continuous supply of the location information. If the supply of periodic
location information by the FRMCS equipment stops, the FRMCS system initiates
the re-establishment of the periodic location information data flow. The FRMCS
system can correlate other identities from the FRMCS equipment identity.
#### 9.4.2.4 Post-conditions
The location information of the FRMCS equipment is available in the FRMCS
system.
#### 9.4.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
* * *
**Reference Number** **Requirement text** **Application / Transport** **SA1
spec covering** **Comments** [R-9.4.2.5-001] The FRMCS equipment shall be able
to provide its location to the FRMCS system. A Tbd Tbd [R-9.4.2.5-002] The
FRMCS system shall be able to request the FRMCS equipment to provide its
location. A Tbd Tbd [R-9.4.2.5-003] The FRMCS system shall be able to request
the FRMCS equipment to provide its location periodically. A Tbd Tbd
[R-9.4.2.5-004] The FRMCS system shall be able to request the FRMCS equipment
to stop providing its location periodically. A Tbd Tbd [R-9.4.2.5-005] The
FRMCS system shall be able to handle additional location information from
other external sources. A Tbd Tbd
* * *
### 9.4.3 Use Case: Request for location information
#### 9.4.3.1 Description
A FRMCS-user, an application or an external system can request the location
information of a functional identity, FRMCS-user identity or FRMCS equipment
identity from the FRMCS system.
#### 9.4.3.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user, an application or an external system, is entitled to request
location information from the FRMCS system.
#### 9.4.3.3 Service flows
A FRMCS-user, an application or an external system requests location
information to the FRMCS system based on a functional identity, FRMCS-user
identity or FRMCS equipment identity.
The location requesting entity can request for a single location information
or a periodical update of the location information.
The location requesting entity can send a request to the FRMCS system to stop
the periodical update of location information.
**_Positive outcome_**
The FRMCS system provides the location information as requested, either once
or periodically.
**_Negative outcome_**
The location information is not available or the identity is not known in the
FRMCS system.
The FRMCS system sends a response back to the requesting FRMCS-user,
application or external system if the location information is not available.
#### 9.4.3.4 Post-conditions
The location information is provided, if available.
#### 9.4.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
* * *
**Reference Number** **Requirement text** **Application / Transport** **SA1
spec covering** **Comments** [R-9.4.3.5-001] Upon request from FRMCS-users,
applications or external systems the FRMCS system shall be able to provide the
location information of a functional identity, FRMCS-user identity or FRMCS
equipment identity. A Tbd This requirement is partly covered by existing 3GPP
Location Services and MCCore requirements. [R-9.4.3.5-002] Upon request from
FRMCS-users, applications or external systems the FRMCS system shall be able
to periodically provide the location information of a functional identity,
FRMCS-user identity or FRMCS equipment identity. A Tbd This requirement is
partly covered by existing 3GPP Location Services and MCCore requirements.
[R-9.4.3.5-003] The FRMCS system shall only allow the FRMCS-user, the
application or the external system initially requesting periodic location
reporting to stop the periodic location reporting. A Tbd This requirement is
partly covered by existing 3GPP Location Services and MCCore requirements.
* * *
### 9.4.4 Use Case: Request for identities in a certain area
#### 9.4.4.1 Description
A FRMCS-user, an application or an external system can request identities
based on location information from the FRMCS system.
#### 9.4.4.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user, an application or an external system, is entitled to request
location information from the FRMCS system.
#### 9.4.4.3 Service flows
The FRMCS-user, an application or an external system requests the FRMCS system
to provide a list of functional identities, FRMCS-user identities or FRMCS
equipment identities at a certain point, area, station, track section, etc.
The FRMCS-user, an application or an external system can request the list of
identities to be given once or periodically by the FRMCS system.
Only the FRMCS-user, the application or the external system initially
requesting periodic reporting can stop the periodic reporting by the FRMCS
system.
#### 9.4.4.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS system provides the list of identities as requested.
#### 9.4.4.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
* * *
**Reference Number** **Requirement text** **Application / Transport** **SA1
spec covering** **Comments** [R-9.4.4.5-001] The FRMCS system shall allow a
FRMCS-user, an application or an external system to request a list of
functional identities, FRMCS-user identities or FRMCS equipment identities in
a certain area either periodically or as a onetime request. A Tbd This
requirement is partly covered by existing 3GPP Location Services and MCCore
requirements. [R-9.4.4.5-002] The FRMCS system shall be able to provide the
list of identities and their location to the requesting FRMCS-user,
application or external system either periodically or as a onetime report. A
Tbd This requirement is partly covered by existing 3GPP Location Services and
MCCore requirements. [R-9.4.4.5-003] The FRMCS system shall allow only the
requesting FRMCS-user, application or external system to stop the periodic
reporting. A Tbd This requirement is partly covered by existing 3GPP Location
Services and MCCore requirements.
* * *
## 9.5 FRMCS-user communication handling related use cases
Editor\'s Note: Consideration to be spend on floor control use vs conference
call mode of operation
### 9.5.1 Introduction
In this chapter the use cases related to the function of inviting a FRMCS-user
to a communication are defined.
  * Invite-a-FRMCS-user to a FRMCS communication
  * FRMCS-user receiving an invitation to a FRMCS communication
  * FRMCS-user accepting an invitation to a FRMCS communication
  * FRMCS-user rejecting an invitation to a FRMCS communication
  * FRMCS-user ignoring an invitation to a FRMCS communication
### 9.5.2 Use Case: Inviting-a-FRMCS-user to a voice communication
#### 9.5.2.1 Description
A FRMCS-user can invite another FRMCS-user to a voice communication.
#### 9.5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user is part of a FRMCS voice communication of two or more FRMCS-
users.
#### 9.5.2.3 Service flows
**Inviting user**
From a list of FRMCS users provided by the FRMCS system or by entering an
unlisted identity, the inviting FRMCS user selects another FRMCS user, or a
pre-defined group of users, to be invited.
#### 9.5.2.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS-user(s) have been invited.
The inviting FRMCS-user remains connected to the FRMCS voice communication
involving two or more FRMCS-users.
#### 9.5.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.5.2.5-001] If entitled to, a FRMCS-user shall be able to invite another
FRMCS-user to join a voice communication.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is covered Phonebook functionality in MC Specs
requirements]
[R-9.5.2.5-002] The FRMCS system shall provide a list of identities for the
inviting FRMCS user to select from.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered MCCore requirements]
[R-9.5.2.5-003] The invitation request shall either be based on the functional
identity, FRMCS user identity, FRMCS equipment identity.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is partly covered by MCCore requirements, new
types of identities need to be supported.]
### 9.5.3 Use Case: FRMCS-user receiving an invitation to a voice
communication
#### 9.5.3.1 Description
A FRMCS-user will receive the invitation originated by the inviting FRMCS-
user.
#### 9.5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user may or may not be involved in another voice communication.
#### 9.5.3.3 Service flows
The invitation is indicated to the FRMCS-user by audible and visual
notification.
#### 9.5.3.4 Post-conditions
The FRMCS-user has received the invitation.
Voice communication of the invited FRMCS-user continues unaffected.
#### 9.5.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.5.3.5-001] If entitled to, a FRMCS user shall be able to receive
invitations to voice communication(s), independent of being involved in
another communication.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered MCCore requirements]
### 9.5.4 Use case: FRMCS-user accepting an invitation to a voice
communication
#### 9.5.4.1 Description
A FRMCS-user can accept the invitation sent by the inviting FRMCS-user.
#### 9.5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user has received an invitation to a voice communication which is
not yet expired.
#### 9.5.4.3 Service flows
**Invited FRMCS-user not involved in a voice communication**
The FRMCS-user accepts the invitation of the voice communication.
The FRMCS-user is joined to the voice communication.
Other FRMCS-users involved in the voice communication receive a notification
that the FRMCS user has joined the communication by which the joining FRMCS-
user is identified to the other FRMCS-users.
**Invited FRMCS-user is involved in a voice communication**
The FRMCS-user accepts the invitation of the voice communication.
The FRMCS system prompts the invited FRMCS-user about the treatment of the
existing voice communication.
The FRMCS-user may have the choice between some or all of these options:
  * **Terminate** : The FRMCS-user terminates the current voice communication.
  * **Leave** the existing voice communication. If the communication consisted only of two participants, a participant leaving the communication will cause the communication to be terminated.
  * **Merge** : The FRMCS system merges the two voice communications into one single voice communication.
Other FRMCS-users involved in the voice communication(s) are notified that the
invited user has joined the communication or the communication has been
merged.
#### 9.5.4.4 Post-conditions
The invited FRMCS-user is participating in the voice communication he was
invited to.
The invited FRMCS-user is indicated as connected to the voice communication to
all FRMCS-users in the communication.
The presence status of the invited user is updated with the appropriate
attributes.
#### 9.5.4.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.5.4.5-001] The FRMCS-user shall be able to accept an invitation to join a
voice communication.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered MCCore requirements]
[R-9.5.4.5-002] When accepting a communication invitation, in case the FRMCS-
user has a voice communication, the FRMCS-user shall be able to leave,
terminate or merge the voice communication. If the FRMCS-user decides to merge
the communications both voice communications shall be merged.
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered by MCCore requirements]
### 9.5.5 Use case: FRMCS-user rejecting an invitation to a voice
communication
#### 9.5.5.1 Description
A FRMCS-user can reject the invitation sent by the inviting FRMCS-user.
#### 9.5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user has received an invitation to a voice communication which is
not expired yet.
#### 9.5.5.3 Service flows
The FRMCS-user rejects the invitation.
The inviting FRMCS-user receives a notification that the invitation was
rejected by the invited FRMCS-user.
#### 9.5.5.4 Post-conditions
The invited FRMCS-user is not participating in the voice communication related
to the received invitation.
#### 9.5.5.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.5.5.5-001] The FRMCS-user shall be able to reject the invitation to join
a voice communication.
The inviting FRMCS-user sending the invitation shall be informed.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered MCCore requirements]
[R-9.5.5.5-002] The inviting FRMCS-user shall be notified.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered MCCore requirements]
### 9.5.6 Use case: FRMCS-user ignoring an invitation to a voice communication
#### 9.5.6.1 Description
A FRMCS-user can ignore the invitation sent by the inviting FRMCS-user.
#### 9.5.6.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user has received an invitation which is not yet expired.
#### 9.5.6.3 Service flows
The invited FRMCS-user does not respond to the received invitation within a
certain period of time
The inviting FRMCS-user receives a notification that the invitation was
rejected as it was not accepted within a certain period of time.
#### 9.5.6.4 Post-conditions
The invited FRMCS-user does not participate in the voice communication.
#### 9.5.6.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.5.6.5-001] The FRMCS-user shall be able to ignore an invitation to join a
communication.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered MCCore requirements]
requirements.]
[R-9.5.6.5-002] If the receiving FRMCS user has not reacted on the invitation
within a certain period of time [t1] the FRMCS system shall notify the
inviting FRMCS useried accordingly and stop the invitation request.
[Gap analysis: This requirement is not covered MCCore requirements]
## 9.6 End to End Prioritisation related use cases
### 9.6.1 Introduction
In this chapter the use cases related to prioritisation are defined. The
following use cases are defined:
  * Prioritisation
This priority is an end to end priority to be applied on application layer. In
certain cases priority on transport layer might be derived from this.
Note: For examples of role management, like functional identities, FRMCS
equipment identities, etc. in the railway environment, see annex A.
### 9.6.2 Use case: Prioritisation
### 9.6.2.1 Description
The FRMCS system shall be able to prioritise different communication scenarios
over each others.
### 9.6.2.2 Pre-conditions
The receiving FRMCS-user is logged-in into the FRMCS system.
The receiving FRMCS-user is registered into a functional identity.
The receiving FRMCS-user is involved or not involved in an ongoing
communication.
### 9.6.2.3 Service flows
The originating FRMCS-user initiates a communication to the receiving FRMCS
user.
The priority level is used to assure the appropriate priority handling of the
communication by the FRMCS system.
If applicable and required the ongoing communication at the originating FRMCS
user side may be released or put on hold.
If the originating FRMCS-user didn't request for a priority level, the FRMCS
system will assign a priority level.
If the originating FRMCS-user requested a priority level, the FRMCS system may
accept or change the priority level.
The FRMCS system is processing the setup of the communication according to the
priority level.
The FRMCS system, , decides, based on the priority level, whether the incoming
communication is accepted, rejected, put on hold.
### 9.6.2.4 Post-conditions
The ongoing communication and the incoming communication are treated according
the rules given by the priority levels.
### 9.6.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.6.2.5-001] When setting up a communication a FRMCS-user shall be able to
request a priority level.
[Gap Analysis: To be evaluated.]
[R-9.6.2.5-002] The FRMCS system shall be able to accept or to change the
priority level.
[Gap Analysis: To be evaluated.]
[R-9.6.2.5-003] In case the FRMCS-user didn't request for a priority level,
the FRMCS system shall assign a priority level.
[Gap Analysis: To be evaluated]
[R-9.6.2.5-004] The FRMCS system shall process the setup of the communication
according to the priority level.
[Gap Analysis: To be evaluated.]
[R-9.6.2.5-005] The FRMCS system, based on the priority level, shall be able
to is accept, reject, put on hold or queue the communication.
[Gap Analysis: To be evaluated.]
[R-9.6.2.5-006] The FRMCS system shall provide the priority level to the
transport to assure appropriate priority handling of the communication by the
transport system.
[Gap Analysis: To be evaluated.]
## 9.7 Multi user talker control related use cases
### 9.7.1 Introduction
Editor\'s Note:\ The impact to the active talkers need to be clarified if the
number of talker permissions get reduced.\ Should that work on-net as well as
off-net?\ Should a user be able to mute another user?\ Where should the voice
be mixed?
In this chapter the use cases related to multi user talker control for voice
communication are defined. The following use cases are defined:
  * Set the number of simultaneous talkers
  * Set initial talker permissions and priorities
  * Request permission to talk
  * Grant permission to talk
  * Revoke permission to talk
Note: For examples of role management, like functional identities, FRMCS
equipment identities, etc. in the railway environment, see annex A.
### 9.7.2 Use case: Set the number of simultaneous talkers
### 9.7.2.1 Description
For multi user communication, i.e. when several users are involved in the same
communication, the number of users that are granted the right to talk at the
same time can be limited to either one, a limited number or unrestricted
number.
The communication application (e.g. shunting team communication) will set the
number of simultaneous talkers and/or the identities of involved FRMCS-users
and if required other application specific criteria.
### 9.7.2.2 Pre-conditions
An active communication application capable to use the multi users talker
control.
### 9.7.2.3 Service flows
The communication application sends the number of simultaneous talker(s)
information to the multi user talker control.
This information is used by multi user talker control when setting up the
communication.
If there is a need to change the number of simultaneous talkers, it is the
communication application which sends this information to the multi user
talker control.
The multi user talker control then uses this updated information for
controlling the number of simultaneous talkers in the communication.
### 9.7.2.4 Post-conditions
The multi user talker control is aware about the number of simultaneous FRMCS-
users and uses this information during communication.
### 9.7.2.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.7.2.5-001] The FRMCS system shall be able to limit the number of
simultaneous talkers in a multi user communication.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.2.5-002] The maximum number of simultaneous talkers in a multi user
communication shall be provided by the communication application. The number
of simultaneous talkers can be either one, a limited number or an unrestricted
number and shall be changeable during the communication.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
### 9.7.3 Use case: Set initial talker permissions and priorities
### 9.7.3.1 Description
There are different requirements for talker permissions and to prioritise
talkers in different communication applications.
The FRMCS-users are identified by their functional identities.
The communication application defines the talker permissions and priorities
based on the functional identities and the type of communication application,
e.g. railway emergency call, shunting, multi train.
One or multiple FRMCS-users can be granted with the permission to perform as
talker in a certain communication. These FRMCS-users are able to request
permission to talk during communication.
Certain FRMCS-user(s) that have requested the permission to talk at the same
time or while another user is talking can be granted with an initial talker
permission i.e. they will be given the permission first before requests of
others are served independent of whether they were the first requesting the
permission to talk or not.
Different FRMCS-users can be granted with a different talker priority. In case
of parallel requests for permission to talk, the permission is granted to the
FRMCS-user(s) with highest talker priority. The requests with identical talker
priorities will be queued based on the time of request.
### 9.7.3.2 Pre-conditions
An active communication application capable to use the multi users talker
control.
### 9.7.3.3 Service flows
The communication application sends information about talker permissions and
talker priorities to the multi user talker control application.
This information is used in multi user talker control when setting up the
communication.
If there is a need to change the information about talker permissions and
talker priorities, it is the communication application that sends this
information to multi user talker control.
The multi user control then uses this updated information for controlling the
talker permissions and talker priorities in the communication.
### 9.7.3.4 Post-conditions
The multi user control is aware of the talker permissions and talker
priorities and uses this information for communication control/setup.
### 9.7.3.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.7.3.5-001] The FRMCS system shall be able to handle talker permissions
and priorities as provided by the communication application, e.g. railway
emergency call, shunting, multi train.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.3.5-002] The FRMCS system shall allow to grant several FRMCS users with
the permission to perform as talker in a certain communication.
[R-9.7.3.5-002.1] FRMCS-users shall be able to request permission to talk
during communication.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed]
[R-9.7.3.5-003] The FRMCS system shall be able to grant FRMCS users an initial
talker permission (i.e. to be the first speaker in the communication) ensuring
that the entitled FRMCS-user(s) are able to talk first, once the communication
is established.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.3.5-004] The FRMCS system shall be able to grant the permission to talk
based on a FRMCS-user talker priority. In case of pending requests for
permission to talk, the permission shall be granted to the FRMCS-user with
highest talker priority. Requests of identical talker priority shall be
handled based on the time of request.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
### 9.7.4 Use case: Request permission to talk
### 9.7.4.1 Description
There are occasions in the railway environment where it is needed to mitigate
the risk of miscommunication. Use cases include, for example:
  * Emergency communication
  * Shunting communication
  * Trackside worker communication
The system shall therefore be able to limit the number of simultaneous talkers
in a voice communication.
An entitled FRMCS-user shall be able to select and de-select FRMCS-user(s)
being able to talk in a voice communication.
The FRMCS-user shall be able to request the permission to talk (raise the
hand).
### 9.7.4.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user is involved in an active voice communication. The number of
simultatious talkers is limited in this communication.
### 9.7.4.3 Service flows
The FRMCS-user requests permission to talk on the MMI of the communication
application (e.g. by pressing a Push-to-talk button)
The communication application sends the request to the multi user talker
control in the FRMCS system.
The communication application indicates on the MMI that talker permission has
been requested.
### 9.7.4.4 Post-conditions
Permission to talk has been requested and a response from the multi user
talker control in the FRMCS system expected.
### 9.7.4.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.7.4.5-002] An entitled FRMCS-user shall be able to select and de-select
FRMCS-user(s) being able to talk in a voice communication.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.4.5-003] The FRMCS-user shall be able to request permission to talk of
the FRMCS UE (e.g. by pressing a Push-to-talk button). The FRMCS UE shall
indicate the talker permission has been requested.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
### 9.7.5 Use case: Grant permission to talk
### 9.7.5.1 Description
There are occasions in the railway environment where it is needed to mitigate
the risk of miscommunication. Use cases include, for example:
  * Emergency communication
  * Shunting communication
  * Trackside worker communication
The system shall be able to limit the number of simultaneous talkers in a
voice communication.
The list of FRMCS-users with permission to talk and those who have requested
it, shall be available to the Multi User Talker Control application.
### 9.7.5.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS-user is an active voice communication.
Multi User Talker Control is configured by the communication application to
limit the number of simultaneous talkers.
By default the Multi User Control uses a set of criteria, like priorities,
identities, etc. to manage the requests automatically
In addition an entitled FRMCS-user (i.e. based on functional identity) who is
monitoring the progress of the communication can select and de-select
simultaneous talkers.
### 9.7.5.3 Service flows
**Automatic management of requests**
The Multi User Talker Control in the FRMCS system receives a request to talk
from a FRMCS-user.
The Multi User Talker Control in the FRMCS system verifies the number of
FRMCS-users who already have permission to talk.
If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk does not exceed the
maximum number of simultaneous talkers, the Multi User Talker Control grants
automatically the permission to the requester.
If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk exceeds the maximum
number of simultaneous talkers, the Multi User Talker Control decides based on
certain criteria, like priorities, functional identity, etc. who will keep the
right to speak and who will be granted the permission to talk the Multi User
Talker Control configures the system accordingly.
The Multi User Talker Control service sends an indication to the FRMCS-users
whose permission to talk has been changed due to that.
**Management of requests by an entitled FRMCS-user**
The Multi User Talker Control in the FRMCS system receives a request to talk
from a FRMCS-user.
The Multi User Talker Control service in the FRMCS system verifies the number
of FRMCS-users who already have permission to talk.
If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk does not exceed the
maximum number of simultaneous talkers, the Multi User Talker Control service
grants automatically the permission to the requester.
If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk exceeds the maximum
number of simultaneous talkers, the Multi User Talker Control service alerts
the entitled FRMCS-user that is monitoring the communication, who is presented
with the list of simultaneous talkers and the list of pending requests and
decides who will keep the right to speak and who will be granted the
permission to talk by selecting and de-selecting the corresponding FRMCS-user.
The Multi User Talker Control service configures the system accordingly.
The Multi User Talker Control service sends an indication to the FRMCS-users
whose permission to talk has been changed due to that.
### 9.7.5.4 Post-conditions
Permission to talk is granted to the selected FRMCS-users.
### 9.7.5.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.7.5.5-001] Multi User Talker Control shall keep track of FRMCS-users with
permission to talk and FRMCS users requesting to talk.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.5.5-002] Multi User Control shall use a set of criteria provided by the
communication application , like priorities, identities, etc. to manage the
requests automatically.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.5.5-003] Based on its functional identity a FRMCS-user shall be able to
monitor the progress of the communication shall be able to select and de-
select simultaneous talkers.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.5.5-004] If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk does not
exceed the maximum number of simultaneous talkers, the Multi User Talker
Control service shall grant automatically the permission to additional
requestors.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk exceeds the maximum
number of simultaneous talkers, two options shall be available:
[R-9.7.5.5-006] If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk exceeds
the maximum number of simultaneous talkers the Multi User Talker Control shall
decide based on certain criteria, like priorities, functional identity, etc.
who will keep the right to talk and who will be granted the permission to
talk. Affected FRMCS-users shall be informed of their changed permission to
talk.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
[R-9.7.5.5-007] If the number of FRMCS-users with permission to talk exceeds
the maximum number of simultaneous talkers the Multi User Talker Control
service shall present an entitled FRMCS-user is monitoring the communication,
with the list of simultaneous talkers and the list of pending requests to
decides who will keep the right to speak, who will be granted the permission
to talk. Affected FRMCS-users shall be informed of their changed permission to
talk.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
### 9.7.6 Use case: Revoke permission to talk
### 9.7.6.1 Description
There are occasions in the railway environment where it is needed to mitigate
the risk of miscommunication. Use cases include, for example:
  * Emergency communication
  * Shunting communication
  * Trackside worker communication
The system shall be able to limit the number of simultaneous talkers in a
voice communication.
The list of FRMCS-users with permission to talk shall be available to the
Multi User Talker Control service.
An entitled FRMCS-user who monitors the progress of the communication shall be
able at any point to revoke the permission to talk of any of the FRMCS-users
with permission to talk. Automatic revocation of talkers in case the maximum
number of simultaneous talkers has been reached and a request to talk is
received, is included in the use case above.
### 9.7.6.2 Pre-conditions
A number of FRMCS-users are in an active voice communication for which Multi
User Talker Control is enabled and have been granted permission to talk.
An entitled FRMCS-user is monitoring the progress of the communication and
shall be able at any point to revoke the permission to talk of any of the
FRMCS-users currently with permission to talk.
### 9.7.6.3 Service flows
The Multi User Talker Control service presents a list of simultaneous talkers
to an entitled FRMCS-user, who decides who will not keep the right to speak by
de-selecting the corresponding FRMCS-user.
The Multi User Talker Control service configures the system accordingly.
The Multi User Talker Control service sends an indication to the FRMCS-users
who have modified their situation with respects to the permission to talk.
### 9.7.6.4 Post-conditions
Permission to talk is revoked for the de-selected FRMCS-users.
### 9.7.6.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-9.7.6.5-001] An entitled FRMCS-user who monitors the progress of the
communication shall be able at any point to revoke the permission to talk of
any of the FRMCS-users currently with permission to talk.
[Gap Analysis: To be assessed.]
### 9.8.1 Use case: Robust mission critical group communications
### 9.8.1.1 Description
For reliable railway services, conventional way is to use dualization
methodology. Most of railway services are based on on-network communication,
which is supported by base station and core networks. However, when disaster
happens so that the communication infrastructure is not feasible, railway
service based on the communication infrastructure cannot be maintained any
more. From 3GPP Rel. 12, device-to-device communications has been considered
to be supported not only in the transport layer [2] but also in the
application layer. [3] Subsequently, off-network group communications became
feasible in 3GPP technology. Therefore, by using the transformation of on-
network railway service into off-network railway service, we can overcome
inherent limitation of on-network railway services. Figure 1 depicts a
required transformation of group communications mode.
#### 9.8.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. User equipments for train driver, customer service staff, and train
operations staff support device to device communications in the perspective of
transport layer.
2\. User equipments for train driver, customer service staff, and train
operations staff support on-network and off-network group communications
services in the perspective of applications layer.
{width="6.667361111111111in" height="3.7604166666666665in"}
Figure 9.X.1.2-1. Transformation of group communication mode
#### 9.8.1.3 Service Flows
1\. After initial disaster happens, emergency message (including voice or
data) delivery service based on on-network group communication among train
driver, customer service staff, or train operations staff have been proceeded
without any problem.
2\. Disaster becomes worse, and associated communication infrastructure are
destroyed and are not feasible anymore.
3\. Transformation of on-network group communication into off-network group
communication is accomplished among group members for maintaining the
emergency message delivery services even in the worse disaster.
#### 9.8.1.4 Post-conditions
Off-network group communication among train driver, customer service staff, or
train operations staff is activated and emergency message delivery service is
maintained normally.
#### 9.8.1.5 [Potential] Requirements
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | ** | **Layer |** SA1 spec | * | | Requirement | Requirement | issue**| covering** | _Comments_ _| | Reference | text_ _| | | | | Number_ _| |__(A: | |__(Sup | | | | Application | | port/Partly | | | | layer, T: | | Support/Not | | | | Transport | | S | | | | layer, A/T: | | upported,__| | | | Application | | | | | | and | |__Comments | | | | transport | | should be | | | | layer | | made when | | | | issues)__| | the use | | | | | | case cannot | | | | | | be fully | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by 3GPP | | | | | | Rel. 14)_ * | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | [R-9. | User | A/T | TS 22.179 | Support | | x.1.5-001] | equipment | | V.14.2.0 | | | | shall | | | | | | support | | | | | | on-network | | | | | | and | | | | | | off-network | | | | | | group | | | | | | comm | | | | | | unications. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 10 Performance support applications related use cases
## 11 Business support applications related use cases
## 12 FRMCS System principles related use cases
## 12.1 FRMCS System principles overview
In this chapter, FRMCS System related use cases are described which are
complying with principles such as:
  * Provide broadband and/or mission critical services with seamless connectivity
  * Offer high-quality control functions and real-time performance monitoring
  * Interworking with legacy systems including GSM-R and TRS
  * Build stable positioning framework for FRMCS services and devices including trainborne (in-train) and handheld (in-train, and in/out-door) UEs
To describe the use cases, an example system is assumed by adapting LTE for
railway communication [4] as follows:
{width="6.74375in" height="3.642361111111111in"}
Figure 12.1-1. An example system for FRMCS system principle use cases
The example system is consisted of the train control centre, 3GPP network such
as LTE with UE and the trainborne UE.. The backbone network connects the train
control centre, 3GPP network and legacy systems. FRMCS system is interworking
with the legacy systems such as GSM-R and TRS.
### 12.2 Area Broadcast Group Communication interworking between GSM-R and
FRMCS users12.2.1 Description
This use case describes an area broadcast group communication between FRMCS
User(s) and GSM-R User(s), and vice versa.
### 12.2.2 Pre-condition
FRMCS User A and GSM-R User B and User C are authorized Users to perform group
communication together by the FRMCS system.
User A and User B and User C are in the same group communication area defined
by the FRMCS system.
### 12.2.3 Service flow
FRMCS system to GSM-R
FRMCS User A initiates a new area broadcast group communication (based on
location, presence etc, of GSM-R User B and C).
FRMCS User A broadcasts group communication invitations to all Users in the
same area.
GSM-R User B and User C receive the group communication invitations.
GSM-R User B and User C accept the invitation and join the group
communication. Or GSM-R User B and User C automatically join this group
communication.
GSM-R to FRMCS
GSM-R User B initiates a new group call (based on location, presence etc, of
FRMCS User A and GSM-R User C).
GSM-R User B broadcasts group call invitations to all Users in the same area.
FRMCS User A and GSM-R User C receive the group call invitations.
FRMCS User A and GSM-R User C accept the invitation and join the group call.
Or FRMCS User A and GSM-R User C automatically join this group call.
### 12.2.4 Post-condition
FRMCS User A, GSM-R User B and User C can communicates among each other in a
group call.
### 12.2.5 Potential requirements
[12.2.5-001] FRMCS System shall provide a means to initiate group
communication between FRMCS Users and GSM-R Users.
[12.2.5-002] FRMCS system shall provide means to FRMCS users to join the group
calls of GSM-R.
[Gap Analysis: These two requirements are not covered by 3GPP existing
specification.]
## 12.3 Location Service interworking between GSM-R and FRMCS users
### 12.3.1 Description
This use case allows FRMCS system and GSM-R system to obtain and share the
location information of their users..
### 12.3.2 Pre-condition
User A is an authorized FRMCS User.
User B is an authorized GSM-R User.
User A and User B are affiliated to a group that consists of FRMCS User(s) and
GSM-R User(s).
### 12.3.3 Service flow
_FRMCS system to GSM-R_
FRMCS User A sends a location request to the specific GSM-R User B.
GSM-R User B accepts and return his location information as requested.
_GSM-R to FRMCS system_
GSM-R User B sends a location request to the specific FRMCS User A.
FRMCS User A accepts and returns his location information as requested.
### 12.3.4 Post-condition
FRMCS User A's location information is sent to GSM-R User B.
GSM-R User B's location information is sent to FRMCS User A.
### 12.3.5 Potential requirements
[12.3.5-001] FRMCS System shall provide a means to obtain and share with FRMCS
User the location information of GSM-R User(s).
[12.3.5-002] FRMCS system shall provide means to provide location information
of FRMCS user to GSM-R.
[Gap Analysis: These two requirements are not covered by 3GPP existing
specification.]
## 12.4 Emergency group Communication between GSM-R and FRMCS users
Editor's Note: this is FFS
## 12.5 Presence interworking between GSM-R and FRMCS users
### 12.5.1 Description
This use case allows FRMCS User(s) to see the status of GSM-R user(s), and
vice versa. For example, FRMCS User(s) can see the status of a GSM-R user,
including user ID, states (available, busy, etc.), vice versa.
### 12.5.2 Pre-condition
User A is an authorized FRMCS User.
User B is an authorized GSM-R Users.
GSM-R system detects the change status of GSM-R User B
FRMCS system detects the change status of FRMCS User A
### 12.5.3 Service flow
_FRMCS system to GSM-R_
FRMCS System receives the GSM-R User B's changed status.
FRMCS System sends the changed status to FRMCS User A.
_GSM-R to FRMCS system_
GSM-R receives the User A's changed status.
GSM-R sends the changed status to User B
### 12.5.4 Post-condition
The changed status of GSM-R User B is presented in FRMCS User A.
The changed status of FRMCS User A is presented in GSM-R User B.
### 12.5.5 Potential requirements
[12.5.5-001] FRMCS System shall provide a means for an FRMCS User to present
the presence status of GSM-R User, including user ID, states (e.g., available,
busy, etc.), etc.
[12.5.5-002] FRMCS System shall provide a means to share the presence status
of FRMCS User(s) to GSM-R, including user ID, states (e.g., available, busy,
etc.), etc.
[Gap Analysis: These two requirements are not covered by 3GPP existing
specification.]
## 12.6 Point to Point communication between GSM-R and FRMCS users
### 12.6.1 Description
This use case allows a FRMCS User to communicate with a GSM-R User, vice
versa.
### 12.6.2 Pre-condition
User A is an authorized FRMCS User.
User B is an authorized GSM-R Users.
### 12.6.3 Service flow
FRMCS system to GSM-R
FRMCS User A initiates a point to point communication to GSM-R User B.
GSM-R User B accepts the communication and joins the communication.
GSM-R to FRMCS system
GSM-R User B initiates a point to point call to FRMCS User A.
FRMCS User A accepts the call and joins the call.
### 12.6.4 Post-condition
GSM-R User B and FRMCS User A are communicating with each other.
### 12.6.5 Potential requirements
[12.6.5-001] FRMCS System shall provide a means for point to point
communication between an authorized FRMCS User and a GSM-R User,
[Gap Analysis: This requirement is not covered by 3GPP existing
specification.]
## 12.7 Seamless handover between GSM-R and FRMCS system
Editor's Note: this is FFS
## 12.8 Use case: Interworking with legacy systems including GSM-R and TRS
### 12.8.1 Description
This use case describes the way of interworking with legacy systems including
GSM-R and TRS.
### 12.8.2 Pre-conditions
The train driver uses the trainborne UE.
Train crews have a TRS UE for each.
The operator at the train control centre has a 3GPP UE.
The train control centre is connected to the public safety centre via 3GPP
network.
### 12.8.3 Service flows
The train driver calls the train control centre to report an emergency
situation of the train, and wants to share the report with train crews in the
train.
The FRMCS system initiates a 3GPP call to the operator at train control
centre.
The FRMCS system initiates a TRS call to all of train crews.
The train driver reports the situation. The FRMCS system transmits the report
to the train control centre centre via 3GPP network and to train crews in the
train via TRS.
The train control centre received the report and forward the call via 3GPP
network to report the situation to the public safety centre.
The train control centre activates the switching device on the railway track
to pass other trains via the signal control network.
The train control centre orders the train crews to do a counter-action on the
situation.
Train crews are shared with the report and order, and deal with the situation
properly.
### 12.8.4 Post-conditions
The situation has been handled.
The train control centre has the information on the situation, the counter-
action and its result.
The public safety centre gets the report on the situation in real-time.
### 12.8.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-12.8.5-001] The FRMCS system shall provide interworking related
functionality between the 3GPP network and the legacy network of GSM-R and
TRS, e.g. TETRA and P25.
[Gap analysis: The requirement is [not covered]{.underline} by MCCoRe. Some
part of the interworking requirements are considering in FS_MCCI - Study on
Mission Critical Communication Interworking between LTE and non-LTE Systems.
The functionality needs to be defined,]
[R-12.8.5-002] The FRMCS system should provide interworking with the signal
control network.
[Gap analysis: The requirement is not covered by 3GPP specification. The
functionality needs to be defined in FRMCS.]
## 12.9 Use case: Builds stable positioning framework for FRMCS services and
devices including trainborne and handheld devices
### 12.9.1 Description
This use case considers stable positioning framework for FRMCS services and
devices are placed in indoor and/or outdoor. The use case focuses covering
"GPS shadow area" with ad-hoc positioning technology such as LTE location
service.
### 12.9.2 Pre-conditions
The trainborne UE has GNSS function.
The trainborne UE has 3GPP Communication Module.
The train control centre monitors the train traffics.
### 12.9.3 Service flows
The operator at the train control centre requests location information from a
train.
The train is running through a very long tunnel, therefore the GNSS in the
trainborne UE does not work.
The operator at the train control centre connects the location service in the
3GPP system as an alternative way and obtains the train's location which is
actually the location of the trainborne UE.
The operator at the train control centre determines the train path and
controls railway tracks by signalling the track circuit device.
### 12.9.4 Post-conditions
The train control centre obtains the location of the train.
The track circuit for the train is reorganized.
### 12.9.5 Potential requirements and gap analysis
[R-12.9.5-001] The FRMCS system shall provide the alternative means than GNSS
to obtain the position of the FRMCS equipment.
[Gap analysis: The interfacing method and format of the location information
from the LTE system is covered by 3GPP specification such as UE positioning in
E-UTRAN[5]. The integrating related requirement is not [covered]{.underline}
by 3GPP requirements. The FRMCS interface needs to be defined.]
[R-12.9.5-002] The positioning information shall provide an accuracy of [TBD]
whilst the UE is travelling at a maximum of 500 km/h.
13 Considerations
13.1 Considerations on security
_Provide any additional aspects not considered in the use cases, or that need
further elaboration._
Text to be provided.
13.2 Considerations on ...
Text to be provided.
# 14 Potential New Requirements
# 15 Conclusion and Recommendations
# X Examples for Styles
The main text of the document should start here, after the above clauses have
been added.
The following styles and editing techniques are aimed to help in the
formatting of the document using the 3GPP Template: 3GPP_70.dot, available
from the 3GPP FTP site ([ftp://ftp.3gpp.org/Information]{.underline}).
## X.1 Heading Styles
Heading styles are included in the 3GPP TR Template and are used as follows:
**Do not use any built-in automatic numbering** for 3GPP documents. Although
this is sometimes useful in the early drafting stages of a document, once the
document has been placed under change control, the clause numbering needs to
be fixed in order to keep cross-reference consistency as the 3GPP
specification set develops.
Heading 1: Used for Main clauses (1, 2, 3, etc.). Also used for Annex clauses
(A.1, A.2, etc.).
Heading 2: Used for Main clauses (4.1, 4.2, 5.1, 5.2, etc.). Also used for
Annex clauses (A.1.1, A.1.2, etc.).
Heading 3: Used for 2nd level clauses (4.1.1, 4.1.2, 5.1.1, 5.1.2, etc.). Also
used for Annex clauses (A.2.1.1, A.2.1.2, etc.).
Heading 4 & 5: Used for 3rd and 4th level clauses and Annex clauses.
Heading 6 & 7: Not used, instead use style \"H6\" so that the title appears in
the document, but does not appear in the Table of Contents.
Heading 8: Used for Main Annex titles in Specifications (3G TS) (e.g. Annex A
(normative): ).
Heading 9: Used for Main Annex titles in Reports (3G TR) (e.g. Annex A: ).
## X.2 Other common styles
Normal: Used for main document text.
NO: Used for Notes in the text (Allows Tab and Indent). See example below.
NW: Same as NO, but Without line space after. Used when there are many notes
in sequence.
NOTE 1: This is an example of a note formatted in style NW. The style is
designed to allow space for note numbering and line wrap with a hanging
indent. There is no line space after.
NOTE 2: This is an example of a note formatted in style NO. The style is
designed to allow space for note numbering and line wrap with a hanging
indent. There is a line space after.
Bullet styles: The following bullet styles are provided.
B1: Bullet level 1 for main bullet points.
B2: Bullet level 2 for sub bullets.
B3-B5: for further sub bullets.
NOTE: Bullets are usually formatted manually, using a hyphen ( - ) or
alphanumeric identifiers: a), b), or 1), 2) etc. followed by a tab character.
**Automatic bullet features should not be used** as they may be lost if
template styles are re-applied later.
Table styles: **TAH** , **TAL** , **TAC** , **TAR** , **TAN** , for **TA** ble
**H** eaders, **L** eft justified, **C** entred, **R** ight justified and
**N** otes in tables: Style **TH** is used for the **T** able **H** eading
(title or caption). See example below.
Table 1: Example of Table styles
* * *
Col 1 Header (TAH) Col 2 Header (TAH) Col 3 Header (TAH) Left Justified (TAL)
Centred (TAC) Right Justified (TAR) NOTE: A special style is provided for
notes within a table (TAN).
* * *
Figure Styles: Figures and graphics are formatted with style \"**TH** \" which
keeps the figure with the following paragraph, usually the figure title.
Figure titles (captions) are formatted with style \"**TF** \". See example
below.
Figure 1: Example figure layout. To remove \"float over text\" select the
graphic and \"Format Object ...\" - De‑select \"float over text\" in the
Position Tab
Annex A: Examples of role management
This annex gives some examples on how role management is used in the railway
environment. This to better understand the use.
**[Functional roles]{.underline}**
Every operational railway function e.g. train driver, a shunter or controller
is identified by their functional role. A non-exhaustive list is provided in
the table underneath.
* * *
**Functional roles** Leading train driver Driver 2 Driver 3 Shunting leader
Shunting member Track side maintenance leader Track side maintenance member
Primary train controller Secondary train controller Power controller Shunting
controller Trackside maintenance controller Platform inspector Public
announcement Chief conductor Second conductor Third conductor Catering staff
chief Diagnostics
* * *
**[Functional identity]{.underline}**
A functional role can be associated to a specific railway function e.g. train,
engine, coach or train controller functions.
To do so, the owner of the role has to register itself to a specific
functional identity.
For example an owner of the functional role can be authorised by the railway
undertaking to be a train driver (functional role) of a train. When driver
start the scheduled train ride, from A to B at time x, the train running
schedule assigns a specific train running number for this train . In principle
the train keeps this number for the complete journey. The train driver uses
his communication equipment to register himself, as the leading train driver
(functional role), of train number 123 (functional identity). After
registration the train driver is now registered to the FRMCS system as the
leading train driver of train 123. In some cases there can be multiple drivers
on one train so the individual drivers can register themselves accordingly.
**[FRMCS equipment type]{.underline}**
The equipment used in the railway environment can be very specific. The FRMCS
equipment is constituted of an UE and the FRMCS application on this UE. This
depends on the location and situation the equipment is used. The following
different equipment types can be used, as an example:
* * *
**Equipment type** **Equipment Capabilities (Examples)** Cabin radio Emergency
button, external loudspeaker Shunting radio Loudspeaker Trackside maintenance
radio  
Security staff radio  
Catering staff radio  
Train controller device  
Shunting controller device
* * *
These different types of FRMCS equipment are relevant for the registration
process of functional roles and functional identities. For example a train
driver cannot register himself to a FRMCS equipment which does not fit for the
train driver to perform his role. So a train driver cannot perform a
registration as train driver of train 123 if he uses a catering staff FRMCS
equipment (where there is no train emergency button available, no loudspeaker
and handset, etc.). The registration request will be rejected by the FRMCS
system.
The FRMCS equipment shall also be reachable based on the identity of the FRMCS
equipment. For example the cabin radio of a specific train can be reached by
their FRMCS equipment identity.
**[FRMCS-user identity]{.underline}**
The railway employee (a dedicated person) is also reachable even if no
functional identity has been assigned. This is done by using a unique FRMCS-
user identity. This can be an E.164 number, any other number according to a
specific railways numbering plan or by fully qualified domain names (FQDN).
Such a number or FQDN is dedicated assigned to a specific railway employee.
After the employee has performed the log-in procedure to the FRMCS system, he
is reachable via his individual FRMCS-user identity.
{width="6.6625in" height="9.938194444444445in"}
Editor's note: The figure requires further explanations to be incorporated.
###### ### Annex \: \
###### ### Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
###### ### Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and are \"informative\"(3GPP TRs
are informative documents by nature).
# A.1 Heading levels in an annex
Heading levels within an annex are used as in the main document, but for
Heading level selection, the \"A.\", \"B.\", etc. are ignored. e.g. **A.1.2**
is formatted using **_Heading 2_** style.
Bibliography
The Bibliography is optional. If it exists, it shall follow the last annex in
the document.
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
Bibliography format
\- \: \"\\".
OR
\: \"\\".
#