# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides requirements for railway communication. Railway
communication is based on the set of Mission Critical specification [1], [2],
[3], [4]. Requirements for railway communication not fitting the scope of
those specifications are provided in this TS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
(MCCoRe)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services \".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services \".
[5] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
**CCTV:** Closed-circuit television, also known as video surveillance, is the
use of video cameras for monitoring and recording people, animals and objects
in different places, such as in vehicles and stations.
**CCTV offload** : Transfer of video surveillance data archives from train to
ground through the wireless connection between mobile communication unit in
the train and ground communication units located at the depot and at the
stations and/or stops.
**Inter-carriage link:** Wireless connection between the carriages of the
train.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
CCTV Closed-circuit television
# 4 Railway communication functionality
## 4.1 Bulk Transfer of CCTV archives from Train to Ground
### 4.1.1 Description
The video surveillance system in trains consists of multiple cameras which are
recording and encoding the video feeds 24/7 either into the video recorders or
into internal memory of the cameras themselves. The amount of video recordings
is excessive, which exceeds rather fast the physical storage capacity that is
available in video recorders and/or in cameras. The regulations in different
countries are ruling retention time for recordings until up to 31 days or even
more. However, the recordings need to be stored in the physical storages
located in the vehicles for only seven days.
Next, an example estimation is provided to illustrate the offload performance
with different uplink speeds, when the train is commuting from Helsinki to
Kemijärvi. The parameters for the calculation are provided in Table 1, whereas
the offload results for uplink speeds of 400 Mbps, 750 Mbps and 1000 Mbps are
provided respectively in Figure 1.1.1-2, Figure 1.1.1-3 and in Figure 1.1.1-4.
Station Arrives Departs Stop time Time between stations
HELSINKI 18:52
PASILA 18:57 19:00 0:03 0:08
TIKKURILA 19:41 19:44 0:03 0:44
RIIHIMÄKI 20:19 20:22 0:03 0:38
HÄMEENLINNA 20:46 20:48 0:02 0:26
TAMPERE 21:38 22:11 0:33 1:23
PARKANO 23:03 23:06 0:03 0:55
SEINÄJOKI 0:08 0:10 0:02 1:04
KOKKOLA 1:37 1:39 0:02 1:29
YLIVIESKA 3:10 3:12 0:02 1:33
OULU 4:42 5:00 0:18 1:48
KEMI 6:08 6:12 0:04 1:12
ROVANIEMI 7:47 7:55 0:08 1:43
MISI 8:31 8:32 0:01 0:37
KEMIJÄRVI 9:00 9:05 0:05 0:33
Table 4.1.1-1. The parameters for the offload calculation for the train route
between Helsinki and Kemijärvi.
{width="6.282638888888889in" height="3.584722222222222in"}
Figure 4.1.1-2. The offload results with uplink speed of 450 Mbps.
{width="6.282638888888889in" height="3.53125in"}
Figure 4.1.1-3. The offload results with uplink speed of 750 Mbps.
{width="6.226388888888889in" height="3.498611111111111in"}
Figure 4.1.1-4. The offload results with uplink speed of 1000 Mbps.
Based on the example estimations presented in the figures 4.1.1-1 -- 4.1.1-4,
the required throughput speed for the offload should be at least 1 Gbps.
Hence, in order to meet the requirement regarding the retention time and to
minimize the required physical storage in the train, FRMCS needs to provide
the means to transfer the CCTV archives from train to ground, i.e. enable
means for CCTV offload.
In a CCTV offload system, FRMCS provides means for transferring video
surveillance data between a mobile communication unit in the train and ground
communication units located at the depot and at the stations and/or stops
alongside the predetermined route of the train. Whenever the train approaches
the stations and/or stops or arrives into the depot, FRMCS facilitates the
communication between the ground and mobile communication unit. The mobile
communication unit in the train forwards the video surveillance data from the
video recorder and/or directly from video surveillance cameras. The generic
offload procedure between the ground and mobile communication units could be
e.g as described in the following;
\- The ground communication unit is monitoring whether a transmission signal
from the mobile communication unit is available and that the signal quality is
sufficient for synchronization.
\- Upon successful synchronization, the ground communication unit requests
offload from the mobile communication unit and the connection between the
ground communication and mobile communication unit is established as soon as
the sufficient signal quality is acknowledged by the FRMCS and mobile
communication unit.
\- The transfer of CCTV archives from train to ground is started.
\- The ground communication system forwards the offloaded data further to the
ground storage.
\- The transfer of CCTV archives continues as long as sufficient connection
between the train and ground system is available and/or aborted by the FRMCS.
### 4.1.2 Requirements
[R4.1.2-1] FRMCS shall facilitate the CCTV offload from train to ground when,
during the train stops the stations and/or stops, stations, and whenever the
train arrives into the stops and at the depot.
[R4.1.2-2] The FRMCS shall be able to support that CCTV archives can be
transferred into the ground system in a time and resource efficient way in
dedicated places such as stations, train stops or train depots.
[R4.1.2-3] The CCTV offload shall be initiated by the ground communication
unit, once the sufficient signal quality is available between the ground and
mobile communication units.
[R4.1.2-4] The transfer of CCTV archives shall not affect mission critical
communication.
## 4.2 Bulk transfer of multimedia from ground to train
### 4.2.1 Description
The offering of multimedia services to the passengers is becoming default
service during long travels in airplanes and more and more, also in trains. In
order to minimize the excessive consumption of network capacity between train
and ground, a bulk transfer of multimedia databases from ground to train
during stops at the stations and depots is optimal solution. The bulk transfer
of multimedia is done when the train stops at the stations, stops and depot,
ideally with minimum of one gigabit transfer speed. Hence, the multimedia
content can be more versatile and updated in regular basis. The actual content
is also consumed in-train network operated by the FRMCS and hence it does not
give burden to the link budget between train and ground. The multimedia may
contain movies, TV shows, cached webpages etc.
The bulk transfer of multimedia is facilitated by the FRMCS, which provides
means for transferring the multimedia databases data between ground
communication units, located at the depot, stations and/or stops alongside the
predetermined route of the train. Whenever the train approaches the stations
and/or stops or arrives into the depot, FRMCS facilitates the communication
between the ground and mobile communication unit, if bulk transfer of
multimedia transfer is requested. The ground communication unit uploads the
multimedia databases from ground into the mobile communication unit in the
train, where the data is stored in the train multimedia data storage. The
generic procedure for the bulk transfer of multimedia between the ground and
mobile communication units could be e.g as described in the following;
\- The ground communication unit is monitoring whether a transmission signal
from the mobile communication unit is available and that the signal quality is
sufficient for synchronization.
\- Upon successful synchronization, the mobile communication unit requests
multimedia upload from the mobile communication unit and the connection
between the ground communication and mobile communication unit is established
as soon as the sufficient signal quality is acknowledged by the FRMCS and
mobile communication unit.
\- The transfer of multimedia databases from ground to train is started.
\- The mobile communication system forwards the transferred multimedia
databases further into the in-train storage.
\- The transfer of multimedia archives continues as long as sufficient
connection between the train and ground system is available and/or aborted by
the FRMCS.
### 4.2.2 Requirements
[R4.2.2-1] FRMCS shall facilitate the transfer of multimedia archives from
ground to train.
[R4.2.2-2] The FRMCS shall be able to support that multimedia databases can be
transferred from ground to train in a time and resource efficient way, when
the train stops at the stations, train stops and at the depot.
[R4.2.2-3] FRMCS shall facilitate communication capabilities provided by the
train.
[R4.2.2-4] The transfer of multimedia databases shall not impact mission
critical communication.
## 4.3 Massive Inter-carriage data transfer
### 4.3.1 Description
The inter-carriage links between train vehicles enable sufficient capacity to
enable massive data transfer throughout the train required e.g for transfer of
CCTV archives, multimedia databases and live streaming. Mobile communication
unit in train provides connection between carriages of the train dedicated for
the transfer of CCTV archives to a central node in the train form which the
connection to the ground system will take place.
### 4.3.2 Requirements
[R4.3.2-1] The FRMCS shall facilitate the onboard CCTV communication between
carriages of a train, to collect CCTV content at one place on the train for
transfer to the ground system.
[R4.3.2-2] The Inter-carriage links shall support at least the same throughput
speed as the mobile communication unit of FRMCS providing the link between
train and ground system.
[R4.3.2-3] The onboard communication between carriages of a train shall not
impact mission critical communication.
# Annex \ (normative): \
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
###### ## Annex \ (informative): \
Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and designated either \"normative\" or
\"informative\" depending on their content (informative annexes do not
comprise requirements for the implementation of the specification).
# B.1 Heading levels in an annex
Heading levels within an annex are used as in the main document, but for
Heading level selection, the \"A.\", \"B.\", etc. are ignored. e.g. **B.1.2**
is formatted using **_Heading 2_** style.
Bibliography
The Bibliography is optional. If it exists, it shall follow the last annex in
the document.
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
Bibliography format
\- \: \"\\".
OR
\: \"\\".
#