# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 48.0xx series of
Technical Specifications and deals with the definition of the base station
system (BSS) to mobile switching centre (MSC) (referred to as the A-interface)
defined for the GSM system.
It also introduces Technical Specifications in the 3GPP TS 48.020 series,
dealing with the support of data services on this interface.
The present document gives an overview of the content of the 3GPP TS 48.0xx
and 3GPP TS 48.020 series of Technical Specifications explaining how the
detailed content of the Technical Specifications is partitioned and how the
Technical Specifications can be used to support a full BSS-MSC interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void.
[3] Void.
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] Void.
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[18] Void.
[19] Void.
[20] Void.
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[26] 3GPP TS 44.021: \"Rate adaption on the Mobile Station - Base Station
System (MS - BSS) interface\".
[27] 3GPP TS 48.002: \"Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre
(BSS - MSC) interface; Interface principles\".
[28] 3GPP TS 48.004: \"Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre
(BSS - MSC) interface; Layer 1 specification\".
[29] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC)
interface\".
[30] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile Switching Centre - Base Station System (MSC -
BSS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[31] 3GPP TS 48.020: \"Rate adaption on the Base Station System ‑ Mobile-
service Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC) interface\".
[32] Void.
[33] Void.
[34] Void.
[35] Void.
[36] Void.
[37] Void.
[38] Void.
[39] Void.
[40] Void.
[41] Void.
[42] Void.
[43] Void.
[44] Void.
[45] Void.
[46] Void.
[47] ITU-T Recommendation G.703: \"Physical/electrical characteristics of
hierarchical digital interfaces\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 apply.
# 4 A-Interface capabilities
The BSS-MSC interface shall be capable of supporting all the services offered
to GSM users and subscribers. In addition it also allows for the allocation of
suitable radio resources within the PLMN, and the operation and maintenance of
those resources.
# 5 A-Interface specification objectives
The MSC to BSS interface specifications shall allow the following:
> i) Connection of various manufacturers BSSs to the same MSC;
>
> ii) The use of several manufacturers MSCs to the same type of BSS;
>
> iii) The use of the same BSS in any PLMN;
>
> iv) The use of the same MSC in any PLMN;
>
> v) The separate evolution of MSC and BSS technology, and;
>
> vi) The separate evolution of O&M facilities;
>
> vii) Evolution towards lower speech coding rates;
>
> viii) Support of all services defined in the 3GPP TS 02.series.
# 6 A-Interface characteristics
The interface is defined to be at the boundary of the MSC.
The MSC to BSS interface is specified by a set of characteristics, including:
> i) Physical and electromagnetic parameters;
>
> ii) Channel structures;
>
> iii) Network operating procedures;
>
> iv) Operation and Maintenance information support.
The definition of the MSC to BSS interface follows a layered approach similar
to that in the ISDN. Layer 3 is for the most part based on 3GPP TS 44.018 with
additional procedures added for the control of radio resources and the
identification of transactions using the SCCP. Layer 2 is based on the
Signalling System No.7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part (MTP) , or in the case of
IP-based signalling transport - M3UA and SCTP. In case of SS7 MTP, layer 1 is
either digital (at 2 048 kbit/s, based on ITU-T Recommendation G.703 clause 6)
or analogue with the data being passed by the use of modems (this latter case
is a national option).
# 7 Other specifications on the MSC-BSS interface
The full structure of the Technical Specifications specifying the MSC to BSS
link are as follows.
## 7.1 3GPP TS 48.002 Interface Principles
The present document deals with the functional split between the BSS and the
MSC. This functional split is then supported by the other Technical
Specifications in the 3GPP TS 48.0xx series.
3GPP TS 48.002 also contains some information on the placement of
transcoders/rate adapters, these being functionally part of the BSS though a
degree of freedom is allowed in their geographical location.
In the case of A interface user plane over IP, transcoders in the BSS may not
be needed.
Lastly 3GPP TS 48.002 explains the use of transparent and non transparent
signalling information across the interface. The key point is that the
majority of call related signalling from the MS is passed in a fairly
transparent way through the BSS.
## 7.2 3GPP TS 48.004 Layer 1 - Specification
The present document defines the physical layer at the BSS-MSC interface
point. The physical interface chosen is either a 2 Mbits/s (32 x 64kbits/s)
interface according to the standard ITU-T recommendations or an IP transport
based interface according to the standard IETF RFCs.
The speech coding called up in the present document is either according to
ITU-T G.711 or according to Codecs listed in 3GPP TS 26.103. The coding of the
traffic bit streams for data calls is dealt with in 3GPP TS 44.021 and 3GPP TS
48.020.
## 7.3 3GPP TS 48.006 Signalling Transport Mechanism - Specification
In order to pass the signalling information between BSS and MSC some reliable
transport mechanism has to be used. The basis of the transport mechanism is an
internationally agreed protocol known as signalling system No.7.
Several services are required from this protocol but two key requirements are
that messages can be transferred between the BSS and MSC without corruption,
and secondly that a transaction with a particular mobile can be identified.
The correct transfer of messages without corruption is handled by the
\"Message Transfer Part\", or in the case of IP-based signalling transport -
M3UA and SCTP, of SS7 and this is documented in 3GPP TS 48.006 which is an
exceptions document to the ITU-T, ANSI and IETF specifications. The subset so
formed is designed so that it is compatible with a \"full\" MTP (M3UA/SCTP)
such as might be provided at an MSC.
For IP-based signalling transport, the involved nodes may take the role of a
client or a server with respect to establishing the end-to-end communication.
The particular role of the nodes is either determined by configuration or is
depending on which peer is acting first in establishing the communication, by
that acting as the client.
The identification of the transaction involved implies some form of logical
connection. This is achieved by using the Signalling Connection Control Part
(SCCP) of SS7. Again a minimum subset is formed in order to ease
implementation.
## 7.4 3GPP TS 48.008 Layer 3 Specification
In the present document the application parts are described. There are two
currently identified in the BSS to MSC interface protocol, these are the:
\- BSSOMAP;
\- BSSAP.
The BSSAP is further subdivided into two subprotocols, the BSSMAP and the
DTAP.
The BSSMAP and DTAP are fully defined, the BSSOMAP is only supported in terms
of a signalling transport ability.
The DTAP text is split between 3GPP TS 48.006 and 3GPP TS 48.008 but the text
in 3GPP TS 48.008 defines which layer 3 air interface messages are passed
transparently through the BSS and which are analysed at the BSS.
The BSSMAP (base station system management application part) is that part of
the protocol responsible for all aspects of the radio resource handling at the
BSS. The text is structured as a set of procedures which are defined
separately and can be employed as felt appropriate by the
operator/manufacturer to meet the requirements of the application in which it
is being used. The procedures themselves can be driven in different modes
depending upon the input parameters received from the MSC or sent from the
OMC.
The BSSOMAP (base station system operation and maintenance application part)
supports all of the O and M communications for the BSS with either the MSC or
the BSS. The actual detailed protocol at layer 3 is defined in the 3GPP TS
52.xxx-series.
## 7.5 3GPP TS 48.020 Rate adaption on the BSS-MSC interface
The present document describes the means by which the radio interface data
rates are adapted to the 64 kbits/s needed at the MSC and vice versa, down to
the bit level.
#