# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The use and general aspects of the A-bis interface are given in 3GPP TS
48.051.
The present document defines the structure of the physical layer (layer 1) of
the BSC - BTS/TRX interface for supporting traffic channels and control
channels. Use of the physical layer for supporting link protocol is covered in
3GPP TS 48.056.
The physical layer is the lowest layer in the OSI Reference Model and it
supports all functions required for transmission of bit streams on the
physical medium.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 48.020: \"Rate adaption on the Base Station System ‑
Mobile‑services Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC) interface\".
[3] 3GPP TS 48.051: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; General aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 48.056: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station (BSC
‑ BTS) interface; Layer 2 specification\".\".
[5] 3GPP TS 48.060: \"In-band control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for full rate traffic channels\".
[6] 3GPP TS 48.061: \"In-band control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for half rate traffic channels\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.703: \"Physical/electrical characteristics of
hierarchical digital interfaces\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation G.705: \"Characteristics of plesiochronous digital
hierarchy (PDH) equipment functional blocks\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation G.732: \"Characteristics of primary PCM multiplex
equipment operating at 2 048 kbit/s\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation I.460: \"Multiplexing, rate adaption and support of
existing interfaces\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 apply.
# 4 Layer 1 specification
All the ITU-T recommendations referred to are Blue Book.
Layer 1 shall utilize digital transmission at a rate of 2 048 kbit/s with a
frame structure of 32 x 64 kbit/s time slots, as specified in ITU-T
Recommendation G.705 clause 3 or at a rate of 64 kbit/s.
The physical/electrical characteristics are defined in ITU-T Recommendation
G.703.
Synchronization at the BTS/TRX for the transmitted bit stream toward the BSC
shall be derived from the received bit stream from the BSC.
For transmission rate at 64 kbit/sec it shall be an interface as defined in
ITU-T Recommendation G.703.
For transmission rate at 2 048 kbit/s the functional characteristics are
defined in ITU-T Recommendation G.732 clauses 2 and 3, and fault conditions
should be treated in accordance with ITU-T Recommendation G.732 clause 4.
The idle pattern must be transmitted on every timeslot that is not assigned to
a channel, and to every timeslot of a channel that is not allocated to a call.
The idle pattern shall be 01010100 for a 64 kbit/s channel and the 2-bit
pattern 01 for 16 kbit/s channels. For 8 kbit/s channels, the idle pattern
shall be consecutive ones or zeros according to the corresponding idle pattern
bit of a 16 kbit/s channel.
If transcoders are located in BTS speech encoding shall be the A-law as
defined in ITU-T Recommendation G.711.
If speech transcoders are located in the BSC the speech, data and signalling
channels will utilize transmission rates of 8 kbit/s, 16 kbit/s or 64 kbit/s
according to 3GPP TS 48.060 and 3GPP TS 48.061. They shall be rate adapted or
multiplexed according to ITU-T Recommendation I.460 with fixed format, to fit
into the physical interface.
Data encoding is covered in 3GPP TS 48.020.
In the case of a 2 048 kbit/sec circuit, multidrop solutions should be
possible. Dynamic sharing of terrestrial 64 kbit/sec channels between BTS:s on
a per-call basis must not be used.
#