# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the H(e)NB -- SeGW interface. The interface is
used for the interworking between a 3GPP system and a Fixed Broadband Access
network defined by Broadband Forum. The interworking procedure provides the IP
connectivity to a 3GPP UE using a H(e)NB connected to a Fixed Broadband Access
network as specified in 3GPP TS 23.139 [2].
The specification covers the QoS aspects and Tunnel management procedures.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.139: \"3GPP System-Fixed Broadband Access Network Interworking;
Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.139: \"3GPP System-Fixed Broadband Access Network Interworking;
Stage 3\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (December 1998): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services
Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
> [5] IETF RFC 5996: \" Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)\".
>
> [6] IETF RFC 3948: \"UDP Encapsulation of IPsec ESP Packets\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 33.320: \"Security of Home Node B (HNB) / Home evolved Node B
> (HeNB)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**H(e)NB Reflective QoS function** : H(e)NB Reflective QoS function is a
H(e)NB function in order to support QoS for uplink traffic over a Fixed
Broadband Access network as specified in 3GPP TS 23.139 [2].
**H(e)NB local IP address Info** : H(e)NB local IP address Info is defined as
either the public IPv4 address or IPv6 address assigned to the H(e)NB by the
Fixed Broadband Access Network domain, or the public IPv4 address and the UDP
port number used by the NATed RG that is used for this H(e)NB. The public IPv4
address used by the NATed RG is assigned by the Fixed Broadband Access Network
domain.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
H(e)NB Home (e)NodeB
NAT Network Address Translation
NAT-T NAT Traversal
SeGW Security Gateway
# 4 General
## 4.1 Protocol Stack
### 4.1.1 Control Plane for H(e)NB -- SeGW
> **Legend:**
\- **IKEv2 Protocol** : This protocol is used to between H(e)NB and SeGW. The
IKEv2 protocol is defined in IETF RFC 5996 [5].
> Figure 4.1.1-1: Control Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv4
> transport network
**Legend:**
\- **IKEv2 Protocol:** This protocol is used to between H(e)NB and SeGW. The
IKEv2 protocol is defined in RFC 5996 [5].
Figure 4.1.1-2: Control Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv6 transport
network
### 4.1.2 User Plane for H(e)NB -- SeGW
**Legend:**
\- **UDP:** UDP encapsulation is used if NAT is detected between the H(e)NB
and the SeGW.
Figure 4.1.2-1: User Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv4 transport
network
Figure 4.1.2-2: User Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv6 transport
network
# 5 Supporting QoS
## 5.1 General
At interworking with a Fixed Broadband Access network, QoS is provided by DSCP
marking as specified in IETF RFC 2474 [4].
## 5.2 H(e)NB procedures
### 5.2.1 General
The H(e)NB shall support DSCP marking on the IPsec header when forwarding the
UE uplink traffic.
Based on H(e)NB configuration either the QCI mapping or the Reflective QoS may
be used.
### 5.2.2 QCI mapping
The QCI mapping table contains a one-to-one mapping from QCI value to DSCP
marking value. The QCI mapping table is configured in the H(e)NB by the
operator.
When forwarding an uplink IP packet, the H(e)NB shall perform a lookup in the
QCI mapping table based on the QCI value of the EPS bearer/PDP context before
the IPsec tunnel encapsulation. The H(e)NB shall set the DSCP marking value of
the IPsec header according to the matched QCI mapping table entry.
### 5.2.3 Reflective QoS
To support the H(e)NB Reflective QoS function for uplink traffic, the H(e)NB
shall create and maintain the uplink DSCP marking rules for each active PDN
connection as specified for UE Reflective QoS function in 3GPP TS 24.139 [3].
When forwarding an uplink IP packet, the H(e)NB shall perform a lookup in the
DSCP marking table based on the n-tuple of the IP header before the IPsec
tunnel encapsulation. If a matching entry is found, the H(e)NB shall set the
DSCP marking value of the IPsec header according to the matched DSCP marking
rule. If no matching entry is found, the H(e)NB shall copy the DSCP field of
the outer IP header into the IPsec header before forwarding to the SeGW.
## 5.3 SeGW procedures
When receiving a downlink data packet, the SeGW shall copy the DSCP marking
value from the outer IP header into the IPsec header before forwarding to the
H(e)NB using the IPsec tunnel, as specified in 3GPP TR 23.139 [2].
# 6 Tunnel Management
## 6.1 General
The tunnel is an IPsec tunnel established via an IKEv2 protocol exchange IETF
RFC 5996 [5] between the H(e)NB and the SeGW which is through the Fixed
Broadband Access Network.
**In an IPv4 Fixed** Broadband Access **Network, NAT can be deployed between
the H(e)NB and the SeGW, e.g.** in a Residence Gateway**. A H(e)NB behind the
NAT shall invoke the NAT traversal procedure for IKEv2. The IPsec tunnel is
encapsulated over UDP in the Tunnel-Mode as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [5].**
## 6.2 H(e)NB procedures
### 6.2.1 Tunnel establishment
#### 6.2.1.1 IP address allocation
**The SeGW shall provide the IP address to the H(e)NB for the communication
with the EPC network.**
**For dynamic IP address allocation,** the H(e)NB shall include the requested
IP address type (IPv4 address or IPv6 address) that needs to be configured in
an IKEv2 CFG_REQUEST Configuration Payload in the IKE_AUTH request message as
defined in IETF RFC 5996 [5] after reception of the IKE_SA_INIT response from
the SeGW.
#### 6.2.1.2 NAT Traversal
**NAT can be deployed in an IPv4 Fixed** Broadband Access **Network. IKEv2 NAT
Traversal specified in section 2.23 of IETF RFC 5996 [5] shall be supported by
H(e)NB.**
**If NAT is detected between the H(e)NB and SeGW, the following procedures
shall be performed:**
\- UDP-Encapsulated ESP as defined in IETF RFC 5996 [5];
\- sending the NAT-keepalive packet to keep NAT mapping alive if no other
packet to the SeGW has been sent in M seconds as defined in the IETF RFC 3948
[6];
NOTE: M is a locally configurable parameter with a default value of 20 seconds
as defined in the IETF RFC 3948 [6].
#### 6.2.1.3 H(e)NB NATed Tunnel-IP address discovery
**If NAT is detected between the H(e)NB and SeGW,** the H(e)NB shall request
the SeGW to return the H(e)NB local IP address information by including the
EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute as defined in subclause 7.1.1.1 in the
CFG_REQUEST Configuration Payload within the IKE_AUTH request message**. The
length field of the attribute shall be set to zero. The NATed IPv4 Address
field and UDP Port number field shall be absent.**
If the H(e)NB subsequently receives the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute
**in the CFG_REPLY configuration payload** from the SeGW, the H(e)NB shall
report the IP address received in EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute as
the H(e)NB local IP address to the MME/SGSN.
### 6.2.2 Tunnel modification
NAT mappings can change when the UDP port number is reassigned by the NAT,
and/or H(e)NB local IP address is reallocated due to NAT restart.
Upon NAT remapping, the SeGW initiates the tunnel disconnection procedure as
specified in subclause 6.3.3. Then the H(e)NB shall re-initiate the tunnel
establishment procedure as specified in sub-clause 6.2.1.
### 6.2.3 Tunnel disconnection
The H(e)NB shall use the procedures defined in IETF RFC 5996 [5] to disconnect
an IPsec tunnel to the SeGW.
## 6.3 SeGW procedures
### 6.3.1 Tunnel establishment
#### 6.3.1.1 IP address allocation
For dynamic IP address allocation, upon receipt of an IKE_AUTH request message
from the H(e)NB requesting the IP address, the SeGW shall include the remote
IP address information in the IKEv2 Configuration Payload (CFG_REPLY) of the
final IKE_AUTH response message to the H(e)NB. The SeGW shall assign either an
IPv4 or an IPv6 address to the H(e)NB via a single CFG_REPLY Configuration
Payload.
#### 6.3.1.2 NAT Traversal
**NAT can be deployed in an IPv4 Fixed** Broadband Access **Network. IKEv2 NAT
Traversal specified in section 2.23 of IETF RFC 5996 [5] shall be supported by
SeGW.**
**If NAT is detected between the H(e)NB and SeGW,** the SeGW shall use UDP-
Encapsulated ESP as defined in **IETF RFC 5996 [5]**.
#### 6.3.1.3 H(e)NB NATed Tunnel-IP address discovery
**If the SeGW receives the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute** as defined
in subclause 7.1.1.1 **in the CFG_REQUEST configuration payload within
IKE_AUTH request message, the SeGW shall provide the H(e)NB local IP address
information (i.e. NATed IPv4 address and UDP port number) to the H(e)NB by
including the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute in the CFG_REPLY
configuration payload within the IKE_AUTH response message.**
### 6.3.2 Tunnel modification
NAT mappings can change when the UDP port number is reassigned by the NAT,
and/or H(e)NB local IP address is reallocated due to NAT restart.
If NAT remapping is detected by the SeGW, the SeGW shall initiate the tunnel
disconnection procedure (see subclause 6.3.3).
> NOTE: No procedures are defined in current release of specification to
> enable the SeGW to send the modified H(e)NB local IP address information to
> the H(e)NB during the lifetime of IKEv2 security association.
### 6.3.3 Tunnel disconnection
The SeGW shall use the procedures defined in IETF RFC 5996 [5] to disconnect
an IPsec tunnel to the H(e)NB.
# 7 PDUs and parameters specific to the present document
## 7.1 IETF RFC coding information defined within present document
### 7.1.1 IKEv2 Configuration Payloads attributes
#### 7.1.1.1 EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute
The format of the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute follows the
definition of Configuration Attributes as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [5],
section 3.15.1. The format is shown in figure 7.1.1.1-1 as below. The length
of the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute is 0 or 6 bytes.
* * *
**7** **6** **5** **4** **3** **2** **1** **0** **Octets** R Attribute Type 1  
Attribute Type 2  
Length 3, 4  
NATed IPv4 Address 5 - 8  
UDP Port number 9 - 10
* * *
Figure 7.1.1.1-1: EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute
The R bit in the first octet is as defined in IETF RFC 5996 [5].
The Attribute Type indicating EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO is of the value 23.
#