# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the protocol to be used on the Interconnection
Border Control Function (IBCF) -- Transition Gateway (TrGW) interface and the
CS-IBCF -- CS-TrGW interface. The basis for this protocol is the H.248
protocol as specified in ITU-T. The Profile provides MG control function for
IMS and CS Border Control. The IMS architecture is described in 3GPP TS 23.228
[2]. The underlying reference model and stage 2 information is described in
Annex I of 3GPP TS 23.228 [2] and in 3GPP TS 29.162 [18]. The CS architecture
is described in Annex A of 3GPP TS 29.235 [17].
This specification describes the application of H.248 Ix profile for both Ix
and CS-Ix interfaces (see Figure 1.1 and Figure 1.2). Required extensions use
the H.248 standard extension mechanism. In addition certain aspects of the
base protocol H.248 are not needed for this interface and thus excluded by
this profile.
Figure 1.1: Reference model for IMS Border Control Functions
Figure 1.2: Reference model for CS Border Control Functions
The reference model for the IBCF and the TrGW supporting the ATCF/ATGW
function is shown in Figure 1.x below.
> Figure 1.3: Reference model for IBCF/TrGW with ATCF/ATGW function
See 3GPP TS 23.237 [38] subclause 5.2 for a comprehensive description of the
reference model.
NOTE: The Ix profile is applied over both IMS and CS Ix interfaces.
In the following text the terms IBCF and TrGW also include respectively the
CS-IBCF and CS-TrGW functionalities.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (2002): \"Gateway Control Protocol: Version
2\" including the Corrigendum 1 for Version 2 (03/04).
[4] ETSI TS 183 018 V3.5.1(2009-07): \"Telecommunications and Internet
converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Resource
and Admission Control: H.248 Profile Version 3 for controlling Border Gateway
Functions (BGF) in the Resource and Admission Control Subsystem (RACS);
Protocol specification\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.57 (06/2008): \"Gateway control protocol: RTP
Control Protocol Package\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.43 (06/2008): \"Gateway control protocol: Gate
Management and Gate Control packages\".
[7] IETF RFC 3605 (2003): \"Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in
Session Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[8] IETF RFC 4566 (2006): \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[9] IETF RFC 4975 (2007): \"The Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\".
[10] IETF RFC 3551 (2003): \"RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with
Minimal Control\".
[11] IETF RFC 4145 (2005): \"TCP-Based Media Transport in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.52 (06/2008): \"Gateway control protocol: QoS
support packages \".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.53 (06/2008) inclusive _Revision 1_ (03/2009):
\"Gateway control protocol: Traffic management packages\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.41 Amendment 1 (06/2008): \"Gateway control
protocol: IP domain connection package: IP Realm Availability Package\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.36 (09/2005): \"Gateway control protocol:
Hanging Termination Detection package\".
[16] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.11 (11/2002): \"Gateway control protocol:
Media gateway overload control package\".\ Inclusive Corrigendum 1 (06/2008)
to H.248.11 \"Gateway control protocol: Media gateway overload control
package: Clarifying MG-overload event relationship to ADD commands\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.235: \"Interworking between SIP-I based circuit-switched core
network and other networks\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.162: \"Interworking between the IM CN subsystem and IP
networks\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.14 (03/2009): \"Gateway control protocol:
Inactivity timer package\".
[20] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.10 (07/2001): \"Media gateway resource
congestion handling package\".
[21] 3GPP TS 29.232: \"Media Gateway Controller (MGC) - Media Gateway (MGW)
interface; Stage 3\".
[22] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; 3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP Network Layer Security\".
[23] ITU-T Recommendation V.152 (01/2005): \"Procedures for supporting voice-
band data over IP networks\".
[24] ITU-T Supplement 7 to ITU-T H-series Recommendations H.Sup7 (05/2008):
\"Gateway control protocol: Establishment procedures for the H.248 MGC-MG
control association\".
[25] IETF RFC 5234 (2008): \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF \".
[26] IETF RFC 4960 (2007): \"Stream control transmission protocol\".
[27] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.40 (01/2007): \"Gateway control protocol:
Application Data Inactivity Detection package\".
[28] ITU-T Recommendation X.690 (11/2008): \"ASN.1 encoding rules:
Specification of Basic Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER)
and Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)\".
[29] IETF RFC 3556 (2003): \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth
Modifiers for RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth\".
[30] IETF RFC 4585 (2006): \"Extended RTP Profile for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP) - Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)\".
[31] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[32] IETF RFC 2216 (1997): \"Network Element Service Specification Template\".
[33] IETF RFC 3711 (2004): \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[34] IETF RFC 5124 (2008): \"Extended Secure RTP Profile for Real-time
Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)\".
[35] IETF RFC 6679 (2012): \"Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) for RTP
over UDP\".
[36] IETF RFC 3611 (2003): \"RTP Control Protocol Extended Reports (RTCP
XR)\".
[37] IETF RFC 3168 (2001): \"The Addition of Explicit Congestion Notification
(ECN) to IP\".
[38] 3GPP TS 23.237: \"IP Multimedia subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
2\".
[39] 3GPP TS 22.153: \"Multimedia Priority Service\".
[40] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.82 (03/2013): \"Gateway control protocol:
Explicit Congestion Notification Support\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Address:** term used for \"network address\" (IP address)
**CS-TrGW:** packet-to-packet gateway for user plane media traffic. The CS-
TrGW performs both policy enforcement functions and NA(P)T functions under the
control of the CS-IBCF
**Port:** term used for \"transport port\" (L4 port).
**TRANSCODING:** transcoding in general is the translation from one type of
encoded media format to another different media format, e.g. G.711 A-law to
μ-law or vice versa, G.729 to AMR with 4.75 rate.
NOTE 1: The definition of \"transcoding\" is according clause 3.10/ITU-T
Recommendation V.152 [23].
NOTE 2: Transcoding belongs to the category of \"media aware\" IP-to-IP
interworking.
**Transport Address:** term used for the combination of a _Network Address_
and a _Transport Port._
**TrGW:** packet-to-packet gateway for user plane media traffic. The TrGW
performs both policy enforcement functions and NA(P)T functions under the
control of the IBCF
NOTE 3: A Transition Gateway (TrGW) provides the interface between two IP-
transport domains. The TrGW has the \"H.248 MG\" role in the scope of this
Profile.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Ix Interface between IBCF and TrGW or CS-IBCF and CS-TrGW.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] apply, with the following additions. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur Form
ATCF Access Transfer Control Function
ATGW Access Transfer Gateway
BGF Border Gateway Function
CE Congestion Experienced
ECN Explicit Congestion Notification
GCP Gateway Control Protocol
IBCF Interconnect Border Control Function
LD Local Descriptor (H.248 protocol element)
MG Media Gateway
MGC Media Gateway Controller
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
NA Not Applicable
NAPT Network Address and Port Translation
NAPT-PT NAPT and Protocol Translation
NAT Network Address Translation
PCI Protocol Control Information
RD Remote Descriptor (H.248 protocol element)
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
ToS Type-of-Service
TrGW Transition Gateway
TISPAN Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking
# 4 Applicability
The support of the IMS and CS Ix interfaces capability sets shall be
identified by the H.248 Ix profile and support of this profile shall be
indicated in H.248 ServiceChange procedure (during the (re-)registration
phase(s)).
## 4.1 Architecture
See Annex I of 3GPP TS 23.228 [2], Annex A of 3GPP TS 29.235 [17] and 3GPP TS
29.162 [18].
# 5 Profile Description
## 5.1 Profile Identification
Table 5.1.1: Profile Identification
* * *
Profile name: threegIx Version: 2
* * *
## 5.2 Summary
This profile supports the control of the following functionality in (IP-to-IP)
Transition Gateways:
\- Allocation and translation of IP addresses and port numbers (NA(P)T and
NA(P)T-PT);
\- Hanging termination detection;
\- IP realm/domain indication;
\- Media inactivity detection;
\- Opening and closing gates (i.e. packets filtering depending on \"IP address
/ port\");
\- Policing of incoming traffic;
\- QoS packet marking for outgoing traffic (differentiated services);
\- RTCP handling;
\- Explicit Congestion Notification support;
\- Multimedia Priority Service;
and when ATCF/ATGW is supported:
\- Handover of bearer connections between PS and CS access networks;
\- IP version interworking;
\- Audio transcoding.
In addition, optional settings and procedures are described which fulfil
optional features. The minimum mandatory settings within the optional
procedures and packages are identified that must be supported in order to
support that feature.
\"Optional\" or \"O\" means that it is optional for either the sender or the
receiver to implement an element. If the receiving entity receives an optional
element that it has not implemented it should send an Error Code (e.g. 445
\"Unsupported or Unknown Property\", 501\"Not Implemented\", etc.).
\"Mandatory\" or \"M\" means that it is mandatory for the receiver to
implement an element. Whether it is mandatory for the sender to implement
depends on specific functions; detail of whether elements of the core protocol
are mandatory to be sent are defined in the stage 2 procedures, stage 3
procedures and/or the descriptions of individual packages.
The setting or modification of elements described in the profile under the
heading \"Used in Command\" has the meaning that the property can be
set/modified with that command. The property may be present in other commands
(in order to preserve its value in accordance with ITU-T Recommendation
H.248.1[3]) when those commands are used for other procedures that affect the
same descriptor.
## 5.3 Gateway Control Protocol Version
Version 2 (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3]) shall be used as the minimum
protocol version.
## 5.4 Connection model
Table 5.4.1: Connection Model
+-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | **Maximum number of contexts:** | Provisioned | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | **Maximum number of terminations per context:** | 3 | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | **Allowed termination type combinations in a | (IP,IP) ; | | context:** | | | | (IP,IP,IP) (NOTE) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NOTE: This is only a temporary context | | | configuration, occurring during bearer access | | | transfer phase (between PS to CS access | | | networks or vice versa). | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
## 5.5 Context attributes
Table 5.5.1: Context Attributes
+-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | Context Attribute | Supported | Values Supported | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | **Topology** | Yes (NOTE 1) | See clause 5.7.9 | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | **Priority Indicator** | Optional (NOTE 2) | 0-15 (NOTE 3) | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | **Emergency Indicator** | Yes | YES/NO | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | **IEPS Indicator** | No | NA | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | **ContextAttribute | No | NA | | Descriptor** | | | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | **ContextIdList Parameter** | No | NA | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | **AND/OR Context | No | NA | | Attribute** | | | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: Stream ID in | | | | Topology Descriptor shall | | | | not be supported (because | | | | only used for SRVCC service | | | | support, which is a | | | | monomedia type of call | | | | ("voice call")). | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This Context | | | | Attribute parameter is | | | | allowed in ETSI TISPAN Ia | | | | Profile version 3. It is | | | | also used for MPS as | | | | specified in 3GPP TS 22.153 | | | | [39]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Priority values 11 | | | | -- 15 of the Priority | | | | Indicator are reserved for | | | | MPS. | | | +-----------------------------+-------------------+------------------+
## 5.6 Terminations
### 5.6.1 Termination names
#### 5.6.1.1 IP Termination
##### 5.6.1.1.1 ABNF Coding Overview and prose specification
The Termination ID structure shall follow the guidelines of H.248 and shall be
based on four fields:
\- \"ip/\/\/\\".
The individual fields are described and defined in table 5.6.1.1.1.1.
Table 5.6.1.1.1.1: IP Termination Fields
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Name | Description | Values | CHOOSE | ALL | | | | | Wildcard | Wildcard | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Ip | \"ip\" is a | \"ip\" | No | No | | | fixed | | | | | | prefix | | | | | | identifying | | | | | | the | | | | | | termination | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Group | Group of | Integer | Yes (NOTE | Yes | | | Interface | (0-65535) | 5) | | | | and Id | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Interface | Logical or | String of | Yes (NOTE | Yes | | | physical | max 51 | 4) | | | | interface | a | | | | | to a | lphanumeric | | | | | network | characters | | | | | to/from | | | | | | which the | | | | | | termination | | | | | | will be | | | | | | sendin | | | | | | g/receiving | | | | | | media. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1, | | | | | | NOTE 2). | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Id | Termination | Non-zero 32 | Yes (NOTE | Yes | | | specific | bit integer | 4) | | | | identifier | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3). | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: A | | | | | | specific | | | | | | \ | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | together | | | | | | with | | | | | | different | | | | | | groups. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | generic | | | | | | field | | | | | | \ | | | | | | may relate | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifically | | | | | | to an \"IP | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterface\", | | | | | | \"protocol | | | | | | layer 2 | | | | | | interface\" | | | | | | or others. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | of | | | | | | Interface | | | | | | and Id is | | | | | | unique. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | MGC shall | | | | | | always use | | | | | | CHOOSE in | | | | | | an ADD | | | | | | request | | | | | | command. If | | | | | | not, the MG | | | | | | shall reply | | | | | | with an | | | | | | error | | | | | | descriptor | | | | | | using error | | | | | | code #501 | | | | | | \"Not | | | | | | Imp | | | | | | lemented\". | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | CHOOSE | | | | | | wildcard on | | | | | | 'Group' is | | | | | | _not_ | | | | | | allowed in | | | | | | ETSI TISPAN | | | | | | \"Ia | | | | | | Profiles\". | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: The IBCF has the ability to choose the address space in which the TrGW
will allocate an IP address for the termination by using the _ipdc/realm_
property defined in the ITU-T Recommendation H.248.41 [14] IP domain
connection package.
H.248 wildcarding may be applied on IP Termination Identifiers. Wildcarding is
limited according the two columns on the right hand side.
The corresponding ABNF grammar is given below:
ABNF (IETF RFC 5234 [25]) is used for the syntax specification. The ABNF for
TerminationID and relation to pathNAME is defined in Annex B.2 of ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 [3].
**ABNF coding:**
> pathNAME = EphToken SLASH EPHsystem
>
> EphToken = \"ip\" ; prefix
>
> EPHsystem = WildcardALL
>
> / WildcardALL SLASH Interface
>
> / Group SLASH WildcardALL
>
> / (Group / WildcardCHOOSE) SLASH (Interface / WildcardCHOOSE) SLASH
> (Identifier / WildcardALL / WildcardCHOOSE)
>
> Group = %d0-65535 ; data type: INT16
>
> Interface = 1*51ALPHANUM
>
> Identifier = %d1-4294967295 ; data type: INT32
>
> ALPHANUM = ALPHA / DIGIT
>
> WildcardCHOOSE = \"\$\"
>
> WildcardALL = \"*\"
##### 5.6.1.1.2 ASN.1 Coding Overview and prose specification
The following general structure of termination ID shall be used:
4 octets shall be used for the termination ID. The following defines the
general structure for the termination ID:
Table 5.6.1.1.2.1: ASN.1 coding
* * *
Termination type X
* * *
Termination type:
Length 3 bits
Values:
000 Reserved
001 IP (Ephemeral) termination
010 Reserved (in 3GPP Mc and Mn profile used for TDM termination)
011 - 110 Reserved
111 Reserved for ROOT termination Id (ROOT Termination ID = 0xFFFFFFFF)
X:
> Length 29 bits.
>
> For IP termination, its usage is un-specified.
### 5.6.2 Multiplexed terminations
Table 5.6.2.1: Multiplexed Terminations
* * *
**Multiplex Terminations Supported?** No
* * *
_If yes then:_
Table 5.6.2.2: Multiplex Types
* * *
**Multiplex Types Supported** None **Maximum Number of Terminations Connected
to Multiplex** -
* * *
## 5.7 Descriptors
### 5.7.1 TerminationState Descriptor
Table 5.7.1.1: ServiceState property
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **ServiceState property used:** | Yes (InService/OutofService) | | | NOTE 1, NOTE 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This is restricted to | | | the ROOT termination (for MGW | | | audit). | | | | | | NOTE 2: Ephemeral H.248 | | | Terminations have a ServiceState | | | property according to ITU-T | | | Recommendation H.248.1 [3], | | | but explicit usage of the | | | TerminationState Descriptor | | | ServiceState property is not | | | required by this Profile. | | | ServiceState changes can still | | | occur, however, and can be | | | indicated in ServiceChange | | | Commands (i.e. this means that | | | the value of the ServiceState | | | property may be implicitly | | | changed by ServiceChange | | | procedures. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 5.7.1.2: EventBufferControl property
* * *
**EventBufferControl property used:** No
* * *
### 5.7.2 Stream Descriptor
#### 5.7.2.0 General
Table 5.7.2.1: Stream descriptor
* * *
**Maximum number of streams per termination type:** IP Unspecified (NOTE)
NOTE: At least one stream for each media component (e.g. video+audio = 2
streams). If only one stream is applicable, then the IBCF may omit the Stream
Descriptor and the TrGW shall assume that StreamID = 1.
* * *
Table 5.7.2.2: Stream configuration
* * *
**Stream Configuration:** ALL configurations are allowed
* * *
#### 5.7.2.1 LocalControl Descriptor
Table 5.7.2.1.1: Reserve Group and Reserve Value
* * *
                            **Termination Type**   **Stream Type**
**Reserve group used:** No NA NA **Reserve value used:** Yes IP Audio, Video
* * *
_Table 5.7.2.1.2: Stream Mode_
* * *
**Termination Type** **Stream Type** **Allowed StreamMode Values** IP RTP/AVP
SendOnly, RecvOnly, SendRecv, Inactive RTP/SAVP SendOnly, RecvOnly, SendRecv,
Inactive RTP/AVPF SendOnly, RecvOnly, SendRecv, Inactive RTP/SAVPF SendOnly,
RecvOnly, SendRecv, Inactive TCP SendRecv, Inactive TCP/MSRP SendRecv,
Inactive udptl SendRecv, Inactive udp SendOnly, RecvOnly, SendRecv, Inactive
NOTE: See table 5.15.2 for the stream types applicable to IMS-Ix and CS-Ix.
* * *
### 5.7.3 Events descriptor
Table 5.7.3.1: Events Descriptor
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Events | Yes | | | | settable on | | | | | termination | | | | | types and | | | | | stream | | | | | types:** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _If yes_ | **Event ID** | **Termination |** Stream | | | | Type**| Type** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Cause | ALL except | ANY | | | (g/cause, | ROOT | | | | 0x0001/0x0001) | | | | | - See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.1 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Inactivity | only ROOT | Not applicable | | | Timeout | | | | | (it/ito,\ | | | | | 0x0045/0x0001) | | | | | -- See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.6 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | MG_Overload | only ROOT | Not applicable | | | | | | | | (ocp | | | | | /mg_overload, | | | | | 0x0051/0x0001) | | | | | -- See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.8 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Termination | ALL except | Not applicable | | | Heartbeat | ROOT | | | | (hangterm/thb, | | | | | 0x0098/0x0001) | | | | | -- See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.9 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | MGCon | only ROOT | Not applicable | | | (chp/mgcon, | | | | | 0x0029/0x0001) | | | | | -- See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.10 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Available | only ROOT | Not applicable | | | Realms Changed | | | | | (ipra/arc, | | | | | 0x00e0/0x0001) | | | | | -- See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.11 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | IP Flow Stop | ALL except | ANY | | | Detection | ROOT | | | | (adid/ipstop, | | | | | 0x009c/0x0001) | | | | | -- See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.14 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | ECN Failure | #### | RTP Based | | | (ecnrous/fail, | # IP {#ip .H6} | | | | 0x010b/0x0001) | | | | | -- See | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | 5.14.3.15 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 5.7.3.2: Event Buffer Control
* * *
**Event Buffer Control used:** No
* * *
Table 5.7.3.3: Keep Active
* * *
**Keepactive used on events:** No
* * *
Table 5.7.3.4: Embedding in event
* * *
**Embedded events in an event descriptor:** No **Embedded signals in an event
descriptor:** No
* * *
Table 5.7.3.5: Regulated Embedded Events
* * *
**Regulated Embedded events are triggered on:** None
* * *
Table 5.7.3.6: Reset Events Descriptor Flag
* * *
**ResetEventsDescriptor used with events:** None
* * *
Table 5.7.3.7: Notification Behaviour
* * *
**NotifyImmediate:** ALL Events **NotifyRegulated:** None **NeverNotify:**
None
* * *
NOTE: tables 5.7.3.4 -- 5.7.3.7 apply to version 3 of ITU-T Recommendation
H.248.1 [3].
### 5.7.4 EventBuffer descriptor
Table 5.7.4.1: Event Buffer
* * *
**Event Buffer descriptor used:** No  
_If yes_ **EventIDs**
* * *
### 5.7.5 Signals descriptor
Table 5.7.5.1: Signals dependant on termination or streams
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **The setting | No | | | | of signals is | | | | | dependant on | NOTE -- \"No\" | | | | termination or | means that all | | | | streams | signals can be | | | | types:** | played on any | | | | | termination or | | | | | stream. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _If yes_ | **Signal ID** | **Termination |** Stream Type | | | | Type**| / ID** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | - | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 5.7.5.2: Signal Lists
* * *
**Signals Lists supported:** No  
_If yes_ **Termination Type Supporting Lists** \- **Stream Type Supporting
lists** \- **Maximum number of signals to a signal list** \- **Intersignal
delay parameter supported:** -
* * *
Table 5.7.5.3: Overriding Signal type and duration
* * *
**Signal type and duration supported:** No  
_If yes_ **Signal ID** **Type or duration override** \- -
* * *
_Table 5.7.5.4: Signal Direction_
* * *
**Signal Direction supported:** No
* * *
Table 5.7.5.5: Notify completion
* * *
**NotifyCompletion supported:** No  
_If yes_ **Signal ID** **Type of completion supported** \- -
* * *
Table 5.7.5.6: RequestID Parameter
* * *
**RequestID Parameter Supported:** No
* * *
Table 5.7.5.7: Signals played simultaneously
* * *
**Signals played simultaneously:** No  
_If yes_ **SignalIDs that can be played simultaneously:** -
* * *
Table 5.7.5.8: Keep Active
* * *
**KeepActive used on signals:** No
* * *
### 5.7.6 DigitMap descriptor
Table 5.7.6.1: DigitMap Descriptor
* * *
**DigitMaps supported:** No  
_If yes_ **DigitMap Name** **Structure** **Timers** \- - -
* * *
### 5.7.7 Statistics descriptor
_Table 5.7.7.1: Statistics Descriptor_
* * *
**Statistics supported on:** -
* * *
Table 5.7.7.2: Statistics reported on Subtract
* * *
**Statistics reported on Subtract:** No  
_If yes_ **Statistic IDs Reported** **Termination Type** **Stream Type** \- -
-
* * *
### 5.7.8 ObservedEvents descriptor
Table 5.7.8.1: ObservedEvents Descriptor
* * *
**Event detection time supported:** No
* * *
### 5.7.9 Topology descriptor
Table 5.7.9.1: Topology descriptor
+-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | Allowed triples: | (T1, T2, isolate) | | | | | | (T1, T2, bothway) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NOTE: The Topology Descriptor shall be | | | supported by the MGW and MGC for handover only, | | | when PS-to-CS access transfer is supported. | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
### 5.7.10 Error descriptor
Table 5.7.10.1: Error codes sent by the IBCF
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Supported H.248.8 Error | #400 \"Syntax error in | | Codes:** | message\" | | | | | | #401 \"Protocol Error\" | | | | | | #402 \"Unauthorized\" | | | | | | #403 \"Syntax Error in | | | TransactionRequest\" | | | | | | #406 \"Version Not Supported\" | | | | | | #410 \"Incorrect identifier\" | | | | | | #411 \"The transaction refers | | | to an unknown ContextID\" | | | | | | #413 \"Number of transactions | | | in message exceeds maximum\" | | | | | | #421 \"Unknown action or | | | illegal combination of | | | | | | actions\" | | | | | | #422 \"Syntax Error in Action\" | | | | | | #430 \"Unknown TerminationID\" | | | | | | #431 \"No TerminationID matched | | | a wildcard\" | | | | | | #442 \"Syntax Error in | | | Command\" | | | | | | #443 \"Unsupported or Unknown | | | Command\" | | | | | | #444 \"Unsupported or Unknown | | | Descriptor\" | | | | | | #445 \"Unsupported or Unknown | | | property\" | | | | | | #446 \"Unsupported or Unknown | | | Parameter\" | | | | | | #447 \"Descriptor not legal in | | | this command\" | | | | | | #448 \"Descriptor appears twice | | | in a command\" | | | | | | #449 \"Unsupported parameter or | | | property value\" | | | | | | #450 \"No such property in this | | | package | | | | | | #451 \"No such event in this | | | package\" | | | | | | #454 \"No such parameter value | | | in this package\" | | | | | | #455 \"Property illegal in this | | | Descriptor\" | | | | | | #456 \"Property appears twice | | | in this Descriptor\" | | | | | | #457 \"Missing parameter in | | | signal or event\" | | | | | | #458 \"Unexpected | | | Event/RequestID\" | | | | | | #501 \"Not Implemented\" | | | | | | #502 \"Not ready\" | | | | | | #505 \"Transaction Request | | | Received before a | | | | | | ServiceChange Reply has been | | | received\" | | | | | | #506 \"Number of | | | TransactionPendings Exceeded\" | | | | | | #533 \"Response exceeds maximum | | | transport PDU size\" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Supported Error Codes defined | All error codes defined in | | in packages:** | supported packages are | | | supported. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: the error codes listed | | | need not be supplied by the IBCF | | | to differentiate each and every | | | error described by them. The | | | TrGW shall be able to receive | | | the error codes listed. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 5.7.10.2: Error codes sent by the TrGW
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Supported H.248.8 Error | #400 \"Syntax error in | | Codes:** | message\" | | | | | | #401 \"Protocol Error\" | | | | | | #402 \"Unauthorized\" | | | | | | #403 \"Syntax Error in | | | TransactionRequest\" | | | | | | #406 \"Version Not Supported\" | | | | | | #410 \"Incorrect identifier\" | | | | | | #411 \"The transaction refers | | | to an unknown ContextID\" | | | | | | #412 \"No ContextIDs | | | available\" | | | | | | #413 \"Number of transactions | | | in message exceeds maximum\" | | | | | | #421 \"Unknown action or | | | illegal combination of | | | | | | actions\" | | | | | | #422 \"Syntax Error in Action\" | | | | | | #430 \"Unknown TerminationID\" | | | | | | #431 \"No TerminationID matched | | | a wildcard\" | | | | | | #432 \"Out of TerminationIDs or | | | No TerminationID available\" | | | | | | #433 \"TerminationID is already | | | in a Context\" | | | | | | #434 \"Max number of | | | Terminations in a Context | | | exceeded\" | | | | | | #435 \"Termination ID is not in | | | specified Context\" | | | | | | #440 \"Unsupported or unknown | | | Package\" | | | | | | #441 \"Missing Remote or Local | | | Descriptor\" | | | | | | #442 \"Syntax Error in | | | Command\" | | | | | | #443 \"Unsupported or Unknown | | | Command\" | | | | | | #444 \"Unsupported or Unknown | | | Descriptor\" | | | | | | #445 #Unsupported of Unknown | | | property\" | | | | | | #446 \"Unsupported or Unknown | | | Parameter\" | | | | | | #447 \"Descriptor not legal in | | | this command\" | | | | | | #448 \"Descriptor appears twice | | | in a command\" | | | | | | #449 \"Unsupported parameter or | | | property value\" | | | | | | #450 \"No such property in this | | | package | | | | | | #451 \"No such event in this | | | package\" | | | | | | #452 \"No such signal in this | | | package\" | | | | | | #454 \"No such parameter value | | | in this package\" | | | | | | #455 \"Property illegal in this | | | Descriptor\" | | | | | | #456 \"Property appears twice | | | in this Descriptor\" | | | | | | #457 \"Missing parameter in | | | signal or event\" | | | | | | #471 \"Implied Add for | | | Multiplex failure\" | | | | | | #500 \"Internal software | | | Failure in MG or MGC\" | | | | | | #501 \"Not Implemented\" | | | | | | #502 \"Not ready\" | | | | | | #505 \"Transaction Request | | | Received before a | | | | | | ServiceChange Reply has been | | | received\" | | | | | | #506 \"Number of | | | TransactionPendings Exceeded\" | | | | | | #510 \"Insufficient resources\" | | | | | | #511 \"Temporarily Busy\" | | | | | | #512 \"Media Gateway unequipped | | | to detect requested Event\" | | | | | | #513 \"Media Gateway unequipped | | | to generate | | | | | | requested Signals\" | | | | | | #515 \"Unsupported Media Type\" | | | | | | #517 \"Unsupported or invalid | | | mode\" | | | | | | #522 \"Functionality Requested | | | in Topology Triple Not | | | Supported\" | | | | | | #526 \"Insufficient bandwidth\" | | | | | | #529 \"Internal hardware | | | failure in MG\" | | | | | | #530 \"Temporary Network | | | failure | | | | | | #531 \"Permanent Network | | | failure\" | | | | | | #532 \"Audited Property, | | | Statistic, Event or Signal does | | | | | | not exist\" | | | | | | #533 \"Response exceeds maximum | | | transport PDU size\" | | | | | | #534 \"Illegal write of read | | | only property\" | | | | | | #542 \"Command is not allowed | | | on this termination\" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Supported Error Codes defined | All error codes defined in | | in packages:** | supported packages need to be | | | supported. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: the error codes listed | | | need not be supplied by the TrGW | | | to differentiate each and every | | | error described by them. The | | | IBCF shall be able to receive | | | the error codes listed. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.8 Command API
### 5.8.1 Add
Table 5.8.1.1: Descriptors used by Add request
* * *
**Descriptors used by Add request:** Media (Stream(LocalControl, Local,
Remote)), Event, Signals
* * *
Table 5.8.1.2: Descriptors used by Add reply
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Descriptors used by Add | Media (Stream (Local)), Error | | reply:** | | | | When command request excludes an | | | Audit Descriptor, the MGW | | | response shall only include | | | descriptors which contained | | | underspecified or overspecified | | | properties in the command | | | request. Furthermore, only those | | | properties that were | | | underspecified or overspecified | | | in the request shall be sent in | | | the reply. Exceptions to this | | | rule are: | | | | | | - The Error Descriptor | | | | | | - SDP properties returned in | | | \"Reserve TrGW Connection | | | Point\" and \"Reserve and | | | Configure TrGW Connection | | | Point\" procedures, as | | | specified in 15.17.2.2 and | | | 15.17.2.4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.8.2 Modify
Table 5.8.2.1: Descriptors used by Modify request
* * *
**Descriptors used by Modify request:** Media (TerminationState, Stream
(LocalControl, Local, Remote)), Signals, Event
* * *
Table 5.8.2.2: Descriptors used by Modify reply
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Descriptors used by Modify | Media (Stream(Local)), Error | | reply:** | | | | When command request excludes an | | | Audit Descriptor, the MGW | | | response shall only include | | | descriptors which contained | | | underspecified or overspecified | | | properties in the command | | | request. Furthermore, only those | | | properties that were | | | underspecified or overspecified | | | in the request shall be sent in | | | the reply. Exceptions to this | | | rule are: | | | | | | - The Error Descriptor | | | | | | - SDP properties returned in | | | \"Configure TrGW Connection | | | Point\" procedure as | | | specified in 15.17.2.3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.8.3 Subtract
Table 5.8.3.1: Descriptors used in Subtract request
* * *
**Descriptors used by Subtract request:** None or Audit() NOTE NOTE: this is
to explicitly avoid reporting any statistics.
* * *
Table 5.8.3.2: Descriptors used in Subtract reply
* * *
**Descriptors used by Subtract reply:** None, Error
* * *
### 5.8.4 Move
Table 5.8.4.1: Command Move
* * *
**Move command used:** No
* * *
Table 5.8.4.2: Descriptor used by Move command
* * *
**Descriptors used by Move Request:** \- **Descriptors used by Move Reply:** -
* * *
### 5.8.5 AuditValue
Table 5.8.5.1: Descriptors used by AuditValue
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Properties: | Property Name and | Descriptor | | | Identity | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Base root | TerminationState | | | properties: | Descriptor | | | | | | | - root/* (ROOT) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | TerminationState: | TerminationState | | | | Descriptor | | | - Root (MGW Audit) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | For Packages: | _Packages | | | | Descriptor_ | | | - Root | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | None (MGW Audit) : | _Audit (empty) | | | | Descriptor_ | | | - Root | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | IP Realm | TerminationState | | | Availability : | Descriptor | | | | | | | - ipra/* (ROOT) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Statistics: | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Signals: | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Events: | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Package Audit | Yes | | | possible: | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.8.6 AuditCapabilities
Table 5.8.6.1: AuditCapabilities
* * *
**Audited Properties:** Property Name and Identity Descriptor None - **Audited
Statistics:** None  
**Audited Signals:** None  
**Audited Events:** None
* * *
Table 5.8.6.2: Scoped Auditing
* * *
**Audited Properties / ContextAttributes used for a scoped audit :** None
* * *
### 5.8.7 Notify
Table 5.8.7.1: Descriptors used by Notify
* * *
**Descriptors used by Notify Request:** ObservedEvents **Descriptors used by
Notify Reply:** None, Error
* * *
### 5.8.8 ServiceChange
Table 5.8.8.1: ServiceChangeMethods and ServiceChangeReasons sent by IBCF
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **ServiceChangeMethods |** ServiceChangeReasons | | Supported:**| supported:** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handoff (NOTE 2, NOTE 3) | **\"903 MGC Directed Change\" | | | (Optional, NOTE 4)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Restart (NOTE 2)** | \"901 Cold Boot\" (Optional) | | | | | | \"902 Warm Boot\" (Optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Forced (NOTE 2)** | **\"905 Termination Taken Out Of | | | Service\" (Optional)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Graceful (NOTE 2)** | **\"905 Termination Taken Out Of | | | Service\" (Optional)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: When a Service Change | | | command on the Root termination | | | with a method other than | | | Graceful is sent, the command | | | shall always be sent as the only | | | command in a message. The | | | sending node shall always wait | | | for the reply to a Service | | | Change command on the Root | | | termination with a method other | | | than Graceful before sending | | | further command requests. A | | | Service Change command on the | | | Root termination with method | | | Graceful may be combined with | | | other commands in a single | | | message. | | | | | | NOTE 2: ROOT Only. | | | | | | NOTE 3: Not involving more than | | | 1 IBCF. This does not preclude | | | the use of the MGCId in a | | | ServiceChange (Handoff) | | | scenario, nor does it change the | | | expected TrGW behaviour upon | | | receipt of such a message, as | | | the TrGW has actually no means | | | to differentiate whether the | | | ServiceChangeMgcId parameter | | | that may be received in a | | | ServiceChange (handoff) message | | | relates to a logical IBCF inside | | | the same IBCF server or is part | | | of another IBCF. | | | | | | NOTE 4: Support of this | | | procedure is mandatory in the | | | TrGW. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 5.8.8.2: Service Change Methods and Reason sent by TrGW
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Service Change Methods |** ServiceChange Reasons | | Supported:**| supported:** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Forced | \"904 Termination Malfunction\", | | | ALL except ROOT (Optional, NOTE | | | 4) | | | | | | **\"905 Termination Taken Out Of | | | Service\"** , ALL(**Mandatory)** | | | | | | **\"906 Loss Of Lower Layer | | | Connectivity\"** , ALL except | | | ROOT **(** Optional, NOTE 4**)** | | | | | | **\"907 Transmission Failure\"** | | | , ALL except ROOT **(** Optional, | | | NOTE 4**)** | | | | | | **\"908 MG Impending Failure\" | | | ROOT only (Mandatory)** | | | | | | **\"910 Media Capability | | | Failure\"** , ALL except ROOT | | | **(** Optional, NOTE 4 | | | | | | **\"915 State Loss\" ROOT only | | | (Optional, NOTE 4)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Graceful | **\"905 Termination Taken Out Of | | | Service\"** , (Optional, NOTE 4) | | | | | | **\"908 MG Impending Failure\" | | | (** Optional, NOTE 4**)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Disconnected (NOTE 1)** | **\"900 Service Restored\" | | | (Mandatory)** | | | | | | \"916 Packages Change\" | | | (Optional) | | | | | | \"917 Capability Change\" | | | (Optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Restart (NOTE 1)** | \"900 Service Restored\" | | | (Mandatory)\ | | | \"901 Cold Boot\" (Mandatory)\ | | | \"902 Warm Boot\" (Mandatory) | | | | | | \"916 Packages Change\" | | | (Optional) | | | | | | \"917 Capability Change | | | \"(Optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Handoff (NOTE 1, NOTE 2)** | **\"903 MGC Directed Change\" | | | (Mandatory)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: When a Service Change | | | command on the Root termination | | | with a method other than | | | Graceful is sent, the command | | | shall always be sent as the only | | | command in a message. The | | | sending node shall always wait | | | for the reply to a Service | | | Change command on the Root | | | termination with a method other | | | than Graceful before sending | | | further command requests. A | | | Service Change command on the | | | Root termination with method | | | Graceful may be combined with | | | other commands in a single | | | message. | | | | | | NOTE 2: ROOT Only. | | | | | | NOTE 3: In response to an IBCF | | | Ordered Re-Register. | | | | | | NOTE 4: Support of this | | | procedure is mandatory in the | | | IBCF. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 5.8.8.3: Service Change Address
* * *
**ServiceChangeAddress used:** No
* * *
_Table 5.8.8.4: Service Change Delay_
* * *
**ServiceChangeDelay used:** No  
_If yes_ **Valid time period:** -
* * *
Table 5.8.8.5: Service Change Incomplete Flag
* * *
**ServiceChange Incomplete Flag used:** No
* * *
Table 5.8.8.6: Service Change Version
* * *
**Version used in ServiceChangeVersion:** 2 or 3 NOTE: Version 2 shall be
supported as the minimum protocol version. See subclause 5.3.
* * *
Table 5.8.8.7: ServiceChangeProfile
* * *
**ServiceChangeProfile mandatory:** Yes NOTE: The ServiceChangeProfile is
mandatory in the TrGW Register, TrGW Re-Register and TrGW Capability Change
procedures.
* * *
Table 5.8.8.8: Profile negotiation
* * *
**Profile negotiation as per H.248.18:** No
* * *
Table 5.8.8.9: ServiceChangeMGCId
* * *
**ServiceChangeMGCId used:** Yes
* * *
### 5.8.9 Manipulating and auditing context attributes
Table 5.8.9.1: Manipulating and Auditing Context Attributes
* * *
**Context Attributes Manipulated:** Emergency Indicator, Priority Indicator
**Context Attributes Audited:** None
* * *
## 5.9 Generic command syntax and encoding
Table 5.9.1: Command Encoding
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Supported Encodings:** | Text (NOTE 1, NOTE 2, NOTE 3) | | | and Binary. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The receiver shall be | | | capable of receiving both Short | | | Token Notation and Long Token | | | Notation on an H.248 control | | | association. | | | | | | NOTE 2: The transmitter may | | | select between long and short | | | token forms per H.248 control | | | association. | | | | | | NOTE 3: ETSI TISPAN \"Ia | | | Profile\" [4] uses only text | | | encoding. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.10 Transactions
Table 5.10.1: Transactions
* * *
**Maximum number of Transaction Requests / Replies / TransResponseAcks /
Segment Replies per message:** 10 (NOTE) NOTE: ETSI TISPAN \"Ia Profile\" [4]
maximum is \"1\", this is foreseen to be the typical case
* * *
Table 5.10.2: Commands per Transaction Request
* * *
**Maximum number of commands per Transaction request:** Unspecified (NOTE)
NOTE: ETSI TISPAN \"Ia Profile\" [4] maximum is \"2\", this is foreseen to be
the typical case
* * *
Table 5.10.3: Commands per Transaction Reply
* * *
**Maximum number of commands per Transaction reply:** Unspecified (NOTE) NOTE:
ETSI TISPAN \"Ia Profile\" [4] maximum is \"2\", this is foreseen to be the
typical case
* * *
Table 5.10.4: Optional Commands
* * *
**Commands able to be marked \"Optional\":** ALL NOTE: The meaning of this
table is that if one of the listed commands failed then the possibly present
subsequent command within the same transaction will be processed.
* * *
Table 5.10.5: Commands marked for Wildcarded Responses
* * *
**Wildcarded responses may be requested for:** Subtract
* * *
Table 5.10.6: Procedures for Wildcarded Responses
* * *
**Procedures that make use of wildcarded responses:** Release TrGW Termination
* * *
Table 5.10.7: Transaction Timers
* * *
**Transaction Timer:** **Value** **NormalMGExecutionTime** Provisioned
**NormalMGCExecutionTime** Provisioned **MGOriginatedPendingLimit**
Provisioned **MGCOriginatedPendingLimit** Provisioned
**MGProvisionalResponseTimerValue** Provisioned
**MGCProvisionalResponseTimerValue** Provisioned
* * *
## 5.11 Messages
It is recommended that TrGW and IBCF names are in the form of fully qualified
domain name. For example the domain name of the IBCF may be of the form:
\"IBCF1.whatever.net.\" and the name of the TrGW may be of the form:
\"TrGW1.whatever.net.\".
The fully qualified domain name will be used by the TrGW and IBCF as part of
the \"Message Identifier\" in the H.248 messages which identifies the
originator of the message.
The IBCF domain name is provisioned in the TrGW or retrieved from the DNS
using SRV records.
The use of a domain name provides the following benefits:
  * TrGWs and IBCFs are identified by their domain name, not their network addresses. Several addresses can be associated with a domain name. If a command cannot be forwarded to one of the network addresses, implementations shall retry the transmission using another address.
NOTE: There are then e.g. multiple numerical address entries per single MGC
entity in the \"MG database of MGC entries\"; see Table 5 in ITU-T H.Sup7
[24].
  * TrGWs and IBCFs may move to another platform. The association between a logical name (domain name) and the actual platform are kept in the Domain Name Service (DNS). TrGW and IBCF shall keep track of the record\'s time-to-live read from the DNS. They shall query the DNS to refresh the information if the time-to-live has expired.
The domain name may be used by IBCF/TrGW for authentication purposes.
## 5.12 Transport
Table 5.12.1: Transport
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Supported Transports:** | 1. IPv4-based network control | | | plane: | | | | | | - SCTP/IPv4 (Recommended) | | | NOTE1 | | | | | | - **UDP/IPv4** (Optional) | | | | | | 2. IPv6-based network control | | | plane: | | | | | | - SCTP/IPv6 (Recommended) | | | NOTE1 | | | | | | - **UDP/IPv6** (Optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE1: When using SCTP as | | | defined in IETF RFC 4960 [26] | | | the TrGW shall always be the | | | node to perform the | | | \"Initiation\". | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 5.12.2: Segmentation
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | **Segmentation Supported:** | SCTP: Inherent in Transport | | | | | | UDP: No | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
Table 5.12.3: Control Association
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Control Association Monitoring | Monitoring mechanism is | | Supported:** | dependent on used H.248 | | | transport (see above | | | table 5.12.1): | | | | | | **SCTP:** \ | | | inherent capability of SCTP. | | | | | | **UDP:\ | | |** H.248.14 (MG-driven | | | monitoring).\ | | | Empty AuditValue on ROOT | | | (MGC-driven monitoring). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.13 Security
Table 5.13.1: Security
* * *
**Supported Security:** None NOTE: IPsec shall not be used by the IBCF or TrGW
for the Ix interface. Normally the Ix interface lies within a single
operator\'s secure domain. If this is not the case then a Za interface
(Security Gateway deploying IPSec) may be required, however this is a separate
logical function/entity and thus is not applicable to the Ix profile, the IBCF
or the TrGW; for further details see 3GPP TS 33.210 [22].
* * *
## 5.14 Packages
### 5.14.1 Mandatory Packages
Table 5.14.1.1: Mandatory Packages
* * *
Mandatory Packages  
Package Name Package ID Version Generic (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3],
annex E.1) g, (0x0001) 1 Base root (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3], annex
E.2) root, (0x0051) 2 RTP Control Protocol Package (ITU-T Recommendation
H.248.57 [5]) rtcph. (0x00b5) 1 Gate management Source Address/Port Filtering
Package (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.43, Clause 7 [6]) gm, (0x008c) 2 Traffic
management (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.53 [13]) tman, (0x008d) 1 IP Domain
Connection (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.41 [14]) ipdc, (0x009d) 1 **Hanging
Termination Detection (** ITU-T Recommendation **H.248.36 [** 15**])**
hangterm, (0x0098) 1 Diffserv (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.52 [12]) ds,
(0x008b) 2
* * *
### 5.14.2 Optional Packages
Table 5.14.2.1: Optional Packages
+------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | Optional | | | | | Packages | | | | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | Package Name | Package ID | Version | Support | | | | | dependent on | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | Inactivity Timer | it, (0x0045) | 1 | MGC polling by | | (ITU-T | | | MG. | | Recommendation | | | | | H.248.14 [19]) | | | Only applicable | | | | | for UDP | | | | | transport. | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | **Media Gateway |** ocp**, |** 1**|** Support of | | Overload Control | (0x0051) | | message | | (ITU-T | | | throttling, | | Recommendation | | | based on rate | | H.248.11 | | | limitation, from | | [16])**| | | MGC towards | | | | | MG.** | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | Media Gateway | chp, (0x0029) | **1** | **Support of | | Resource | | | message | | Congestion | | | throttling, | | Handling Package | | | based on | | (see ITU-T | | | percentage | | Recommendation | | | limitation, from | | H.248.10 [20] | | | MGC towards | | ) | | | MG.** | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | **IP realm |** ipra | **1** | **Support of | | availability | (0x00e0)** | | mechanisms | | (ITU-T | | | allowing the MGC | | Recommendation | | | to discover the | | H.248.41 | | | IP realms that | | Amendment 1 | | | are available at | | [14])**| | | the MG at a | | | | | certain time and | | | | | allowing the MG | | | | | to inform the | | | | | MGC about any | | | | | changes in the | | | | | availability of | | | | | realms.** | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | 3G Interface | threegint | **1** | Indication of | | Type package | (0x00e3) | | interface type | | (see subclause | | | for statistical | | 15.2.11 of 3GPP | | | purposes at the | | TS 29.232 | | | MG. | | [21]) | | | | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | **Application | adid (0x009c) |** 1**|** MGC requires | | Data Inactivity | | | to be explicitly | | Detection | | | informed of a | | (**ITU-T | | | cessation of an | | Recommendation | | | application data | |** H.248.40 | | | flow.**| | [** 27**])** | | | | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+ | **Explicit | ecnrous (0x010b) |** 1**|** Support of ECN | | Congestion | | | feature**| | Notification** | | | | | for RTP-over-UDP | | | | | Support **(ITU-T | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | H.248.82 see | | | | | [40])** | | | | +------------------+------------------+---------+------------------+
### 5.14.3 Package usage information
#### 5.14.3.1 Generic (g)
Table 5.14.3.1.1: Generic package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cause | M | ADD, MOD, | | | | (g/cause, | | NOTIFY | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 001/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | General | M | \"NR\" | Not | | | cause | | (0x0001) | Applicable | | | (Ge | | Normal | | | | neralcause, | | Release\ | | | | 0x0001) | | \"UR\" | | | | | | (0x0002) | | | | | | Unavailable | | | | | | Resources | | | | | | | | | | | | \"FT\" | | | | | | (0x0003) | | | | | | Failure, | | | | | | Temporary\ | | | | | | \"FP\" | | | | | | (0x0004) | | | | | | Failure, | | | | | | Permanent\ | | | | | | \"IW\" | | | | | | (0x0005) | | | | | | I | | | | | | nterworking | | | | | | Error\ | | | | | | \"UN\" | | | | | | (0x0006) | | | | | | Unsupported | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Failure | O | Octet | Not | | | cause | | String | Applicable | | | (Fa | | | | | | ilurecause, | | | | | | 0x0002) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signal | Not Used | - | | | | Completion. | | | | | | (g/sc, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 001/0x0002) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.2 Base root (root)
Table 5.14.3.2.1: Base root package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MaxN | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | rOfContexts | | | | | | (roo | | | | | | t/maxNumber | | | | | | OfContexts, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Max | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | Termination | | | | | | sPerContext | | | | | | (root/max | | | | | | Termination | | | | | | PerContext, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0002) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | normalMGEx | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | ecutionTime | | | | | | (root/ | | | | | | normalMGExe | | | | | | cutionTime, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0003) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | normalMGCEx | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | ecutionTime | | | | | | (root/n | | | | | | ormalMGCExe | | | | | | cutionTime, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0004) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MGProvisi | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | onalRespons | | | | | | eTimerValue | | | | | | (root | | | | | | /MGProvisio | | | | | | nalResponse | | | | | | TimerValue, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0005) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MGCProvisi | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | onalRespons | | | | | | eTimerValue | | | | | | (root/ | | | | | | MGCProvisio | | | | | | nalResponse | | | | | | TimerValue, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0006) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MGC | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | OriginatedP | | | | | | endingLimit | | | | | | (root/MGCO | | | | | | riginatedPe | | | | | | ndingLimit, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0007) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MG | O | AUDITVALUE | ALL | YES | | OriginatedP | | | | | | endingLimit | | | | | | (root/MGO | | | | | | riginatedPe | | | | | | ndingLimit, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 002/0x0008) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | | Value | | | | | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.3 Differentiated Services (ds)
> Table 5.14.3.3.1: Differentiated Services package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Dif | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Yes | | ferentiated | | | | | | Services | | | | | | Code Point\ | | | | | | ( | | | | | | ds/dscp,0x0 | | | | | | 08b/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Tagging | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Yes | | Behaviour\ | | | | | | (ds/tb, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 08b/0x0002) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.4 Gate Management (gm)
Table 5.14.3.4.1: Gate Management Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source | | | | Applicable | | Address | | | | | | Filtering | | | | | | (gm/saf,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source | | | | Applicable | | Address | | | | | | Mask | | | | | | (gm/sam,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0002) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source Port | | | | Applicable | | Filtering | | | | | | (gm/spf,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0003) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source Port | | | | Applicable | | (gm/spr,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0004) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Explicit | Not | NONE | - | - | | Source | Supported | | | | | Address | | | | | | Setting | | | | | | ( | | | | | | gm/esas,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0005) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local | Not | NONE | - | - | | Source | Supported | | | | | Address | | | | | | (gm/lsa,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0006) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Explicit | Not | NONE | - | - | | Source Port | Supported | | | | | Setting | | | | | | ( | | | | | | gm/esps,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0007) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local | Not | NONE | - | - | | Source Port | Supported | | | | | | | | | | | (gm/lsp,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0008) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source Port | | | | Applicable | | Range | | | | | | ( | | | | | | gm/sprr,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x000A) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Discarded | Not | None | - | | | Packets\ | Supported | | | | | (gm/dp,0x0 | | | | | | 08c/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE : This | | | | | | package | | | | | | extends RTP | | | | | | Control | | | | | | Protocol | | | | | | package | | | | | | (ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.57 | | | | | | [5]) and | | | | | | thus | | | | | | inherits | | | | | | RTCP | | | | | | Allocation | | | | | | Specific | | | | | | Behaviour | | | | | | property | | | | | | (_rsb_). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.5 Traffic management (tman)
Table 5.14.3.5.1: Traffic Management Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Policing | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | (tman/pol, | | | | Applicable | | 0x0 | | | | | | 08d/0x0005) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Peak Data | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Rate | | | | Applicable | | | | | | | | (tman/pdr, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 08d/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Delay | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | ANY | | Variation | | | | | | Tolerance | | | | | | | | | | | | (tman/dvt, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 08d/0x0004) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sustainable | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Data Rate | | | | Applicable | | | | | | | | (tman/sdr, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 08d/0x0002) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Maximum | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | burst size | | | | Applicable | | | | | | | | (tman/mbs, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 08d/0x0003) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | data rate | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | using the | | | | | | packet size | | | | | | from IP | | | | | | layer | | | | | | upwards. | | | | | | The Token | | | | | | Bucket | | | | | | method as | | | | | | described | | | | | | by ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.53 | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.4.3 (as | | | | | | per IETF | | | | | | RFC 2216 | | | | | | [32]) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | followed | | | | | | where SDR = | | | | | | \"r\" and | | | | | | MBS = \"b\" | | | | | | (i.e. the | | | | | | additional | | | | | | \"M\" value | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.6 Inactivity Timer (it)
Table 5.14.3.6.1: Inactivity Timer Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Inactivity | M | MODIFY, | | | | Timeout | | NOTIFY | | | | (it/ito,\ | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 045/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Maximum | O | ALL | Yes | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Time (mit, | | | | | | 0x0001) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None­­ | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.7 IP Domain Connection (ipdc)
Table 5.14.3.7.1: IP domain connection package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IP Realm | M | ADD,\ | ALL\ | Yes | | Identifier | | MODIFY | (NOTE 1) | | | ( | | (NOTE 2) | | | | ipdc/realm, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 09d/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | No | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: If | | | | | | the MGC | | | | | | uses an | | | | | | * | | | | | | ipdc/realm _| | | | | | property | | | | | | exceeding | | | | | | the length | | | | | | limitation | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.41 | | | | | | [14], the | | | | | | MG shall | | | | | | reply with | | | | | | an error | | | | | | descriptor | | | | | | using error | | | | | | code #410: | | | | | | \"Incorrect | | | | | | id | | | | | | entifier\". | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | MODIFY | | | | | | command is | | | | | | listed due | | | | | | to the ETSI | | | | | | TISPAN \"Ia | | | | | | profile\" | | | | | | [4]: | | | | | | subsequent | | | | | | Streams may | | | | | | be | | | | | | \"added\" | | | | | | by MODIFY | | | | | | requests in | | | | | | case of | | | | | | multi- | | | | | | Stream-per- | | | | | | Termination | | | | | | structures. | | | | | | The | | | | | | subsequent | | | | | | Streams do | | | | | | then carry | | | | | | the same | | | | | | * | | | | | | ipdc/realm_ | | | | | | property | | | | | | value as | | | | | | the very | | | | | | first | | | | | | Stream. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.8 Media Gateway Overload Control Package (ocp)
Table 5.14.3.8.1: Media Gateway Overload Control Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | M | M | MODIFY, | | | | G_Overload | | NOTIFY | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | (ocp/mg | | | | | | _overload, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 051/0x0001) | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Obs | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | ervedEvent\ | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1 When | | | | | | the MG is | | | | | | overloaded, | | | | | | overload | | | | | | Events may | | | | | | be sent | | | | | | **either** | | | | | | only | | | | | | following | | | | | | the **first | | | | | | AD | | | | | | D.request** | | | | | | which | | | | | | creates a | | | | | | new | | | | | | Context, | | | | | | **or** | | | | | | following | | | | | | **all | | | | | | AD | | | | | | D.request** | | | | | | commands | | | | | | (see ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.11 | | | | | | [16] | | | | | | Corri | | | | | | gendum 1).\ | | | | | | These two | | | | | | options | | | | | | result in | | | | | | different | | | | | | nor | | | | | | malisations | | | | | | of the | | | | | | overload | | | | | | event rate | | | | | | as an | | | | | | indicator | | | | | | of the | | | | | | level of MG | | | | | | overload. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.9 Hanging Termination Detection (hangterm)
Table 5.14.3.9.1: Hanging Termination Detection Package
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | P | Mandatory | Used in | Supported | Pr | | | roperties | /Optional | command | Values | ovisioned | | | | | | | Value | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | None | - | - | - | - | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | Signals | Mandatory | Used in | Duration | | | | | /Optional | command | Pr | | | | | | | ovisioned | | | | | | | Value | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | None | - | - | - | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | | Signal | Mandatory | Supported | Duration | | | | P | /Optional | Values | Pr | | | | arameters | | | ovisioned | | | | | | | Value | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | | - | - | - | - | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | Events | Mandatory | Used in | | | | | | /Optional | command | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | Te | M | ADD, | | | | | rmination | | MODIFY, | | | | | Heartbeat | | NOTIFY | | | | | (hang | | | | | | | term/thb, | | | | | | | 0x009 | | | | | | | 8/0x0001) | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | | Event | Mandatory | Supported | Pr | | | | P | /Optional | Values | ovisioned | | | | arameters | | | Value | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | | Timer X | M (NOTE1) | ALL | YES | | | | | | (NOTE2) | | | | | (timer | | | | | | | x,0x0001) | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | | Obse | Mandatory | Supported | Pr | | | | rvedEvent | /Optional | Values | ovisioned | | | | | | | Value | | | | P | | | | | | | arameters | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | | - | - | - | - | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | S | Mandatory | Used in | Supported | | | | tatistics | /Optional | command | Values | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | None | - | **-** | **-** | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | Error | Mandatory | | | | | | Codes | /Optional | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | None | - | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+ | NOTE1: | | | | | | | Timer X | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | optional | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | ETSI | | | | | | | TISPAN Ia | | | | | | | version 3 | | | | | | | profile | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | heartbeat | | | | | | | timer | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onfigured | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | much | | | | | | | greater | | | | | | | than the | | | | | | | mean call | | | | | | | holding | | | | | | | time. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+
#### 5.14.3.10 Media Gateway Resource Congestion handling Package (chp)
Table 5.14.3.10.1: Media Gateway Resource Congestion handling Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MGCon | M | MODIFY, | | | | (chp/mgcon, | | NOTIFY | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 029/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **None** | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Reduction | M | 0-100 | Not | | | (**reductio | | | Applicable | | | n,0x0001)** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.11 IP Realm Availability (ipra)
Table 5.14.3.11.1: IP Realm Availability Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Available | M | AUDITVALUE | ALL | Not | | Realms, | | | | Applicable | | (ipra/ar, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 0e0/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Signals** | **Mandatory |** Used in | **Duration | | | | /Optional** | command**| Provisioned | | | | | | Value** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Available | M | MODIFY, | | | | Realms | | NOTIFY | | | | Changed, | | | | | | (ipra/arc, | | | | | | 0x | | | | | | 00e0/0x001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | | Value | | | | | Values: | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Newly | M | ALL | Not | | | Available | | | applicable | | | Realms | | | | | | (nar, | | | | | | 0x0001)** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Newly | M | ALL | Not | | | Unavailable | | | applicable | | | Realms | | | | | | (nur, | | | | | | 0x0002)** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.12 3G Interface Type package (threegint)
Table 5.14.3.12.1: 3G Interface Type Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IP | M | ADD, MOD | \"NboIP\" | None | | Interface | | | (0x0001) | | | Type | | | | | | | | | \"MboIP\" | | | (threegint | | | (0x0003) | | | /ipint, | | | | | | (0x0 | | | \"ExtSIPI\" | | | 0e3/0x0001) | | | (0x0004) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.13 RTCP Handling Package (rtcph)
Table 5.14.3.13.1: RTCP Handling Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RTCP | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | OFF | | Allocation | | | | | | Specific | | | | | | Behaviour | | | | | | (rt | | | | | | cph/rsb,0x0 | | | | | | 0b5/0x0009) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.14 Application Data Inactivity Detection (adid)
Table 5.14.3.14.1: Application Data Inactivity Detection package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IP Flow | **M** | **ADD, | | | | Stop | | MODIFY, | | | | Detection | | NOTIFY** | | | | (a | | | | | | did/ipstop, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 09c/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Detection | **M** | ALL | **Yes** | | | time | | | | | | (dt,0x0001) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Direction | **M** | ALL | **Yes** | | | (dir, | | | | | | 0x002) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.15 Explicit Congestion Notification for RTP-over-UDP Support
(ecnrous)
Table 5.14.3.15.1: Explicit Congestion Notification for RTP-over-UDP Support
package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECN Enabled | M | ADD, MODIFY | True, False | - | | (ecn | | | | | | rous/ecnen, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Congestion | O | ADD, MODIFY | \"SDCC\" | \"RDC | | Response | | | (0x0001) | C\"(0x0002) | | Method | | | (NOTE 2) | | | (e | | | | | | cnrous/crm, | | | \"RDC | | | 0x0 | | | C\"(0x0002) | | | 10b/0x0002) | | | | | | | | | (NOTE1) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Initiation | M | ADD, MODIFY | \"rtp\" | \"leap\" | | Method | | | (NOTE 2) | | | (ecnrous/ | | | | | | initmethod, | | | \"leap\", | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0003) | | | \ | | | | | | "inactive\" | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECN Mode | O | ADD, MODIFY | \"setonly\" | \"setonly\" | | (ec | | | (0x0001) | (0x0001) in | | nrous/mode, | | | (NOTE 2) | the Remote | | 0x0 | | | | Descriptor | | 10b/0x0004) | | | \ | and | | | | | "readonly\" | \ | | | | | (0x0002) | "readonly\" | | | | | (NOTE 2) | (0x0002) in | | | | | | the Local | | | | | | Descriptor | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECT Marking | O | ADD, MODIFY | \"1\" | \"0\" | | (ecnro | | | (0x0001) | (0x0002) | | us/ectmark, | | | (NOTE 2) | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0005) | | | \"0\" | | | | | | (0x0002) | | | | | | | | | | | | \"Random\" | | | | | | (0x0003) | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECN | Not | - | - | \"nomark\" | | Congestion | Signalled | | | (0x0003) | | Marking | | | | | | (ecnrous/c | | | | | | ongestmark, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0006) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECN SDP | Not | - | - | \" | | Usage | Signalled | | | P\"(0x0001) | | (ecnr | | | | | | ous/ecnsdp, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0007) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECN Failure | **M** | **ADD, | | | | (ec | | MODIFY, | | | | nrous/fail, | | NOTIFY** | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Failure | Mandatory | INIT, USE | - | | | Type | | | | | | (t | | | | | | ype,0x0001) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Media | Not | - | - | | | Sender SSRC | Supported | | | | | (ssrc, | | | | | | 0x0002) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Not | - | - | | | (ec | Supported | | | | | nrous/ssrc, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CE Counter | Not | - | - | | | (ecnro | Supported | | | | | us/cecount, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0002) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECT0 | Not | - | - | | | Counter | Supported | | | | | (ecnro | | | | | | us/ectzero, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0003) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECT1 | Not | - | - | | | Counter | Supported | | | | | (ecnr | | | | | | ous/ectone, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0004) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Not-ECT | Not | - | - | | | Counter | Supported | | | | | (ecnr | | | | | | ous/notect, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0005) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Lost | Not | - | - | | | Packets | Supported | | | | | Counter | | | | | | (e | | | | | | cnrous/lost | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0006) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Extended | Not | - | - | | | Highest | Supported | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | number | | | | | | (ec | | | | | | nrous/ehsn, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0007) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Duplication | Not | - | - | | | Counter | Supported | | | | | (e | | | | | | cnrous/dup, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 10b/0x0008) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE1: | | | | | | Application | | | | | | Specific | | | | | | Rate | | | | | | Adaptation | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | applied in | | | | | | accordance | | | | | | with 3GPP | | | | | | TS 26.114 | | | | | | [31]. For | | | | | | speech this | | | | | | requires | | | | | | support of | | | | | | CMR and | | | | | | TMMBR for | | | | | | video. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | This | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | is only | | | | | | supported | | | | | | for the | | | | | | termination | | | | | | towards the | | | | | | external IP | | | | | | network. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.15 Mandatory support of SDP and Annex C information elements
Table 5.15.1: Mandatory Annex C and SDP information elements
+------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Information Element | Annex C Support | SDP Support | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | v-line | \"SDP_V \" | The value must always | | | | be equal to zero: v=0 | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | c-line | \"SDP_C \" | \ | | | | \ and | | | | \ | | | | are required. | | | | | | | | The network type shall | | | | be set to \"IN\". | | | | | | | | The address type may | | | | be IPv4 or IPv6. | | | | | | | | The MGC may apply | | | | parameter | | | | underspecification to | | | | the \ subfield. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | m-line | \"SDP_M \" | There are four fields | | | | (or SDP values) | | | | \, \, | | | | \ and \ | | | | in the \"m=\" line | | | | (see IETF RFC 4566 | | | | [8]; NOTE 1). | | | | | | | | The \"m=\" line may be | | | | omitted from SDP. | | | | | | | | \, \, | | | | \ and | | | | \ are | | | | required if the \"m=\" | | | | line is included. | | | | | | | | Media type \ : | | | | | | | | The \ field | | | | shall be set to | | | | \"audio\" or \"video\" | | | | or \"message\" or | | | | \"-\", When \"-\" is | | | | used for the _media_ | | | | value then no media | | | | resources are required | | | | to be reserved at this | | | | stage (NOTE 1). If the | | | | MG does not support | | | | the requested media | | | | value it shall reject | | | | the command with error | | | | code 515. | | | | | | | | Transport port | | | | \ | | | | | | | | The _port_ value may | | | | be underspecified with | | | | CHOOSE wildcard. | | | | | | | | Transport protocol | | | | \ | | | | | | | | As in table 5.15.2. | | | | | | | | Media format \ | | | | | | | | Various values may be | | | | used for media-format, | | | | dependent on the | | | | related \. | | | | | | | | \"-\" may be used for | | | | the _format list_ | | | | value if no media | | | | reservation is | | | | required at this | | | | stage. | | | | | | | | If the MG does not | | | | support the requested | | | | media format value the | | | | MG shall reject the | | | | command with error | | | | code 449. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | b-line | \"SDP_B \" | Shall not be used | | | | without an \"m=\" | | | | line. | | | | | | | | The _modifier_ values | | | | shall be \"AS\", | | | | \"RS\" and \"RR\". | | | | | | | | The \"AS\" _modifier_ | | | | implies that the | | | | _bandwidth-value_ | | | | represents the | | | | \"maximum bandwidth\" | | | | (see clause 5.8/IETF | | | | RFC 4566 [**8**]). | | | | The _bandwidth-value_ | | | | relates therefore to | | | | the _peak bitrate_ | | | | (NOTE 2). | | | | | | | | The _bandwidth-value_ | | | | value defines the IP | | | | layer bandwidth for | | | | the specific H.248 | | | | Stream. | | | | | | | | For RTP flows, where | | | | RTCP resources are | | | | reserved together with | | | | the RTP resources | | | | using the \"RTP | | | | Specific Behaviour\" | | | | property of the Gate | | | | Management package | | | | (gm) property, the | | | | IBCF may also supply | | | | additional RTCP | | | | bandwidth modifiers | | | | (i.e. RR and RS, see | | | | IETF RFC 3556 [29]). | | | | The AS _bandwidth_ | | | | value will include the | | | | bandwidth used by RTP. | | | | In the absence of the | | | | RTCP bandwidth | | | | modifiers, the TrGW | | | | shall allow an | | | | additional 5% of the | | | | AS bandwidth value for | | | | the bandwidth for | | | | RTCP, in accordance | | | | with IETF RFC 3556 | | | | [29]. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | o-line | \"SDP_O\" | The origin line | | | | consists of six | | | | fields: | | | | | | | | (\, | | | | \, | | | | \, | | | | \, | | | | \ and | | | | \). | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it (see | | | | clause 7.1.8/ITU-T | | | | Recommendation H.248.1 | | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG shall return | | | | the value received | | | | from the MGC or if | | | | there is no o-line | | | | sent by the MGC, the | | | | MG shall populate this | | | | line as follows: | | | | | | | | - \ | | | | should contain an | | | | hyphen | | | | | | | | - \ and | | | | \ should | | | | contain one or mode | | | | digits as described in | | | | IETF RFC 4566 [8] | | | | | | | | - \ | | | | shall be set to IN | | | | | | | | - \ | | | | shall be set to IP4 or | | | | IP6 The Address Type | | | | shall be set to | | | | \"IP4\" or \"IP6\" | | | | depending on the | | | | addressing scheme used | | | | by the network to | | | | which the MG is | | | | connected. | | | | | | | | - \ should | | | | contain the fully | | | | qualified domain name | | | | or IP address of the | | | | gateway. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | s-line | \"SDP_S\" | The session name | | | | \"s=\" line contains a | | | | single field | | | | | | | | s= \. | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it | | | | ( | | | | see clause 7.1.8/ITU-T | | | | Recommendation H.248.1 | | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG shall return | | | | the value received | | | | from the MGC or if | | | | there is no s-line | | | | sent by the MGC, the | | | | MG shall populate this | | | | line as follows: | | | | | | | | - \"s=-\" | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | t-line | \"SDP_T\" | The time \"t=\" line | | | | consists of two fields | | | | | | | | _t=_ \ | | | | and \. | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it | | | | ( | | | | see clause 7.1.8/ITU-T | | | | Recommendation H.248.1 | | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG shall return | | | | the value received | | | | from the MGC or if | | | | there is no t-line | | | | sent by the MGC, the | | | | MG shall populate this | | | | line as follows: | | | | | | | | \"t=0 0\" | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | NOTE 1: IETF RFC 4566 | | | | [8] enables \"-\" as | | | | a valid character | | | | (i.e. for both IMS-Ix | | | | and CS-Ix). | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The unit for | | | | the _bandwidth-value_ | | | | (peak bitrate) is | | | | \"kbit/s\". The \"b=\" | | | | line is not providing | | | | any information about | | | | the traffic | | | | characteristic, i.e. | | | | whether the traffic | | | | flow has a Constant | | | | BitRate (CBR) or | | | | Variable BitRate | | | | (VBR). The | | | | _bandwidth-value_ is | | | | thus independent of | | | | the traffic | | | | characteristic and | | | | relates to the peak | | | | bitrate for CBR and | | | | VBR traffic. | | | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+
Table 5.15.2: Transport Protocol
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Transport Protocol \  | If the MG does not support the | | in m-line:** | requested transport protocol, it | | | shall reject the command with | | | error code 449. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | udp | Allow only L4 protocol = UDP | | | (NOTE 2). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TCP | Allow only L4 protocol = TCP | | | (NOTE 3) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TCP/MSRP | Message service using IETF | | | RFC 4975 [9]. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RTP/AVP | RTP profile according IETF | | | RFC 3551 [10]. Allow only L4 | | | protocol = UDP (see NOTE 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RTP/SAVP | SRTP profile according IETF | | | RFC 3711 [33]. (NOTE 4)Allow | | | only L4 protocol = UDP (see NOTE | | | 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RTP/AVPF | Extended RTP profile for | | | RTCP-based Feedback (RTP/AVPF) | | | according IETF RFC 4585 [30]. | | | See 3GPP TS 26.114 [31]. Allow | | | only L4 protocol = UDP (NOTE 2). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RTP/SAVPF | Extended SRTP profile for | | | RTCP-based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF) | | | according IETF RFC 5124 [34]. | | | (NOTE 4)\ | | | Allow only L4 protocol = UDP | | | (see NOTE 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | udptl | Allow only L4 protocol = UDP | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: For IMS-Ix the above | | | transports are applicable but | | | for CS-Ix only RTP/AVP, TCP and | | | Udptl are applicable. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Parameter \"udp\" is | | | introduced by IETF RFC 4566 | | | [8] but not yet registered by | | | IANA (see | | | [http://www.iana.org/assignmen | | | ts/sdp-parameters]{.underline}). | | | | | | NOTE 3: Upper case TCP is | | | defined by IETF RFC 4145 [11] | | | and registered by IANA. . | | | | | | NOTE 4: Included for support of | | | e2e security, in order to permit | | | rtcph/rsb property to be | | | applied. TrGW does not support | | | associated SRTP/SRTCP stream | | | handling per se. If either | | | RTP/SAVP is signalled at any | | | termination in a context,or if | | | RTP/SAVPF is signalled at any | | | termination in a context, the | | | TrGW shall not terminate SRTP / | | | SRTCP streams and therefore | | | shall not reserve any associated | | | resources, but shall pass media | | | transparently, and shall also | | | pass related RTCP streams (as | | | indicated with the rtcph/rsb | | | property) transparently (for | | | end-to-end media security). | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.16 Optional support of SDP and Annex C information elements
Table 5.16.1: Optional SDP Information Elements
+------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Information Element | Annex C Support | SDP Support | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | a-line | \"SDP_A \" | 1) Application \"RTCP | | | | transport address | | | | control\": | | | | | | | | The attribute | | | | \"a=rtcp\" line may | | | | either contain | | | | (a=rtcp: \) or | | | | (a=rtcp: \ | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \) when the | | | | \"a=\" line is used | | | | for RTCP transport | | | | port and optionally | | | | network address | | | | transmission, see IETF | | | | RFC 3605 [7]. | | | | | | | | The MGC shall supply | | | | the \"a=rtcp\" line in | | | | the RD when | | | | non-default RTCP | | | | network address or | | | | transport port values | | | | are used by the peer | | | | media entity. | | | | | | | | \"RTCP transport | | | | address control\" | | | | should be supported by | | | | MG. | | | | | | | | 2) Application \" | | | | Media interworking | | | | (transcoding)\": | | | | | | | | The \"a=\" line | | | | provides the | | | | complementary | | | | information for the | | | | \"m=\" line with | | | | regards to a specified | | | | media type/format | | | | (e.g. an optional SDP | | | | „a=ptime\" line for a | | | | particular media | | | | format). | | | | | | | | For a dynamic RTP | | | | payload type, for each | | | | media information on | | | | the codec type shall | | | | be provided in a | | | | separate SDP | | | | \"a=rtpmap\"line and | | | | possibly additional | | | | SDP | | | | \"a=fmtp\"-line(s). | | | | For AVPF transport, | | | | the \"rtcp-fb\" SDP | | | | attribute defined in | | | | IETF RFC 4585 [30] | | | | may be used to provide | | | | the feedback message | | | | types the TrGW is | | | | allowed to send and to | | | | indicate RTCP timing | | | | information. For ECN | | | | interworking, the | | | | \"rtcp-xr\" SDP | | | | attribute defined in | | | | IETF RFC 3611 [36] | | | | may be used with | | | | \"ecn-sum\" value as | | | | defined in IETF RFC | | | | 6679 [35]. (NOTE) | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | NOTE: Media | | | | Interworking is | | | | optional for IMS-Ix | | | | and not required for | | | | CS-Ix. | | | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+
## 5.17 Procedures
### 5.17.1 Formats and Codes
Table 5.17.1.1 shows the parameters which are required for the procedures
defined in the following clauses.
The coding rules applied in ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3] for the
applicable coding technique shall be followed for the UMTS capability set.
The binary encoding rules which are applicable to the defined Abstract
Syntaxes are the Basic Encoding Rules for Abstract Syntax Notation One,
defined in ITU-T Recommendation X.690 [28]. Specifically in accordance with
ITU-T Recommendation X.690 [28] section 7.3, alternative encodings based on
the definite and indefinite form of length are permitted by the basic encoding
rules as a sender\'s option. Receivers shall support both alternatives.
Unsupported values of parameters or properties may be reported by the TrGW and
shall be supported by the IBCF as such by using H.248.1 error code #449
\"Unsupported or Unknown Parameter or Property Value\". The unsupported or
unknown value is included in the error text in the error descriptor.
Table 5.17.1.1: Information Elements Used in Procedures
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Signalling Object | H.248 Descriptor | Coding | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Alternate MGC Id | ServiceChange | The MGCIdToTry | | | | parameter in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Available Realms | Termination State | According to | | | | _Available Realms_ | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.41 [14]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BNC Release | Events, | As for the | | | ObservedEvents | E | | | Descriptor | vents/ObservedEvents | | | | Descriptor in | | | | subclause | | | | E.1.2.1/ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] | | | | \"Cause\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cause | ObservedEvents | As for the | | | Descriptor | Obse | | | | rvedEventsDescriptor | | | | Parameter in | | | | subclause E.1.2.1/ | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] | | | | \"General cause\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Changed Realms | Observed Events | According to | | | | Observed Events | | | | Parameters for | | | | _Available Realms | | | | Changed_ event in | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.41 [14]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Codec List | Local Descriptor or | \ in a | | | Remote Descriptor | single SDP m-line.\ | | | | For a static RTP | | | | payload type, the | | | | codec type should be | | | | implied by the RTP | | | | payload type, if not | | | | then each codec type | | | | shall be provided in | | | | a separate SDP | | | | \"a=rtpmap\"-line | | | | and possibly | | | | additional SDP | | | | \"a=fmtp\"-line(s).\ | | | | For a dynamic RTP | | | | payload type, for | | | | each codec | | | | information on the | | | | codec type shall be | | | | provided in a | | | | separate SDP | | | | \"a=rtpmap\"-line | | | | and possibly | | | | additional SDP | | | | \"a=fmtp\"-line(s). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Connectivity Mode | Local Control | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Mode | | | | property. | | | | | | | | Binary Encoding: | | | | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 Annex A | | | | [3] \"streamMode\" | | | | | | | | Textual Encoding: | | | | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 Annex B | | | | [3]\"streamMode\". | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Context ID | NA | Binary Encoding: As | | | | per ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | A. | | | | | | | | Textual Encoding: As | | | | per ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | B. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Delay Variation | Local Control | This is the tman/dvt | | Tolerance | | property from ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.53 [13] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Diffserv Code Point | Local Control | Defined according to | | | | the _Differentiated | | | | Services Code Point_ | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.52 [12]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Diffserv Tagging | Local Control | Defined according to | | Behaviour | | the _Tagging | | | | Behaviour_ property | | | | in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.52 [12]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN Congestion | Local descriptor or | Defined according to | | Response | Remote Descriptor | \"Congestion | | | | Response Method\" | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.82 [40]. | | | | (NOTE) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN ECT Marking | Local descriptor or | Defined according to | | | Remote Descriptor | \"ECT Marking\" | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.82 [40]. | | | | | | | | (NOTE) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN Enabled | Local Descriptor or | Defined according to | | | Remote Descriptor | the \"ECN Enabled\" | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.82 [40]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN Failure | Events, | Defined according to | | | | the \"ECN Failure\" | | | Observed Events | Event in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.82 [40]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN Failure Type | ObservedEvents | As for the | | | Descriptor | Obse | | | | rvedEventsDescriptor | | | | Parameter \"Failure | | | | Type\" in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.82 [40]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN Initiation | Local Descriptor or | Defined according to | | Method | Remote Descriptor | \"Initiation | | | | Method\" property in | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.82 [40]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN Mode | Local Descriptor or | Defined according to | | | Remote Descriptor | the \"ECN Mode\" | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.82 [40]. | | | | | | | | (NOTE) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN RTCP Feedback | Local Descriptor or | \"rcfp-fb\" SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | attribute with the | | | | \"nack\" feedback | | | | parameter as | | | | derfined in IETF RFC | | | | 4585 and the \"ecn\" | | | | parameter value | | | | according to IETF | | | | RFC 6679 [35] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN XR Summary | Local Descriptor or | \"ecn-sum\" value as | | Report | Remote Descriptor | defined in IETF RFC | | | | 6679 [35] within a | | | | \"rtcp-xr\" SDP | | | | attribute in | | | | accordance with IETF | | | | RFC 3611 [36] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Emergency Call | NA | ITU-T Recommendation | | Indication | | H.248.1 [3] 6.1.1 | | | | Emergency Call | | | | Indicator Binary | | | | Encoding: Encoding | | | | as per ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] | | | | Annex A \"Emergency" | | | | context attribute | | | | | | | | Textual Encoding: | | | | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | B \"EmergencyToken" | | | | context attribute | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inactivity Timeout | Events, | Defined according to | | | | _Inactivity Timeout_ | | | Observed Events | event in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.14 [19]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IP Address | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | | \"c-line\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IP Interface | Local control | As for the property | | | | \"IP interface | | | | type\" in subclause | | | | 15.2.11.1 in 3GPP TS | | | | 29.232 [21] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IP Realm Identifier | Local Control | According to _IP | | | | Realm Identifier_ | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.41 [14]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IP Version | Local Descriptor or | \ in | | | Remote Descriptor | SDP \"c-line\", see | | | | 5.15 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum Burst Size | Local Control | This is the tman/mbs | | | | property from ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.53 [13] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Media Inactivity | Events, | Defined according to | | Detection | | IP Flow Stop | | | Observed Events | Detection event in | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.40 [27]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Media Inactivity | Events | As for the Event | | Detection Time | | Parameter in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.40 [27] | | | | \"Detection Time\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Media Inactivity | Events | As for the Event | | Detection Direction | | Parameter in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.40 [27] | | | | \"Direction\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Media Type | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | m-line | | | | | | | | \"audio\", \"video\" | | | | or \"-\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Overload | Events, | This is the | | Notification | | chp/mgcon event from | | | Observed Events | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.10 [20] or | | | | the ocp/mg_overload | | | | event from ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.11 [16]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Data Rate | Local Control | This is the tman/pdr | | | | property from ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.53 [13]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Policing Required | Local Control | This is the tman/pol | | | | property from ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.53 [13]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Port | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | m-line. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Priority Information | NA | Priority Indicator | | | | (subclause 6.1.1 of | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3])\ | | | | Binary Encoding: | | | | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] | | | | Annex A \"priority\" | | | | context attribute\ | | | | Textual Encoding: | | | | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] | | | | Annex B \"priority\" | | | | context attribute | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Realm Availability | Events, | According to | | Change | | _Available Realms | | | Observed Events | Changed_ event in | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.41 [14]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reduction | ObservedEvent | As for the | | | Descriptor | Obs | | | | ervedEventDescriptor | | | | in subclause 4.2.1/ | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.10 [20] | | | | \"MGCongestion\". | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Remote Source | Local Control | Defined according to | | Address Filtering | | _Remote Source | | | | Address Filtering_ | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.43 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Remote Source | Local Control | Defined according to | | Address Mask | | _Remote Source | | | | Address Mask_ | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.43 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Remote Source Port | Local Control | Defined according to | | Filtering | | _Remote Source Port | | | | Filtering_ property | | | | in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.43 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Remote Source Port | Local Control | Defined according to | | | | _Remote Source Port_ | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.43 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Remote Source Port | Local Control | Defined according to | | Range | | _Remote Source Port | | | | Range_ property in | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.43 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reserve_Value | Local Control | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] | | | | Reserve property. | | | | | | | | Binary Encoding: | | | | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1[3] Annex A | | | | \"reserveValue\" | | | | | | | | Textual Encoding: | | | | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | B | | | | \" | | | | reservedValueMode\". | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ROOT Properties | Termination State | The properties in | | | | subclause | | | | E.2.1/ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RTCP allocation | Local Control | Defined according to | | | | _RTCP Allocation | | | | Specific Behaviour_ | | | | | | | | property in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.57 [5]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RtcpbwRR | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | \"b:RR\"-line. see | | | | 5.15 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RtcpbwRS | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | \"b:RS\"-line. see | | | | 5.15 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Rtpbw | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | \"b:AS\"-line. see | | | | 5.15 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RTPpayload | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | m-line. This may be | | | | set to CHOOSE (\$) | | | | in a LD sent from | | | | the IBCF toward the | | | | TrGW. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Stream Number | Stream | Encoding as per | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3]Annex B | | | | \"Stream\"/\"ST\". | | | | | | | | For a single stream, | | | | this may be omitted | | | | by the CS-IBCF. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sustainable Data | Local Control | This is the tman/sdr | | Rate | | property from ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.53 [13] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Termination | Events | As per _Termination | | heartbeat | | Heartbeat_ defined | | | ObservedEvents | in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.36 [15] | | | | Clause 5.2.1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Termination ID | NA | Binary Encoding: As | | | | per ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | A. | | | | | | | | Textual Encoding: As | | | | per ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | B. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transaction ID | NA | Binary Encoding: As | | | | per ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | A. | | | | | | | | Textual Encoding: As | | | | per ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3] Annex | | | | B. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transport | Local Descriptor or | \ in SDP | | | Remote Descriptor | m-line, see 5.15 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: This property | | | | is only signalled | | | | for IP terminations | | | | towards external IP | | | | network | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.17.2 Call Related Procedures
#### 5.17.2.1 General
This section describes the various call related procedures performed by the
TrGW, which are listed in table 15.17.2.1.1
Table 5.17.2.1.1: TrGW Call Related Procedures
* * *
Transaction defined in 3GPP TS 29.235 [17] or 3GPP TS 29.162 [18] Supported
Comment Reserve TrGW Connection Point Mandatory See 5.17.2.2 Configure TrGW
Connection Point Mandatory See 5.17.2.3 Reserve and Configure TrGW Connection
Point Mandatory See 5.17.2.4 Release TrGW Termination Mandatory See 5.17.2.5
Termination Heartbeat Indication Mandatory See 5.17.2.6 IP Bearer Released
Mandatory See 5.17.2.7 Media Inactivity Notification Optional See 5.17.2.8
Change Through Connection Mandatory See 5.17.2.9 ECN Failure Indication
Optional See 5.17.2.10 Change Flow Direction Optional See 5.17.2.11
* * *
#### 5.17.2.2 Reserve TrGW Connection Point
The IBCF sends an ADD request command as in Table 5.17.2.2.1.
Table 5.17.2.2.1: Reserve TrGW Connection Point Request
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Local Descriptor { | Transaction ID = x | Local Descriptor { | | | | | | Port = \$ | If Context | If media is | | | Requested: | \"audio\" or | | IP Address = \$ | | \"video\": | | | Context ID= \$ | | | IP Version = IPv4 or | | Codec List = Codec | | IPv6 | If Emergency Call: | List | | | | | | } | Emergency Call | RTP Payloads = RTP | | | Indication | Payload | | | | | | | If MPS call/session: | Rtpbw | | | | | | | Priority Indicator = | If RTCP bandwidth | | | x | | | | | RtcpbwRS | | | If Context Provided: | | | | | RtcpbwRR | | | Context ID = c1 | | | | | } | | | Termination ID = \$ | | | | | | | | If Stream Number | | | | specified:- | | | | | | | | Stream Number | | | | | | | | If Resources for | | | | multiple Codecs | | | | required: | | | | | | | | Reserve_Value | | | | | | | | If IP Interface | | | | Type: | | | | | | | | IP interface = \"IP | | | | interface type\" | | | | | | | | If indication on | | | | Bearer Released | | | | requested: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, \"BNC | | | | Release \") | | | | | | | | If diffserv | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Diffserv Code Point | | | | | | | | If tagging behaviour | | | | | | | | Diffserv Tagging | | | | Behaviour | | | | | | | | If Remote Source | | | | Address Filtering | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source | | | | Address Filtering | | | | | | | | If Remote Source | | | | Address range | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source | | | | Address Mask | | | | | | | | If Remote Source | | | | Port Filtering | | | | | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | Filtering | | | | | | | | If individual port:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | | | | | If range of ports: | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | Range | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | | | | | \"termination | | | | heartbeat\") | | | | | | | | If multiple IP | | | | realms: IP realm | | | | Identifier = | | | | required IP realm | | | | identifier | | | | | | | | If Media Inactivity | | | | Detection Required: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | \"Media Inactivity | | | | Detection (Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Time, Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Direction) \") (NOTE | | | | 1) | | | | | | | | If Sustainable Data | | | | Rate Policing | | | | Required:- | | | | | | | | Policing Required | | | | | | | | Sustainable Data | | | | Rate | | | | | | | | Maximum Burst Size | | | | | | | | If peak data rate | | | | policing | | | | | | | | Policing Required | | | | | | | | Peak Data Rate | | | | | | | | If Delay Variation | | | | required | | | | | | | | Delay Variation | | | | Tolerance | | | | | | | | If RTCP handling | | | | required: | | | | | | | | RTCP allocation | | | | | | | | If ECN transparent | | | | support required: | | | | ECN Enable = | | | | \"True\" | | | | | | | | Initiation Method = | | | | \"inactive\" | | | | | | | | If ECN Endpoint | | | | support required | | | | | | | | ECN Enable = | | | | \"True\" | | | | | | | | Initiation Method = | | | | \"ECN Initiation | | | | | | | | Method\" NOTE 2 | | | | | | | | Congestion Response | | | | = \"ECN | | | | | | | | Congestion | | | | Response\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | ECN Mode = \"ECN | | | | mode\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | ECT Marking = \"ECN | | | | ECT | | | | | | | | marking\" NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | RTCP Feedback = | | | | \"ECN RTCP | | | | | | | | Feedback\" NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | XR Summary Report = | | | | \"ECN XR | | | | | | | | Summary Report\" | | | | NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | If notification of | | | | ECN Failure | | | | | | | | Report: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID | | | | | | | | = x,\" ECN | | | | Failure\") | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The event | | | | parameters \"Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Time\" and \"Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Direction\" are | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This shall | | | | be set to a value | | | | other than | | | | \"inactive\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For the IMS | | | | side/3GPP ECN | | | | profile terminations | | | | this property does | | | | not need to be | | | | signalled; default | | | | provisioned values | | | | are defined for this | | | | profile. For | | | | procedures to handle | | | | interworking between | | | | different ECN | | | | property settings | | | | see 3GPP TS 29.162 | | | | [18]. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Editor\'s Note: IP Interface Type needs to be further clarified in stage 2 --
possible exclusion for IMS Ix.
On reserving the termination, the TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.2.2.2.
Table 5.17.2.2.2: Reserve TrGW Connection Point Acknowledge
+---------------------+---------------------+------------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------+------------------------+ | Local Descriptor { | Transaction ID = x | Local Descriptor { | | | | | | Port | Context ID = C1 | If media is \"audio\" | | | | or \"video\": | | IP Address | Termination ID = T1 | | | | | Codec List | | IP Version | Stream Number | | | | | RTP Payloads | | } | | | | | | Rtpbw | | | | | | | | If RTCP bandwidth | | | | | | | | RtcpbwRS | | | | | | | | RtcpbwRR | | | | | | | | } | +---------------------+---------------------+------------------------+
#### 5.17.2.3 Configure TrGW Connection Point
The IBCF sends a MODIFY request command as in Table 5.17.2.3.1.
Table 5.17.2.3.1: Configure TrGW Connection Point Request
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | If local resources | Transaction ID = x | If local resources | | are modified: | | are modified: | | | Context ID = C1 | | | Local Descriptor { | | Local Descriptor { | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | Port | | If media is | | | If MPS priority is | \"audio\" or | | IP Address | modified: | \"video\": | | | | | | IP Version | Priority Indicator = | Codec List | | | x (NOTE 5) | | | } | | RTP Payloads | | | If Stream Number | | | If remote resources | specified: | Rtpbw | | are modified: | | | | | Stream Number | If RTCP bandwidth | | Remote Descriptor { | | | | | If Resources for | RtcpbwRS | | Port | multiple Codecs | | | | required: | RtcpbwRR | | IP Address | | | | | Reserve_Value | } | | IP Version | | | | | If diffserv | If remote resources | | } | required:- | are modified: | | | | | | | Diffserv Code Point | Remote Descriptor { | | | | | | | If tagging behaviour | If media is | | | | \"audio\" or | | | Diffserv Tagging | \"video\": | | | Behaviour | | | | | Codec List | | | If Remote Source | | | | Address Filtering | RTP Payloads | | | required:- | | | | | Rtpbw | | | Remote Source | | | | Address Filtering | If RTCP bandwidth | | | | | | | If Remote Source | RtcpbwRS | | | Address range | | | | required:- | RtcpbwRR | | | | | | | Remote Source | } | | | Address Mask | | | | | | | | If Remote Source | | | | Port Filtering | | | | | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | Filtering | | | | | | | | If individual port:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | | | | | If range of ports: | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | Range | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | | | | | \"termination | | | | heartbeat\") | | | | | | | | If multiple IP | | | | realms: IP realm | | | | Identifier = | | | | required IP realm | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | | | | If Media Inactivity | | | | Detection Required: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | \"Media Inactivity | | | | Detection (Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Time, Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Direction) \") (NOTE | | | | 2) | | | | | | | | If Sustainable Data | | | | Rate Policing | | | | Required:- | | | | | | | | Policing Required | | | | | | | | Sustainable Data | | | | Rate | | | | | | | | Maximum Burst Size | | | | | | | | If peak data rate | | | | policing | | | | | | | | Policing Required | | | | | | | | Peak Data Rate | | | | | | | | If Delay Variation | | | | required | | | | | | | | Delay Variation | | | | Tolerance | | | | | | | | If RTCP handling | | | | required: | | | | | | | | RTCP allocation | | | | | | | | If ECN transparent | | | | support required: | | | | ECN Enable = | | | | \"True\" | | | | | | | | Initiation Method = | | | | \"inactive\" | | | | | | | | If ECN Endpoint | | | | support required | | | | | | | | ECN Enable = | | | | \"True\" | | | | | | | | Initiation Method = | | | | \"ECN Initiation | | | | | | | | Method\" NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | Congestion Response | | | | = \"ECN | | | | | | | | Congestion | | | | Response\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 4 | | | | | | | | ECN Mode = \"ECN | | | | mode\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 4 | | | | | | | | ECT Marking = \"ECN | | | | ECT | | | | | | | | marking\" NOTE 4 | | | | | | | | RTCP Feedback = | | | | \"ECN RTCP | | | | | | | | Feedback\" NOTE 4 | | | | | | | | XR Summary Report = | | | | \"ECN XR | | | | | | | | Summary Report\" | | | | NOTE 4 | | | | | | | | If notification of | | | | ECN Failure | | | | | | | | Report: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID | | | | | | | | = x,\" ECN | | | | Failure\") | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: This shall | | | | only be set to the | | | | same IP realm as at | | | | the reservation | | | | stage which is | | | | specified in Table | | | | 5.17.2.2.1. If a | | | | different IP realm | | | | is specified, the | | | | TrGW shall return | | | | error 501 "Not | | | | Implemented". | | | | Additional streams | | | | may be added by the | | | | Configure_TrG | | | | W_Connection_Point | | | | procedure. The | | | | additional streams | | | | shall then carry the | | | | same IP Realm | | | | Identifier as the | | | | first stream. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The event | | | | parameters \"Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Time\" and \"Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Direction\" are | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This shall | | | | be set to a value | | | | other than | | | | \"inactive\". | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For the IMS | | | | side/3GPP ECN | | | | profile terminations | | | | this property does | | | | not need to be | | | | signalled; default | | | | provisioned values | | | | are defined for this | | | | profile. For | | | | procedures to handle | | | | interworking between | | | | different ECN | | | | property settings | | | | see 3GPP TS 29.162 | | | | [18]. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The support | | | | of the modification | | | | of the Priority | | | | Indicator value is | | | | optional for the | | | | IMS-AGW and depends | | | | on implementation | | | | solution for | | | | Priority | | | | call/session | | | | authorisation (see | | | | 3GPP TS 29.162 | | | | [18]). | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.2.3.2.
Table 5.17.2.3.2: Configure TrGW Connection Point Request Acknowledge
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | If local resources | Transaction ID = x | If local resources | | were provided in | | were provided in | | request: | Context ID = C1 | request: | | | | | | Local Descriptor { | Termination ID = T1 | Local Descriptor { | | | | | | Port | If Stream Number | If media is | | | Specified: | \"audio\" or | | IP Address | | \"video\": | | | Stream Number | | | IP Version | | Codec List | | | | | | } | | RTP Payloads | | | | | | If remote resources | | Rtpbw | | are provided in | | | | request: | | If RTCP bandwidth | | | | | | Remote Descriptor { | | RtcpbwRS | | | | | | Port | | RtcpbwRR | | | | | | IP Address | | } | | | | | | IP Version | | If remote resources | | | | are provided in | | } NOTE | | request: | | | | | | | | Remote Descriptor { | | | | | | | | If media is | | | | \"audio\" or | | | | \"video\": | | | | | | | | Codec List | | | | | | | | RTP Payloads | | | | | | | | Rtpbw | | | | | | | | If RTCP bandwidth | | | | | | | | RtcpbwRS | | | | | | | | RtcpbwRR | | | | | | | | } NOTE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: Sending of the | | | | Remote Descriptor is | | | | optional | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.17.2.4 Reserve and Configure TrGW Connection Point
The IBCF sends an ADD request command as in Table 5.17.2.4.1.
Table 5.17.2.4.1: Reserve and Configure TrGW Connection Point Request
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Local Descriptor { | Transaction ID = x | Local Descriptor { | | | | | | Port = \$ | If Context | If media is | | | Requested: | \"audio\" or | | IP Address = \$ | | \"video\": | | | Context ID = \$ | | | IP Version = IPv4 or | | Codec List | | IPv6 | If Emergency Call: | | | | | RTP Payloads | | } | Emergency Call | | | | Indication | Rtpbw | | Remote Descriptor { | | | | | If MPS call/session: | If RTCP bandwidth | | Port | | | | | Priority Indicator = | RtcpbwRS | | IP Address | x | | | | | RtcpbwRR | | IP Version | If Context Provided: | | | | | } | | } | Context ID = c1 | | | | | Remote Descriptor { | | | Termination ID = \$ | | | | | If media is | | | If Stream Number | \"audio\" or | | | Specified: | \"video\": | | | | | | | Stream Number | Codec List | | | | | | | If Resources for | RTP Payloads | | | multiple Codecs | | | | shall be reserved: | Rtpbw | | | | | | | Reserve_Value | If RTCP bandwidth | | | | | | | If IP Interface | RtcpbwRS | | | Type: | | | | | RtcpbwRR | | | IP interface = \"IP | | | | interface type\" | } | | | | | | | If indication on | | | | Bearer Released | | | | requested: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, \"BNC | | | | Release \") | | | | | | | | If diffserv | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Diffserv Code Point | | | | | | | | If tagging behaviour | | | | | | | | Diffserv Tagging | | | | Behaviour | | | | | | | | If Remote Source | | | | Address Filtering | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source | | | | Address Filtering | | | | | | | | If Remote Source | | | | Address range | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source | | | | Address Mask | | | | | | | | If Remote Source | | | | Port Filtering | | | | | | | | required:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | Filtering | | | | | | | | If individual port:- | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | | | | | If range of ports: | | | | | | | | Remote Source Port | | | | Range | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | | | | | \"termination | | | | heartbeat\") | | | | | | | | If multiple IP | | | | realms: IP realm | | | | Identifier = | | | | required IP realm | | | | identifier | | | | | | | | If Media Inactivity | | | | Detection Required: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | \"Media Inactivity | | | | Detection (Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Time, Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Direction) \") (NOTE | | | | 1) | | | | | | | | If Sustainable Data | | | | Rate Policing | | | | Required:- | | | | | | | | Policing Required | | | | | | | | Sustainable Data | | | | Rate | | | | | | | | Maximum Burst Size | | | | | | | | If peak data rate | | | | policing | | | | | | | | Policing Required | | | | | | | | Peak Data Rate | | | | | | | | If Delay Variation | | | | required | | | | | | | | Delay Variation | | | | Tolerance | | | | | | | | If RTCP handling | | | | required: | | | | | | | | RTCP allocation | | | | | | | | If ECN transparent | | | | support required: | | | | ECN Enable = | | | | \"True\" | | | | | | | | Initiation Method = | | | | \"inactive\" | | | | | | | | If ECN Endpoint | | | | support required | | | | | | | | ECN Enable = | | | | \"True\" | | | | | | | | Initiation Method = | | | | \"ECN Initiation | | | | | | | | Method\" NOTE 2 | | | | | | | | Congestion Response | | | | = \"ECN | | | | | | | | Congestion | | | | Response\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | ECN Mode = \"ECN | | | | mode\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | ECT Marking = \"ECN | | | | ECT | | | | | | | | marking\" NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | RTCP Feedback = | | | | \"ECN RTCP | | | | | | | | Feedback\" NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | XR Summary Report = | | | | \"ECN XR | | | | | | | | Summary Report\" | | | | NOTE 3 | | | | | | | | If notification of | | | | ECN Failure | | | | | | | | Report: | | | | | | | | N | | | | otificationRequested | | | | (Event ID | | | | | | | | = x,\" ECN | | | | Failure\") | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The event | | | | parameters \"Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Time\" and \"Media | | | | Inactivity Detection | | | | Direction\" are | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This shall | | | | be set to a value | | | | other than | | | | \"inactive\" | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For the IMS | | | | side/3GPP ECN | | | | profile terminations | | | | this property does | | | | not need to be | | | | signalled; default | | | | provisioned values | | | | are defined for this | | | | profile. For | | | | procedures to handle | | | | interworking between | | | | different ECN | | | | property settings | | | | see 3GPP TS 29.162 | | | | [18]. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.2.4.2.
Table 5.17.2.4.2: Reserve and Configure TrGW Connection Point Request
Acknowledge
+----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | Local Descriptor { | Transaction ID = x | Local Descriptor { | | | | | | Port | Context ID = C1 | If media is | | | | \"audio\" or | | IP Address | Termination ID = T1 | \"video\": | | | | | | IP Version | Stream Number | Codec List | | | | | | } | | RTP Payloads | | | | | | Remote Descriptor { | | Rtpbw | | | | | | > Port | | If RTCP bandwidth | | | | | | IP Address | | RtcpbwRS | | | | | | IP Version | | RtcpbwRR | | | | | | > } NOTE | | } | | | | | | | | Remote Descriptor { | | | | | | | | If media is | | | | \"audio\" or | | | | \"video\": | | | | | | | | Codec List | | | | | | | | RTP Payloads | | | | | | | | Rtpbw | | | | | | | | If RTCP bandwidth | | | | | | | | RtcpbwRS | | | | | | | | RtcpbwRR | | | | | | | | } NOTE | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: Sending of the | | | | Remote Descriptor is | | | | optional | | | +----------------------+---------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.17.2.5 Release TrGW Termination
The IBCF sends a SUBTRACT command as in Table 5.17.2.5.1.
Table 5.17.2.5.1: Release TrGW Termination Request
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= C1/ALL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1/ALL | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
On releasing the termination, the TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.2.5.2
Table 5.17.2.5.2: Release TrGW Termination Request Acknowledge
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1/ALL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1/ALL | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.2.6 Termination Heartbeat Indication
When the procedure \"Termination heartbeat indication\" is required the
following procedure is initiated: the TrGW sends a NOT.req command with the
following information.
5.17.2.6.1 NOT.req (Termination heartbeat)
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = | | | | x, \"termination | | | | heartbeat\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
When processing of the command is complete, the IBCF initiates the following
procedure.
5.17.2.6.2 NOT.resp (Termination heartbeat)
+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF is in charge of correcting any detected mismatch, by subtracting
hanging terminations or clearing hanging contexts.
#### 5.17.2.7 IP Bearer Released
When the procedure \"IP Bearer Released\" is required the following procedure
is initiated: the TrGW sends a NOT.req command with the following information.
5.17.2.7.1 NOT.req (IP Bearer Released)
+---------------------+--------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+--------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = x, | | | | | | | | \"BNC Release (Cause)\") | | +---------------------+--------------------------+--------------------+
When the processing of command is complete, the IBCF initiates the following
procedure.
5.17.2.7.2 NOT.resp (IP Bearer Released)
+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.2.8 Media Inactivity Notification
When the procedure \"Media Inactivity Notification\" is required the following
procedure is initiated: the TrGW sends a NOT.req command with the following
information.
5.17.2.8.1 NOT.req (Media Inactivity)
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = | | | | x, \"Media Inactivity | | | | Detection\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
When the processing of command is complete, the IBCF initiates the following
procedure.
5.17.2.8.2 NOT.resp (Media Inactivity)
+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.2.9 Change Through Connection
The IBCF sends an ADD or a MODIFY request command as in Table 5.17.2.9.1.
5.17.2.9.1 Change Through Connection Request
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | If Context Requested: | | | | | | | | Context ID = \$ | | | | | | | | If Context Provided: | | | | | | | | Context ID = c1 | | | | | | | | If Termination | | | | Requested: | | | | | | | | Termination ID = \$ | | | | | | | | If Termination | | | | Provided: | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | | | | | | Through-Connection = | | | | Connectivity Mode | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.2.9.2.
5.17.2.9.2 Change Through Connection Request Acknowledge
+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.2.10 ECN FailureIndication
The TrGW sends a NOTIFY request command as in Table 5.17.2.10.1.
Table 5.17.2.10.1: ECN Failure Indication
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = | | | | x, | | | | | | | | \" ECN Failure (ECN | | | | Failure Type)\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.2.10.2
Table 5.17.2.10.2: ECN Failure Indication Ack
+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.2.11 Change Flow Direction
The TrGW sends an ADD or a MODIFY request command as in Table 5.17.2.11.1.
5.17.2.11.1 Change Flow Direction
+---------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | If Context Requested: | | | | | | | | Context ID = \$ | | | | | | | | If Context Provided: | | | | | | | | Context ID = c1 | | | | | | | | If Termination Requested: | | | | | | | | Termination ID = \$ | | | | | | | | If Termination Provided: | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | | | | | | Connection Configuration = | | | | | | | | (TerminationID= x1, | | | | | | | | TerminationID=x2, [type = x]) | | +---------------------+---------------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.2.11.2.
5.17.2.11.2 Change Flow Direction Acknowledge
+---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------+
### 5.17.3 Non-Call Related Procedures
#### 5.17.3.1 General
This section describes the various non-call related procedures which are
listed in Table 5.17.3.1.1
Table 5.17.3.1.1: TrGW Non-Call Related Procedures
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Transaction defined | Support | Comment | | in | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 29.235 [17] | | | | or 3GPP TS 29.162 | | | | [18] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Out of service | Mandatory | 5.17.3.2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Communication Up | Mandatory | 5.17.3.3 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Restoration | Mandatory | 5.17.3.4 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Register | Mandatory | 5.17.3.5 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Re-register | Optional (NOTE 3 | 5.17.3.6 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | IBCF Ordered | Optional (NOTE 3 | 5.17.3.7 | | Re-register | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | IBCF Restoration | Optional | 5.17.3.8 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | IBCF Out of Service | Optional | 5.17.3.9 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Audit Value | Optional (NOTE 3 | 5.17.3.10 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Command Rejected | Mandatory | The \"Command | | | | Rejected\" procedure | | | | may be used in | | | | response both to | | | | call-related and | | | | non-call-related | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248 Commands -- | | | | 5.17.3.11 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Capability | Optional | 5.17.3.12 | | Change | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Resource | Optional | 5.17.3.13 | | Congestion Handling | | | | -- Activate | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | TrGW Resource | Optional | 5.17.3.14 | | Congestion Handling | | | | -- Indication | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Inactivity timeout | Optional (NOTE 4) | 5.17.3.15 | | activation | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Inactivity timeout | Optional (NOTE 4) | 5.17.3.16 | | indication | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Realm Availability | Optional | 5.17.3.17 | | Change activation | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Realm Availability | Optional | 5.17.3.18 | | Change indication | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Termination Out of | Optional (NOTE 1) | 5.17.3.19 (NOTE 2) | | Service | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Support of | | | | this procedure is | | | | mandatory in the | | | | IBCF. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | \"Termination | | | | Out-of-Service | | | | procedure\" is also | | | | used as a | | | | call-related H.248 | | | | command | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Support of | | | | this procedure is | | | | mandatory in the | | | | TrGW. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Support of | | | | this procedure is | | | | mandatory in the TrGW | | | | if UDP transport is | | | | supported. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
#### 5.17.3.2 TrGW Out Of Service
The TrGW sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.2.1.
Table 5.17.3.2.1: TrGW Out Of Service Request
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = FORCED or | | | | GRACEFUL | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 905 | | | | Termination Taken OOS | | | | or 908 MG Impending | | | | Failure or 915 State | | | | Loss | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.2.2.
Table 5.17.3.2.2: TrGW Out Of Service Request Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.3 TrGW Communication Up
The TrGW sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.3.1 to the
IBCF address to which the control link association was previously established.
Table 5.17.3.3.1: TrGW Communication Up
+---------------------+------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+------------------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = DISCONNECTED | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 900 , Service Restored | | +---------------------+------------------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF may respond as in table 5.17.3.3.2. If a response is received, the
control link association is re-established and the inactivity timer would be
restarted.
Table 5.17.3.3.2: TrGW Communication Up Ack
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | If required to register | | | | to new IBCF: | | | | | | | | Alternate MGC Id | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.4 TrGW Restoration
When the TrGW has recovered, the TrGW sends a SERVICE CHANGE as in Table
5.17.3.4.1,
Table 5.17.3.4.1: TrGW Restoration
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = RESTART | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 900, Service Restored | | +---------------------+-----------------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.4.2.
Table 5.17.3.4.2: TrGW Restoration Ack
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | If required to register | | | | to new IBCF : | | | | | | | | Alternate MGC Id | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.5 TrGW Register
The TrGW sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.5.1.
Table 5.17.3.5.1: TrGW Register
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = RESTART | | | | | | | | SC Reason =901, Cold | | | | Boot or 902, Warm Boot | | | | | | | | H248 Profile Identity | | | | | | | | H248 Protocol Version | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.5.2.
_Table 5.17.3.5.2: TrGW Register Ack_
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | If applicable (NOTE): | | | | H248 Protocol Version | | | | | | | | If applicable:- | | | | | | | | H248 Profile Identity | | | | | | | | If required to | | | | register to new IBCF | | | | : | | | | | | | | Alternate MGC Id | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | NOTE: The IBCF shall | | | | include the H.248 | | | | Protocol Version if | | | | the protocol version | | | | it supports or offers | | | | is lower than that | | | | proposed by the TrGW. | | | | The IBCF may include | | | | the H.248 Protocol | | | | Version if the | | | | protocol version it | | | | supports or offers is | | | | the protocol version | | | | proposed by the TrGW. | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.6 TrGW Re-Register
The TrGW sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.6.1.
Table 5.17.3.6.1: Re-Registration
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = Handoff | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 903, MGC | | | | Directed Change | | | | | | | | H248 Profile Identity | | | | | | | | H248 Protocol Version | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.6.2.
_Table 5.17.3.6.2: Re-Registration Ack_
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | If applicable (NOTE | | | | 1): | | | | | | | | H248 Protocol Version | | | | | | | | If applicable:- | | | | | | | | H248 Profile Identity | | | | | | | | If required to | | | | register to a new | | | | IBCF: | | | | | | | | Alternate MGC Id | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | NOTE 1: The IBCF | | | | shall include the | | | | H.248 Protocol | | | | Version if the | | | | protocol version it | | | | supports or offers is | | | | lower than that | | | | proposed by the TrGW. | | | | The IBCF may include | | | | the H.248 Protocol | | | | Version if the | | | | protocol version it | | | | supports or offers is | | | | the protocol version | | | | proposed by the TrGW. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | ServiceChangeMGCId | | | | parameter may be | | | | returned in the TrGW | | | | Re-register response. | | | | If present in the | | | | response, the TrGW | | | | shall not consider | | | | itself registered and | | | | should preferably | | | | attempt to | | | | re-register with the | | | | IBCF specified in the | | | | ServiceChangeMgcID | | | | before any further | | | | alternate IBCFs. | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.7 IBCF Ordered Re-register
The IBCF sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.7.1.
Table 5.17.3.7.1: IBCF Ordered Re-Register
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = HANDOFF | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 903, MGC | | | | Directed Change | | | | | | | | Alternate MGC Id | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.3.7.2.
_Table 5.17.3.7.2: IBCF Ordered Re-Register Ack_
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW then performs a TrGW Re-Register procedure according to Clause
5.17.3.6.
#### 5.17.3.8 IBCF Restoration
When the IBCF has recovered, the IBCF sends a SERVICE CHANGE as in Table
5.17.3.8.1,
Table 5.17.3.8.1: IBCF Restoration
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = RESTART | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 901, Cold | | | | Boot OR 902, Warm Boot | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.3.8.2.
Table 5.17.3.8.2: IBCF Restoration Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.9 IBCF Out of Service
The IBCF sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.9.1.
Table 5.17.3.9.1: BCF Out Of Service
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = FORCED or | | | | GRACEFUL | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 905, | | | | Termination Taken OOS | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.3.9.2.
**Table 5.17.3.9.2: IBCF Out Of Service** Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.10 Audit Value
The IBCF sends an AUDIT VALUE request command as in Table 5.17.3.10.1.
Table 5.17.3.10.1: Audit Value
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= -/ALL/C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = | | | | ROOT/A | | | | LL/T1/PartialWildcard | | | | (NOTE 4, NOTE5) | | | | | | | | Audit Packages (NOTE | | | | 1) | | | | | | | | Audit Descriptor = | | | | IndAuditParameter:= | | | | In | | | | dAudMediaDescriptor:= | | | | IndAudTermina | | | | tionStateDescriptor:= | | | | serviceState | | | | | | | | Audit Descriptor = | | | | Empty (NOTE 2) | | | | | | | | Audit Descriptor = | | | | IndAuditParameter:= | | | | In | | | | dAudMediaDescriptor:= | | | | IndAudTermina | | | | tionStateDescriptor:= | | | | Available Realms | | | | (NOTE 3) | | | | | | | | Audit Descriptor = | | | | IndAuditParameter:= | | | | In | | | | dAudMediaDescriptor:= | | | | IndAudTermina | | | | tionStateDescriptor:= | | | | ROOT properties (NOTE | | | | 6) | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | NOTE 1: Packages is | | | | for Null/Root | | | | Combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Used for | | | | control association | | | | monitoring. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Used for | | | | auditing available IP | | | | realms | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The partial | | | | wildcard termination | | | | is used for the | | | | context audit (see | | | | table 5.17.3.10.3) | | | | and specifies the | | | | \"group\" part of the | | | | termination identity | | | | (e.g. \"ip/5/*\"). | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: Partial | | | | wildcard shall only | | | | be used when text | | | | encoding is used on | | | | the H.248 interface. | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: Used for | | | | auditing ROOT | | | | properties. | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.3.10.2.
_Table 5.17.3.10.2: Audit Value Ack_
+---------------------+--------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+--------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = -/C1 | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT/T1 | | | | | | | | Packages List | | | | | | | | serviceState | | | | | | | | Available Realms | | | | | | | | ROOT Properties | | +---------------------+--------------------------+--------------------+
Upon reception of the command in the TrGW:
  * The Service State returns the current Service State
  * When Packages are requested, the Package Names and Versions are returned
  * When realm availability is audited, the list of available realms is returned.
  * When root properties are audited, the values of root properties are returned.
The following table illustrates the allowed combinations that can be obtained
with the AuditValue Command:
Table 5.17.3.10.3: Combinations of AuditValue Command
* * *
ContextID TerminationID Information Obtained Specific Wildcard Audit of
matching Terminations in a Context Specific Specific Audit of a single
Termination in a Context Null Root Audit of Media Gateway state and/or control
association or available realms or supported packages or ROOT properties. All
Specific (Non-null) ContextID in which the Termination currently exists All
Partial Wildcard (Non-null) ContextIDs in which the Terminations currently
exist NOTE: Partial wildcard shall only be used when text encoding is used on
the H.248 interface.
* * *
#### 5.17.3.11 Command Rejected
When the procedure \"Command Reject\" is required the following procedure is
initiated:
The TrGW / IBCF sends a response to any command.req with the following
information.
Table 5.17.3.11.1: ANYcommand.resp (command reject) TrGW/IBCF to IBCF/TrGW
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = z | | | | | | | | Context ID = c1 or no | | | | context | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 or | | | | no termination ID | | | | | | | | Reason=Error | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.12 TrGW Capability Change
The TrGW sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.12.1.
Table 5.17.3.12.1: Capability Update
+---------------------+------------------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+------------------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | SC Method = RESTART | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 917, Capability Change | | | | | | | | H248 Profile Identity | | | | | | | | H248 Protocol Version | | +---------------------+------------------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in table 5.17.3.12.2.
_Table 5.17.3.12.2 Capability Update Ack_
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.13 TrGW Resource Congestion Handling -- Activate
The IBCF sends a MODIFY request command as in Table 5.17.3.13.1
Table 5.17.3.13.1: TrGW Resource Congestion Handling -- Activate
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | NotificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | | | | | \"Overload | | | | Notification\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.3.13.2.
Table 5.17.3.13.2: TrGW Resource Congestion Handling -- Activate Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.14 TrGW Resource Congestion Handling -- Indication
The TrGW sends a NOTIFY request command as in Table 5.17.3.14.1
Table 5.17.3.14.1: TrGW Resource Congestion Handling -- Indication
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | If H.248.11 used: | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = | | | | x, \"Overload | | | | Notification\") | | | | | | | | If H.248.10 used: | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = | | | | x, \" Overload | | | | Notification | | | | (Reduction)\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.14.2
Table 5.17.3.14.2: TrGW Resource Congestion Handling -- Indication Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.15 Inactivity Timeout -- Activation
The IBCF sends a MODIFY request command as in Table 5.17.3.15.1
Table 5.17.3.15.1: Inactivity Timeout -- Activation
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= NULL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | NotificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | | | | | \"Inactivity Timeout\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.3.15.2.
Table 5.17.3.15.2: Inactivity Timeout -- Activation Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = NULL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.16 Inactivity Timeout -- Indication
The TrGW sends a NOTIFY request command as in Table 5.17.3.16.1.
Table 5.17.3.16.1: Inactivity Timeout -- Indication
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= NULL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = | | | | x, \"Inactivity | | | | Timeout\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.16.2
Table 5.17.3.16.2: Inactivity Timeout -- Indication Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = NULL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.17 Realm Availability Change -- Activation
The IBCF sends a MODIFY request command as in Table 5.17.3.17.1.
Table 5.17.3.17.1: Realm Availability Change -- Activation
+---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | NotificationRequested | | | | (Event ID = x, | | | | | | | | \"Realm Availability | | | | Change\") | | +---------------------+-------------------------+--------------------+
The TrGW responds as in Table 5.17.3.17.2.
Table 5.17.3.17.2: Realm Availability Change -- Activation Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.18 Realm Availability Change -- Indication
The TrGW sends a NOTIFY request command as in Table 5.17.3.18.1.
Table 5.17.3.18.1: Realm Availability Change -- Indication
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | | | | | | | Event_ID (Event ID = | | | | x, | | | | | | | | \"Realm Availability | | | | Change (Changed | | | | Realms)\") | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | ObservedEvent | | | | Parameters returned | | | | within the Changed | | | | Realms are defined as | | | | mandatory since it | | | | shall contain at | | | | minimum 1 parameter | | | | but may contain both | | | | Newly Available | | | | Realms and Newly | | | | Unavailable Realms. | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.18.2
Table 5.17.3.18.2: Realm Availability Change -- Indication Ack
+---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = - | | | | | | | | Termination ID = ROOT | | +---------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.17.3.19 Termination Out Of Service
This procedure only applies when text encoding is used on the H.248 interface.
The TrGW sends a SERVICE CHANGE request command as in Table 5.17.3.19.1.
Table 5.17.3.19.1: Termination Out Of Service Request
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | []{.underline} | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID= C1/ALL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = T1 | | | | or Wildcarded | | | | Termination (NOTE) | | | | | | | | SC Method = FORCED | | | | | | | | SC Reason = 904 | | | | (\"Termination | | | | Malfunction\") or 905 | | | | (\"Termination Taken | | | | OOS\") or 906 (\"Loss | | | | of Lower Layer | | | | Connectivity\"), or | | | | 907 (\"Transmission | | | | Failure\") or 910 | | | | (\"Media Capability | | | | Failure\") | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | NOTE: This is set to | | | | a specific | | | | termination identity | | | | or a partially | | | | wildcarded identity | | | | (i.e. specifying the | | | | \"interface\" part of | | | | the termination ID | | | | and wildcarding the | | | | \"group\" and \"Id\" | | | | parts) or a wholly | | | | wildcarded identity | | | | (i.e. ip/*). | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
The IBCF responds as in Table 5.17.3.19.2.
Table 5.17.3.19.2: Termination Out Of Service Request Ack
+---------------------+------------------------------+--------------------+ | Address Information | Control information | Bearer information | +---------------------+------------------------------+--------------------+ | | Transaction ID = x | | | | | | | | Context ID = C1/ALL | | | | | | | | Termination ID = As received | | +---------------------+------------------------------+--------------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Illustration of Gate/Pinhole Concept
# A.1 General
The purpose of this informative annex is the illustration of the H.248
Stream/Termination model by showing exemplary realisations of gates for
unidirectional versus bidirectional media flows.
Only point-to-point sessions are in scope of this H.248 Profile (see clause
5.4). Interconnection of individual H.248 Streams is based on the basic
principle described in clause 7.1.6/ ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3]. The
H.248 Multiplex Descriptor is therefore not necessary (see clause 5.6.2). The
H.248 Topology Descriptor definition includes individual H.248 Streams, but is
also not necessary (see clause 5.7.8).
NOTE: all sessions have unicast media flows. Potential multicast applications
are transparent for MG point of view.
# A.2 Relationships between gates and H.248 Streams
The realization of a gate is illustrated in figure A.2.1. There is a
unidirectional media flow in that example, and there is a single H.248 Stream
per Termination. A **H.248 Stream** covers per definition a single
**bidirectional** media flow (clause 7.1.6/ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3]).
Media flows are interconnected by using the same **StreamID** (here: StreamID
equals to S1 for T1 and T2).
{width="2.7895833333333333in" height="1.35in"}
Figure A.2.1: H.248 Context - Illustration of Gate, Stream and Terminations
The uni- or bidirectional application of an H.248 Streams is controlled via
usage of Local Descriptor (LD) and Remote Descriptor (RD). Figure A.2.2 shows
a bidirectional session. There is again a single H.248 Stream per Termination.
Gates are direction-dependent, there are consequently two gates in this
example.
{width="2.8194444444444446in" height="1.35in"}
Figure A.2.2: H.248 Context Bidirectional Session using single H.248 Streams
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
#