# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Diameter based interface between the
Machine Type Communications-InterWorking Function (MTC-IWF) and the Short
Message Service-Service Centre (SMS-SC) for communications with packet data
networks and applications.
This specification defines the Diameter application for the T4 reference point
between the MTC-IWF and the SMS-SC. The interactions between the MTC-IWF and
the SMS-SC are specified.
The stage 2 description for communications with packet data networks and
applications (architecture and functionality) is specified in the 3GPP TS
23.682 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[3] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP Network Layer
Security\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and Message Elements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[10] IETF RFC 5234: \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.336: \"Home Subscriber Server (HSS) diameter interfaces for
interworking with packet data networks and applications\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.338: \"Diameter based protocols to support SMS capable MMEs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.173: \"Diameter-based SLh interface for Control Plane LCS\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.368: \"Tsp interface protocol between the MTC Interworking
Function (MTC-IWF) and Service Capability Server (SCS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Mobility Management Entity (MME) and Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on Diameter protocol\".
[17] IETF RFC 4006: \"Diameter Credit-Control Application\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur Form
AVP Attribute-Value Pair
C Conditional
IANA Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
MTC Machine-Type Communications
MTC-IWF MTC Interworking Function
> O Optional
SCS Service Capability Server
# 4 General Description
The T4 reference point between the MTC-IWF and the SMS-SC is an intra PLMN
interface, as defined in the 3GPP TS 23.682 [7].
This document describes the T4 interface related procedures, message
parameters and protocol specifications.
The T4 interface allows transfer of device trigger from MTC-IWF to SMS-SC
inside HPLMN domain, along with the serving SGSN/MME/MSC identities, and
allows SMS-SC to report to MTC-IWF the submission outcome of a device trigger
and the success or failure of delivering the device trigger to the UE.
# 5 MTC-IWF -- SMS-SC (T4)
## 5.1 Introduction
This section describes the Diameter-based T4 interface related procedures and
information elements exchanged between the MTC-IWF and the SMS-SC.
In the tables that describe the Information Elements transported by each
Diameter command, each Information Element is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C)
Conditional or (O) Optional in the \"Cat.\" column. For the correct handling
of the Information Element according to the category type, see the description
detailed in section 6 of the 3GPP TS 29.228 [7].
## 5.2 Procedure Descriptions
### 5.2.1 Device Trigger Procedure
#### 5.2.1.1 General
This procedure shall be used between the MTC-IWF and the SMS-SC for device
trigger. The procedure shall be invoked by the MTC-IWF and is used:
\- to transfer device trigger to SMS-SC inside HPLMN domain;
\- to transfer to the SMS-SC the identities of the serving MSC or MME but not
both, and/or SGSN, and/or IP-SM-GW serving the user for SMS along with device
trigger.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Device-Trigger-Request/Answer in the
Diameter application specified in chapter 6. Tables 5.2.1.1/1 and 5.2.1.1/2
detail the involved information elements.
Table 5.2.1.1/1: Device Trigger Request
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **User | ** | M | This information | | Identifier** | User-Identifier**| | element shall | | | | | contain the IMSI | | (See 3GPP TS | | | of the UE the | | 29.336 [12]) | | | trigger is to be | | | | | applied, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [8], | | | | | clause 2.2. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element may | | | | | contain the | | | | | international | | | | | ISDN number of | | | | | the UE the device | | | | | trigger was | | | | | delivered, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [8], | | | | | clause 3.3. The | | | | | ISDN number shall | | | | | be present if it | | | | | is available to | | | | | the MTC-IWF. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element may | | | | | contain the | | | | | external | | | | | identifier of the | | | | | UE the device | | | | | trigger was | | | | | delivered, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [8], | | | | | clause 19.7.2. | | | | | The external | | | | | identifier shall | | | | | be present if it | | | | | is available to | | | | | the MTC-IWF. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP SMEA | SM-RP-SMEA |** M**| This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the SME | | 29.338 [13]) | | | address of the | | | | | Service | | | | | Capability Server | | | | | that is | | | | | requesting a | | | | | device trigger to | | | | | the UE. It shall | | | | | be encoded | | | | | according to the | | | | | formatting rules | | | | | of the address | | | | | fields described | | | | | in | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.040 [9]. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Payload | Payload |** M** | This information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the | | 29.368 [15]) | | | device triggering | | | | | payload as | | | | | received over the | | | | | Tsp interface. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Serving Node | Serving-Node | C | This information | | Identity | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 3GPP TS | | | serving node | | 29.173 [14]) | | | identity, i.e. | | | | | SGSN/MME/MSC | | | | | identity serving | | | | | the UE. | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | present if it is | | | | | available to the | | | | | MTC-IWF, e.g. the | | | | | MTC-IWF retrieved | | | | | this information | | | | | from the HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Additional | Additi | C | This information | | Serving Node | onal-Serving-Node | | element shall | | Identity | | | contain another | | | | | serving node | | (See 3GPP TS | | | identity, e.g. | | 29.173 [14]) | | | SGSN/MME/MSC | | | | | identity, if | | | | | there is any | | | | | serving the UE. | | | | | | | | | | There may be | | | | | multiple | | | | | instances of this | | | | | information | | | | | elements. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Trigger Reference | Reference-Number | C | This information | | Number | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 3GPP TS | | | Reference Number | | 29.368 [15]) | | | related to the | | | | | device trigger | | | | | request. | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | present if it is | | | | | available to the | | | | | MTC-IWF, e.g. the | | | | | MTC-IWF received | | | | | this information | | | | | over Tsp. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Validity Time | Validity-Time | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the | | 29.368 [15]) | | | validity time of | | | | | the device | | | | | trigger request. | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | present if it is | | | | | available to the | | | | | MTC-IWF, e.g. the | | | | | MTC-IWF received | | | | | this information | | | | | over Tsp. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Priority | Pr | C | This information | | Indication | iority-Indication | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 3GPP TS | | | priority of the | | 29.368 [15]) | | | device trigger | | | | | request.. | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | present if it is | | | | | available to the | | | | | MTC-IWF, e.g. the | | | | | MTC-IWF received | | | | | this information | | | | | over Tsp. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SMS Application | SMS-Ap | C | This information | | Port ID | plication-Port-ID | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 3GPP TS | | | Application Port | | 29.368 [15]) | | | ID of the | | | | | triggering | | | | | application for | | | | | the device | | | | | trigger request. | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | present if it is | | | | | available to the | | | | | MTC-IWF, e.g. the | | | | | MTC-IWF received | | | | | this information | | | | | over Tsp. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [6]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.1.1/2: Device Trigger Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Result\ | Result-Code / | **M** | This IE shall | | (See 7) | Ex | | contain the | | | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for T4 errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which shall | | | | | contain the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Service | | | | | Centre | | | | | Congestion; | | | | | | | | | | - Invalid Short | | | | | Message | | | | | Entity | | | | | Address; | | | | | | | | | | - Subscriber | | | | | not Service | | | | | Centre | | | | | Subscriber; | | | | | | | | | | - SM Protocol | | | | | Error. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [6]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Detailed Behaviour of the MTC-IWF
The MTC-IWF shall make use of this procedure to transfer device trigger
request received over Tsp interface from SCS to the SMS-SC.
If the MTC-IWF retrieved the IMSI and serving node identities of the UE from
the HSS, the MTC-IWF shall include these identities in the request to the SMS-
SC.
The MTC-IWF shall include the External Identifier of the UE if received over
Tsp interface from SCS.
#### 5.2.1.3 Detailed Behaviour of the SMS-SC
When receiving a Device Trigger Request, the SMS-SC shall check the identity
of the UE received (i.e. IMSI or MSISDN) if it serves this UE. If not, a
Result Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
If the SM-RP-SMEA AVP contains an invalid SME address, the SMS-SC shall return
a Result Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_SME_ADDRESS.
If the SMS-SC cannot fulfil the received request due to congestion, it shall
return a Result Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_SC_CONGESTION.
If there are routing information (i.e. MSC or MME, SGSN, IP-SM-GW identities
serving the UE for SMS) present in the request, the SMS-SC shall use the
information for delivery of device trigger request for the UE. The SMS-SC
shall return a Result Code of DIAMETER_SUCCESS to the MTC-IWF.
NOTE: If the IP-SM-GW address is received, the SMS-SC uses the IP-SM-GW as the
serving node with highest priority for delivery of device trigger request for
the UE.
If there is no routing information (i.e. MSC or MME, SGSN, IP-SM-GW identities
serving the UE for SMS) present in the request, the SMS-SC shall send a
Report-SM-Delivery-Status message to the HLR in order to update the MWD in the
HLR (see 3GPP TS 23.040 [9]).
If the SMS-SC cannot fulfil the received request, e.g. due to system failure,
or congestion, it shall set Result-Code to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY.
### 5.2.2 Delivery Report of Device Trigger
#### 5.2.2.1 General
This procedure shall be used between the SMS-SC and the MTC-IWF for Delivery
Report of Device Trigger. The procedure shall be invoked by the SMS-SC and is
used:
\- to report the success or failure of delivering the device trigger to the
UE.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Delivery-Report-Request/Answer in the
Diameter application specified in chapter 6. Tables 5.2.2.1/1 and 5.2.2.1/2
detail the involved information elements.
Table 5.2.2.1/1: Delivery Report Request
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **User | ** | M | This information | | Identifier** | User-Identifier**| | element shall | | | | | contain the IMSI | | (See 3GPP TS | | | of the UE the | | 29.336 [12]) | | | device trigger | | | | | was delivered, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [8], | | | | | clause 2.2. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element may | | | | | contain the | | | | | international | | | | | ISDN number of | | | | | the UE the device | | | | | trigger was | | | | | delivered, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [8], | | | | | clause 3.3. The | | | | | ISDN number shall | | | | | be present if it | | | | | is available to | | | | | the SMS-SC. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element may | | | | | contain the | | | | | external | | | | | identifier of the | | | | | UE the device | | | | | trigger was | | | | | delivered, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [8], | | | | | clause 19.7.2. | | | | | The external | | | | | identifier shall | | | | | be present if it | | | | | is available to | | | | | the SMS-SC. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP SMEA | SM-RP-SMEA |** M**| This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the SME | | 29.338 [13]) | | | address of the | | | | | Service | | | | | Capability Server | | | | | that is | | | | | requesting a | | | | | device trigger to | | | | | the UE as | | | | | received from the | | | | | MTC-IWF. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM Delivery | SM |** M**| This information | | Outcome | -Delivery-Outcome | | element shall be | | | | | present and | | (See 6.3.1) | | | indicate one of | | | | | the following | | | | | outcomes of the | | | | | device trigger | | | | | delivery: | | | | | | | | | | - Absent | | | | | subscriber; | | | | | | | | | | - UE memory | | | | | capacity | | | | | exceeded; | | | | | | | | | | - Successful | | | | | transfer. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Absent Subscriber | Absent-Subscri |** C**| This information | | Diagnostic SM | ber-Diagnostic-SM | | element shall | | | | | indicate the | | (See 6.3.2) | | | reason why the | | | | | subscriber is | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | device trigger | | | | | failed to be | | | | | delivered due to | | | | | absent | | | | | subscriber. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Trigger Reference | Reference-Number |** C** | This information | | Number | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 3GPP TS | | | Trigger Reference | | 29.368 [15]) | | | Number as | | | | | received from the | | | | | MTC-IWF for the | | | | | device trigger. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if it is | | | | | available in the | | | | | SMS-SC. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [6]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.2.1/2: Delivery Report Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | **M** | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 7) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for T4 errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which shall | | | | | contain the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [6]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
#### 5.2.2.2 Detailed Behaviour of the SMS-SC
The SMS-SC shall make use of this procedure to report the success or failure
of delivering the device trigger to the UE to the MTC-IWF.
The SMS-SC shall include the IMSI of the UE and, if available, other
identities of the UE, i.e. the MSISDN and the external identifier.
The SMS-SC shall include the External Identifier of the UE if the SMS-SC
received it from MTC-IWF in the device trigger request message.
The SMS-SC shall include an SM-RP-SMEA AVP that contains the SME address of
the Service Capability Server that requested the device trigger to the UE as
received from the MTC-IWF in the device trigger request message.
The SMS-SC shall include an SM-Delivery-Outcome-T4 AVP that contains the
outcome of the success or failure of delivering the device trigger to the UE.
The SMS-SC shall include an Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-T4 AVP that contains
the reason why the subscriber is absent if the device trigger failed to be
delivered due to absent subscriber.
#### 5.2.2.3 Detailed Behaviour of the MTC-IWF
The MTC-IWF shall return a Result Code of DIAMETER_SUCCESS to the SMS-SC.
# 6 Protocol Specification and Implementation
## 6.1 General
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128251 .anchor}6.1.1 Use of Diameter Base Protocol
The Diameter Base Protocol as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [3] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128252 .anchor}6.1.2 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [4]
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128253 .anchor}6.1.3 Accounting Functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the T4 interface.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128254 .anchor}6.1.4 Use of Sessions
Between the MTC-IWF and the SMS-SC, Diameter sessions shall be implicitly
terminated. An implicitly terminated session is one for which the server does
not maintain state information. The client shall not send any re-authorization
or session termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol includes the Auth-Session-State AVP as the
mechanism for the implementation of implicitly terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 3588 [3]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128255 .anchor}6.1.5 Transport Protocol
Diameter messages over the T4 interface shall make use of SCTP, see IETF RFC
4960 [5].
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128256 .anchor}6.1.6 Routing Considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
The T4 reference point is defined as an intra-operator interface, and both
MTC-IWF and the SMS-SC are located in the same network domain. If the MTC-IWF
knows the address/name of the SMS-SC for a certain user, both the Destination-
Realm and Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in the request. Otherwise,
the Destination-Realm AVP shall be present and the command shall be routed to
the next Diameter node. Consequently, the Destination-Host AVP is declared as
optional in the ABNF for all requests initiated by the MTC-IWF.
The SMS-SC obtains the Destination-Host AVP to use in requests towards the
MTC-IWF, from the Origin-Host AVP received in previous requests from the MTC-
IWF. Consequently, the Destination-Host AVP is declared as mandatory in the
ABNF for all requests initiated by the SMS-SC.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands,
it may be ignored by the receiving node, and it shall not be used for routing
purposes.
NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-ID can be included as an optional AVP in
all commands in order to ensure interoperability with diameter agents
following a strict implementation of IETF RFC 3588 [3], by which messages not
including this AVP will be rejected. IETF RFC 3588 [3] indicates that the AVP
shall be present in all proxiable commands, such as those defined in this
specification, despite the fact that the contents of this AVP are redundant
since the Application ID is already present in the command header. This AVP
may be removed in subsequent revisions of this specification, once the
diameter base protocol is updated accordingly.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128257 .anchor}6.1.7 Advertising Application Support
The MTC-IWF and SMS-SC shall advertise support of the Diameter T4 Application
by including the value of the application identifier in the Auth-Application-
Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of the
Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 3588 [3].
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc438128258 .anchor}6.1.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The T4 interface protocol shall be defined as an IETF vendor specific Diameter
application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor identifier assigned by IANA
to 3GPP (http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the T4 interface application
is 16777311 (allocated by IANA).
### 6.1.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the T4 interface, it should be defined
as optional. If backwards incompatible changes can not be avoided, the new
functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and support advertised with
the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of the Supported-Features AVP on the T4
interface is consistent with the procedures for the dynamic discovery of
supported features as defined in clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229 [6].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [6], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specificaion, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
## 6.2 Commands
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This section defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described in this specification.
### 6.2.2 Command-Code Values
This section defines Command-Code values for the T4 interface application as
allocated by IANA.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 5234 [10],
according to the rules in IETF RFC 3588 [3]. In the case, the definition and
use of an AVP is not specified in this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC
3588 [3] shall apply.
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 7.2.2/1: Command-Code values for T4
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Section Device-Trigger-Request DTR 8388643
6.2.3 Device-Trigger- Answer DTA 8388643 6.2.4 Delivery-Report-Request DRR
8388644 6.2.5 Delivery-Report-Answer DRA 8388644 6.2.6
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777311
(application identifier of the T4 interface application, allocated by IANA).
### 6.2.3 Device-Trigger-Request (DTR) Command
The Device-Trigger-Request (DTR) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388643 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent from
the MTC-IWF to the SMS-SC.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777311 >
>
> \
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { **User-Identifier** }
>
> { SM-RP-SMEA }
>
> { Payload }
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> *[ Additional-Serving-Node ]
>
> [ Reference-Number ]
>
> [ Validity-Time ]
>
> [ Priority-Indication ]
>
> [ SMS-Application-Port-ID ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.4 Device-Trigger-Answer (DTA) Command
The Device-Trigger-Answer (DTA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388643 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the SMS-SC to the MTC-IWF.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.5 Delivery-Report-Request (DRR) Command
The Delivery-Report-Request (DRR) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388644 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent from
the SMS-SC to the MTC-IWF.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777311 >
>
> \
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { **User-Identifier** }
>
> { SM-RP-SMEA }
>
> { SM-Delivery-Outcome-T4 }
>
> [ Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-T4 ]
>
> [ Reference-Number ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.6 Delivery-Report-Answer (DRA) Command
The Delivery-Report-Answer (DRA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388644 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the MTC-IWF to the SMS-SC.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
## 6.3 AVPs
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for the T4 interface
protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and whether or
not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs defined in this
specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
Table 6.3.1/1: T4 specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | Se | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | ction | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM | 3200 | 6.3.1 | Enume | M, V | | | | No | | -Deli | | | rated | | | | | | | very- | | | | | | | | | | Outco | | | | | | | | | | me-T4 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | A | 3201 | 6.3.2 | Enume | M, V | | | | No | | bsent | | | rated | | | | | | | -Subs | | | | | | | | | | cribe | | | | | | | | | | r-Dia | | | | | | | | | | gnost | | | | | | | | | | ic-T4 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "M\", | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "V\", | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | IETF | | | | | | | | | | RFC | | | | | | | | | | 3588 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used by the T4 interface
protocol from existing Diameter Applications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within T4.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter Base Protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs from Diameter
Base Protocol are not included in table 6.3.1/2, but they may be re-used for
the T4 protocol.
Table 6.3.1/2: T4 re-used Diameter AVPs
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Attribute Name | Reference | Comments | M-bit | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | User-Identifier | 3GPP TS 29.336 [12] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | SM-RP-SMEA | 3GPP TS 29.338 [13] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Payload | 3GPP TS 29.368 [15] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Serving-Node | 3GPP TS 29.173 [14] | See 6.3.3 | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Ad | 3GPP TS 29.173 [14] | See 6.3.4 | | | ditional-Serving-Node | | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Reference-Number | 3GPP TS 29.368 [15] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Validity-Time | IETF RFC 4006 [17] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Priority-Indication | 3GPP TS 29.368 [15] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | SM | 3GPP TS 29.368 [15] | | | | S-Application-Port-ID | | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Supported-Features | 3GPP TS 29.229 [6] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Feature-List-ID | 3GPP TS 29.229 [6] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | Feature-List | 3GPP TS 29.229 [6] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | IP-SM-GW-Name | 3GPP TS 29.336 [12] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | IP-SM-GW-Realm | 3GPP TS 29.336 [12] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | IP-SM-GW-Number | 3GPP TS 29.336 [12] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | MME-Number-for-MT-SMS | 3GPP TS 29.272 [16] | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+ | NOTE 1: The M-bit | | | | | settings for re-used | | | | | AVPs override those | | | | | of the defining | | | | | specifications that | | | | | are referenced. | | | | | Values include: | | | | | \"Must set\", \"Must | | | | | not set\". If the | | | | | M-bit setting is | | | | | blank, then the | | | | | defining | | | | | specification | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the M-bit | | | | | is set for an AVP and | | | | | the receiver does not | | | | | understand the AVP, | | | | | it shall return a | | | | | rejection. If the | | | | | M-bit is not set for | | | | | an AVP, the receiver | | | | | shall not return a | | | | | rejection, whether or | | | | | not it understands | | | | | the AVP. If the | | | | | receiver understands | | | | | the AVP but the M-bit | | | | | value does not match | | | | | with the definition | | | | | in this table, the | | | | | receiver shall ignore | | | | | the M-bit. | | | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------+-------+
### 6.3.1 SM-Delivery-Outcome-T4
The SM-Delivery-Outcome-T4 AVP is of type Enumerated and indicates the
outcomes of the device trigger delivery. The following values are defined:
> ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER (0)
This value is used when the device trigger delivery failed due to absent
subscriber.
> UE_MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED (1)
This value is used when the device trigger delivery failed due to UE memory
capacity exceeded.
> SUCCESSFUL_TRANSFER (2)
This value is used when the device trigger delivery is successfully
transferred to the UE.
> VALIDITY_TIME_EXPIRED (3)
This value is used when the message was deleted in the SMS-SC due to
expiration of the validity time.
### 6.3.2 Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-T4
The Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-T4 AVP is of type Enumerated and indicates
the reason why the subscriber is absent if the device trigger failed to be
delivered due to absent subscriber. The following values are defined:
> NO_PAGING_RESPONSE (0)
This value is used when there is no paging response via some of the serving
nodes.
> UE_DETACHED (1)
This value is used when the UE is detached from all of the serving nodes.
> UE_DEREGISTERED (2)
This value is used when the UE is deregistered in the network.
> UE_PURGED (3)
This value is used when the UE is purged by some of the serving nodes.
> ROAMING_RESTRICTION (4)
This value is used when the UE is roaming restricted.
> UNIDENTIFIED_SUBSCRIBER (5)
This value is used when the user is unidentified in all of the serving nodes.
### 6.3.3 Serving-Node
The Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped and it shall contain the name/number
of the serving node to be used for T4-triggering. It is originally defined in
3GPP TS 29.173 [8].
> Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Name ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Realm ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
c) MSC-Number
d) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
e) IP-SM-GW-Number
f) IP-SM-GW-Number & IP-SM-GW-Name & IP-SM-GW-Realm
### 6.3.4 Additional-Serving-Node
The Additional Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped and when present it shall
contain the name/number of an additional serving node to be used for
T4-triggering. It is originally defined in 3GPP TS 29.173 [8],
> Additional-Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
c) MSC-Number
d) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
# 7 Result-Code and Experimental-Result Values
## 7.1 General
This section defines result code values that shall be supported by all
Diameter implementations that conform to this specification.
## 7.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in Diameter Base Protocol IETF RFC 3588 [3] shall be applied.
## 7.3 Permanent Failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in Diameter Base Protocol IETF RFC
3588 [3] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is
included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP and the
Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
### 7.3.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the SMS-SC to indicate that the user
identified by the IMSI or the MSISDN is unknown.
### 7.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_SME_ADDRESS (5530)
This result code shall be sent by the SMS-SC to indicate that the SME address
is invalid.
### 7.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_SC_CONGESTION (5531)
This result code shall be sent by the SMS-SC to indicate that SC is congested
and unable to deliver the device trigger request.
### 7.3.4 Void
#