# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the H(e)NB -- SeGW interface. The interface is
used for the interworking between a 3GPP system and a Fixed Broadband Access
network defined by Broadband Forum. The interworking procedure provides the IP
connectivity to a 3GPP UE using a H(e)NB connected to a Fixed Broadband Access
network as specified in 3GPP TS 23.139 [3].
The specification covers the QoS aspects, and Tunnel management procedures.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.139: \"3GPP System-Fixed Broadband Access Network Interworking;
Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TR 24.820: \"3GPP System-Fixed Broadband Access Network Interworking;
Stage 3\".
[5] IETF RFC 2474 (December 1998): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services
Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
> [6] IETF RFC 5996: \" Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)\".
>
> [7] Void
>
> [8] IETF RFC 3948: \"UDP Encapsulation of IPsec ESP Packets\".
>
> [9] IETF RFC 4555: \"IKEv2 Mobility and Multihoming Protocol (MOBIKE)\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TS 33.320: \"Security of Home Node B (HNB) / Home evolved Node B
> (HeNB)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**H(e)NB Reflective QoS function** : is a H(e)NB function in order to support
QoS for uplink traffic over a Fixed Broadband Access network as specified in
3GPP TS 23.139 [3].
**H(e)NB local IP address Info** : either the public IPv4 address or IPv6
address assigned to the H(e)NB by the Fixed Broadband Access Network domain,
or the public IPv4 address and the UDP port number used by the NATed RG that
is used for this H(e)NB. The public IPv4 address used by the NATed RG is
assigned by the Fixed Broadband Access Network domain.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Editor note: adding symbols if there is any.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
H(e)NB Home (e)NodeB
NAT Network Address Translation
NAT-T NAT Traversal
SeGW Security Gateway
# 4 General
Editor note: general information
## 4.1 Protocol Stack
### 4.1.1 Control Plane for H(e)NB -- SeGW
> **Legend:**
\- **IKEv2 Protocol** : This protocol is used to between H(e)NB and SeGW. The
IKEv2 protocol is defined in IETF RFC 5996 [6].
> Figure 4.1.1-1: Control Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv4
> transport network
**Legend:**
\- **IKEv2 Protocol:** This protocol is used to between H(e)NB and SeGW. The
IKEv2 protocol is defined in RFC 5996 [6].
Figure 4.1.1-2: Control Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv6 transport
network
### 4.1.2 User Plane for H(e)NB -- SeGW
**Legend:**
\- **UDP:** UDP encapsulation is used if NAT is detected between the H(e)NB
and the SeGW.
Figure 4.1.2-1: User Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv4 transport
network
Figure 4.1.2-2: User Plane for H(e)NB - SeGW Interface over IPv6 transport
network
# 5 Supporting QoS
## 5.1 General
At interworking with a Fixed Broadband Access network, QoS is provided by DSCP
marking as specified in IETF RFC 2474 [5].
## 5.2 H(e)NB procedures
### 5.2.1 General
The H(e)NB shall support DSCP marking on the IPsec header when forwarding the
UE uplink traffic.
Based on H(e)NB configuration either the QCI mapping or the Reflective QoS may
be used.
### 5.2.2 QCI mapping
The QCI mapping table contains a one-to-one mapping from QCI value to DSCP
marking value. The QCI mapping table is configured in the H(e)NB by the
operator.
When forwarding an uplink IP packet, the H(e)NB shall perform a lookup in the
QCI mapping table based on the QCI value of the EPS bearer/PDP context before
the IPSec tunnel encapsulation. The H(e)NB shall set the DSCP marking value of
the IPsec header according to the matched QCI mapping table entry.
### 5.2.3 Reflective QoS
To support the H(e)NB Reflective QoS function for uplink traffic, the H(e)NB
shall create and maintain the uplink DSCP marking rules for each active PDN
connection as specified for UE Reflective QoS function in 3GPP TR 24.820 [4].
When forwarding an uplink IP packet, the H(e)NB shall perform a lookup in the
DSCP marking table based on the n-tuple of the IP header before the IPSec
tunnel encapsulation. If a matching entry is found, the H(e)NB shall set the
DSCP marking value of the IPsec header according to the matched DSCP marking
rule. If no matching entry is found, the H(e)NB shall copy the DSCP field of
the outer IP header into the IPsec header before forwarding to the SeGW.
## 5.3 SeGW procedures
When receiving a downlink data packet, the SeGW shall copy the DSCP marking
value from the outer IP header into the IPsec header before forwarding to the
H(e)NB using the IPsec tunnel, as specified in 3GPP TR 23.139 [3].
# 6 Tunnel Management
## 6.1 General
The tunnel is an IPsec tunnel established via an IKEv2 protocol exchange IETF
RFC 5996 [6] between the H(e)NB and the SeGW which is through the Fixed
Broadband Access Network.
**In an IPv4 Fixed** Broadband Access **Network, NAT may be deployed, e.g. RG.
A H(e)NB behind the NAT shall invoke the NAT traversal procedure for IKEv2.
The IPsec tunnel is encapsulated over UDP in the Tunnel-Mode as specified in
IETF RFC 5996 [6]. When NAT is detected during IKEv2 procedure,** the H(e)NB
local IP address info (i.e. IP address and possible UDP port number) shall be
provided to by the SeGW using IKEv2 signalling as specified in 3GPP TS 23.139
[3]**.**
## 6.2 H(e)NB procedures
### 6.2.1 Tunnel establishment
#### 6.2.1.1 IP address allocation
**The IP address shall be allocated by the SeGW to the H(e)NB for the
communication with the EPC network.**
**For dynamic IP address allocation,** the H(e)NB shall include the requested
IP address type (IPv4 address or IPv6 address) that needs to be configured in
an IKEv2 CFG_REQUEST Configuration Payload in the IKE_AUTH request message as
defined in IETF RFC 5996 [6] after reception of the IKE_SA_INIT response from
the SeGW.
Editor note: It is FFS if the static IP address needs to be specified.
#### 6.2.1.2 NAT Traversal
**NAT may be deployed in an IPv4 Fixed** Broadband Access **Network. IKEv2 NAT
Traversal specified in section 2.23 of IETF RFC 5996 [6] shall be supported by
H(e)NB.**
**If NAT is detected between the H(e)NB and SeGW, the following procedures
shall be performed:**
\- UDP-Encapsulated ESP as defined in IETF RFC 5996 [6];
\- sending the NAT-keepalive packet to keep NAT mapping alive if no other
packet to the SeGW has been sent in M seconds as defined in the IETF RFC 3948
[8];
NOTE: M is a locally configurable parameter with a default value of 20 seconds
as defined in the IETF RFC 3948 [8].
#### 6.2.1.3 H(e)NB NATed Tunnel-IP address discovery
**If NAT is detected between the H(e)NB and SeGW,** the H(e)NB shall request
the SeGW to return the H(e)NB local IP address information by including the
EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute in the CFG_REQUEST Configuration
Payload within the IKE_AUTH request message**.** If the
EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute in the CFG_REQUEST Configuration
Payload is received from the SeGW, the H(e)NB shall report the H(e)NB local IP
address information to the MME. The format of the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO
attribute is shown in Figure A.1-1.
### 6.2.2 Tunnel modification
NAT mappings may change when the UDP port number is reassigned by the NAT,
and/or H(e)NB local IP address is reallocated due to NAT restart. If NAT
remapping is detected, the H(e)NB may handle this case in following three
ways:
\- Tunnel re-setup. The H(e)NB tears down the IKEv2 SA and re-initiate the
tunnel establishment procedure as specified in 6.2.1.
\- Dynamic address update.
\- MOBIKE. The H(e)NB uses MOBIKE for recovering the IKEv2 SA as specified in
IETF RFC 4555 [9].
Editor's note: Whether MOBIKE needs to be required for H(e)NB is FFS.
If MOBIKE is supported by the H(e)NB, **the following procedures of tunnel
modification shall be performed:**
\- the H(e)NB shall include the MOBIKE_SUPPORTED notification in the IKE_AUTH
request message;
\- the H(e)NB performs Dead Peer Detection (DPD) to detect if NAT mapping have
changed as specified in IETF RFC 4555 [9];
\- if NAT remapping is detected, the H(e)NB shall update the IKE security
association with the new address, and shall then send an INFORMATIONAL request
containing the UPDATE_SA_ADDRESSES notification to the SeGW;
\- when the H(e)NB receives an INFORMATIONAL request with a COOKIE2
notification present, the H(e)NB shall copy the notification to the COOKIE2
notification of an INFORMATIONAL response and send it to the SeGW.
Editor's note: How the H(e)NB gets the modified NATed IP address information
and inform the changes to the network after NAT remapping is FFS.
### 6.2.3 Tunnel disconnection
The H(e)NB shall use the procedures defined in IETF RFC 5996 [6] to disconnect
an IPsec tunnel to the SeGW.
## 6.3 SeGW procedures
### 6.3.1 Tunnel establishment
#### 6.3.1.1 IP address allocation
For dynamic IP address allocation, upon receipt of an IKE_AUTH request message
from the H(e)NB requesting the IP address, the SeGW shall include the remote
IP address information in the IKEv2 Configuration Payload (CFG_REPLY) of the
final IKE_AUTH response message to the H(e)NB. The SeGW shall assign either an
IPv4 or an IPv6 address to the H(e)NB via a single CFG_REPLY Configuration
Payload.
#### 6.3.1.2 NAT Traversal
**NAT may be deployed in an IPv4 Fixed** Broadband Access **Network. IKEv2 NAT
Traversal specified in section 2.23 of IETF RFC 5996 [6] shall be supported by
SeGW.**
**If NAT is detected between the H(e)NB and SeGW,** the SeGW shall use UDP-
Encapsulated ESP as defined in **IETF RFC 5996 [6]**.
#### 6.3.1.3 H(e)NB NATed Tunnel-IP address discovery
**If NAT is detected between the H(e)NB and SeGW, the SeGW shall provide the
H(e)NB local IP address information to the H(e)NB by including the**
EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO **attribute in the CFG_REQUEST** Configuration
Payload within the IKE_AUTH response message.
### 6.3.2 Tunnel modification
NAT mappings may change when the UDP port number is reassigned by the NAT. If
NAT remapping is detected, the SeGW may handle this case in following three
ways:
\- Tunnel re-setup. The SeGW tears down the IKEv2 SA; or
\- Dynamic address update.
\- MOBIKE. The SeGW uses MOBIKE for recovering the IKEv2 SA as specified in
IETF RFC 4555 [9].
Editor's note: Whether MOBIKE needs to be supported for SeGW is FFS.
If MOBIKE is supported by the SeGW **the following procedures of tunnel
modification shall be performed:**
\- when receiving an INFORMATIONAL request containing the UPDATE_SA_ADDRESSES
notification, the SeGW shall check the validity of the IP address and update
the IP address in the IKE security association with the values from the IP
header, and shall reply with an INFORMATIONAL response;
\- the SeGW may initiate a return routability check for the new address
provided by the H(e)NB, by including a COOKIE2 notification in an
INFORMATIONAL request and send it to the H(e)NB;
\- when the SeGW receives the INFORMATIONAL response from the H(e)NB, it shall
check that whether the COOKIE2 notification payload is the same as the one it
sent to the H(e)NB. If it is different, the SeGW shall close the IKE security
association by sending an INFORMATIONAL request message including a \"DELETE\"
payload;
\- If no return routability check is initiated by the SeGW, or if a return
routability check is initiated and is successfully completed, the SeGW shall
update the IPsec security associations associated with the IKE security
association with the new address.
### 6.3.3 Tunnel disconnection
The SeGW shall use the procedures defined in IETF RFC 5996 [6] to disconnect
an IPsec tunnel to the H(e)NB.
# 7 Conclusion
The TR is ready for normative text work and a new TS is required.
The followings are the open issues which shall be solved in the normative
work:
\- It's FFS if MOBIKE needs to be supported by H(e)NB and SeGW for tunnel
management procedure at NAT remapping.
\- If SA2 indicates that network based approach for NAT public address
discovery is needed, Tunnel management procedure needs to be updated
accordingly.
\- It is FFS to define the IKEv2 extensions for NAT public address discovery
and whether this is done either in IETF or 3GPP.
This conclusion is based on the current stage 2 agreement and this may change
if any further changes are made by SA2 to the Stage 2
###### ### Annex A: A.1 EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute
The format of the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute is shown in figure
A.1-1. The length of the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute is 4 or 6
bytes. The UDP Port number field is optional.
Editor's note: It is FFS the EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute is defined
in 3GPP or IETF.
* * *
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Octets R Attribute Type 1  
Attribute Type 2  
Length 3, 4  
Translated External Source IPv4 Address 5 - 8  
UDP Port number 9 - 10
* * *
Figure A.1-1: EXTERNAL_SOURCE_IP4_NAT_INFO attribute
#