# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the security architecture i.e., the security
features and the security mechanisms for the common API framework (CAPIF) as
per the architecture and procedures defined in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[4] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[5] IETF RFC 6750: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token
Usage\".
[6] IETF RFC 7519: \"JSON Web Token (JWT)\".
[7] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature (JWS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[9] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
AEF~PSK~ Pre-Shared Key for AEF
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AEF API Exposing Function
API Application Programming Interface
CAPIF Common API Framework
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
JWT JSON Web Token
KDF Key Derivation Function
PKI Public Key Infrastructure
PSK Pre-Shared Key
TLS Transport Layer Security
# 4 Security requirements
## 4.1 General
Architectural requirements pertaining to CAPIF security are found in 3GPP TS
23.222 [3]. The following are CAPIF derived security requirements.
## 4.2 Common security requirements
Security requirements that are applicable to all CAPIF entities are:
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.2-a] The CAPIF shall provide mechanisms to hide the topology
of the PLMN trust domain from the API invokers accessing the service APIs from
outside the PLMN trust domain.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.2-b] The CAPIF shall provide mechanisms to hide the topology
of the 3rd party API provider trust domain from the API invokers accessing the
service APIs from outside the 3rd party API provider trust domain.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.2-c] The CAPIF shall provide authorization mechanism for
service APIs from the 3rd party API providers.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.2-d] The CAPIF shall support a common security mechanism for
all API implementations to provide confidentiality and integrity protection.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.2-e] API invoker authentication and authorization shall
support all deployment models listed in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3].
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.2-f] The API invoker and CAPIF should enforce the result of
the authentication for the duration of communications (e.g. by integrity
protection or implicit authentication by encryption with a key that is derived
from the authentication and is unknown to the adversary).
## 4.3 Security requirements on the CAPIF-1/1e reference points
The CAPIF-1/1e reference points between the API invoker and the CAPIF core
function shall fulfil the following requirements:
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-a] Mutual authentication between the API invoker and the
CAPIF Core function shall be supported.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-b] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-1 and CAPIF-1e
reference points shall be integrity protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-c] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-1 and CAPIF-1e
reference points shall be protected from replay attacks.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-d] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-1 and CAPIF-1e
reference points shall be confidentiality protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-e] Privacy of the 3GPP user over the CAPIF-1 and CAPIF-1e
reference points shall be protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-f] The CAPIF core function shall authorize the API invoker
prior to the API invoker accessing the AEF.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-g] The CAPIF core function shall authorize the API invoker
prior to accessing the discover service API.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-h] The CAPIF core function shall authenticate the API
invoker\'s onboarding request.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.3-i] The CAPIF core function shall authenticate the API
invoker\'s offboarding request.
## 4.4 Security requirements on the CAPIF-2/2e reference points
The CAPIF-2/2e reference points between the API invoker and API exposing
function shall fulfil the following requirements:
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-a] Mutual authentication between the API invoker and the API
exposing function shall be supported.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-b] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be integrity protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-c] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be protected from replay attacks.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-d] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be confidentiality protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-e] Privacy of the 3GPP user over the CAPIF-2 and CAPIF-2e
reference points shall be protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.4-f] The API exposing function shall determine whether API
invoker is authorized to access service API.
## 4.5 Security requirements on the CAPIF-3/4/5 reference points
The security requirements for CAPIF-3/4/5 reference points are:
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.5-a] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-3/4/5 reference
points shall be integrity protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.5-b] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-3/4/5 reference
points shall be confidentiality protected.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.5-c] The transport of messages over the CAPIF-3/4/5 reference
points shall be protected from replay attacks.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.5-d] The CAPIF core function shall be able to authenticate the
service API publishers to publish and manage the service API information.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.5-e] The CAPIF core function shall be able to authorize the
service API publishers to publish and manage the service API information.
\- [CAPIF-SEC-4.5-f] The CAPIF core function shall be able to request explicit
grant of new API invoker's onboarding.
# 5 Functional security model
Figure 5-1 shows the functional security model for the CAPIF architecture. The
interfaces CAPIF-1, CAPIF-1e, CAPIF-2, CAPIF-2e, CAPIF-3, CAPIF-4 and CAPIF-5
are defined in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3] and support the CAPIF functionality defined
in 3GPP TS 23.222 [3]. CAPIF-1, CAPIF-2, CAPIF-3, CAPIF-4 and CAPIF-5 are
interfaces that lie within the PLMN trust domain while the CAPIF-1e and
CAPIF-2e interfaces are CAPIF core and AEF access points for API Invokers
outside of the PLMN trust domain.
Security for the CAPIF-1, CAPIF-2, CAPIF-3, CAPIF-4 and CAPIF-5 interfaces
support TLS as specified in IETF RFC 5246 [9],and are defined in subclauses
6.2, 6.4 and 6.6 of the present document. Security for the CAPIF-1e and
CAPIF-2e interfaces support TLS [9], and are defined in subclause 6.3 and
subclause 6.5, respectively.
Authentication and authorization are required for both API invokers that lie
within the PLMN trust domain and API invokers that lie outside of the PLMN
trust domain. For an API invoker that is outside of the PLMN trust domain, the
CAPIF core function in coordination with the API exposing function utilizes
the CAPIF-1e, CAPIF-2e and the CAPIF-3 interfaces to onboard, authenticate and
authorize the API invoker prior to granting access to CAPIF services. Security
flow diagrams for onboarding security, CAPIF-1e security and CAPIF-2e security
can be found in Annex B. When the API invoker is within the PLMN trust domain,
the CAPIF core function in coordination with the API exposing function perform
authentication and authorization of the API invoker via the CAPIF-1, the
CAPIF-2 and the CAPIF-3 interfaces prior to granting access to CAPIF services.
Authentication and authorization of API invokers (both internal and external
to the PLMN trust domain) is specified in clause 6 of the present document.
Figure 5-1: CAPIF functional security model
# 6 Security procedures
## 6.1 Security procedures for API invoker onboarding
The API invoker and the CAPIF core function shall follow the procedure in this
subclause to secure and authenticate the onboarding of the API invoker to the
CAPIF core function. The API invoker and the CAPIF core function shall
establish a secure session using TLS as specified in IETF RFC 5246 [9].
With a secure session established, the API Invoker sends an Onboard API
Invoker Request message to the CAPIF core function. The Onboard API Invoker
Request message carries an onboard credential obtained during pre-provisioning
of the onboard enrolment information, which may be an OAuth 2.0 [4] access
token. When the OAuth 2.0 token based mechanism is used as the onboarding
credential, the access token shall be encoded as JSON web token as specified
in IETF RFC 7519 [6], shall include the JSON web signature as specified in
IETF RFC 7515 [7], and shall be validated per OAuth 2.0 [4], IETF RFC 7519 [6]
and IETF RFC 7515 [7]. Other credentials may also be used (e.g. message
digest).
Figure 6.1-1 details the security information flow for the API invoker
onboarding procedure. The OAuth 2.0 token based authentication credential is
shown in this example.
Figure 6.1-1: Security procedure for API invoker onboarding
1\. As a prerequisite to the onboarding procedure, the API invoker obtains
onboarding enrolment information from the API provider domain. The onboarding
enrolment information is used to authenticate and establish a secure TLS
communication with the CAPIF core function during the onboarding process. The
enrolment information includes details of the CAPIF core function (Address,
and Root CA certificate) and includes an onboarding credential (the OAuth 2.0
[4] access token).
NOTE 1: The procedure used to obtain the enrolment information by the API
invoker is out of scope of the present document.
2\. The API invoker and CAPIF core function shall establish a secure session
based on TLS (Server side certificate authentication). The API invoker shall
use the enrolment information obtained in step 1 to establish the TLS session
with the CAPIF core function.
3\. After successful establishment of the TLS session, the API invoker shall
send an Onboard API invoker request message to the CAPIF core function along
with the enrolment credential (OAuth 2.0 [4] access token). The API invoker
generates the key pair {Private Key, Public key} and provides the public key
along with the Onboard API invoker request.
4\. The CAPIF core function shall validate the enrolment credential (OAuth 2.0
[4] access token). If validation of the credential (the OAuth 2.0 [4] access
token in this example) is successful, the CAPIF core function shall generate
an API invoker\'s profile as specified in TS 23.222 [3] which may contain the
selected method for AEF authentication and authorization between the API
Invoker and the AEF (see subclause 6.5.2). The CAPIF core function may
generate API invoker\'s certificate on its own, for the assigned API invoker
identity and public key. This certificate shall be used by the API invoker for
subsequent authentication procedures with the CAPIF core function and may be
used for establishing a secure connection and authentication with the API
Exposing Function. The CAPIF core function may optionally generate an
Onboard_Secret if the subscribed Service API uses Method 3 (as specified in
clause 6.5.2.3 of the present document) for CAPIF-2e security. The
Onboard_Secret value remains the same during the lifetime of the onboarding,
and shall be bound to the CAPIF core function specific API Invoker ID.
NOTE 2: When API invoker\'s client certificate is issued by the third party,
then in Step 3 the API invoker can additionally include the certificate in
Onboard API Invoker request message. If the CAPIF core function trusts the
issuer of the API invoker\'s client certificate, then the CAPIF Core Function
includes the provided certificate in the API invoker\'s profile, in step 4. It
is up to the CAPIF domain policy to accept the client certificates issued by
third party.
5\. The CAPIF core function shall respond with an Onboard API invoker response
message. The response shall include the CAPIF core function assigned API
invoker ID, AEF Authentication and authorization information (if generated in
step 4), API invoker\'s certificate and the API invoker Onboard_Secret (if
generated by the CAPIF core function).
## 6.2 Security procedures for CAPIF-1 reference point
TLS, as specified in IETF RFC 5246 [9], shall be used to provide integrity
protection, replay protection and confidentiality protection. The support of
TLS is mandatory and optional to use based on the domain administrator\'s
policy to protect interfaces within the trusted domain.
The procedure in subclause 6.3 of the present document shall be followed
unless the security of CAPIF-1 reference point is provided by other means.
## 6.3 Security procedures for CAPIF-1e reference point
### 6.3.1 Authentication and authorization
#### 6.3.1.1 General
For authentication of the CAPIF-1e reference point, mutual authentication
based on client and server certificates shall be performed between the CAPIF
core function and the API invoker, as specified in IETF RFC 5246 [9] using
TLS.
Certificate based authentication shall follow the profiles given in 3GPP TS
33.310 [2], subclauses 6.1.3a and 6.1.4a. The structure of the PKI used for
the certificate is out of scope of the present document.
TLS [9] shall be used to provide integrity protection, replay protection and
confidentiality protection for CAPIF-1e interface. The support of TLS on
CAPIF-1e interface is mandatory. Security profiles for TLS implementation and
usage shall follow the provisions given in TS 33.310 [2], Annex E.
#### 6.3.1.2 Security method negotiation
The API invoker and the CAPIF core function shall negotiate a security method
that shall be used by the API invoker and the API exposing function for
CAPIF-2e interface authentication and protection. After successful mutual
authentication on CAPIF-1e interface, based on the API invoker\'s subscribed
service APIs, access scenarios (whether the API invoker access the AEF prior
to service API invocation or upon the service API invocation) and AEF
capabilities, the CAPIF core function shall choose the security method and
sends the chosen security methods along with the information required for
authentication of the API invoker at the AEF to the API invoker. The
information may include the validity time of the CAPIF-2e credentials. This is
depicted in figure 6.3.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The API invoker is onboarded with the CAPIF core function.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Selection of security method to be used in CAPIF-2/2e
reference point
1\. Mutual authentication based on client and server certificates shall be
established using TLS between the API invoker and the CAPIF core function. The
client certificate that was provided to the API invoker as the result of
successful onboarding is used based on the description in subclause 6.1 of the
present document.
2\. The API invoker may send CAPIF-2/2e security capability information to the
CAPIF core function in the Security Method Request message, indicating the
list of security methods that the API invoker supports over CAPIF-2/2e
reference point for each AEF.
3\. The CAPIF core function shall select a security method to be used over
CAPIF-2/2e reference point for each requested AEF, taking into account the
information from the API invoker in step 2, access scenarios and AEF
capabilities.
4\. The CAPIF core function shall send Security Method Response message to the
API invoker, indicating the selected security method for each AEF, any
security information related to the security method. The API invoker shall use
this method in the subsequent communication establishment with the API
exposing function over CAPIF-2/2e reference point, as described in subclause
6.5 of the present document.
#### 6.3.1.3 API discovery
After successful authentication between API invoker and CAPIF core function,
the CAPIF core function shall decide whether the API invoker is authorized to
perform discovery based on API invoker ID and discovery policy.
#### 6.3.1.4 Topology hiding
When topology hiding is enabled, the CAPIF core function shall respond to
service APIs discovery requests with AEF information, which exposes the
service API and acts as topology hiding entity.
## 6.4 Security procedures for CAPIF-2 reference point
TLS, as specified in IETF RFC 5246 [9], shall be used to provide integrity
protection, replay protection and confidentiality protection. The support of
TLS is mandatory and optional to use based on the domain administrator\'s
policy to protect interfaces within the trusted domain.
The procedure in subclause 6.5 of the present document shall be followed
unless the security of CAPIF-2 reference point is provided by other means.
If the domain administrator\'s policy to authorize the API invoker\'s service
API invocation requests is set, the API invoker\'s authorization shall be
performed according to the authorization mechanisms specified for CAPIF-2e
reference point in subclause 6.5 of the present document.
## 6.5 Security procedures for CAPIF-2e reference point
### 6.5.1 General
Based on the selected security method by the CAPIF Core Function (c.f.,
subclause 6.3.1), one of the methods specified in subclause 6.5.2 shall be
used by the API invoker and the API exposing function for CAPIF-2e interface
authentication and protection.
### 6.5.2 Authentication and authorization
#### 6.5.2.1 Method 1 -- Using TLS-PSK
The API invoker and the API exposing function shall follow the procedure in
this sub-clause to establish dedicated secure session using TLS connection
based on Pre-Shared Key (PSK). CAPIF-1e authentication shall be used to
bootstrap a Pre-Shared key for authenticating a TLS connection for CAPIF-2e.
It is assumed that both the API invoker and the CAPIF core function are pre-
provisioned with certificates. The TLS profile as specified in Annex E of TS
33.310 [2] shall be used.
Figure 6.5.2.1-1 details the message flow between the API invoker, the CAPIF
core function and the API exposing function, to establish secure CAPIF-2e
interface using a pre-shared key for authentication.
Figure 6.5.2.1-1: CAPIF-2e interface authentication and protection using TLS-
PSK
1\. CAPIF-1e authentication and secure session is established as specified in
subclause 6.3.1 of the present document. The CAPIF core function shall provide
the validity timer value for the key AEF~PSK.~
2\. After successful establishment of TLS on CAPIF-1e, the API invoker and the
CAPIF core function shall derive the key AEF~PSK~.
> The Key AEF~PSK~ shall be bound to an AEF and shall be derived as specified
> in Annex A. The API invoker and the CAPIF core function starts the validity
> timer for the key AEF~PSK~.
3\. The API Invoker shall send Authentication Initiation Request to the AEF,
including the CAPIF core function assigned API invoker ID.
> Steps 1 and 2 of this procedure may be skipped if the API invoker is already
> in possession of a valid key AEF~PSK~. In this case, the API invoker begins
> the procedure at step 3.
NOTE: Void.
4\. The AEF shall request for security information from the CAPIF Core
Function to perform authentication and secure interface establishment with the
API invoker, if the AEF does not have a valid key. The CAPIF Core Function
provides the security information related to the chosen security method (TLS-
PSK: AEF~PSK~) to the AEF over CAPIF-3 reference point. The CAPIF core
function shall provide the remaining validity timer value for the key
AEF~PSK~.
5\. After fetching the relevant security information (AEF~PSK~) for the
authentication, the AEF shall send Authentication Initiation Response message
to API invoker to initiate the TLS session establishment. The AEF starts the
validity timer based on the value received from the CAPIF core function in
step 4.
6\. The API Invoker and the AEF shall perform mutual authentication using the
key AEF~PSK~ and establish TLS session over the CAPIF-2e.
After successful establishment of TLS on CAPIF-2e reference point, the API
exposing function shall authorize the API invoker\'s service API invocation
request based on authorization information obtained from CAPIF core function
as specified in subclause 8.16 of TS 23.222 [3].
#### 6.5.2.2 Method 2 -- Using PKI
The API invoker and the API exposing function shall follow the procedure in
this subclause to establish dedicated secure session over CAPIF-2e using TLS
based on certificate based mutual authentication. It is assumed that both API
invoker and API exposing function are pre-provisioned with certificates.
Figure 6.5.2.2-1 details the message flow between the API invoker, the CAPIF
core function and the API exposing function related to this security method.
Figure 6.5.2.2-1: CAPIF-2e interface authentication and protection using
certificate based mutual authentication
1\. The API invoker shall send Authentication Initiation Request to the AEF,
including API invoker ID.
2\. The AEF shall request for security information from the CAPIF Core
Function to perform authentication and secure interface establishment with the
API invoker. The CAPIF Core Function provides the security information related
to the chosen security method (TLS-PKI) to the AEF over CAPIF-3 reference
point. CAPIF core function may return API invoker\'s root CA certificate for
the AEF to validate the API invoker\'s certificate.
3\. After fetching the relevant security information for the authentication,
AEF shall send Authentication Initiation Response message to API invoker to
initiate the TLS session establishment procedure.
4\. Then the API Invoker and the AEF shall perform mutual authentication using
certificates and establish TLS session over the CAPIF-2e. Certificate based
authentication shall follow the profiles given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [2], clauses
6.1.3a and 6.1.4a. The structure of the PKI used for the certificate is out of
scope of the present document.
After successful establishment of TLS on CAPIF-2e reference point, the API
exposing function shall authorize the API invoker\'s service API invocation
request based on authorization information obtained from CAPIF core function
as specified in subclause 8.16 of TS 23.222 [3].
#### 6.5.2.3 Method 3 -- TLS with OAuth token
This method details establishment of secure channel over CAPIF-1e, CAPIF-2e
reference points, and uses the OAuth 2.0 [4] token based mechanism to
authorize and honour API invoker\'s northbound API invocations to the API
exposing function. Figure 6.5.2.3-1 details security information flows between
the API invoker, the CAPIF core function and the API exposing function. It is
assumed that the API invoker, the CAPIF core function and the AEF are pre-
provisioned with the appropriate credentials and related information to
establish a secure session.
As per OAuth 2.0 [4], the CAPIF core function shall perform the functionality
of the authorization server and provide the token endpoint, the API invoker
shall perform the function of the client functionality, while the API exposing
function shall perform the resource server functions. The API invoker client
(client endpoint) shall be registered as a confidential client type with an
authorization grant type of \'client credentials\'. The authorization shall be
previously arranged in the CAPIF core function. The access token shall follow
the profile described in annex C.
NOTE: How the authorization is pre-arranged (pre-configured) with the CAPIF
core function is out of scope of the present document.
Figure 6.5.2.3-1: CAPIF-2e interface authentication and protection using
Access Tokens
1\. CAPIF-1e authentication and secure session establishment is performed as
specified in subclause 6.3.1.
2\. After successful establishment of TLS session over CAPIF-1e, as described
in subclause 6.3.1 of the present document, the API invoker shall send an
Access Token Request message to the CAPIF core function as per the OAuth 2.0
[4] specification.
3\. The CAPIF core function shall verify the Access Token Request message per
OAuth 2.0 [4] specification.
4\. If the CAPIF core function successfully verifies the Access Token Request
message, the CAPIF core function shall generate an access token specific to
the API invoker and return it in an Access Token Response message.
> Steps 1 to 4 of this procedure may be skipped if the API invoker is already
> in possession of a valid OAuth access token. In this case, the API invoker
> begins the procedure at step 5.
NOTE 1: The API invoker may include the CAPIF core function assigned API
invoker ID and the Onboard_Secret in the OAuth access token request message
for the CAPIF core function to validate the access token request.
NOTE 2: Void.
5\. On CAPIF-2e, the API invoker authenticates to the AEF by establishing a
TLS session with the API exposing function based on the authentication and
authorization method (i.e. Server (AEF) side certificate authentication or
certificate-based mutual authentication) as indicated by CAPIF core function.
The following procedure shall be performed prior to establishment of TLS
session.
> The API invoker shall send Authentication Initiation Request to the AEF,
> including API invoker ID.
The AEF shall request for security information from the CAPIF Core Function to
perform authentication and secure interface establishment with the API
invoker. The CAPIF Core Function provides the security information related to
the chosen security method (TLS with OAuth token) to the AEF over CAPIF-3
reference point. The CAPIF core function may return API invoker\'s root CA
certificate for the AEF to validate the API invoker\'s certificate.
After fetching the relevant security information for the authentication, the
AEF shall send Authentication Initiation Response message to API invoker to
initiate the TLS session establishment procedure.
6\. With successful authentication to the AEF on CAPIF-2e, the API invoker
shall initiate invocation of a 3GPP northbound API with the AEF. The access
token received from the CAPIF core shall be sent along with the northbound API
invocation request as per OAuth 2.0 [4].
7\. The API exposing function shall validate the access token. The AEF
verifies the integrity of the access token by verifying the CAPIF core
function signature If validation of the access token is successful, the AEF
shall verify the API invoker\'s Northbound API invocation request against the
authorization claims in access token, ensuring that the API Invoker has access
permission for the requested service API.
8\. After successful verification of the access token and authorization claims
of the API invoker, the requested northbound API shall be invoked and the
appropriate response shall be returned to the API invoker.
## 6.6 Security procedures for CAPIF-3/4/5 reference points
To ensure security of the interfaces between CAPIF entities within a trusted
domain, namely CAPIF-3, CAPIF-4, CAPIF-5:
\- TLS, as specified in IETF RFC 5246 [9], shall be used to provide integrity
protection, replay protection and confidentiality protection. The support of
TLS is mandatory. Security profiles for TLS implementation and usage shall
follow the provisions given in TS 33.310 [2], Annex E.
\- Certificate based mutual authentication shall be performed between the
CAPIF entities using TLS [9]. Certificate based authentication shall follow
the profiles given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [2], subclauses 6.1.3a and 6.1.4a. The
structure of the PKI used for the certificate is out of scope of the present
document.
NOTE: It is up to the domain administrator\'s policy to protect interfaces
within the trusted domain.
## 6.7 Security procedures for updating security method
As specified in TS 23.222 [3], the CAPIF core function shall receive updates
to AEF authentication and authorization method from API publishing function.
In case that the AEF updates its authentication and authorization method and
API invoker uses the old authentication and authorization method to invoke the
service API, the AEF shall send a failure response to the API invoker with an
indicator that indicates the authentication and authorization method used by
the API invoker is incorrect. The API invoker shall contact the CAPIF core
function to get the updated authentication and authorization method. Then the
API invoker shall invoke the service API using the updated authentication and
authorization method.
## 6.8 Security procedure for API invoker offboarding
Pre-conditions:
1\. The API invoker has been onboarded successfully.
Figure 6.8-1: Security procedure for API invoker offboarding
0\. TLS session is established successfully between the CAPIF core function
and the API invoker.
1\. An event occurs within the API invoker to trigger the offboarding action.
NOTE: The definition of events that trigger offboarding is outside the scope
of the present document.
2\. The API invoker shall send Offboard API invoker request message to the
CAPIF core function, including the CAPIF core function specific API invoker ID
which was assigned by the CAPIF core function during the onboarding procedure.
3\. The CAPIF core function shall verify the API invoker ID received in step 2
and check that the corresponding profile exists for this API invoker. With
successful verification of the API invoker ID and its profile, the CAPIF core
function shall cancel the enrolment of the API invoker and delete the API
invoker profile. This includes deletion of API invoker certificate, service
API authentication and authorization information, and onboard secret (if
applicable). Depending on the operator policy, the CAPIF core function may
retain the information of the offboarded API invoker.
4\. The CAPIF core function sends Offboard API invoker response message,
indicating the successful offboarding of the API invoker.
5\. The API invoker shall delete the information, such as API invoker ID,
Service API authentication / authorization information, API invoker
certificate, Onboard_Secret (if applicable).
6\. The CAPIF core function shall tear down the TLS session with the API
invoker.
7\. The CAPIF core function shall send Event notification message to the API
exposing function to indicate that this API invoker is no longer valid.
8\. The API exposing function shall delete the security related information
associated with this API invoker depending on the method that was used
previously to authenticate the API invoker, e.g. AEF~PSK~ (TLS-PSK method as
described in subclause 6.5.2.1), root certificate to validate the API invoker
certificate (PKI method as described in subclause 6.5.2.2), access token
(OAuth 2.0 method as described in subclause 6.5.2.3 of the present document,
respectively).
9\. The API exposing function shall tear down the TLS connection with the API
invoker.
10\. The API exposing function shall return Event notification acknowledge
message to indicate that the security related information associated with this
API invoker is successfully deleted and thus the API invoker no longer an
acknowledged user.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Key derivation functions
# A.1 AEFPSK derivation function
AEF~PSK~ key derivation shall be performed using the key derivation function
(KDF) specified in TS 33.220 [8]. This subclause specifies how to construct
the input string, S, to the KDF (which is input together with the relevant
key).
The FC number space is controlled by TS 33.220 [8].
AEF~PSK~ shall be derived by the API invoker and the CAPIF core function based
on Service API interface information and CAPIF-1e TLS session parameters.
Length and format of TLS session parameters used for key derivation are as
specified in TLS 1.2 [9].
The following parameters shall be used to form the input S to the KDF.
FC = 0x7A
P0 = Service API interface information
L0 = Length of Service API interface information
P1 = CAPIF-1e TLS session\'s Session ID, generated as part of TLS full
Handshake.
L1 = Length of TLS Session ID
The input key shall be equal to CAPIF-1e TLS session\'s Master Secret.
NOTE: Service API interface information is as specified in TS 23.222 [3].
###### ## Annex B (informative): Security flows
# B.1 Onboarding
Figure B.1-1 shows the functional security flow for online onboarding. Offline
onboarding is out of scope for the present document.
Figure B.1-1: Onboarding security flow
As a pre-requisite to onboarding, the API Invoker and the CAPIF are
provisioned with the necessary onboarding enrolment information for the API
Invoker. The method to do this is out of scope for the present document.
Initially, the API Invoker attempts to establish a secure connection with the
CAPIF core. If the onboarding session cannot be secured, the session is
released and the onboarding flow ends.
If the session is secured, the API Invoker requests onboarding using the
Onboard API Invoker Request message defined in clause 8.1 of 23.222 [3]. The
API Invoker includes an onboarding credential in the Onboard API Invoker
Request message. The CAPIF core receives the Onboard API Invoker request
message and validates the onboarding credential. If the onboarding credential
is valid, the CAPIF core creates and returns an Onboard API Invoker Response
message defined in clause 8.1 of 23.222 [3], which contains the API Invoker
profile and includes the API Invoker ID. Security information for CAPIF-1 or
CAPIF-1e authentication and (optionally) security information for CAPIF-2 or
CAPIF-2e is also transferred to the API Invoker as part of the onboarding
response. If the CAPIF core cannot validate the onboarding credentials, then
an Onboard API Invoker response message containing an error response is
returned to the API Invoker instead.
Following the return of an Onboard API Invoker response message (either
successful or unsuccessful), the secure session is torn down and the
onboarding security flow ends.
# B.2 Authentication and authorization
CAPIF authentication and authorization consists of CAPIF-1e authentication and
CAPIF-2e authentication and authorization. Figure B.2-1 shows the functional
security flow for CAPIF-1e authentication while Figure B.2-2 shows the
functional security flow for CAPIF-2e authentication and authorization.
Prior to starting the security flow for either CAPIF-1e or CAPIF-2e
authentication and authorization, successful onboarding of the API Invoker has
taken place.
In figure B.2-1, the security flow starts with the API Invoker establishing a
TLS connection to the CAPIF core over the CAPIF-1e interface per clause 6.3.
Successful TLS establishment results in the opportunity for the CAPIF core to
transfer CAPIF-2e AEF authentication and authorization information to the API
invoker. After transfer of the CAPIF-2e AEF authentication and authorization
information to the API invoker, the TLS session is released and the CAPIF-1e
security flow ends.
In the case that either the CAPIF-1e TLS session or API invoker authentication
procedure fails, the API Invoker authentication is rejected, AEF
authentication and authorization information is not transferred to the API
Invoker, and the TLS session with the API Invoker is closed.
Figure B.2-1: CAPIF-1e authentication
Figure B.2-2 shows the security flow for the CAPIF-2e interface. Successful
CAPIF-1e authentication and AEF authentication information (as a minimum) is
needed for the API invoker to communicate with the AEF.
The security flow begins when the API Invoker makes an authentication request
to the AEF. The AEF receives the request and attempts to authenticate the API
Invoker. If the AEF does not possess the authentication information to
authenticate the API invoker, the AEF can query the CAPIF core for it. If
authentication of the API invoker is successful, then a TLS session is
established. If authentication of the API invoker fails, the security flow
ends.
If authentication of the API invoker is successful, then based on the
interested service API, the API Invoker makes a northbound API request.
The AEF attempts to validate the northbound API request. If the AEF does not
possess the authorization information for the requested service API, the AEF
can query the CAPIF core for it. If validation of the northbound API request
is successful, the northbound API is serviced.
Upon completion of the northbound API action(s), the secure session is torn
down and the security flow ends.
If the AEF cannot validate the northbound API request, the AEF rejects the
northbound API request, tears down the secure session, and ends the security
flow.
Figure B.2-2: CAPIF-2e authentication and authorization
###### ## Annex C (normative): Access token profile for 'Method 3 - TLS with
OAuth token'
# C.1 General
The information in this annex provides a description of the access token used
in the 'Method 3 -- TLS with OAuth token' authentication and authorisation
method (see clause 6.5.2.3). Characterization of the access token, how to
obtain the access token, how to validate the access token, and how to refresh
the access token is explained.
A 'Method 3 -- TLS with OAuth token' access token has the following
chanracterics:
\- Shall be encrypted when transported over the CAPIF 1/1e and CAPIF 2/2e
interfaces (e.g. using TLS);
\- Shall be a bearer type as specified in IETF RFC 6750 [5];
\- Shall be encoded as a JSON Web Token as specified in IETF RFC 7519 [6];
\- Shall be protected by the JSON signature profile as specified in IETF RFC
7515 [7]; and,
\- Shall be validated per OAuth 2.0 [4], IETF RFC 7519 [6] and IETF RFC 7515
[7].
# C.2 Access token profile
## C.2.1 General
The 'Method 3 - TLS with OAuth token' access token contains the token claims
described in x.2.2. Token claims are provided by the CAPIF Core Function and
contain authentication and authorization information about the API Invoker.
Token claims are used by the API Exposing Function for authorization of API
Invoker northbound API requests.
## C.2.2 Token claims
The CAPIF 'Method 3 - TLS with OAuth token' access token shall convey the
following claims as defined in IETF RFC 7519 [6] and IETF RFC 6749 [4].
Table C.2.2-1: Access token standard claims
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Description | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | exp | REQUIRED. The expiration time of the access token. | | | Implementers MAY provide for some small leeway, | | | usually no more than a few minutes, to account for | | | clock skew (not to exceed 30 seconds). | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | client_id | REQUIRED. The identifier of the API Invoker making the | | | API request as previously established with the CAPIF | | | Core Function through onboarding. | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | scope | REQUIRED. A string containing a space-delimited list, | | | comprising of the following as scopes associated with | | | this token: | | | | | | - List of Services per AEF (e.g. | | | "AE | | | F~1~:Service~1~,Service~2~,Service~3~,...,Service~X~; | | | | | | AEF | | | ~2~:Service~1~,Service~2~,Service~3~,...,Service~Z~") | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
The 'exp'and 'scope' parameters of the access token shall be determined by the
CAPIF core function based upon the client_id of the API Invoker provided in
the Access Token Request message.
The scope parameter 'List of Services per AEF' shall contain a full or partial
list of services which the API Invoker is permitted to access at each AEF.
# C.3 Obtaining tokens
## C.3.1 General
Once an API Invoker has successfully performed onboarding with the CAPIF Core
Function, the API Invoker may request access tokens using 'Method 3 \-- TLS
with OAuth token' defined in clause 6.5.2.3. Figure C.3.1-1 shows the access
token request and access token response message exchange.
Figure C.3.1-1: Requesting an access token
NOTE 1: Implementation of the OAuth 2.0 token and authorization endpoints
within the CAPIF Core Function are out of scope of this document.
NOTE 2: As described in IETF RFC 6749 [4] clause 4.4, the client
authentication is used as the authorization grant, therefore no additional
authorization request is needed.
## C.3.2 Access token request
To obtain an access token, the API Invoker makes a request to the CAPIF Core
Function by sending an Access Token Request message with the following
parameters using the \"application/x-www-form-urlencoded\" format, with a
character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP request entity-body. The access token
request parameters are shown in table C.3.2-1.
Table C.3.2-1: Access token request message parameters
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | grant_type | REQUIRED. The value shall be set to | | | \"client_credentials\". | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | client_id | REQUIRED. The identifier of the API Invoker making | | | the request. It shall match the value that was | | | assigned to the API Invoker during the onboarding | | | process. | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | client_cred | OPTIONAL. The client credential that was provided to | | | the API Invoker during the onboarding process. | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | scope | OPTIONAL. A string containing a space-delimited | | | list, comprising of the following as scopes | | | associated with this token: | | | | | | - List of Services per AEF (e.g. | | | "AEF~ | | | 1~:Service~1~,Service~2~,Service~3~,...,Service~X~; | | | | | | AEF~2 | | | ~:Service~1~,Service~2~,Service~3~,...,Service~Z~") | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
## C.3.3 Access token response
If the access token request (i.e. the client credential) is valid and
authorized by the CAPIF Core Function, the CAPIF Core Function then returns an
access token to the API Invoker in an access token response message; otherwise
it will return an error.
The access token response parameters are shown in table C.3.3-1.
Table C.3.3-1: Access token response message parameters
* * *
Parameter Values access_token REQUIRED. This is the issued access token.
token_type REQUIRED. This field shall be "bearer" expires_in REQUIRED. The
lifetime in seconds of the access token. scope OPTIONAL. The granted scope by
the CAPIF core function.
* * *
Upon receiving the access token reponse message, the API Invoker may now use
the access token to make authorized northbound API requests to API Exposure
Functions as described in clause 6.5.2.3.
# C.4 Refreshing an access token
To protect against leakage or other compromise, an access token includes an
expiration time. If the API Invoker determines that its access token has
expired or if the API Invoker receives an indication from the AEF that a fresh
access token is needed, the API Invoker shall return to the CAPIF Core
Function and repeat the procedure defined in C.3.
# C.5 Using the token to access API exposing functions
Access tokens of type \"bearer\" shall be communicated from the API Invoker to
AEF by including the access token in the HTTP Authorization Header, per IETF
RFC 6750 [5].
The access token is opaque to the API Invoker, meaning that the API Invoker
does not have any specific knowledge of the access token itself. The API
Invoker shall use the 'expires_in' parameter from the access token response
message to determine whether the access token is valid so that it does not
send an expired access token to AEFs. If the access token is presented to an
AEF and the token is expired or revoked, the AEF should return an error
message indicating such to the API Invoker.
# C.6 Token revocation
**In order to limit the time validity of a token, the \"exp\" and
\"expires_in\" parameters shall be used as a method of access token
revocation.**
**Within the claims of a** 'Method 3 - TLS with OAuth token' **access token,
the \"exp\" parameter shall be used by the AEF to determine whether or not the
token has expired. If the current time is beyond the time specified by the
\"exp\" parameter, the associated token shall no longer be considered valid
and any requests made with an expired token shall be rejected by the AEF.**
**Within the claims of an access token response message, the \"expires_in\"
parameter shall be used by the API Invoker to determine validity of the
associated token. If the current time is beyond the time specified by the
\"expires_in\" parameter, the associated access token shall no longer be
considered valid and no northbound API requests shall be made using the
expired access token. The procedure defined in C.3 shall be used to obtain a
new access token.**
# C.7 Token validation
## C.7.1 Access token validation
A 'Method 3 -- TLS with OAuth token' access token shall be validated according
to IETF RFC 7519 [6].
#