# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document has been produced by the 3GPP TSG SA to standardise
Lawful Interception of telecommunications. The present document specifies the
architecture and functions required to support Lawful Interception in 3GPP
networks. Lawful Interception shall always be done in accordance with the
applicable national or regional laws and technical regulations. Such national
laws and regulations define the extent to which functional capabilities in the
present document are applicable in specific jurisdictions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies both the architectural and functional system
requirements for Lawful Interception (LI) in 3GPP networks. The present
document provides an LI architecture supporting both network layer based and
service layer based Interception.
National regulations determine the specific set of LI functional capabilities
that are applicable to a specific 3GPP operator deployment.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.126: \"Lawful interception requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[6] OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C: \"Open Mobile Alliance; Mobile Location
Protocol, Candidate Version 3.5\",
https://www.openmobilealliance.org/release/MLS/V1_4-20181211-C/OMA-TS-
MLP-V3_5-20181211-C.pdf.
[7] ETSI TS 103 120: \"Lawful Interception (LI); Interface for warrant
information\".
[8] ETSI TS 103 221-1: \"Lawful Interception (LI); Part 1: Internal Network
Interface X1 for Lawful Interception\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security Architecture and Procedures for the 5G
System\".
[10] ETSI GR NFV-SEC 011: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Security;
Report on NFV LI Architecture\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.107: \"3G Security; Lawful interception architecture and
functions\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.214: \"Architecture enhancements for control and user plane
separation of EPC nodes; Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 33.128: \"Protocol and Procedures for Lawful Interception; Stage
3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Content of Communication (CC):** The content of communication as forwarded
from the Mediation and Delivery Function 3 (over the LI_HI3 interface) to the
Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility.
**CUPS:** As defined in 3GPP TS 23.214 [12], represents PLMN with architecture
enhancements for control and user plane separation of EPC nodes.
**Intercept Related Information (IRI):** The intercept related information as
forwarded from the Mediation and Delivery Function 2 (over the LI_HI2
interface) to the Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility.
**IRI event:** The network procedure or event that created an xIRI in the
Point Of Interception.
**LI component:** The function and equipment involved in handling the Lawful
Interception functionality in the CSP\'s network.
**LI system:** The collection of all LI components involved in handling the
Lawful Interception functionality in the CSP\'s network.
**_Provisioning: The action taken by the CSP to provide its Lawful
Interception functions information that identifies the target and the specific
communication services of interest to the LEA, sourced from the LEA provided
warrant._**
**Triggering:** The action taken by a dedicated function (Triggering Function)
to provide another dedicated function (Triggered POI), that **Provisioning**
could not directly be applied to, with information that identifies the
specific target communication to be intercepted.
**Warrant:** The formal mechanism to require Lawful Interception from a LEA
served to the CSP on a single target identifier. Depending on jurisdiction
also known as: intercept request, intercept order, lawful order, court order,
lawful order or judicial order (in association with supporting legislation).
**xCC:** The content of communication as forwarded from the Point Of
Interception (over the LI_X3) interface to the Mediation and Delivery Function
3.
**xIRI** : The intercept related information as forwarded from the Point Of
Interception (over the LI_X2) interface to the Mediation and Delivery Function
2.
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
> 5GS 5G System
>
> ADMF LI Administration Function
>
> AMF Access Management Function
>
> AUSF Authentication Server Function
>
> CC Content of Communication
>
> CSI Cell Supplemental Information
>
> CSP Communication Service Provider
>
> CUPS Control and User Plane Separation
>
> DN Data Network
>
> GPSI Generic Public Subscription Identifier
>
> IP Interception Product
>
> IRI Intercept Related Information
>
> LALS Lawful Access Location Services
>
> LEA Law Enforcement Agency
>
> LEMF Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
>
> LI Lawful Interception
>
> LICA Lawful Interception Certificate Authority
>
> LICF Lawful Interception Control Function
>
> LI_HI1 Lawful Interception Handover Interface 1
>
> LI_HI2 Lawful Interception Handover Interface 2
>
> LI_HI3 Lawful Interception Handover Interface 3
>
> LI_HI4 Lawful Interception Handover Interface 4
>
> LIPF Lawful Interception Provisioning Function
>
> LIR Location Immediate Request
>
> LI_SI Lawful Interception System Information Interface
>
> LI_X0 Lawful Interception Internal Interface 0
>
> LI_X1 Lawful Interception Internal Interface 1
>
> LI_X2 Lawful Interception Internal Interface 2
>
> LI_X3 Lawful Interception Internal Interface 3
>
> LMF Location Management Function
>
> LTF Location Triggering Function
>
> MDF Mediation and Delivery Function
>
> MDF2 Mediation and Delivery Function 2
>
> MDF3 Mediation and Delivery Function 3
>
> N3IWF Non 3GPP Inter Working Function
>
> NPLI Network Provided Location Information
>
> NR New Radio
>
> NRF Network Repository Function
>
> NSSF Network Slice Selection Function
>
> PCF Policy Control Function
>
> PEI Permanent Equipment Identifier
>
> POI Point Of Interception
>
> SIRF System Information Retrieval Function
>
> SMF Session Management Function
>
> SMSF SMS-Function
>
> SUCI Subscriber Concealed Identifier
>
> SUPI Subscriber Permanent Identifier
>
> TF Triggering Function
UDM Unified Data Management
UDR Unified Data Repository
UDSF Unstructured Data Storage Function
> UPF User Plane Function
xCC LI_X3 Communications Content
xIRI LI_X2 Intercept Related Information
# 4 Requirements realisation
The LI architecture set out in the present document is designed to allow CSP
deployments to meet the set of LI requirements described in TS 33.126 [3] that
are determined to be applicable by the relevant national regulation for that
deployment. For more details on the relationship between LI requirements and
national legislation, see TS 33.126 [3] clause 4.
A CSP may deploy different network technologies or services considered in the
present document. A CSP should consider each of these network technologies or
services separately with respect to the present document, bearing in mind that
a different subset of LI requirements may apply according to relevant national
legislation, and that a warrant may require the CSP to intercept multiple
network technologies or services.
# 5 Functional architecture
## 5.1 General
The following clauses describe the high-level functional architecture for LI
for 3GPP-defined services and network technologies. It describes the
architectural elements necessary for LI, their roles and responsibilities, and
the interfaces and interactions between them.
Clauses 6 and 7 of the present document describe how the LI for various 3GPP-
defined network technologies and services are realised within the generic LI
architecture, including associations of LI architectural elements with the
network functions involved.
Not all LI architectural elements and interfaces are used in all network
technologies and services.
## 5.2 High-level generic LI architecture
The overall conceptual view of LI architecture is shown in figure 5.2-1 below.
Figure 5.2-1: A high-level generic view of LI architecture
The functional entities of the architecture are described in more detail in
clause 5.3 below. Details of the specific interfaces between these entities
are described in clause 5.4.
## 5.3 Functional entities
### 5.3.1 Law Enforcement Agency (LEA)
In general the LEA is responsible for submitting the warrant to the CSPs,
although in some countries the warrant may be provided by a different legal
entity (e.g. judiciary).
### 5.3.2 Point of Interception (POI)
#### 5.3.2.1 General
The **Point of Interception (POI)** detects the target communication, derives
the intercept related information or communications content from the target
communications and delivers the POI Output as xIRI to the MDF2 or as xCC to
the MDF3. The output of a POI is determined by the type of the NF associated
with the POI. A POI may be embedded within a Network Function (NF) or separate
from a NF with which it is associated.
Multiple POIs may have to be involved in executing a warrant.
#### 5.3.2.2 Directly provisioned and triggered POIs
POIs are divided into two categories:
  * Directly provisioned POIs are provisioned by the LIPF.
  * Triggered POIs are triggered by a Triggering Function (TF) (see clause 5.3.3).
The directly provisioned POIs detect the target\'s communications that need to
be intercepted, and then derive the intercept related information or
communication contents from that target communications depending on the POI
type (see clause 5.3.2.3). The triggered POIs detects the target
communications based on the trigger received from an associated Triggering
Function and then derives the intercept related information or communication
contents of target communications depending on the POI type (see clause
5.3.2.3).
#### 5.3.2.3 IRI-POIs and CC-POIs
POIs are divided into two types for each category based on the type of data
they send to the MDF (see clause 5.3.4):
  * IRI-POI delivers xIRI to the MDF2.
  * CC-POI delivers xCC to the MDF3.
Both IRI-POIs and CC-POIs are either directly provisioned or triggered (see
clause 5.3.2.2).
#### 5.3.2.4 Failure handling
In case a network procedure involving the target UE and requiring the
generation of an xIRI fails, the IRI-POI shall be able to report the failure
reason available from the involved network protocol.
### 5.3.3 Triggering Function
The Triggering Function is provisioned by the LIPF and is responsible for
triggering triggered POIs in response to network and service events matching
the criteria provisioned by the LIPF. The Triggering Function detects the
target communications and sends a trigger to the associated triggered POI.
As a part of this triggering, the Triggering Function shall send all necessary
interception rules (i.e. rules that allow the POIs to detect the target
communications), forwarding rules (i.e. MDF2, MDF3 address), target identity,
and the correlation information.
A Triggering Function may interact with other POIs to obtain correlation
information. Details of this interface are not specified by the present
document.
The Triggering Function that triggers CC-POI is referred to as a CC-TF and the
Triggering Function that triggers an IRI-POI is referred to as IRI-TF.
### 5.3.4 Mediation and Delivery Function (MDF)
The **Mediation and Delivery Function (MDF)** delivers the Interception
Product to the Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility (LEMF).
Two variations of MDF are defined: MDF2 and MDF3.
MDF2 generates the IRI messages from the xIRI and sends them to one or more
LEMFs. The MDF3 generates the CC from the xCC and delivers it to one or more
intercepting LEMFs. An overview of this is shown in figure 5.3-2 below.
Figure 5.3-2: MDF2 and MDF3
The MDF2 and MDF3 are provisioned by the LIPF with the intercept information
necessary to deliver the IRI and/or CC to one or more LEMFs.
The LI_MDF interface between MDF2 and MDF3 (shown in figure 5.3-2) allows the
MDF3 and MDF2 to exchange information between the two.
### 5.3.5 Administrative Function (ADMF)
#### 5.3.5.1 General
The **Administration Function (ADMF)** , responsible for the overall
management of the LI system, includes the two logical functions:
  * Lawful Interception Control Function (LICF).
  * Lawful Interception Provisioning Function (LIPF).
Within one ADMF there is one LICF, and at least one, but possibly multiple
LIPFs.
The ADMF contains the issuing Certificate Authority (CA) for all LI components
(POIs, MDFs etc.). Further details are defined in clause 8.3.
NOTE: It is assumed that the LICF is always implemented on dedicated LI
infrastructure which is only accessible to CSP personnel explicitly authorised
to handle LI. However, the LIPF is assumed in some scenarios (e.g.
virtualisation) to be implemented within the main CSP network infrastructure
environment, although still only accessible to LI authorised CSP personnel.
#### 5.3.5.2 LICF
The LICF controls the management of the end-to-end life cycle of a warrant.
The LICF contains the master record of all sensitive information and LI
configuration data. The LICF is ultimately responsible for all decisions
within the overall LI system. The LICF, via the LIPF acting as its proxy is
responsible for auditing other LI components (POIs, MDFs etc.). The LICF is
responsible for communication with administrative LEA systems (LI_HI1).
The LICF provides the intercept information derived from the warrant for
provisioning at the POI, TF, MDF2 and MDF3.With the exception of the
communication with the LEA, all other communication between the LICF and any
other entities shall be proxied by the LIPF.
The LICF also maintains and authorises the master list of POIs, TFs and MDFs.
In dynamic networks the LIPF is responsible for providing the LICF with any
necessary updates to the POI/TF and MDF list.
#### 5.3.5.3 LIPF
The LIPF provisions all the applicable POIs, TFs and MDFs.
The role of the LIPF varies depending on implementation of network functions
and of the ADMF itself (e.g. virtual or non-virtual).
In its simplest form, the LIPF is the secure proxy used by the LICF to
communicate with POIs, TFs, MDFs or other infrastructure required to operate
LI within the CSP network. In this scenario the LIPF does not store target
information and simply routes LI_X1 messages from and to the LICF.
In scenarios where the ADMF is required to take an active role in POI
triggering, the LIPF is responsible for receiving triggering information (e.g.
from an IRI-TF) and forwarding the trigger to the appropriate POI.
For directly provisioned POIs, TFs and MDFs, the LIPF will forward all LI
administration instructions from the LICF to the intended destination POI, TF
or MDF.
In SBA as defined in TS 23.501 [2] or virtualised deployments, the LIPF is
responsible for identifying changes to NFs, POIs, and TFs and MDFs through
interaction with the SIRF or underlying virtualisation infrastructure. The
LIPF shall notify the LICF of changes affecting the number of active NFs/POIs
and TFs or other information which the LICF requires to maintain the master
POI/TF and MDF list.
While the LIPF is assumed to be stateful with respect to dynamic interceptions
it is managing, it shall not hold the full static target or other historic LI
data. If the LIPF is deployed in a virtualised environment, the LIPF shall not
store LI information in persistent storage and shall rely on the LICF to
manage re-synchronisation in the case of LIPF restart.
### 5.3.6 System Information Retrieval Function (SIRF)
The **System Information Retrieval Function (SIRF)** is responsible for
providing the LIPF with the system related information for NFs that are known
by the SIRF (e.g. service topology). The information provided shall allow the
LIPF/LICF to perform the necessary operations to establish and maintain
interception of the target service (e.g. provisioning POIs, TFs and MDFs over
LI_X1). LIPF/LICF knowledge of POI, TF and MDF existence is provided directly
by interactions between the LIPF/LICF and the underlying CSP management
systems that instantiate NFs (as defined in clause 5.5). The NRF/SIRF are not
involved in this step of NF/POI or MDF instantiation.
While the LIPF is responsible for interactions with the SIRF, the LIPF will
forward applicable information to the LICF. Details of LIPF vs LICF
responsibilities in managing and maintaining interception are defined in
clause 5.3.2.
NOTE: The SIRF is not responsible for notifying the LIPF that a POI, TF or MDF
has been instantiated. The LIPF is notified of these events directly by the
relevant CSP management system, as described in clause 5.5, prior to any
interaction with the SIRF. When the SIRF subsequently notifies the LIPF that,
for example an NF associated with a POI has now been registered with the SIRF,
the LIPF then knows the NF and POI is ready for live user traffic service.
### 5.3.7 LEMF -- Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
The **Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility (LEMF)** receives the Interception
Product. The **LEMF** is out of scope of the present document.
## 5.4 LI interfaces
### 5.4.1 General
An LI architecture diagram showing point-to-point LI interfaces is shown in
figure 5.4-1 below.
Figure 5.4-1: Architecture diagram with point-to-point LI interfaces
### 5.4.2 Interface LI_SI
LI_SI is an interface between the SIRF and LIPF. SIRF uses this interface to
provide the system information to the LIPF. The LIPF may request the SIRF for
such information before sending the intercept provisioning information to the
POIs. The SIRF may also notify the LIPF whenever the status of a system
function changes (e.g. removed from service, migrating to another location,
etc.).
### 5.4.3 Interface LI_HI1
LI_HI1 is used to send warrant and other interception request information from
the LEA to the CSP. This interface may be electronic or may be an offline
manual process depending on national warranty processes.
The following are some of the information elements sent over this interface:
\- Target identifier: used to identify the communications to be intercepted.
\- Type of intercept: used to indicate whether IRI only, CC only, or both IRI
and CC, is to be delivered to the LEMF.
\- Service scoping: used to identify the service (e.g. voice, packet data,
messaging, target positioning) to be intercepted.
\- Filtering criteria: used to provide additional specificity for the
interception (e.g. for bandwidth optimization).
\- LEMF address: used to deliver the Interception Product.
\- Lawful Interception identifier: used to associate the Interception Product
with the issued warrant.
LI_HI1 interfaces shall support the use of ETSI TS 103 120 [7] for
communication of warrant information between the LEA and CSP. However, default
configurations, information element formats and other parameters as defined in
the present document shall apply regardless of generic default options
specified in ETSI TS 103 120 [7].
### 5.4.4 Interface LI_X1
#### 5.4.4.1 General
LI_X1 interfaces are used to manage the POIs and TFs and to provision LI
target information on the POIs and TFs in order to intercept target
communications. LI_X1 interfaces are also used to manage and provision MDFs
with the necessary information to deliver those communications in the correct
format to LEMFs.
LI_X1 interfaces shall support the use of ETSI TS 103 221-1 [8] for transport
of X1 messages / information. However, the requirements specified in the
present document shall apply regardless of generic default options specified
in TS 103 221-1 [8].
#### 5.4.4.2 LIPF and POI
The following are examples of some of the information that may be passed over
LI_X1 to the POI as a part of intercept provisioning:
  * Information necessary to associate multiple xIRI/xCC at MDF2/MDF3.
  * Target identifier.
  * Type of intercept (IRI only; CC only; or IRI and CC).
  * Service scoping.
  * Further filtering criteria.
  * Address of MDF2 or MDF3.
The exact nature of the information passed depends on the role of the POI.
The LI_X1 interface between the LIPF (in the ADMF) and a Triggered POI shall
be used only for audit and management purposes, and not for provisioning
purposes.
#### 5.4.4.3 LIPF and TF
The following are examples of some of the information that may be passed over
LI_X1 to the TF as a part of intercept provisioning:
  * Information necessary to associate multiple xIRI/xCC at MDF2/MDF3.
  * Target identifier.
  * Type of intercept (IRI only; CC only; or IRI and CC).
  * Service scoping.
  * Further filtering criteria.
  * Address of MDF2 or MDF3.
The exact nature of the information passed depends on the role of the TF.
#### 5.4.4.4 LIPF and MDF2/MDF3
The following are examples of some of the information that may be passed over
LI_X1 to the MDF2/MDF3 as a part of intercept provisioning:
  * Information necessary used to associate multiple xIRI/xCC at MDF2/MDF3.
  * Target identifier.
  * Lawful Interception identifier.
  * Type of intercept (IRI only; CC only; or IRI and CC).
  * Service scoping.
  * Further filtering criteria.
  * LEMF address.
The exact nature of the information passed depends on the role of the MDF.
### 5.4.5 Interface LI_X2
The LI_X2 interfaces are used to pass xIRI from IRI-POIs to the MDF2.
The following are some of the information passed over this interface to the
MDF2 as a part of xIRI:
  * Target identifier.
  * Time stamp.
  * Correlation number.
  * IRI event resulting in xIRI.
### 5.4.6 Interface LI_X3
LI_X3 interfaces are used to pass real-time content of communications (i.e.
xCC) and associated metadata from CC-POIs to MDF3.
The following are some of the information passed over this interface to the
MDF3 as a part of xCC:
  * Target identifier.
  * Time stamp.
  * Correlation number.
  * User plane packets.
### 5.4.7 Interface LI_T
#### 5.4.7.1 General
The LI_T interface is used to pass the triggering information from the
Triggering Function to the POI. Depending on the POI type, two types of LI_T
are defined:
  * LI_T2.
  * LI_T3.
LI_T2 is used when POI output is sent over LI_X2 and LI_T3 is used when POI
output is sent over LI_X3.
#### 5.4.7.2 Interface LI_T2
The LI_T2 interface is from IRI-TF to IRI-POI.
The following are some of the information passed over this interface to the
IRI-POI:
  * Target identifier.
  * IRI interception rules.
  * MDF2 address.
  * Correlation information.
The IRI interception rules allow the IRI-POI to detect the target
communication information to be intercepted.
#### 5.4.7.3 Interface LI_T3
LI_T3 interface is from CC-TF to CC-POI.
The following are some of the information passed over this interface to CC-
POI:
  * Target identifier.
  * CC interception rules.
  * MDF3 address.
  * Correlation information.
The CC interception rules allow the CC-POI to detect the target communication
information to be intercepted.
### 5.4.8 Interface LI_HI2
LI_HI2 is used to send IRI from the MDF2 to the LEMF. This interface is
defined in TS 33.128 [15].
### 5.4.9 Interface LI_HI3
LI_HI3 is used to send CC from the MDF3 to the LEMF. This interface is defined
in TS 33.128 [15].
### 5.4.10 Interface LI_HI4
#### 5.4.10.1 General
LI_HI4 is used by the MDF2 and MDF3 to report to the LEMF that the MDF2/3 have
been provisioned as expected. This capability is mandatory to support but
optional to use (subject to relevant national agreement) at both MDF2 and
MDF3.
NOTE: It is FFS if/how LI_HI4 interface could be used to report network
topology information.
#### 5.4.10.2 LI operation notification
The MDF2 and MDF3 shall support reporting to the LEMF changes to provisioning,
including:
  * Activation of LI.
  * Modification of active LI.
  * Deactivation of LI.
NOTE: A mechanism may be needed at the CSP to prevent duplicate notifications
being raised in the case of LI being provisioned across multiple MDFs. Such a
mechanism is for FFS.
#### 5.4.10.3 Contents of the notification
Each notification shall include at least the following:
\- The type of notification (e.g. activation, deactivation).
\- Relevant related information (LIID, time of change).
### 5.4.11 Interface LI_ADMF
LI_ADMF is an interface between LICF and LIPF and is used by the LICF to send
the intercept provisioning information to the LIPF. Further details about this
interface is outside the scope of the present document.
### 5.4.12 Interface LI_MDF
LI_MDF is an interface between MDF2 and MDF3 and is used for MDF2 and MDF3 to
interact with each other in the generation of IRI and CC. Further details
about this interface is outside the scope of the present document.
## 5.5 LI service discovery
In SBA as defined in TS 23.501 [2] the NRF is a central repository of
discoverable NFs. For NFs to be discoverable, they need to have been
previously instantiated and undergone a degree of configuration (function
identity allocated, IP addresses, certificates, network connectivity to NRF,
etc.).
LI functions (e.g. ADMF, POIs and MDFs) exist within a separate security
domain to the main network NF to which they are embedded. Furthermore, as with
legacy networks, LI functions associated with NFs shall be configured and
tested before the associated NF is allowed to enter active network user
service (i.e. LI shall be configured and tested before an NF can handle live
user traffic).
In the present document, all LI functions have dedicated LI_X interfaces and
discovery of LI functions by the LIPF shall happen as part of the NF / LI
function instantiation phase. POIs, TFs and MDFs shall not be subject to or
within the scope of NRF service discovery as defined in TS 23.501 [2]. The
SIRF is used to provide the LIPF with NF discovery information which shall be
used to identify which NFs are applicable to intercept specific user sessions,
as described in clause 5.3.6. However, the SIRF is not involved directly in LI
service discovery.
The SIRF may be used to inform the LIPF that an NF has been registered /
deregistered with the NRF and is now ready for use in a network user service.
The LIPF is assumed to already have knowledge of which POIs and TFs are
associated with which NFs.
POIs, TFs and MDFs may be discovered in virtualised deployments using the
approach described in clause 5.6. The exact mechanisms for achieving this are
out of scope of the present document.
## 5.6 LI in a virtualised environment
### 5.6.1 General
Virtualisation is one of the deployment options for LI functions as described
in the present document. In virtualised deployments, many of the initial
deployment and configuration actions performed manually in non-virtualised
deployments need to be automated. This clause outlines the basic architecture
enhancements to support virtualised LI in 3GPP networks. Security aspects
relating to virtualisation are described in clause 8.
The architecture enhancements in this clause are intended to apply to any
virtualised 2G, 3G, 4G, 5G scenario including IMS that needs to support LI.
Where legacy network functions defined in TS 33.107 [11] are virtualised, the
architecture in figure 5.6-1 shall be applied, with legacy TS 33.107 [11]
reference points and functional elements substituted for their equivalent in
the present document (e.g. POI is equivalent to ICE in TS 33.107 [11], and
LI_X2 is equivalent to X2).
### 5.6.2 Virtualised deployment architecture
Figure 5.6-1 shows the necessary extensions to the basic LI architecture
described in clause 5.2 required to support real-time deployment of
virtualised LI functions. Figure 5.6-1 is a simplified version of the virtual
LI function deployment procedures.
Figure 5.6-1: Simplified virtualised LI system with provisioning
infrastructure for a direct provisioned POI
NOTE 1: Figure 5.6-1 shows the LI NFV controller and NFV Management and
Orchestration functions (MANO). However, for the purposes of the present
document, other than needing to acknowledge that these functions exist within
a CSP virtual network implementation, they are out of scope of the present
document and not described further.
After a virtual function is instantiated (e.g. using the procedures in ETSI
NFV-SEC 011 [10] or equivalent), it is necessary to automatically configure
the POI or MDF before use (i.e. to initialise it to a state where it can
accept LI_X1 messages). To achieve this the virtual POI or MDF shall contact
the LIPF over the LI_X0 interface and LIPF will notify the LICF that a new
potential POI/MDF has contacted the LIPF.
The LICF, through the LIPF, shall verify the authenticity of the POI/ MDF over
LI_X0. Once a trust relationship has been established between the LICF and new
POI/MDF, the LICF shall issue the POI/MDF with an LI identity (e.g. POI CSCF
number 42 or LI System FQDN) and provide the other necessary certificates and
configuration information to allow the new POI/MDF to be configured for LI use
on LI_X1.
NOTE 2: The exact mechanisms for the new POI/MDF to contact the LIPF using
LI_X0 and subsequent trust establishment and configuration are not described
in the present document.
NOTE 3: Figure 5.6-1 shows an example for a directly provisioned POI (i.e. a
POI without an associated TF). Each virtual TF would be instantiated using the
same basic LI_X0 and LI_X1 flows. While the present document does not
explicitly describe the triggered POIs case, such POIs along with the
associated TFs would be instantiated using the same basic LI_X0 and LI_X1
flows. However, the LICF would need to verify the correct instantiation of
groups of 1 or more triggered POIs and TFs rather than individually as per
figure 5.6-1.
# 6 Network layer based interception
## 6.1 General
Clause 6 gives details for the configuration of the high-level LI architecture
for network layer based interception. It defines aspects of the LI
configuration specific to each network under consideration (e.g. 5G), while
aspects concerning services delivered over this network are considered in
clause 7.
## 6.2 5G
### 6.2.1 General
Figure 6.2-1 depicts the 5G EPC anchored LI architecture. The network
functions are depicted in grey, while the LI elements are depicted in blue.
{width="6.69375in" height="3.7715277777777776in"}
Figure 6.2-1: 5G EPC-anchored LI architecture
Figure 6.2-2 depicts the 5G core-anchored LI architecture. The network
functions are depicted in grey, while the LI elements are depicted in blue.
{width="6.69375in" height="3.83125in"}
Figure 6.2-2: 5G core-anchored LI architecture
### 6.2.2 LI at AMF
#### 6.2.2.1 Architecture
In the 5GC network, the AMF handles the access and mobility functions. The AMF
shall have LI capabilities to generate the target UE\'s network access,
registration and connection management related xIRI. Extending the generic LI
architecture presented in clause 5, figure 6.2-3 below gives a reference point
representation of the LI architecture with AMF as a CP NF providing the IRI-
POI functions.
Figure 6.2-3: LI architecture for LI at AMF
The LICF present in the ADMF receives the warrant from an LEA, derives the
intercept information from the warrant and provides the same to the LIPF.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the IRI-POI (over LI_X1) present in
the AMF and the MDF2. The LIPF may interact with the SIRF (over LI_SI) present
in the NRF to discover the AMFs in the network.
The IRI-POI present in the AMF detects the target UE\'s access and mobility
related functions (network access, registration and connection management),
generates and delivers the xIRI to the MDF2 over LI_X2. The MDF2 delivers the
IRI messages as part of the Interception Product to the LEMF over LI_HI2.
#### 6.2.2.2 Target identities
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the intercept information associated
with the following target identities to the IRI-POI present in the AMF:
  * SUPI.
  * PEI.
  * GPSI.
The interception performed on the above three identities are mutually
independent, even though, an xIRI may contain the information about the other
identities when available.
#### 6.2.2.3 Identity privacy
TS 33.501 [9] defines the ability to prevent the SUPI being exposed over the
5G RAN through the use of SUCI. Where SUPI privacy is implemented by both the
UDM and UE, the SUPI is not sent in the clear over the RAN. Therefore, AMF has
to rely on the UDM to provide the SUPI as part of the registration procedure
as defined in TS 33.501.
If the AMF receives a SUCI from the UE then the AMF shall ensure for every
registration (including re-registration) that SUPI has been provided by the
UDM to the AMF and that the SUCI to SUPI mapping has been verified as defined
in TS 33.501. This shall be performed regardless of whether the SUPI is a
target of interception.
The AMF IRI-POI shall provide both the SUPI and the current SUCI in all
applicable events defined in clause 6.2.2.4.
#### 6.2.2.4 IRI events
The IRI-POI present in the AMF shall generate xIRI, when it detects the
following specific events or information:
  * Registration.
  * Deregistration.
  * Location update.
  * Start of interception with already registered UE.
  * Unsuccessful communication attempt.
NOTE: AMF reporting of UE state changes other than registration or
deregistration is not supported in the present document.
The registration xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in an AMF detects
that a target UE has successfully registered to the 5GS via 3GPP NG-RAN or
non-3GPP access. The registration xIRI describes the type of registration
performed (e.g. initial registration, periodic registration, registration
mobility update) and the access type (e.g. 3GPP, non-3GPP). Unsuccessful
registration shall be reported only if the target UE has been successfully
authenticated.
The deregistration xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in an AMF
detects that a target UE has deregistered from the 5GS. The deregistration
xIRI shall indicate whether it was an UE-initiated or a network-initiated
deregistration.
Location update xIRI is generated each time the IRI-POI present in an AMF
detects that the target\'s UE location is updated due to target\'s UE mobility
(e.g. in case of Xn based inter NG-RAN handover). The generation of such xIRI
may be omitted if the updated UE location information is already included in
other xIRIs (e.g. mobility registration) provided by the IRI-POI present in
the same AMF. If the information in the AMF received over N2 (TS 38.413 [14])
includes one or more cell IDs, then all cell IDs shall be reported to the LEMF
whenever location reporting is triggered at the AMF.
The start of interception with already registered UE xIRI is generated when
the IRI-POI present in an AMF detects that interception is activated on the
target UE that has already been registered in the 5GS.
When additional warrants are activated on a target UE, MDF2 shall be able to
generate and deliver the start of interception with already registered UE to
the LEMF associated with the additional warrants without receiving a
corresponding xIRI.
The unsuccessful communication attempt xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI
present in an AMF detects that a target UE initiated communication procedure
(e.g. session establishment, SMS) is rejected by the AMF before the proper NF
handling the communication attempt itself is involved.
#### 6.2.2.5 Common IRI parameters
The detailed list of xIRI parameters are specified in TS 33.128 [15]. All xIRI
shall include the following:
\- Target identity.
\- Time stamp.
\- Location information.
#### 6.2.2.6 Specific IRI parameters
The detailed list of parameters in each xIRI are defined in TS 33.128 [15].
The following give a summary.
The registration xIRI shall include the following:
  * Registration type information.
  * Access type information.
  * Requested slice information.
The deregistration xIRI shall include the following:
  * UE initiated de-registration.
  * Access type information.
  * Network initiated de-registration.
The location update xIRI shall include the following:
  * Location of the target UE (see clause 7.3).
The start of interception with already registered UE xIRI shall include the
following:
  * Access type information.
  * Requested slice information.
The unsuccessful communication attempt xIRI shall include the following:
  * Rejected type of communication attempt.
  * Access type information.
  * Failure reason.
When the access type is non-3GPP, the IP address used by the UE to reach the
N3IWF shall be reported. The port shall also be reported if available.
#### 6.2.2.7 Network topologies
The AMF shall provide the IRI-POI functions in the following network topology
cases:
  * Non-roaming case.
  * Roaming case, in VPLMN.
  * Roaming case, in HPLMN for non-3GPP access.
In a roaming case, it is possible that the target UE may use non-3GPP access
with the N3IWF present in the HPLMN.
### 6.2.3 LI for SMF/UPF
#### 6.2.3.1 Architecture
In the 5GC network, user plane functions are separated from the control plane
functions. The SMF that handles control plane actions (e.g. establishing,
modifying, deleting) for the PDU sessions shall include an IRI-POI that has
the LI capability to generate the related xIRI. The UPF that handles the user
plane data shall include a CC-POI that has have the capability to duplicate
the user plane packets from the PDU sessions based on the interception rules
received from the SMF. Figure 6.2-4 shows the LI architecture for SMF/UPF
based interception.
Figure 6.2-4: LI architecture showing LI at SMF/UPF
The LICF present in the ADMF receives the warrant from an LEA, derives the
intercept information from the warrant and provides it to the LIPF.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions IRI-POI (present in the SMF), MDF2 and
MDF3 over the LI_X1 interfaces. To enable the interception of the target\'s
user plane packets (e.g. when the warrant requires the interception of
communication contents), the CC-TF present in the SMF is also considered to be
provisioned with the intercept data.
NOTE 1: The IRI-POI and CC-TF represented in figure 6.2-4 are logical
functions, require a close coupling between the two and as such may be handled
by the same process within the SMF.
The LIPF may interact with the SIRF (over LI_SI) present in the NRF to
discover the SMFs and UPFs in the network. The IRI-POI present in the SMF
detects the PDU session establishment, modification, and deletion related
events, generates and delivers the related xIRI to the MDF2 over LI_X2. The
MDF2 delivers the IRI messages to the LEMF over LI_HI2.
When interception of communication contents is required, the CC-TF present in
the SMF sends a trigger to the CC-POI present in the UPF over the LI_T3
interface which can be based on N4 functionalities (between SMF and UPF) with
LI specific security measures applied.
The trigger sent from the CC-TF to CC-POI includes the following information:
  * User plane packet detection rules.
  * Target identity.
  * Correlation number.
  * MDF3 address.
NOTE 2: When LI_T3 is used, the LI_X1 between LIPF and CC-POI present in the
UPF is used to monitor the user plane data.
The CC-POI present in the UPF generates the xCC from the user plane packets,
and delivers the xCC (that includes the correlation number and the target
identity) to the MDF3. The MDF3 delivers the CC to the LEMF over LI_HI3.
A warrant that does not require the interception of communication contents,
may require IRI messages that have to be derived from the user plane packets.
To support the generation of related xIRI (i.e. that requires access to the
user plane packets), the present document supports two implementation
approaches:
\- In approach 1, the IRI-POI responsible for the generation of such xIRI
resides in the UPF. Such an IRI-POI requires a trigger to enable it to detect
the user plane packets. The corresponding Triggering Function (IRI-TF) resides
in the same SMF that has the IRI-POI for the other xIRI.
\- The trigger sent by the IRI-TF (present in the SMF) to the IRI-POI (present
in the UPF) includes the following:
\- User plane packet detection rules.
\- Target identity.
\- Correlation number.
\- MDF2 address.
\- The IRI-POI present in the UPF generates the xIRI (that includes the
correlation number and the target identity) from the user plane packets and
sends it to the MDF2. The MDF2 generates the IRI messages and send them to the
LEMF.
\- In approach 2, xCC is generated by the CC-POI present in the UPF as if the
warrant involves the interception of communication contents. To enable this,
the CC-TF presumed to be present in the SMF even when the warrant does not
require the interception of communication contents. As explained before, the
CC-POI generates the xCC and sends it to the MDF3. The MDF3 (based on the
provisioned intercept information) does not generate and deliver the CC to the
LEMF. Instead, the MDF3 forwards the xCC to the MDF2 over LI_MDF interface.
The MDF2 then generates the IRI messages from xCC and delivers those IRI
messages to the LEMF.
NOTE 3: The IRI-POI and IRI-TF present in the SMF may be handled by the same
process in the SMF.
NOTE 4: When multiple warrants are active on a target with one requiring the
interception of communication contents and the other not (in other words, this
other one requiring xIRI from user plane packets), the first approach requires
the UPF to have both CC-POI and IRI-POI and the SMF to have IRI-POI, IRI-TF
and CC-TF. Alternatively, the interception of communication contents is
required anyway for one warrant, and hence, the second approach will become
simpler and therefore, may be preferable.
NOTE 5: Directly provisioned CC-POI is not considered in the present document.
#### 6.2.3.2 Target identities
The LIPF provisions the intercept related information associated with the
following target identities to the IRI-POI present in the SMF:
  * SUPI.
  * PEI.
  * GPSI.
The interception performed on the above three identities are mutually
independent, even though, an xIRI may contain the information about the other
identities when available.
#### 6.2.3.3 IRI events
The IRI-POI present in the SMF shall generate xIRI, when it detects the
following specific events or information:
  * PDU session establishment.
  * PDU session modification.
  * PDU session release.
  * Start of interception with an established PDU session.
PDU session establishment xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the
SMF detects that a PDU session has been established for the target UE.
PDU session modification xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the SMF
detects that a PDU session is modified for the target UE.
PDU session release xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the SMF
detects that a PDU session is released for the target UE.
The Start of Interception with an Established PDU Session xIRI is generated
when the IRI-POI present in a SMF detects that interception is activated on
the target UE that has an already established PDU session in the 5GS.
When a target UE has multiple PDU sessions, the above xIRI shall be sent for
each PDU session with a different value of correlation information.
When the warrant requires the packet data header information reporting, the
following xIRI shall be generated:
  * Packet data header information report.
The generation of packet data information report can be done by either the
IRI-POI present in the UPF or the MDF2.
#### 6.2.3.4 Common IRI parameters
The list of xIRI parameters are specified in TS 33.128 [15]. Each xIRI shall
include at the minimum the following information:
  * Target identity.
  * Time stamp.
  * Correlation information.
  * Location information.
  * Session related information.
#### 6.2.3.5 Specific IRI parameters
The parameters in each xIRI are defined in TS 33.128 [15].
#### 6.2.3.6 Network topologies
The SMF shall provide the IRI-POI functions in the following network topology
cases:
  * Non-roaming case.
  * Roaming case, in VPLMN.
  * Roaming case, in HPLMN.
  * Non-3GPP access case, in the PLMN where N3IWF resides.
When the target UE has multiple PDU sessions active, the generation and
delivery of xCC for each PDU session shall be done independently, each with
separate correlation information.
When a target UE\'s PDU session involves multiple Data Network (DN)
connections, the generation and delivery of xCC shall be done in such a way
that:
  * All applicable user plane packets are captured and delivered.
  * Duplicate delivery of CC is suppressed to the extent possible.
A PDU session may involve more than one UPFs. In that case, the CC-TF present
in the SMF shall determine which UPF(s) is (are) more suitable to provide the
CC-POI functions adhering to the above two requirements. Furthermore,
independent of which UPF is used to generate the xCC, the CC delivered from
the MDF3 shall be correlated to the IRI messages related to the PDU session.
### 6.2.4 LI at UDM for 5G
In 5G packet core network, the UDM provides the unified data management for
UE. The UDM shall have LI capabilities to generate the target UE\'s service
area registration related xIRI. See clause 7.2.2 for the details.
### 6.2.5 LI at SMSF
#### 6.2.5.1 Architecture
In the 5GC network, the SMSF provides functionalities to support the SMS over
NAS. The SMSF shall have LI capabilities to generate xIRIs when SMS related to
the target\'s UE are handled. Extending the generic LI architecture presented
in clause 5, figure 6.2-5 below gives a reference point representation of the
LI architecture with SMSF as a CP NF providing the IRI-POI functions.
Figure 6.2-5: LI architecture for LI at SMSF
The LICF present in the ADMF receives the warrant from an LEA, derives the
intercept information from the warrant and provides the same to the LIPF.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the IRI-POI present in the SMSF and
the MDF2 over LI_X1 interfaces. The LIPF may interact with the SIRF (over
LI_SI) present in the NRF to discover the SMSFs in the network.
The IRI-POI present in the SMSF detects the target UE\'s SMS, generates and
delivers the xIRI to the MDF2 over LI_X2. The xIRI will contain the SMS
payload. The MDF2 shall support the capability to deliver the IRI messages
including the SMS payload as part of the Interception Product to the LEMF over
LI_HI2.
National regulations may require that the MDF2 remove information regarded as
content from the payload in case of an IRI only warrant.
#### 6.2.5.2 Target identities
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the intercept information associated
with the following target identities to the IRI-POI present in the SMSF:
  * SUPI.
  * PEI.
  * GPSI.
The interception performed on the above three identities are mutually
independent, even though, an xIRI may contain the information about the other
identities when available.
#### 6.2.5.3 IRI events
The IRI-POI present in the SMSF shall generate xIRI, when it detects the
following specific events or information:
  * SMS.
The SMS xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in an SMSF detects that a
SMS for the target UE is handled.
#### 6.2.5.4 Common IRI parameters
The list of xIRI parameters are specified in TS 33.128 [15]. The xIRIs shall
include at the minimum the following information:
  * Target identity.
  * Time stamp.
  * Location information.
  * SMS direction (mobile originated, mobile terminated).
  * SMS payload.
#### 6.2.5.5 Specific IRI parameters
The parameters in each xIRI are defined in TS 33.128 [15].
#### 6.2.5.6 Network topologies
The SMSF shall provide the IRI-POI functions in the following network topology
cases:
  * Non-roaming case.
  * Roaming case, in VPLMN.
NOTE: SMS delivery over non-3GPP access with N3IWF in the HPLMN is considered
a non-roaming case.
### 6.2.6 LI support at NRF
#### 6.2.6.1 Architecture
In 5G, network functions that support SBA register with the NRF after
instantiation. The NRF thus provides the network repository functions and is
aware of all the NFs that have been instantiated. The present document refers
to this as system information.
The SIRF present in the NRF provides the system information to LIPF present in
the ADMF, in order for the LIPF to establish which NFs (and therefore POIs)
are applicable to a specific target user\'s services. LI function service
discovery is described in clause 5.5.
An architecture diagram depicting this LI at NRF is shown in figure 6.2-6
below.
Figure 6.2-6: LI Architecture depicting NRF as an SIRF
Figure 6.2-6 shows the architecture illustrating the SIRF functions within the
NRF.
The LIPF present in the ADMF interacts with the SIRF (over LI_SI) present in
the NRF to obtain the system information.
#### 6.2.6.2 LI_SI notifications {#li_si-notifications .list-paragraph}
The SIRF present in the NRF shall generate notifications over LI_SI when the
SIRF detects the following specific events or information:
  * NF service registration.
  * NF service update.
  * NF service deregistration.
  * NF service chain change.
The NF service chain change event shall be used whenever an NF is added to or
removed from a service chain in response to NF discovery and selection events
as defined in TS 23.502 [2], clause 6.3.
#### 6.2.6.3 LI_SI parameters {#li_si-parameters .list-paragraph}
Events reported over LI_SI by the SIRF shall include the following information
elements:
  * Event type (as defined in clause 6.2.6.2).
  * NF details, including appropriate information elements defined in TS 23.501 [2] clause 6.2.6.
### 6.2.7 External data storage
The UDSF or UDR as defined in TS 23.501 [2] are used to externally store data
relating to one or more NFs, separating the compute and storage elements of an
NF. Where the NF contains a POI the following restrictions on the use of the
UDSF/UDR shall apply:
\- The UDSF/UDR shall be subject to the same location, geographic, security
and other physical environment constraints as the NF POI for which it is
storing data.
\- No LI specific POI data (e.g. target list) shall be stored in the UDSF/UDR
unless storage is directly under the control of the POI within the NF.
\- LI data stored in a UDSF/UDR shall only be accessible by the specific
individual POI for which the UDSF/UDR is storing data and that data shall not
be shared between POIs unless specifically authorised by the LICF within the
ADMF.
\- By default, LI data shall not be stored in a UDSF/UDR which is shared by
multiple NFs unless specifically authorised by the LICF.
\- Any storage of LI data outside of the POI in the UDSF/UDR shall be
auditable by the LICF.
\- The interface between the POI/NF and the UDSF/UDR shall be protected such
that an attacker cannot identify targeted users based on observation of this
interface. (i.e. access to the UDSF/UDR shall be identical for both
intercepted and non-intercepted user communications).
\- The use and placement of a UDSF/UDR within an NF/POI design shall not
introduce additional interception delay compared with non-separated compute
and storage.
\- Where the POI requires access to NF data that is stored in the UDSF/UDR,
non-LI network functions and processes or non-LI authorised personnel shall
not be able to detect POI access to that data in the UDSF/UDR.
\- The POI and LICF/MDF shall be responsible for managing encryption of LI
data stored for the POI in addition to any default encryption applied by the
NF.
The above requirements shall apply when the UDSF/UDR provide data storage for
TF/NF.
## 6.3 4G
The present document does not specify LI functionality for 4G / LTE. LI
capabilities for 4G / LTE for this release are specified in TS 33.107 [11].
## 6.4 3G
For virtualised 4G implemenations from Release 15 onwards (including combined
4G / 5G scenarios), 4G shall be virtualised based on the architecture in
clause 5.6. For such implementations the LI architecture for 4G / LTE shall be
implemented using an ADMF as defined in the present document (including LIPF
and LICF split). However, equivalent reference points as specified in TS
33.107 [11] shall be used where appropriate (e.g. X2 is equivalent to LI_X2 in
the present document and MDF is equivalent to MF/DF). Security and audit
requirements as defined in clause 8 of the present document shall be applied
to such 4G scenarios.
The present document does not specify further LI functionality for 3G / UMTS.
LI capabilities for 3G / UMTS for this release are specified in TS 33.107
[11].
## 6.5 VoNR
Voice over NR as defined in TS 23.501 [2] and TS 23.502 [4] is intended to
provide equivalent functionality to VoLTE in 4G.
LI requirements for VoNR based on IMS are defined in clause 7.4 of the present
document.
# 7 Service layer based interception
## 7.1 General
Clause 7 provides details for the configuration of the high-level LI
architecture for service layer based interception. It defines aspects of the
LI configuration specific to each service under consideration, while aspects
concerning network over which the service is delivered (e.g. 5G) are
considered in clause 6.
## 7.2 Central subscriber management
### 7.2.1 General
Clause 7.2 provides LI architecture and requirements for the CSP 3GPP
subscriber database LI reporting. Central subscriber databases are common for
all CSP network services, including both the network layer and the service
layer. This Clause 7.2 provides requirements for both user session related
interception events and requirements for reporting of changes to the
subscriber information held within the 3GPP subscriber databases, which may or
may not be directly related to service usage.
### 7.2.2 LI at UDM
#### 7.2.2.1 Architecture
The UDM provides the unified data management for UE. The UDM shall have LI
capabilities to generate the target UE\'s serving system (e.g. VPLMN Id or AMF
Id related xIRI). Extending the generic LI architecture presented in clause 5,
figure 7.2-1 below gives a reference point representation the LI architecture
with UDM as a CP NF providing the IRI-POI functions.
Figure 7.2-1: LI architecture for LI at UDM
The LICF present in the ADMF receives the warrant from an LEA, derives the
intercept information from the warrant and provides it to the LIPF.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions IRI-POI (over LI_X1) present in the
UDM and MDF2. The LIPF may interact with the SIRF (over LI_SI) present in the
NRF to discover the UDM in the network.
The IRI-POI present in the UDM detects the target UE\'s service area
registration and subscription related functions, generates and delivers the
xIRI to the MDF2 over LI_X2. The MDF2 generates and delivers the IRI messages
based on received xIRI to the LEMF over LI_H2.
#### 7.2.2.2 Target identities
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the intercept information associated
with the following target identities to the IRI-POI present in the UDM:
\- SUPI.
\- PEI.
\- GPSI.
\- IMPU/IMPI.
The interception performed on the above identities are mutually independent,
even though, an xIRI may contain the information about the other identities
when available.
#### 7.2.2.3 Identity privacy
TS 33.501 [9] defines the ability to prevent the SUPI being exposed over the
5G RAN through the use of SUCI. Where SUPI privacy is implemented by both the
UDM and UE, the SUPI is not sent in the clear over the RAN. Therefore, the UDM
shall ensure that the SUPI is provided to the serving AMF in both initial
registration and re-registration procedures as defined in TS 33.501.
The UDM IRI-POI shall provide both the SUPI and the current SUCI in all
applicable events defined in clause 7.2.2.4.
#### 7.2.2.4 IRI events
The IRI-POI present in the UDM shall generate xIRI, when the UDM detects the
following specific events or information:
  * Serving system.
  * Subscriber record change.
  * Cancel location.
  * Location information request.
A serving system xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the UDM detects
the target UE registration or re-registration related notifications. The AMF
Id or the MME Id, or the VPLMN Id (when the other two are not known) is used
as the serving system identifier in a serving system xIRI.
NOTE: The serving system xIRI may carry the information of one or more serving
systems based on the target UE\'s network connectivity.
A subscriber record change xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the
UDM detects that the associated GPSI, or SUPI, or PEI is changed.
A cancel location xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in the UDM
detects that a de-registration notification is sent, or received, by the UDM.
A location information request xIRI is generated when the IRI-POI present in
the UDM detects that the UDM receiving a query for the location information of
the target UE from a different PLMN (e.g. inbound SMS routing) with a known
PLMN Id.
#### 7.2.2.5 Common IRI parameters
The list of xIRI parameters are specified in TS 33.128 [15]. All xIRIs shall
include the following information:
  * Target identity.
  * Time stamp.
#### 7.2.2.6 Specific IRI parameters
The parameters in each xIRI are defined in TS 33.128 [15].
#### 7.2.2.7 Network topologies
The UDM shall provide the IRI-POI functions in the following network topology
cases:
  * Non-roaming case.
  * Roaming case, in HPLMN.
### 7.2.3 LI at HSS
The present document does not specify LI functionality for LI at HSS. LI
capabilities for LI at HSS for this release are specified in TS 33.107 [11].
## 7.3 Location
### 7.3.1 General
This clause provides location reporting functionality for both UE location
obtained as part of normal network access or user service usage and location
actively triggered through location based services or other LALS reporting.
In addition, clause 7.3.4 describes Cell Supplemental Information (CSI) (e.g.,
civic address, _geographical_ coordinates, or operator specific information)
derived from CSP databases.
For all UE locations obtained, generated or reported to the MDF2, the POI
shall report the time at which the location was established by the location
source (e.g. AMF, MME or HSS/UDM) and provide this to the MDF along with the
location information.
### 7.3.2 Service usage location reporting
#### 7.3.2.1 General
This clause specifies requirements relating to location reporting that is
obtained as part of target user usage of network services. Only location
reporting that is available as part of the network service being used by the
target user is specified in this clause.
#### 7.3.2.2 Embedded location reporting
This clause defines requirements for reporting of location when location is
provided as part of other associated interception information sent from the
POI to the MDF2.
Location shall be available at the start and end of a user communication. In
addition, where available, a POI shall be able to provide location updates to
the MDF2 (e.g. due to UE mobility at the AMF or MME).
The following information shall be transferred from the POI to the MDF2 as
part of POI events for which location reporting is required:
\- Target location(s).
\- Date/time of UE location(s) (if target location provided).
\- Source location information (if target location provided).
#### 7.3.2.3 Separated location reporting
This clause defines a dedicated location reporting event when location cannot
be reported (or is not available) at the same time as the POI output event for
which the location was required is sent to the MDF2. The event shall also be
used when an updated location becomes available and no other suitable POI
output event message is triggered (e.g. mid- session location update).
Location reporting availability shall be the same as for embedded location
reporting in clause 7.3.2.2.
The following information needs to be transferred from the POI to the MDF2 in
order to enable a MDF2 to perform its functionality:
\- Target identity.
\- Event date/time.
\- Target location(s).
\- Date/time of UE location(s).
\- Nature and identity of the POI.
\- Location source(s).
### 7.3.3 Lawful Access Location Services (LALS)
#### 7.3.3.1 General
LALS provides lawful access to the target\'s location. LALS is based on the
Location Services (LCS) capabilities defined in the TS 23.271 [5] and in the
OMA MLP specification [6]. The 5G Core Network support of LCS is described in
clause 4.4.4 of TS 23.501 [2] and clause 4.13.5 of TS 23.502 [4].
LALS shall adhere to the requirements in clauses 6.6 (Security) and 6.3
(Detect and Capture) of TS 33.126 [3]. The LCS supporting LALS shall be able
to provide priority to LALS requests. The subscriber location privacy settings
(see clause 9 of TS 23.271 [5]) shall be overridden for LALS.
For inbound roaming targets, the VPLMN LCS functional entities fulfilling LALS
requests should not communicate with the target\'s HPLMN, as it may cause
detectability issues. Detectability issues may also exist when LALS is invoked
for outbound roaming targets.
Depending on national requirements and LCS capabilities of the CSP, the
location information provided by LALS may vary in location information types
(mobile network cell ID, location shape and geo-coordinates, civic address, or
a combination of those), in the set of additional location parameters (map
data, motion state, speed, etc.), as well as in the accuracy of provided
location information.
NOTE: The accuracy of positioning is, usually, a trade-off for the location
acquisition delay. It also depends on other positioning technology specific
factors.
The parameters controlling the LALS output are either delivered per warrant
over the LI_X1 interface from the ADMF to the LI-LCS Client, or to the
Location Triggering Function (LTF, see Clause 7.3.3.3), or are pre-configured
in the LI-LCS Client. The LI-LCS Client is an IRI-POI in the CSP network
fulfilling the role of the LCS client for LALS purposes.
There are two types of the location interception defined in the present
document: target positioning and triggered location.
Target positioning determines the target\'s location independently of the
services used by the target.
Triggered location determines the LALS based location of the target when
specific network or service events related to the target occur.
The warrant for target positioning and for triggered location of the same
target may be independent of each other and may be overlapping in time or
combined in a single intercept warrant by the LEA.
There may be multiple active LALS warrants from different LEAs at any given
time.
#### 7.3.3.2 Target positioning
##### 7.3.3.2.1 General
As required by the R6.3 -- 370 of TS 33.126 [3], the location provision
variants supported in the current document are immediate location and periodic
location.
Figure 7.3-1 shows the architecture for LALS where the LI-LCS client provides
the target\'s location and associated information towards the MDF2 over the
LI_X2 interface as per the ADMF request for target positioning delivered over
LI_X1 interface.
Figure 7.3-1: LALS model for target positioning
NOTE: The Le interface is specified in the OMA MLP specification [6].
##### 7.3.3.2.2 Immediate location provision
The request for immediate location provision is delivered to the LI-LCS client
over the LI_X1 interface. Upon receiving the request, the LI-LCS client
initiates a Location Immediate Request (LIR, see TS 23.271 [5]) to the LCS
Server/GMLC supporting LALS over the Le interface and reports the acquired
location to the MDF2 over LI_X2.
While waiting for response to an LIR from the LCS Server/GMLC, the LI-LCS
client may receive and process additional LIRs from the ADMF over the LI_X1.
NOTE: The LCS Server/GMLC supporting LALS may be optimized to provide the same
single location estimation in response to multiple positioning requests
arriving in temporal proximity of each other.
The resulting immediate location information is delivered over LI_X2 to the
MDF2 and propagated to the LEMF over LI_HI2.
##### 7.3.3.2.3 Periodic location provision
The request for periodic location provision is delivered to the LI-LCS client
over the LI_X1 interface.
The request for periodic location from the ADMF to the LI-LCS client may
include a set of parameters defining the duration of reporting, report
periodicity, etc. The description of the service response parameters is
provided in clause 7.3.3.4. The periodic location result is delivered over
LI_X2 to the MDF2 and propagated to the LEMF over LI_HI2.
The periodicity of the LALS reports shall be controlled by the LI-LCS client.
The LI-LCS client shall issue a series of Location Immediate Requests (LIR,
see TS 23.271 [5]) at required time intervals.
The LI-LCS client provides the acquired location reports to the MDF2 over
LI_X2.
#### 7.3.3.3 Triggered location
The Triggered location is the capability of providing LALS based location
information when specific network or service events related to the target
occur. While IRI generated by the event that also triggers the LALS may have
the location information included (in the form of cell ID), the LALS may
provide additional location parameters, such as the target geo-location,
velocity, etc. (see R6.3 -- 270 of TS 33.126 [3]).
The LALS triggered location architecture in Figures 7.3-2 and 7.3-3 depicts
the LTF. The LTF is an IRI-TF embedded into an IRI-POI (e.g. AMF, etc.), or
into an MDF2. The LTF is responsible for triggering the LI-LCS Client when a
specific event related to the target is observed at the IRI-POI, or received
at the MDF2.
Figure 7.3-2 depicts the architecture of Triggered Location for IRI
acquisition and delivery for the case when the LTF is embedded into an IRI-POI
reporting IRI events for the target.
Figure 7.3-2: LALS model for triggered location (POI/LTF option)
Figure 7.3-3 depicts the architecture of triggered location acquisition and
delivery for the case when the LTF is embedded into an MDF2.
Figure 7.3-3: LALS Model for triggered location (MDF/LTF option)
The request for triggered location is delivered from the ADMF to either an
IRI-POI or to a MDF2 over LI_X1 interface along with other parameters of IRI
intercept authorization/activation. The IRI-POI (s) or the MDF2 then arm the
LTF(s).
The LTF triggers the LI-LCS client over the LI_T2 interface.
The LALS result is delivered to MDF2 from the LI-LCS Client over the LI_X2
interface asynchronously with the associated IRI events delivered by the IRI-
POI. To enable correlation between the LALS reports and the associated IRI
events, the LTF shall include the correlation information of the IRI event, if
provided by the IRI-POI, into the LI_T2 trigger.
NOTE: The IRI events may contain the location information obtained by other
means, e.g. NPLI. The LALS reports are augmenting that information with extra
details and accuracy.
#### 7.3.3.4 LI_X2 interface for target positioning and triggered location
The following information needs to be delivered from the LI-LCS Client to MDF2
in order to enable the MDF2 to format and deliver LALS intercept product to
LEMF:
\- Target identity.
\- Target reported location(s).
\- Date/time(s) location(s) established by reporting function.
\- Additional location parameters based on operator policy.
### 7.3.4 Cell database information reporting
When a cell identity is provided for the target\'s location in IRI, the CSP
may also provide CSI for the reported cell identity. The MDF2 may retrieve CSI
by access to a CSP maintained database (referred to as CSP Cell Database) as
shown in figure 7.3.4-1. When using CSI supplemental reporting and the CSP
cannot deliver via IRI messages generated from the xIRI, the MDF2 shall
generate a Cell Site Report (CSR) for location information specific to the
cell identity reported.
The following information shall be delivered when CSI is provided in IRI or a
MDF2 generated CSR:
\- LIID.
\- Cell identity.
\- Date/time(s) established by MDF2.
\- Cell supplemental information.
If CSI for a cell identity has been previously reported to the LEMF for the
current interception, and if allowed by CSP-LEA mutual agreement, the CSP may
not need to resend this specific CSI, unless it has changed.
If the CSP does not support CSR or CSI, the database can be provided by non-
real-time means.
{width="4.883333333333334in" height="4.75in"}
Figure 7.3.4-1: CSP cell database
## 7.4 IMS
IMS LI capabilities, (including those for S8HR) shall be used as defined in TS
33.107 [11].
For non-roaming VoNR with 5GC based on IMS as defined in TS 23.228 [13] annex
Y, the capabilities defined in TS 33.107 [11] shall be used to perform
interception.
NOTE 1: For roaming scenarios, the present document does not support LI for
the equivalent to S8HR in 4G) as this has not yet been specified by GSMA.
However, in principle this could be implemented by implementing equivalent
functionality to the BBIFF present in a 4G S-GW in an SMF and UPF and
combining this with the LMISF as defined in TS 33.107 [11].
NOTE 2: The present document does not provide LI support for IMS voice CC
interception at the UPF, which is the equivalent IMS voice CC interception
based at the PGW in TS 33.107 [11].
NOTE 3: Standardisation of IMS LI capabilities (including voice in both
roaming and non-roaming scenarios) will be included in a future release of the
present document).
# 8 LI security considerations
## 8.1 Introduction
The most sensitive information in the LI system is the target list. This is
the list of all the subjects in the network currently under surveillance,
whether active, suspended or in any other state. The security measures used by
the carrier to ensure unauthorized access to this list is not subject to
standardization, but the architectural choices made in the design of the LI
system do impact the security of the target list directly.
Since completeness of the interception product is a legal requirement in most
jurisdictions, the LI system shall ensure that no events that are lawfully
authorized for interception are missed (or collected in error). To ensure that
no events are missed there are two architectural alternatives.
## 8.2 Architectural alternatives
### 8.2.1 Full target list at every POI node
A carrier may choose to deploy the full target list at all POIs, such that
when a UE arrives in the network and commences registration, the POI is fully
armed and in position to recognize if the target identifier is in the target
list. The choice to push the full list to every node is the simplest, and
arguably the riskiest, since the compromise of any node will leak the complete
target list.
### 8.2.2 Full target list only in LICF
A Communication Service Provider (CSP) may choose to selectively distribute
specific target identifiers to specific POIs, rather than distributing the
full target list to all POIs. This choice introduces a race condition. When
the UE appears, the POI shall query the ADMF/LICF to find out if the user
identifier is part of the target list. As the registration sequence
progresses, the NF POI is waiting for a response from the ADMF/LICF. When the
reply arrives, the POI can now take action if the reply was positive. If the
reply is negative, the POI\'s involvement ends.
If the reply is positive, depending on how long the POI-(ADMF/LICF)-POI round
trip for the query/reply took, it is possible that some reportable events are
missed. To mitigate this there are two further alternatives:
1) the carrier may choose to delay completion of the registration for all
users for the time it takes the ADMF/LICF to answer, thus inducing a
registration delay in all registrations, whether the user is a target or not,
or
2) the carrier may choose to cache the reportable registration events while
the POI-(ADMF/LICF)-POI query is running, and either report them if the answer
is positive, or delete them if the answer is negative.
These are choices at the discretion of the CSP, but the trade-off cannot be
avoided.
### 8.2.3 Provisioning for registered users
When a new target is provisioned in the LI system, after the target is already
registered in the CSP network, the CSP will be faced with the race condition
consequences of the implementation choice made as described in clauses 8.2.1
and 8.2.2. The ADMF has a choice to either wholesale pre-arm every POI with
the new target (and expect every POI to immediately start interception on the
new target, as in clause 8.2.1), or, the ADMF can poll every serving UDM POI
for all target UEs, and arm the associated POI (and start interception, as in
clause 8.1.2) _only_ if a target UE is discovered to be served by that
particular NF. The second approach would take comparatively longer and would
be expected to miss more of the on-going target interactions with the network
than the first approach.
## 8.3 LI key management at ADMF
### 8.3.1 General
The ADMF is responsible for overall management of the LI system as defined in
clause 5.3.2.4. The ADMF is responsible for creating and managing
intermediate, client and root certificates used for both identity verification
and establishing encrypted communications between LI components.
NOTE: The exact mechanism for installation of certificates in POIs, MDFs or
other LI components (manual or automated) is outside the scope of the present
document.
### 8.3.2 Key management
The ADMF shall implement an LI Certificate Authority (LI CA) which shall be
used as the issuing CA for all LI components.
By default, the LI CA shall be a sub-CA of the CSP root CA, and may issue
intermediate certificates.
The LI CA shall be responsible for creating, maintaining and revoking all
identity verification and encryption certificates and root keys used by LI
components communicating on LI_X interfaces. It may also be responsible for
issuing certificates and root keys for LI_HI interfaces if these are not
issued by the LEA/LEMF.
For virtualised implementations, the LICF shall support automated certificate
enrolment for POIs, TFs and MDFs. For non-virtualised deployments, support for
automatic certificate enrolment is optional.
The LICF shall maintain a list of all valid LI components for which the LI CA
has generated certificates. The LICF shall instruct the LI CA to revoke any
certificate belonging to LI components that are removed from the system (e.g.
de-instantiated).
The LI CA shall provide a single certificate for each LI component. The LI
component shall generate individual session keys for each LI_X link.
## 8.4 Virtualised LI security
### 8.4.1 General
This clause provides requirements and deployment constraints relating to the
virtualisation of LI in 3GPP networks.
NOTE: Detailed security requirements for virtualised LI are not provided by
the present document.
## 8.5 Points of Interception
CSPs use a wide range of 3GPP NFs to provide services to users. In order to
intercept a service, POIs are associated with specific NFs, as depicted in
Figure 8.5-1. The manner in which the POI obtains the required information
from the NF depends on the service and can range from something as simple as a
copy-and-forward mechanism, to sophisticated isolation and filtering. The POI
may be embedded in the NF or external to the NF, connected to its interfaces.
The choice of one, the other, or both approaches is service specific.
{width="3.25in" height="1.1111111111111112in"}
Figure 8.5-1: Embedded vs. external POIs
In figures that follow the POI will be depicted straddling the edge of the NF
to simultaneously indicate both approaches.
Figure 8.5-2 shows the basic job of a POI: to obtain the state, or
communicated user data, of the intercepted service. As the NF changes state,
or as additional user data is generated or forwarded, in the course of
providing the service, the appropriate interceptable events or real-time
content are transferred into the POI.
{width="1.3194444444444444in" height="0.8194444444444444in"}
Figure 8.5-2: POI state capture
Although the POI has access to service state in the NF and information flows
in and out of the NF, the NF shall not be able to access data in the POI, for
obvious security reasons, as depicted in Figure 8.5-3. If the POI is embedded,
LI data leakage from the POI back into the non-secure area of the NF shall be
prohibited. If the POI is not embedded, the implementation shall prohibit LI
data leakage back into the NF.
The same requirements apply to TFs.
{width="1.3194444444444444in" height="0.8194444444444444in"}\ Figure 8.5-3:
POI state capture security
Generally, embedded POIs have full access to the state machine of the service
they intercept, while external POIs have to infer the state of the intercepted
service from the events detected on the interfaces or externally applied
traffic filtering criteria.
###### ## Annex A (informative): 5G LI network topology views
# A.1 Non-roaming scenario
## A.1.1 General
In a non-roaming scenario, the POIs present in the following NFs provide the
LI functions:
  * AMF.
  * UDM.
  * SMF.
  * UPF.
  * SMSF.
For the interception of PDU sessions, the EPC CUPS LI model is not extended to
5G where SMF and UPF are involved in delivering the xIRI and xCC associated
with the PDU sessions.
NOTE: The above list of NFs that provide the POI functions may have to be
expanded once a deployment scenario for such a case is defined in the
normative part of the present document.
## A.1.2 Service-based representation with point-to-point LI system
The overall network configuration for 5G in a non-roaming scenario with the LI
aspects is shown in figure A.1-1 using the service-based representation (as
shown in TS 23.501 [2]) with the use of point-to-point LI system.
Figure A.1-1: Network topology showing LI for 5G (service-based
representation) with point-to-point LI system
Figure A.1-1 shows the network topology of 5G system in a service-based
representation, however, all the LI-related interfaces remain to be point-to-
point.
The IRI-POIs present in the AMF, UDM SMF and SMSF deliver the xIRI to the MDF2
and CC-POI present in the UPF delivers the xCC to the MDF3. The MDF3 address
to CC-POI present in UPF is provided by the CC-TF present in the SMF over
LI_T3 reference point.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the IRI-POIs present in the NFs with
the intercept related data. The LI_X1 interfaces between the LIPF and the UPF
is to monitor the user plane data.
# A.2 Interworking with EPC/E-UTRAN
## A.2.1 General
In EPC/E-UTRAN, the NFs that provide the POI functions are:
  * MME.
  * SGW.
  * PGW (optional).
  * HSS.
In a 5GS, the NFs that provide the POI functions are:
  * AMF.
  * SMF/UPF.
  * UDM.
  * SMSF.
In an interworking scenario between the EPC and the 5GS, the AMF in 5GS and
MME in EPC provide the IRI-POI functions for the related attach/registration
related aspects. When the network topology includes SMF + PGW-C and UPF +
PGW-U as the interworking NFs, it is recommended that these provide the POI
functions for the PDU sessions as the target communication traffic coming from
either of the two interworking networks pass through these NFs. In that case,
the interception at the SGW and UPF (if present between the NG-RAN and the UPF
+ PGW-U) is not required unless the condition specified in NOTE 1 in clause
A.2.1 applies.
In a non-roaming scenario, the IRI-POI present in the HSS + UDM also provide
the LI functions. The IRI-POI present in the SMSF provides the LI functions
for the SMS-related IRI events.
## A.2.2 Topology view for a non-roaming scenario
The overall network configuration for interworking between EPC-EUTRAN and 5GS
in non-roaming scenario with the LI aspects is shown in figure A.2-1.
The 5G core system is shown using the service-based representation (as shown
in TS 23.501 [2]) with the use of point-to-point LI system.
Figure A.2-1: Network topology showing LI for interworking with EPC/E-UTRAN
Figure A.2-1 shows the network topology of 5G system in a service-based
representation, however, all the LI-related interfaces remain to be point-to-
point.
The IRI-POIs present in the AMF, MME, UDM, SMSF and SMF + PGW-C deliver the
xIRI to the MDF2 and CC-POI present in the UPF + PGW-U delivers the xCC to the
MDF3. The MDF3 address to CC-POI present in UPF + PGW-U is provided by the CC-
TF present in the SMF over LI_T3 reference point.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the IRI-POIs present in the NFs with
the intercept related data. The LI_X1 interfaces between the LIPF and the UPF
+ PGW-U is to monitor the user plane data.
NOTE: The TS 23.501 [2] notes that there can another UPF between the NG-RAN
and PGW-U + UPF. In that case, the other UPF may also provide the CC-POI
functions for any user plane packets that do not reach the PGW-U \+ UPF.
# A.3 Multiple DN connections in a PDU session
## A.3.1 General
When a PDU session involves multiple UPFs, the interception of user plane
packets can be done in two ways:
  * At one UPF (branching UPF) through which all the user plane packets pass through.
  * At anchor UPFs.
When the second approach is chosen with branching UPF being one of the anchor
UPFs, redundant delivery of CC should be avoided.
In a non-roaming scenario, the IRI-POI present in UDM also provide the LI
functions.
## A.3.2 Topology view for a non-roaming scenario
The overall network configurations to illustrate the LI with multiple DN
connections in a PDU session is illustrated in figure A.3-1 and A.3-2.
The 5G core system is shown using the service-based representation (as shown
in TS 23.501 [2]) with the use of point-to-point LI system.
Figure A.3-1: Network topology showing CC-POI at one UPF
The IRI-POIs present in the AMF, MME, UDM, SMSF and SMF deliver the xIRI to
the MDF2 and CC-POI present in the branching UPF (shown as UPF-1) on the
common path to both DN connections delivers the xCC to the MDF3. The MDF3
address to CC-POI present in UPF-1 is provided by the CC-TF present in the SMF
over LI_T3 reference point. In this view, all user plane packets pass through
UPF-1.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the IRI-POIs present in the NFs with
the intercept related data. The LI_X1 interfaces between the LIPF and the UPF
is to monitor the user plane data.
Figure A.3-2: Network topology showing CC-POI at two UPFs
The IRI-POIs present in the AMF, MME, UDM, SMSF and SMF deliver the xIRI to
the MDF2. In this example, there is a branching UPF (UPF-B), an anchor UPF for
DN-1 (UPF-A1) and an anchor UPF for DN-2 (UPF-A2). The second approach (i.e.
CC interception at the anchor UPFs) mentioned in A.3.1 is used to provide the
CC interception. The UPF-A1 delivers the xCC generated from the user plane
packets that flow from UE to DN-1 to the MDF3. The CC-POI present in the
UPF-A2 delivers the xCC generated from the user plane packets that flow UE to
DN-2 to the MDF3. The MDF3 address to CC-POIs present in UPF-1 and UPF-2 are
provided by the CC-TF present in the SMF over LI_T3 reference point.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the IRI-POIs present in the NFs with
the intercept related data. The LI_X1 interfaces between the LIPF and the UPFs
are to monitor the user plane data.
NOTE: In some cases, the branching UPF may be merged with one of the anchor
UPFs. In this case care needs to be taken to avoid duplication of xCC e.g. by
intercepting only on the external N6 interface of each anchor UPF.
# A.4 Non-3GPP access in a non-roaming scenario
## A.4.1 General
When the target UE is connected to the 5G core network via non-3GPP access,
the POIs present in the following NFs of the PLMN where the N3IWF resides
provide the LI functions:
  * AMF.
  * SMF.
  * UPF.
  * SMSF.
When the PLMN that has the N3IWF is the HPLMN, as illustrated in clause A.1,
the IRI-POI present in the UDM also provide the LI functions.
When the PLMN that has N3IWF is different from the PLMN that provides the 3GPP
access to the target UE, two different AMFs are involved in handling the
target UE\'s registration accepts (this is not illustrated in this clause). In
this case, depending on the operator policy, the SMSF present in either of the
two networks may perform the routing of SMS messages to and from the target
UE.
The PLMN that provides the 3GPP access can be a VPLMN and PLMN where the N3IWF
resides can be the HPLMN. In this case, the AMF in the HPLMN provides the IRI-
POI functions for non-3GPP access related registration events when the target
UE is roaming. The SMSF present in the HPLMN may have to provide the IRI-POI
functions for the SMS related messages routed via non-3GPP access network.
## A.4.2 Topology view
The overall network configuration for non-3GPP access in a non-roaming
scenario with the LI aspects is shown in figure A.4-1. In this view, the
target UE is not connected to a 3GPP access network.
The 5G core system is shown using the service-based representation (as shown
in TS 23.501 [2]) with the use of point-to-point LI system.
Figure A.4-1: Network topology showing LI for non-3GPP access to 5G
Figure A.4-1 shows the network topology of 5G system in a service-based
representation, however, all the LI-related interfaces remain to be point-to-
point.
The IRI-POIs present in the AMF, UDM, SMSF and SMF deliver the xIRI to the
MDF2 and CC-POI present in the UPF delivers the xCC to the MDF3. The MDF3
address to CC-POI present in UPF is provided by the CC-TF present in the SMF
over LI_T3 reference point.
The LIPF present in the ADMF provisions the IRI-POIs present in the NFs with
the intercept related data. The LI_X1 interfaces between the LIPF and the UPF
is to monitor the user plane data.
#