# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document has been produced by the 3GPP TSG SA to standardise
Lawful Interception of telecommunications. The present document describes
protocols and procedures for Lawful Interception based on 3GPP specifications.
These protocols and procedures cover both internal 3GPP interfaces (those
required to intercept communications and manage interception within a 3GPP
network) and external handover interfaces (those used for delivery of
intercepted communications to Law Enforcement, or handling of warrants).
Lawful Interception needs to be done in accordance with the applicable
national or regional laws and technical regulations. Such national laws and
regulations define the extent to which capabilities in the present document
are applicable in specific jurisdictions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocols and procedures required to
perform Lawful Interception within a 3GPP network. The present document
addresses both internal interfaces used internally with a 3GPP network and
external handover interfaces used to handover intercepted communications to
law enforcement.
The present document describes the detailed targeting of communications in
each point of interception within a 3GPP network and the information that a
point of interception needs to be able to capture. Furthermore, the detailed
data formats for both the internal and external interfaces are also defined.
National regulations determine the applicable set of information that needs to
be handed over or excluded from handover to law enforcement for a given 3GPP
operator service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.126: \"Lawful Interception Requirements\".
> [4] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 33.127: \"Lawful Interception (LI) Architecture and Functions\".
>
> [6] ETSI TS 103 120: \" Lawful Interception (LI); Interface for warrant
> information\".
>
> [7] ETSI TS 103 221-1: \"Lawful Interception (LI); Part 1: Internal Network
> Interface X1 for Lawful Interception\".
>
> [8] ETSI TS 103 221-2: \"Lawful Interception: Internal Network Interface
> X2/X3\".
>
> [9] ETSI TS 102 232-1: \"Lawful Interception (LI); Handover Interface and
> Service-Specific Details (SSD) for IP delivery; Part 1: Handover
> specification for IP delivery\".
>
> [10] ETSI TS 102 232-7: \"Lawful Interception (LI); Handover Interface and
> Service-Specific Details (SSD) for IP delivery; Part 7: Service-specific
> details for Mobile Services\".
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security Architecture and Procedures for the 5G
> System\".
>
> [12] 3GPP TS 33.108: \"3G security; Handover interface for Lawful
> Interception (LI)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System
(5GS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
Aspects\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.244: \"Interface between the Control Plane and the User Plane
nodes\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.502: \"5G System; Session Management Services; Stage 3\".
> [17] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
> Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification \".
[20] OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C: \"Open Mobile Alliance; Mobile Location
Protocol, Candidate Version 3.5\",
https://www.openmobilealliance.org/release/MLS/V1_4-20181211-C/OMA-TS-
MLP-V3_5-20181211-C.pdf.
[21] 3GPP TS 29.540: \"5G System; SMS Services; Stage 3\".
[22] 3GPP TS 29.518: \"5G System; Access and Mobility Management Services;
Stage 3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
[24] 3GPP TS 29.572: \"Location Management Services; Stage 3\".
[25] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"5G System; Unified Data Management Services\".
[26] IETF RFC 815: \"IP DATAGRAM REASSEMBLY ALGORITHMS\".
[27] IETF RFC 2460: \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification\".
[28] IETF RFC 793: \"TRANSMISSION CONTROL PROTOCOL\".
[29] IETF RFC 768: \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[30] IETF RFC 4340: \"Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP)\".
[31] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[32] IANA (www.iana.org): Assigned Internet Protocol Numbers, \"Protocol
Numbers\".
[33] IETF RFC 6437: \"IPv6 Flow Label Specification\".
[34] IETF RFC 791: \"Internet Protocol\".
[35] 3GPP TS 38.415: \"NG-RAN; PDU Session User Plane Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> ADMF LI Administration Function
>
> CC Content of Communication
>
> CSP Communication Service Provider
>
> CUPS Control and User Plane Separation
>
> IRI Intercept Related Information
>
> LALS Lawful Access Location Services
>
> LEA Law Enforcement Agency
>
> LEMF Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
>
> LI Lawful Interception
>
> LICF Lawful Interception Control Function
>
> LI_HI1 LI_Handover Interface 1
>
> LI_HI2 LI_Handover Interface 2
>
> LI_HI3 LI_Handover Interface 3
>
> LI_HI4 LI_Handover Interface 4
>
> LIPF Lawful Interception Provisioning Function
>
> LIR Location Immediate Request
>
> LI_SI Lawful Interception System Information Interface
>
> LI_X1 Lawful Interception Internal Interface 1
>
> LI_X2 Lawful Interception Internal Interface 2
>
> LI_X3 Lawful Interception Internal Interface 3
>
> LTF Location Triggering Function
>
> MDF Mediation and Delivery Function
>
> MDF2 Mediation and Delivery Function 2
>
> MDF3 Mediation and Delivery Function 3
>
> NPLI Network Provided Location Information
>
> O&M Operations and Management
>
> POI Point Of Interception
>
> SIRF System Information Retrieval Function
>
> SOI Start Of Interception
>
> TF Triggering Function
xCC LI_X3 Communications Content.
xIRI LI_X2 Intercept Related Information
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document provides details of the internal and external interfaces
required for a network operator, access provider and/or service provider to
provide the necessary information to a Law Enforcement Agency (LEA) required
to meet LI requirements. LI requirements for 3GPP networks and services are
given in TS 33.126 [3].
The high-level architecture that defines the necessary interfaces is specified
in TS 33.127 [5]. The generic high-level architecture is as follows:
The specification of the interfaces is split into two parts:
\- Internal interfaces used between an operator\'s network functions are
described in clause 4.2.
\- External interfaces used in communicating with a LEA are described in
clause 4.3.
## 4.2 Basic principles for internal interfaces
This clause lists the internal interfaces shown in clause 4.1, indicates the
protocol used to realise each interface, and gives a reference to the relevant
clauses of the present document that specify how the protocol is to be used
for the given interface.
Table 4.2-1: Internal interfaces and related protocols
* * *
Interface Description Protocol used to realise interface Usage LI_SI Used to
provide system information to the LIPF from the SIRF. Out of scope of the
present document.  
LI_X1 Used to configure and audit Directly-provisioned POIs, TFs and MDFs.
ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7]. See clause 5.2.2 LI_X1 (Management) Used to audit
Triggered POIs. ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7]. See clause 5.2.3 LI_X2 Used to pass
xIRI from IRI-POIs to the MDF2. ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8]. See clause 5.3.2 LI_X3
Used to pass xCC from CC-POIs to the MDF3. ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8]. See clause
5.3.3 LI_T2 Used to pass triggering information from the IRI-TF to a Triggered
IRI-POI. ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7]. See clause 5.2.4 LI_T3 Used to pass triggering
information from a CC-TF to a Triggered CC-POI. ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7]. See
clause 5.2.4 LI_ADMF Used to pass intercept provisioning information form the
LICF to the LIPF. Out of scope of the present document.  
LI_MDF Used by MDF2 and MDF3 in interactions necessary to correctly generate
CC and IRI from xCC and xIRI. Out of scope of the present document.
* * *
## 4.3 Basic principles for external handover interfaces
This clause lists the external handover interfaces shown in clause 4.1,
indicates the protocol used to realise each interface, and gives a reference
to the relevant clauses of the present document that specify how the protocol
is to be used for the given interface.
Table 4.3-1: External handover interfaces and related protocols
+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Interface | Description | Protocol used | Usage | | | | to realise | | | | | interface | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | LI_HI1 | Used to send | ETSI TS 103 120 | See section 5.4 | | | warrant and | [6] shall be | | | | other | supported | | | | interception | | | | | request | Other methods | | | | information | (e.g. manual | | | | from LEA to | exchange) may | | | | operator. | be used | | | | | depending on | | | | | national | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | LI_HI2 | Used to send | ETSI TS 102 | See section 5.5 | | | IRI from the | 232-1 [9] and | | | | MDF2 to the | ETSI TS 102 | | | | LEMF | 232-7 [10] | | | | | shall be | | | | | supported | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | LI_HI3 | Used to send CC | ETSI TS 102 | See section 5.5 | | | from the MDF3 | 232-1 [9] and | | | | to the LEMF | ETSI TS 102 | | | | | 232-7 [10] | | | | | shall be | | | | | supported | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | LI_HI4 | Used to send LI | ETSI TS 102 | See section 5.6 | | | notification | 232-1 [9] and | | | | information | ETSI TS 102 | | | | from MDF2/3 to | 232-7 [10] | | | | LEMF | shall be | | | | | supported | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
# 5 Transport and Communications Protocol
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the protocols used for each of the interfaces at a level
which is agnostic of the subject service or network. Additional specific
fields or behaviours are given in the relevant parts of clauses 6 and 7.
## 5.2 Protocols for LI_X1 and LI_T interfaces
### 5.2.1 General usage of ETSI TS 103 221-1
Functions having an LI_X1, LI_T2 or LI_T3 interface shall support the use of
ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] to realise the interface.
In the event of a conflict between ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] and the present
document, the terms of the present document shall apply.
The LIPF and MDF2/3 shall maintain a mapping between internal interception
identifiers (XIDs) and external interception identifiers (LIIDs), as defined
by TS 103 221-1 [7] clause 5.1.2. In case of multiple interceptions for a
single target identifier, it is an implementation decision for the LIPF/TF
whether multiple XIDs are used (i.e. a one-to-one mapping between XID and LIID
is maintained) or whether the single XID is used and mapped to multiple LIIDs
at the MDF2/3. Clauses 6 and 7 give further details for specific networks or
services (e.g. minimum supported target identifier formats).
In the event that a request issued over the interface fails, or an error is
reported, the LIPF should raise an alert in the appropriate LI Operations and
Management (O&M) system. Further procedures (e.g. retrying a failed request)
are left to CSP policy to define.
A failure of LI shall not impact the target\'s or other users\' services.
### 5.2.2 Usage for realising LI_X1
For the purposes of realising LI_X1 between the LIPF and a POI, MDF or TF, the
LIPF plays the role of the \"ADMF\" as defined in ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7]
reference model (clause 4.2), and the POI, MDF or TF plays the role of the
\"NE\".
### 5.2.3 Usage for realising LI_X1 (management)
For the purposes of realising LI_X1 between the LIPF and a triggered POI, the
LIPF plays the role of the \"ADMF\" as defined in ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7]
reference model (clause 4.2) , and the triggered POI plays the role of the
\"NE\".
### 5.2.4 Service scoping
#### 5.2.4.1 General
The CSP shall support the following specified options on a per intercept (per
LIID) basis, to ensure strict delivery of only the interception data that an
LEA is authorised to receive. These options are not exclusive, i.e., none,
one, or more than one item in any given category may be turned on for any
given intercept (LIID).
#### 5.2.4.2 CSP service type
\- Voice.
\- Data.
\- Messaging (e.g. SMS/MMS).
\- Push-to-Talk (including MCPTT).
#### 5.2.4.3 Interception type
\- IRI.
\- CC.
#### 5.2.4.4 Location
\- Report location at the beginning and end of a session.
\- Report location every time the network detects a change in target location
(including location update with no physical change of location).
\- LALS.
#### 5.2.4.5 Roaming
\- Stop interception for non HPLMN 3GPP RAN in the case of international
roaming.
### 5.2.5 Usage for realising LI_T2
For the purposes of realising LI_T2 between an IRI-TF and a triggered IRI-POI,
the IRI-TF plays the role of the \"ADMF\" as defined in the ETSI TS 103 221-1
[7] reference model (clause 4.2), and the triggered IRI-POI plays the role of
the \"NE\".
In case the IRI-TF receives from the triggered IRI-POI an error in the answer
to a triggering message, the IRI-TF shall send a ReportTaskIssue message to
the LIPF. In such case, the failure of LI shall not impact the target\'s or
other users\' services.
Unless otherwise specified, an IRI-TF shall set the Product ID field in any
ActivateTask or ModifyTask message issued to a triggered IRI-POI (see ETSI TS
103 221-1 [7] clause 6.2.1.2). The IRI-TF shall set the Product ID to the XID
of the Task object associated with the interception at the IRI-TF in order to
allow correlation of LI product at the MDF2.
When the IRI-TF receives a DeactivateTask message or ModifyTask message from
the LIPF, the IRI-TF shall send DeactivateTask or ModifyTask messages to all
applicable triggered IRI-POIs for all tasks associated to the Task object in
the message from the LIPF.
### 5.2.6 Usage for realising LI_T3
For the purposes of realising LI_T3 between a CC-TF and a triggered CC-POI,
the CC-TF plays the role of the \"ADMF\" as defined in the ETSI TS 103 221-1
[7] reference model (clause 4.2), and the triggered CC-POI plays the role of
the \"NE\".
In case the CC-TF receives from the triggered CC-POI an error in the answer to
a triggering message, the CC-TF shall send a ReportTaskIssue message to the
LIPF. In such case, the failure of LI shall not impact the target\'s or other
users\' services.
Unless otherwise specified, a CC-TF shall set the Product ID field in any
ActivateTask or ModifyTask message issued to a triggered CC-POI (see ETSI TS
103 221-1 [7] clause 6.2.1.2). The CC-TF shall set the Product ID to the XID
of the Task object associated with the interception at the CC-TF in order to
allow correlation of LI product at the MDF3.
When the CC-TF receives a DeactivateTask message or ModifyTask message from
the LIPF, the CC-TF shall send DeactivateTask or ModifyTask messages to all
applicable triggered CC-POIs for all tasks associated to the Task object in
the message from the LIPF.
## 5.3 Protocols for LI_X2 and LI_X3
### 5.3.1 General usage of ETSI TS 103 221-2
Functions having an LI_X2 or LI_X3 interface shall support the use of ETSI TS
103 221-2 [8] to realise the interface.
In the event of a conflict between ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] and the present
document, the terms of the present document shall apply.
The xIRI and the xCC sent using ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] shall contain the
appropriate XID as received in the relevant LI_X1 provisioning message (or
LI_T2/3 triggering message, as appropriate).
### 5.3.2 Usage for realising LI_X2
The POI sending xIRI over the LI_X2 interface shall set the PDU type field
within the xIRI to \"X2 PDU\". (see ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] clause 5.1).
The TLS transport profile (see ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] clause 6) shall be
supported and used by default.
Unless otherwise specified, xIRI shall include the timestamp and sequence
number conditional attribute fields, with the timestamp value set to the time
at which the event occurred.
Unless otherwise specified, the LI_X2 \"matched target identifier\"
conditional attribute shall be set to indicate what target identity was
matched to generate the xIRI (see ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] clause 5.3.18).
### 5.3.3 Usage for realising LI_X3
The POI sending xCC over the LI_X3 interface shall set the PDU type field in
the xCC to \"X3 PDU\" (see ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] clause 5.1).
NOTE: ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] specifies in clause 6 a default profile which is
mandatory to support, but allows further profiles to be defined. In scenarios
where it may not be possible to achieve the necessary LI data rates based on
the default profile, alternative profiles may be considered (e.g. based on
UDP, multi path TCP or other protocols). Any alternative profile needs to
ensure that LI reliability, security and completeness requirements as
specified in TS 33.126 [3] are met.
## 5.4 Protocols for LI_HI1
### 5.4.1 General
Functions having an LI_HI1 interface shall support the use of ETSI TS 103 120
[6] to realise the interface.
In the event of a conflict between ETSI TS 103 120 [6] and the present
document, the terms of the present document shall apply.
## 5.5 Protocols for LI_HI2 and LI_HI3
### 5.5.1 General
Functions having an LI_HI2 or LI_HI3 interface shall support the use of ETSI
TS 102 232-1 [9] and ETSI TS 102 232-7 [10] to realise the interface.
In the event of a conflict between either specification and the present
document, the terms of the present document shall apply.
### 5.5.2 Usage for realising LI_HI2
The IRI messages sent over LI_HI2 are structured as a header and a payload.
The header contains general information like LIID, timestamp, correlation
information (as for example defined in ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9]). The payload
contains intercept related information based on information that the MDF2 has
received from sources in the network, such as the IRI-POI as described in
clauses 6 and 7 of the present document. Details of the IRI messages can be
found in Annex A of the present document. Messages defined as passing over the
LI_HI2 interface shall be passed as the payload of the threeGPP33128DefinedIRI
field (see TS ETSI 102 232 -7 [10] clause 15).
### 5.5.3 Usage for realising LI_HI3
The CC sent over LI_HI3 is structured as a header and a payload. The header
contains general information like LIID, timestamp, correlation information (as
for example defined in ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9]). The payload contains content of
communication based on information that the MDF3 has received from sources in
the network, such as the CC-POI as described in clauses 6 and 7 of the present
document. Details of the CC can be found in Annex A of the present document.
CC defined as passing over the LI_HI3 interface shall be passed as the payload
of the threeGPP33128DefinedCC field (see ETSI TS 102 232-7 [10] clause 15).
NOTE: ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9] specifies in clause 6.4 a transport layer based on
TCP. However, based on agreement between network operator and LEA, in
scenarios where it may not be possible to achieve the necessary LI data rates
based on the transport layer based on single TCP connection, alternative
profiles may be considered (e.g. based on UDP, multi path TCP or other
protocols). Any alternative profile needs to ensure that LI reliability,
security and completeness requirements as specified in TS 33.126 [3] are met.
## 5.6 Protocols for LI_HI4
### 5.6.1 General
Functions having an LI_HI4 shall support the use of ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9] to
realise the interface.
In the event of a conflict between ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9] and the present
document, the terms of the present document shall apply.
### 5.6.2 Usage for realising LI_HI4
The LI Notification messages sent over LI_HI4 are structured as a header and a
payload. The header contains general information like LIID, timestamp (as for
example defined in ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9]). The payload contains the
administrative information such as notification. Details of the LI
Notification messages can be found in Annex B of the present document.
Where the LI_HI4 interface is present alongside an LI_HI2 interface or LI_HI3
interface, the LI Notification messages shall be transmitted along the same
connection as the IRI messages or CC. Where ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9] is used for
LI_HI2 or LI_HI3, messages defined as passing over the LI_HI4 interface shall
be passed as the contents of the operatorLeaMessage field.
The MDF2/3 shall support generation LI Notification messages for at least the
following events:
\- Activation of an interception at the MDF2/3 via LI_X1.
\- Modification of an interception at the MDF2/3 via LI_X1.
\- Deletion of an interception at the MDF2/3 via LI_X1.
# 6 Network Layer Based Interception
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause describes any remaining fields, behaviours or details necessary to
implement the required LI interfaces for specific 3GPP-defined network
deployments which are not described in clauses 4 and 5.
## 6.2 5G
### 6.2.1 General
This clause describes the LI interfaces specific to LI for 5G networks.
### 6.2.2 LI at AMF
#### 6.2.2.1 Provisioning over LI_X1
The IRI-POI present in the AMF is provisioned over LI_X1 by the LIPF using the
X1 protocol as described in clause 5.2.2.
The POI in the AMF shall support the following target identifier formats in
the ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] messages (or equivalent if ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] is
not used):
> \- SUPI.
>
> \- PEI.
>
> \- GPSI.
#### 6.2.2.2 Generation of xIRI over LI_X2
##### 6.2.2.2.1 General
The IRI-POI present in the AMF shall send the xIRIs over LI_X2 for each of the
events listed in TS 33.127 [5] clause 6.2.2.4, the details of which are
described in the following sub-clauses.
If the AMF receives one or more cell IDs in an N2 message (as specified in TS
38.413 [23]), the POI associated with the AMF shall report all of them.
##### 6.2.2.2.2 Registration
The IRI-POI in the AMF shall generate an xIRI containing an AMFRegistration
record when the IRI-POI present in the AMF detects that a UE matching one of
the target identifiers provided via LI_X1 has successfully registered to the
5GS via 3GPP NG-RAN or non-3GPP access. Accordingly, the IRI-POI in the AMF
generates the xIRI when the following event is detected:
\- AMF sends a N1: REGISTRATION ACCEPT message to the target UE and the UE 5G
Mobility Management (5GMM) state within the AMF is changed to 5GMM-REGISTERED.
Table 6.2.2-1: Payload for AMFRegistration record
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | registrationType | Specifies the type of | M | | | registration, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.3.7. | | | | This is derived from the | | | | information received from | | | | the UE in the REGISTRATION | | | | REQUEST message. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | registrationResult | Specifies the result of | M | | | registration, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.3.6. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | slice | Provide, if available, one | C | | | or more of the following: | | | | | | | | - allowed NSSAI (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.37). | | | | | | | | - configured NSSAI (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.37). | | | | | | | | - rejected NSSAI (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.46). | | | | | | | | This is derived from the | | | | information sent to the UE | | | | in the REGISTRATION ACCEPT | | | | message. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | M | | | registration (see clause | | | | 6.2.2.4). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUCI | SUCI used in the | C | | | registration. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI provided by the UE | C | | | during the registration, if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI obtained in the | C | | | registration, if available | | | | as part of the subscription | | | | profile. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gUTI | 5G-GUTI provided as outcome | M | | | of initial registration or | | | | used in other cases, see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 5.5.1.2.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information | C | | | determined by the network | | | | during the registration, if | | | | available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | non3GPPAccessEndpoint | UE\'s local IP address used | C | | | to reach the N3IWF, if | | | | available. IP addresses are | | | | given as 4 octets (for | | | | IPv4) or 16 octets (for | | | | IPv6) with the most | | | | significant octet first | | | | (network byte order). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | fiveGSTAIList | List of tracking areas | C | | | associated with the | | | | registration area within | | | | which the UE is current | | | | registered, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13], clause 9.11.3.4. | | | | (See NOTE) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE: List shall be | | | | included each time there is | | | | a change to the | | | | registration area. | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.2.2.3 Deregistration
The IRI-POI in the AMF shall generate an xIRI containing an AMFDeregistration
record when the IRI-POI present in the AMF detects that a UE matching one of
the target identifiers provided via LI_X1 has deregistered from the 5GS.
Accordingly, the IRI-POI in AMF generates the xIRI when any of the following
events is detected:
> \- For network initiated de-registration, when the AMF receives the N1:
> DEREGISTRATION ACCEPT message from the target UE or when implicit
> deregistration timer expires; and in both cases the UE 5GMN state within the
> AMF is changed to 5GMM-DEREGISTERED.
>
> \- For UE initiated de-registration, when the AMF sends the N1:
> DEREGISTRATION ACCEPT message to the target UE or when the AMF receives the
> N1: DEREGISTRATION REQUEST message from the target UE with deregistration
> type value of \"switch off\"; and in both cases the UE 5GMN state within the
> AMF is changed to 5GMM-DEREGISTERED.
Table 6.2.2-2: Payload for AMFDeregistration record
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | deregistrationDirection | Indicates whether the | M | | | deregistration was | | | | initiated by the network or | | | | by the UE. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | accessType | Indicates the access for | M | | | which the deregistration is | | | | handled, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13], clause 9.11.3.20. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | C | | | deregistration (see clause | | | | 6.2.2.4), if available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUCI | SUCI used in the | C | | | deregistration, if | | | | available (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI used in the | C | | | deregistration, if | | | | available (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI associated to the | C | | | deregistration, if | | | | available as part of the | | | | subscription profile. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gUTI | 5G-GUTI used in the | C | | | deregistration, if | | | | available, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13], clause 5.5.2.2.1 | | | | (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | cause | Indicates the 5GMM cause | C | | | value for network-initiated | | | | deregistration, see TS | | | | 24.501 [13], clause | | | | 9.11.3.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information | C | | | determined by the network | | | | during the deregistration, | | | | if available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE: At least one among | | | | SUCI, PEI and GUTI shall be | | | | provided. | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.2.2.4 Location update
The IRI-POI in the AMF shall generate an xIRI containing an AMFLocationUpdate
record each time the IRI-POI present in an AMF detects that the target\'s UE
location is updated due to target\'s UE mobility or as a part of an AMF
service procedure. The generation of such separate xIRI is not required if the
updated UE location information is obtained as a part of a procedure producing
some other xIRIs (e.g. mobility registration). In that case the location
information is included into the respective xIRI.
The UE mobility events resulting in an xIRI generation include the \"N2 Path
Switch Request\" (\"Xn based inter NG-RAN handover\" procedure described in
3GPP TS 23.502 [4], clause 4.9.1.2) and the \"N2 Handover Notify\" (\"Inter
NG-RAN node N2 based handover\" procedure described in 3GPP TS 23.502 [4],
clause 4.9.1.3). Optionally, based on operator policy, other NG-RAN NGAP
messages that do not generate separate xIRI but carry location information
(e.g. RRC INACTIVE TRANSITION REPORT) may trigger the generation of an xIRI
AMFLocationUpdate record.
Additionally, based on regulatory requirements and operator policy, the
location information obtained by AMF from NG-RAN or LMF in the course of some
service operation (e.g. emergency services, LCS) may generate xIRI
AMFLocationUpdate record. The AMF services providing the location information
in these cases include ProvideLocInfo, ProvidePosInfo, NotifiedPosInfo and
AmfEventReport (see TS 29.518 [22]).
Table 6.2.2-3: Payload for AMFLocationUpdate record
+------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the location update (see | M | | | clause 6.2.2.4). | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | sUCI | SUCI associated with the location update, if | C | | | available, see TS 24.501 [13]. | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI associated with the location update, if | C | | | available. | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI associated with the location update, if | C | | | available as part of the subscription | | | | profile. | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | gUTI | 5G-GUTI associated with the location update, | C | | | if available, see TS 24.501 [13]. | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | location | Updated location information determined by | M | | | the network. | | | | | | | | Depending on the service or message type from | | | | which the location information is extracted, | | | | it may be encoded in several forms (Annex A): | | | | | | | | 1) as a _userLocation_ parameter | | | | (_location >locationInfo>userLocation_) in | | | | the case the information is obtained from an | | | | NGAP message, except the LOCATION REPORT | | | | message (see TS 38.413 [23]); | | | | | | | | 2) as a _locationInfo_ parameter | | | | (_location >locationInfo_) in the case the | | | | information is obtained from a | | | | **ProvideLocInfo** (TS 29.518 [22], clause | | | | 6.4.6.2.6); | | | | | | | | 3) as a _locationPresenceReport_ parameter | | | | (_location >locationPresenceReport_) in the | | | | case the information is obtained from an | | | | **AmfEventReport** (TS 29.518 [22], clause | | | | 6.2.6.2.5) with event type | | | | **Location-Report** or | | | | **Presence-In-AOI-Report;** | | | | | | | | **4)** as a _positionInfo_ parameter | | | | (_location >positioningInfo>positionInfo_) | | | | in the case the information is obtained from | | | | a **ProvidePosInfo** (TS 29.518 [22], | | | | clause 6.4.6.2.3) or a **NotifiedPosInfo** | | | | (TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.4.6.2.4). | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.2.2.5 Start of interception with registered UE
The IRI-POI in the AMF shall generate an xIRI containing an
AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE record when the IRI-POI present in the
AMF detects that interception is activated on a UE that has already been
registered in the 5GS (see clause 6.2.2.4 on identity privacy). A UE is
considered already registered to the 5GS when the 5GMM state for the access
type (3GPP NG-RAN or non-3GPP access) for that UE is 5GMM-REGISTERED.
Therefore, the IRI-POI present in the AMF shall generate the xIRI
AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE record when it detects that a new
interception for a UE is activated (i.e. provisioned by the LIPF) and the 5G
mobility management state for the access type (3GPP NG-RAN or non-3GPP access)
within the AMF for that UE is 5GMM-REGISTERED. If the UE is registered over
both 3GPP NG-RAN and non-3GPP access, the IRI-POI present in the AMF shall
generate an xIRI containing an AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE record
for each access type.
Table 6.2.2-4: Payload for AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE record
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | registrationResult | Specifies the result of | M | | | registration, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13], clause 9.11.3.6. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | registrationType | Specifies the type of | C | | | registration, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.3.7, if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | slice | Provide, if available, one | C | | | or more of the following: | | | | | | | | - allowed NSSAI (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.37). | | | | | | | | - configured NSSAI (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.37). | | | | | | | | - rejected NSSAI (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.46). | | | | | | | | This is derived from the | | | | information that was sent | | | | to the UE in the | | | | REGISTRATION ACCEPT | | | | message. IRI-POI in AMF can | | | | include this information if | | | | and only if it retained the | | | | information that it had | | | | previously sent in the | | | | REGISTRATION ACCEPT message | | | | to the UE. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | M | | | registration (see clause | | | | 6.2.2.4). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUCI | SUCI used in the | C | | | registration, if available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI provided by the UE | C | | | during the registration, if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI obtained in the | C | | | registration, if available | | | | as part of the subscription | | | | profile. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gUTI | 5G-GUTI provided as outcome | M | | | of initial registration or | | | | used in other cases, see TS | | | | 24.501 [13], clause | | | | 5.5.1.2.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information, if | C | | | available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | non3GPPAccessEndpoint | UE\'s local IP address used | C | | | to reach the N3IWF, if | | | | available. IP addresses are | | | | given as 4 octets (for | | | | IPv4) or 16 octets (for | | | | IPv6) with the most | | | | significant octet first | | | | (network byte order). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | timeOfRegistration | Time at which the last | C | | | registration occurred, if | | | | available. This is the time | | | | stamp when the REGISTRATION | | | | ACCEPT message is sent to | | | | the UE or (when applicable) | | | | when the REGISTRATION | | | | COMPLETE is received from | | | | the UE. | | | | | | | | Shall be given qualified | | | | with time zone information | | | | (i.e. as UTC or offset from | | | | UTC, not as local time). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | fiveGSTAIList | List of tracking areas | C | | | associated with the | | | | registration area within | | | | which the UE is current | | | | registered, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13], clause 9.11.3.4. | | | | (See NOTE) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE: List shall be | | | | included each time there is | | | | a change to the | | | | registration area. | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.2.2.6 AMF unsuccessful procedure
The IRI-POI in the AMF shall generate an xIRI containing an
AMFUnsuccessfulProcedure record when the IRI-POI present in the AMF detects an
unsuccessful procedure for a UE matching one of the target identifiers
provided via LI_X1.
Accordingly, the IRI-POI in the AMF generates the xIRI when any of the
following events is detected:
\- AMF sends a N1: REGISTRATION REJECT message to the target UE and the UE 5G
Mobility Management (5GMM) state within the AMF is changed to 5GMM-
DEREGISTERED.
\- AMF aborts a registration procedure before the UE 5G Mobility Management
(5GMM) state within the AMF is changed to 5GMM-REGISTERED.
\- AMF sends a SERVICE REJECT message to the target UE including a PDU session
establishment reject message type.
\- AMF aborts a UE-initiated NAS transport procedure with payload container
type IE set to \"SMS\".
Unsuccessful registration shall be reported only if the target UE has been
successfully authenticated.
Table 6.2.2-5: Payload for AMFUnsuccessfulProcedure record
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +=============================+=============================+=======+ | failedprocedureType | Specifies the procedure | M | | | which failed at the AMF. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | failureCause | Provides the value of the | M | | | 5GSM or 5GMM cause, see TS | | | | 24.501 [13], clauses | | | | 9.11.3.2 and 9.11.4.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | requestedSlice | Slice requested for the | C | | | procedure, if available, | | | | given as a NSSAI (a list of | | | | S-NSSAI values as described | | | | in TS 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.37). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | C | | | procedure, if available | | | | (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUCI | SUCI used in the procedure, | C | | | if applicable and if | | | | available (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI used in the procedure, | C | | | if available (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI used in the procedure, | C | | | if available (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gUTI | 5G-GUTI used in the | C | | | procedure, if available, | | | | see TS 24.501 [13], | | | | clause 9.11.3.4 (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information | C | | | determined during the | | | | procedure, if available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE: At least one identity | | | | shall be provided, the | | | | others shall be provided if | | | | available. | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
#### 6.2.2.3 Generation of IRI over LI_HI2
When an xIRI is received over LI_X2 from the IRI-POI in AMF, the MDF2 shall
generate the corresponding IRI message and deliver over LI_HI2 without undue
delay. The IRI message shall contain a copy of the relevant record received in
the xIRI over LI_X2. This record may be enriched with any additional
information available at the MDF (e.g. additional location information).
The timestamp field of the psHeader structure shall be set to the time at
which the AMF event was observed (i.e. the timestamp field of the X2 PDU).
The threeGPP33128DefinedIRI field in ETSI TS 102 232-7 [10] clause 15 shall be
populated with the BER-encoded IRIPayload.
When an additional warrant is activated on a target UE and the LIPF uses the
same XID for the additional warrant, the MDF2 shall be able to generate and
deliver the IRI message containing the AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE
record to the LEMF associated with the additional warrant without receiving a
corresponding xIRI. The payload of the AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE
record is specified in table 6.2.2-4.
#### 6.2.2.4 Identity privacy
The AMF shall ensure for every registration (including re-registration) that
SUPI has been provided by the UDM to the AMF and that the SUCI to SUPI mapping
has been verified as defined in TS 33.501 [11]. This shall be performed
regardless of whether the SUPI is a target of interception, and whether the
null encryption algorithm is used for the SUCI. The AMF shall maintain the
SUPI to SUCI mapping for at least the lifetime of the registration in order to
allow interception based on SUPI after the initial registration.
### 6.2.3 LI for SMF/UPF
#### 6.2.3.1 Provisioning of SMF over LI_X1
The IRI-POI and CC-TF present in the SMF are provisioned over LI_X1 by the
LIPF using the X1 protocol as described in clause 5.2.2. If an SMF and UPF are
implemented as a single function, then this interface may be sufficient to
provision both (see clause 6.2.3.3).
The POI in the SMF shall support the following target identifier formats in
the ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] messages (or equivalent if ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] is
not used):
\- SUPI.
\- PEI.
\- GPSI.
If packet header reporting is required, parameters specified in table 6.2.3-9:
ActivatePDHReporting parameters shall be provided as part of the LI_X1
provisioning message.
#### 6.2.3.2 Generation of xIRI at IRI-POI in SMF over LI_X2
##### 6.2.3.2.1 General
The IRI-POI present in the SMF shall send the xIRIs over LI_X2 for each of the
events listed in TS 33.127 [5] clause 6.2.3.3, the details of which are
described in the following sub-clauses.
##### 6.2.3.2.2 PDU session establishment
The IRI-POI in the SMF shall generate an xIRI containing an
SMFPDUSessionEstablishment record when the IRI-POI present in the SMF detects
that a PDU session has been established for the target UE. The IRI-POI present
in the SMF shall generate the xIRI for the following events:
\- For a non-roaming scenario, the SMF (or for a roaming scenario, V-SMF in
the VPLMN), sends the N1 NAS message (via AMF) PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT
ACCEPT to the UE and the 5G Session Management (5GSM) state within the SMF is
changed to PDU SESSION ACTIVE (see TS 24.501 [13]).
\- For a home-routed roaming scenario, the SMF in the HPLMN (i.e. H-SMF) sends
the N16: Nsmf_PDU_Session_Create response message with n1SmInfoToUe IE
containing the PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT ACCEPT (see TS 29.502 [16]).
Table 6.2.3-1: Payload for SMFPDUSessionEstablishment record
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | C | | | PDU session (e.g. as | | | | provided by the AMF in the | | | | associated | | | | Nsmf_PD | | | | U_Session_CreateSMContext | | | | service operation). Shall | | | | be present except for | | | | PEI-only unauthenticated | | | | emergency sessions (see | | | | NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPIUnauthenticated | Shall be present if a SUPI | C | | | is present in the message, | | | | and set to \"true\" if the | | | | SUPI has not authenticated, | | | | or \"false\" if it has been | | | | authenticated. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI associated with the PDU | C | | | session if available (see | | | | NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI associated with the | C | | | PDU session if available | | | | (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionID | PDU Session ID See clause | M | | | 9.4 of TS 24.501 [13]. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gTPTunnelID | Contains the F-TEID | M | | | identifying the GTP tunnel | | | | used to encapsulate the | | | | traffic, as defined in TS | | | | 29.244 [15] clause 8.2.3. | | | | Non-GTP encapsulation is | | | | for further study. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionType | Identifies selected PDU | M | | | session type, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.4.11. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sNSSAI | Slice identifiers | C | | | associated with the PDU | | | | session, if available. See | | | | TS 23.003 [19] clause | | | | 28.4.2 and TS 23.501 [2] | | | | clause 5.12.2.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | uEEndpoint | UE endpoint address(es) if | C | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | non3GPPAccessEndpoint | UE\'s local IP address used | C | | | to reach the N3IWF, if | | | | available. IP addresses are | | | | given as 4 octets (for | | | | IPv4) or 16 octets (for | | | | IPv6) with the most | | | | significant octet first | | | | (network byte order). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information | C | | | provided by the AMF, if | | | | available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | dNN | Data Network Name | M | | | associated with the target | | | | traffic, as defined in TS | | | | 23.003[19] clause 9A and | | | | described in TS 23.501 | | | | [2] clause 4.3.2.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | aMFID | Identifier of the AMF | C | | | associated with the target | | | | UE, as defined in TS 23.003 | | | | [19] clause 2.10.1 when | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | hSMFURI | URI of the Nsmf_PDUSession | C | | | service of the selected | | | | H-SMF, if available. See TS | | | | 29.502 [16] clause | | | | 6.1.6.2.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | requestType | Type of request as | C | | | described in TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.3.47 if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | accessType | Access type associated with | C | | | the session (i.e. 3GPP or | | | | non-3GPP access) if | | | | provided by the AMF (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.11). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | rATType | RAT Type associated with | C | | | the access if provided by | | | | the AMF as part of session | | | | establishment (see TS | | | | 23.502 [4] clause 4.3.2). | | | | Values given as per TS | | | | 29.571 [17] clause | | | | 5.4.3.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sMPDUDNRequest | Contents of the SM PDU DN | C | | | Request container, if | | | | available, as described in | | | | TS 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.4.15. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE: At least one of the | | | | SUPI, PEI or GPSI fields | | | | shall be present. | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.3.2.3 PDU session modification
The IRI-POI in the SMF shall generate an xIRI containing an
SMFPDUSessionModification record when the IRI-POI present in the SMF detects
that a PDU session has been modified for the target UE. The IRI-POI present in
the SMF shall generate the xIRI for the following events:
\- For a non-roaming scenario, the SMF (or for a roaming scenario, V-SMF in
the VPLMN), receives the N1 NAS message (via AMF) PDU SESSION MODIFICATION
COMPLETE from the UE and the 5GSM state within the SMF is returned to PDU
SESSION ACTIVE (see TS 24.501 [13]). This applies to the following two cases:
\- UE initiated PDU session modification.
\- Network initiated PDU session modification.
\- For a non-roaming scenario, the SMF (or for a roaming scenario, V-SMF in
the VPLMN), sends the N1 NAS message (via AMF) PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT
ACCEPT to the UE and the 5GSM state within the SMF remains in the PDU SESSION
ACTIVE (see TS 24.501 [13]). This applies to the following case:
\- Handover from one access type to another access type happens (e.g. 3GPP to
non-3GPP).
\- For a home-routed roaming scenario, the SMF in the HPLMN (i.e. H-SMF)
receives the N16: Nsmf_PDU_Session_Update Response message with n1SmInfoFromUe
IE containing the PDU SESSION MODIFICATION COMPLETE (see TS 29.502 [16]). This
applies to the following three cases:
\- UE initiated PDU session modification.
\- Network (VPLMN) initiated PDU session modification.
\- Network (HPLMN) initiated PDU session modification.
\- For a home-routed roaming scenario, the SMF in the HPLMN (i.e. H-SMF) sends
the N16: Nsmf_PDU_Session_Create Response message with n1SmInfoToUe IE
containing the PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT ACCEPT (see TS 29.502 [16]) while it
had received a N16 Nsmf_PDU_Session_Create Request message with an existing
PDU Session Id with access type being changed. This applies to the following
case:
\- Handover from one access type to another access type happens (e.g. 3GPP to
non-3GPP) where the V-SMF is used for the PDU session on the new access type
only.
\- For a home-routed roaming scenario, the SMF in the HPLMN (i.e. H-SMF) sends
the N16: Nsmf_PDU_Session_Update Response message with n1SmInfoToUe IE
containing the PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT ACCEPT (see TS 29.502 [16]) while it
had received a N16 Nsmf_PDU_Session_Update Request message with an existing
PDU Session Id with access type being changed. This applies to the following
case:
\- Handover from one access type to another access type happens (e.g. 3GPP to
non-3GPP) where the same V-SMF is for the PDU session on both access types.
Table 6.2.3-2: Payload for SMFPDUSessionModification record
+-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | C | | | PDU session (e.g. as | | | | provided by the AMF in the | | | | associated | | | | Nsmf_PD | | | | U_Session_CreateSMContext | | | | service operation). Shall | | | | be present except for | | | | PEI-only unauthenticated | | | | emergency sessions. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPIUnauthenticated | Shall be present if a SUPI | C | | | is present in the message, | | | | and set to \"true\" if the | | | | SUPI was not authenticated, | | | | or \"false\" if it has been | | | | authenticated. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI associated with the PDU | C | | | session if available. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI associated with the | C | | | PDU session if available. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sNSSAI | Slice identifier associated | C | | | with the PDU session, if | | | | available. See TS 23.003 | | | | [19] clause 28.4.2 and TS | | | | 23.501 [2] clause | | | | 5.12.2.2. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | non3GPPAccessEndpoint | UE\'s local IP address used | C | | | to reach the N3IWF, if | | | | available. IP addresses are | | | | given as 4 octets (for | | | | IPv4) or 16 octets (for | | | | IPv6) with the most | | | | significant octet first | | | | (network byte order). | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information | C | | | provided by the AMF, if | | | | available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | accessType | Access type associated with | C | | | the session (i.e. 3GPP or | | | | non-3GPP access) if | | | | provided by the AMF (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.11). | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | rATType | RAT type associated with | C | | | the access, if available. | | | | Values given as per TS | | | | 29.571 [17] clause | | | | 5.4.3.2. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.3.2.4 PDU session release
The IRI-POI in the SMF shall generate an xIRI containing an
SMFPDUSessionRelease record when the IRI-POI present in the SMF detects that a
PDU session been released. The IRI-POI present in the SMF shall generate the
xIRI for the following events:
\- For a non-roaming scenario, the SMF (or for a roaming scenario, V-SMF in
the VPLMN), receives the N1 NAS message (via AMF) PDU SESSION RELEASE COMPLETE
from the UE and the 5GSM state within the SMF is changed to PDU SESSION
INACTIVE (see TS 24.501 [13]). This applies to the following two cases:
\- UE initiated PDU session release.
\- Network initiated PDU session release.
\- For a non-roaming scenario, the SMF (or for a roaming scenario, V-SMF in
the VPLMN), receives the N1 NAS message (via AMF) PDU SESSION MODIFICATION
COMMAND REJECT from the UE with the cause value #43 indicating an invalid PDU
Session ID and the 5GSM state within the SMF is changed to PDU SESSION
INACTIVE (see TS 24.501 [13]). This applies to the case where the UE rejects a
PDU SESSION MODIFICATION COMMAND as it finds that the indicated PDU session ID
is invalid. The 5GSM state is changed to PDU SESSION INACTIVE implicitly
within the SMF.
\- For a home-routed roaming scenario, the SMF in the HPLMN (i.e. H-SMF)
receives the N16: Nsmf_PDU_Session_Update response message with n1SmInfoFromUe
IE containing the PDU SESSION RELEASE COMPLETE (see TS 29.502 [16]) from the
V-SMF. This applies to the following three cases:
\- UE initiated PDU session release.
\- Network (VPLMN) initiated PDU session release.
\- Network (HPLMN) initiated PDU session release.
\- For a home-routed roaming scenario, the SMF in the HPLMN (i.e. H-SMF)
receives the N16: Nsmf_PDU_Session_Update response message with n1SmInfoFromUe
IE containing the PDU SESSION MODIFICATION COMMAND REJECT (see TS 29.502 [16])
from the V-SMF with the cause value #43 indicating an Invalid PDU Session ID.
Table 6.2.3-3: Payload for SMFPDUSessionRelease record
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the PDU session. | M | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI associated with the PDU session if | C | | | available. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI associated with the PDU session | C | | | if available. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionID | PDU Session ID as assigned by the AMF. | M | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | timeOfFirstPacket | Time of first packet for the PDU | C | | | session. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | timeOfLastPacket | Time of last packet for the PDU | C | | | session. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | uplinkVolume | Number of uplink octets for the PDU | C | | | session. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | downlinkVolume | Number of downlink octets for the PDU | C | | | session. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information, if available. | C | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ parameter | | | | (_l | | | | ocation >locationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.3.2.5 Start of interception with an established PDU session
The IRI-POI in the SMF shall generate an xIRI containing an
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record when the IRI-POI
present in the SMF detects that a PDU session has already been established for
the target UE when interception starts.
In a non-roaming scenario, the IRI-POI in the SMF (or in a roaming scenario,
the IRI-POI in the V-SMF in the VPLMN) shall generate the xIRI containing the
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record when it detects that a
new interception for a UE is activated (i.e. provisioned by the LIPF) for the
following case:
\- The 5GSM state within the SMF for that UE is 5GSM: PDU SESSION ACTIVE or
PDU SESSION MODIFICATION PENDING.
NOTE: The above trigger happens when the SMF (V-SMF in VPLMN) had not sent an
N1 NAS message PDU SESSION RELEASE COMMAND to the UE for a PDU session and the
SMF (V-SMF in the VPLMN) had previously sent an N1 NAS message PDU SESSION
ESTABLISHMENT ACCEPT to that UE for the same PDU session.
In a home-routed roaming scenario, the IRI-POI in the H-SMF shall generate the
xIRI containing the SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record
when it detects that a new interception for a UE is activated (i.e.
provisioned by the LIPF) for the following case:
\- The H-SMF had not sent a Nsmf_PDU_Session_Update Request (n1SmInfoToUe: PDU
SESSION RELEASE COMMAND) to the V-SMF for a PDU session and H-SMF had
previously sent a Nsmf_PDU_Session_Create response (n1SmInfoToUE: PDU SESSION
ESTABLISHMENT ACCEPT) to the V-SMF for that PDU session.
The IRI-POI in the SMF shall generate the xIRI containing the
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record for each of the PDU
sessions (that meets the above criteria) associated with the newly identified
target UEs.
Table 6.2.3-4: Payload for SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession
record
+----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | C | | | PDU session (e.g. as | | | | provided by the AMF in the | | | | associated | | | | Nsmf_PD | | | | U_Session_CreateSMContext | | | | service operation). Shall | | | | be present except for | | | | PEI-only unauthenticated | | | | emergency sessions. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPIUnauthenticated | Shall be present if a SUPI | C | | | is present in the message, | | | | and set to \"true\" if the | | | | SUPI has not authenticated, | | | | or \"false\" if it has been | | | | authenticated. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI associated with the PDU | C | | | session if available. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI associated with the | C | | | PDU session if available. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionID | PDU Session ID as assigned | M | | | by the AMF, as defined in | | | | TS 24.007 [14] clause | | | | 11.2.3.1b. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gTPTunnelID | Contains the F-TEID | M | | | identifying the tunnel used | | | | to encapsulate the traffic, | | | | as defined in TS 29.244 | | | | [15] clause 8.2.3. | | | | Non-GTP encapsulation is | | | | for further study. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionType | Identifies selected PDU | M | | | session type, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.4.11. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sNSSAI | Slice identifier associated | C | | | with the PDU session, if | | | | available. See TS 23.003 | | | | [19] clause 28.4.2 and TS | | | | 23.501 [2] clause | | | | 5.12.2.2. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | uEEndpoint | UE endpoint address(es) if | C | | | available. IP addresses are | | | | given as 4 octets (for | | | | IPv4) or 16 octets (for | | | | IPv6) with the most | | | | significant octet first | | | | (network byte order). MAC | | | | addresses are given as 6 | | | | octets with the most | | | | significant octet first. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | non3GPPAccessEndpoint | UE\'s local IP address used | C | | | to reach the N3IWF, if | | | | available. IP addresses are | | | | given as 4 octets (for | | | | IPv4) or 16 octets (for | | | | IPv6) with the most | | | | significant octet first | | | | (network byte order). | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information | C | | | provided by the AMF at | | | | session establishment, if | | | | available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | dNN | Data Network Name | M | | | associated with the target | | | | traffic, as defined in TS | | | | 23.003 [19] clause 9A and | | | | described in TS 23.501 | | | | [2] clause 4.3.2.2. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | aMFID | Identifier of the AMF | C | | | associated with the target | | | | UE, as defined in TS 23.003 | | | | [19] clause 2.10.1, if | | | | available. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | hSMFURI | URI of the Nsmf_PDUSession | C | | | service of the selected | | | | H-SMF, if available. See TS | | | | 29.502 [16] clause | | | | 6.1.6.2.2. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | requestType | Type of request as | C | | | described in TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.3.47 if | | | | available. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | accessType | Access type associated with | C | | | the session (i.e. 3GPP or | | | | non-3GPP access) if | | | | provided by the AMF (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.11). | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | rATType | RAT type associated with | C | | | the access if provided by | | | | the AMF as part of session | | | | establishment (see TS | | | | 23.502 [4] clause 4.3.2). | | | | Values given as per TS | | | | 29.571 [17] clause | | | | 5.4.3.2. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sMPDUDNRequest | Contents of the SM PDU DN | C | | | request container, if | | | | available, as described in | | | | TS 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.4.15. | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | timeOfSessionEstablishment | Time at which the session | C | | | establishment occurred, if | | | | available. Shall be given | | | | qualified with time zone | | | | information (i.e. as UTC or | | | | offset from UTC, not as | | | | local time). | | +----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.3.2.6 SMF unsuccessful procedure
The IRI-POI in the SMF shall generate an xIRI containing an
SMFUnsuccessfulProcedure record when the IRI-POI present in the SMF detects an
unsuccessful procedure or error condition for a UE matching one of the target
identifiers provided via LI_X1.
Accordingly, the IRI-POI in the SMF generates the xIRI when one of the
following events are detected:
\- SMF sends a PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT REJECT message to the target UE.
\- SMF sends a PDU SESSION MODIFICATION REJECT message to the target UE.
\- SMF sends a PDU SESSION RELEASE REJECT message to the target UE.
\- SMF receives a PDU SESSION MODIFICATION COMMAND REJECT message from the
target UE.
\- An ongoing SM procedure is aborted at the SMF, due to e.g. a 5GSM STATUS
message sent from or received by the SMF.
Table 6.2.3-5: Payload for SMFUnsuccessfulProcedure record
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +=============================+=============================+=======+ | failedProcedureType | Specifies the procedure | M | | | which failed or is aborted | | | | at the SMF. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | failureCause | Provides the value of the | M | | | 5GSM cause, see TS 24.501 | | | | [13], clause 9.11.4.2. In | | | | case the procedure is | | | | aborted due to a 5GSM | | | | STATUS message, the 5GSM | | | | cause is the one included | | | | in the 5GSM status message. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | requestedSlice | Slice requested for the | C | | | procedure, if available, | | | | given as a NSSAI (a list of | | | | S-NSSAI values as described | | | | in TS 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.37). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | initiator | Specifies whether the | M | | | network (SMF) or the UE is | | | | initiating the rejection or | | | | indicating the failure. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI associated with the | C | | | procedure, if available | | | | (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sUPIUnauthenticated | Shall be present if a SUPI | C | | | is present in the message | | | | and set to \"true\" if the | | | | SUPI has not authenticated, | | | | or \"false\" if it has been | | | | authenticated. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI used in the procedure, | C | | | if available (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI used in the procedure, | C | | | if available (see NOTE). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionID | PDU Session ID See clause | C | | | 9.4 of TS 24.501 [13], if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | uEEndpoint | UE endpoint address(es) if | C | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | non3GPPAccessEndpoint | UE\'s local IP address used | C | | | to reach the N3IWF, if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information | C | | | provided by the AMF, if | | | | available. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_location >lo | | | | cationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | dNN | Data Network Name | C | | | associated with the target | | | | traffic, as defined in TS | | | | 23.003 [19] clause 9A and | | | | described in TS 23.501 | | | | [2] clause 4.3.2.2, if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | aMFID | Identifier of the AMF | C | | | associated with the target | | | | UE, as defined in TS 23.003 | | | | [19] clause 2.10.1 when | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | hSMFURI | URI of the Nsmf_PDUSession | C | | | service of the selected | | | | H-SMF, if available. See TS | | | | 29.502 [16] clause | | | | 6.1.6.2.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | requestType | Type of request as | C | | | described in TS 24.501 | | | | [13] clause 9.11.3.47 if | | | | available. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | accessType | Access type associated with | C | | | the session (i.e. 3GPP or | | | | non-3GPP access) if | | | | provided by the AMF (see TS | | | | 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.3.11). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | rATType | RAT Type associated with | C | | | the access if provided by | | | | the AMF as part of session | | | | establishment (see TS | | | | 23.502 [4] clause 4.3.2). | | | | Values given as per TS | | | | 29.571 [17] clause | | | | 5.4.3.2. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sMPDUDNRequest | Contents of the SM PDU DN | C | | | Request container, if | | | | available, as described in | | | | TS 24.501 [13] clause | | | | 9.11.4.15. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE: At least one identity | | | | shall be provided, the | | | | others shall be provided if | | | | available. | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
#### 6.2.3.3 Triggering of the CC-POI from CC-TF over LI_T3
##### 6.2.3.3.1 LI_T3 interface specifics
When interception of communication contents is required, the CC-TF present in
the SMF sends a trigger to the CC-POI present in the UPF over the LI_T3
interface.
When the CC-TF in the SMF detects that a PDU session is being established
(i.e. when the SMF sends the N4: PFCP Session Establishment Request to the
UPF, see TS 29.244 [15], clause 6.3.2) for a target UE, it shall send an
activation message to the CC-POI in the UPF over the LI_T3 interface. The
activation message shall contain the correlation identifiers that the CC-POI
in the UPF shall use with the xCC. This can be achieved by sending an
ActivateTask message as defined in ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] clause 6.2.1 with the
following details.
Table 6.2.3-6: ActivateTask message for triggering the CC-POI in the UPF
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ETSI TS 103 221-1 field | Description | M/C/O | | name | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | XID | Allocated by the CC-TF as | M | | | per ETSI TS 103 221-1 | | | | [7]. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TargetIdentifiers | Packet detection criteria | M | | | as determined by the CC-TF | | | | in the SMF, which enables | | | | the UPF to isolate target | | | | traffic. The CC-POI in the | | | | UPF shall support at least | | | | the identifier types given | | | | in Table 6.2.3-7. | | | | | | | | NOTE: This value is the | | | | target identifier for the | | | | CC-POI in the UPF and may | | | | be different from the | | | | target identifier specified | | | | in the warrant. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | DeliveryType | Set to \"X3Only\". | M | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ListOfDIDs | Delivery endpoints for | M | | | LI_X3. These delivery | | | | endpoints shall be | | | | configured by the CC-TF in | | | | the SMF using the | | | | CreateDestination message | | | | as described in ETSI TS 103 | | | | 221-1 [7] clause 6.3.1 | | | | prior to first use. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | CorrelationNumber | Correlation ID to assign to | M | | | X3 PDUs generated by the | | | | CC-POI in the UPF. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ProductID | Shall be set to the XID of | M | | | the Task Object associated | | | | with the interception at | | | | the CC-TF. This value shall | | | | be used by the CC-POI in | | | | the UPF to fill the XID of | | | | X3 PDUs. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
Table 6.2.3-7: Target Identifier Types for LI_T3
* * *
Identifier type Owner ETSI TS 103 221-1 TargetIdentifier type Definition GTP
Tunnel ID 3GPP gtpuTunnelId F-TEID (see XSD schema) UE IP Address ETSI
ipAddress See ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] UE IP Address and port ETSI ipAddressPort
See ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] PFCP Session ID 3GPP TargetIdentifierExtension /
FSEID F-SEID (see XSD schema) PDR ID 3GPP TargetIdentifierExtension / PDRID 32
bit unsigned integer (see XSD schema) QER ID 3GPP TargetIdentifierExtension /
QERID 32 bit unsigned integer (see XSD schema) Network Instance 3GPP
TargetIdentifierExtension / NetworkInstance Octet string (see XSD schema) GTP
Tunnel Direction 3GPP TargetIdentifierExtension / GTPTunnelDirection
Enumeration (see XSD schema)
* * *
When the CC-TF in the SMF detects that a targeted PDU session is changing
(i.e. when the SMF sends the N4: PFCP Session Modification Request to the UPF,
see TS 29.244 [15] clause 6.3.3) in a way that requires changes to the
interception already activated by the CC-POI in the UPF, the CC-TF shall
modify the interception at the CC-POI in the UPF over the LI_T3 interface.
This is achieved by sending a ModifyTask message as defined in ETSI TS 103
221-1 [7] clause 6.2.2. The ModifyTask message contains the same details as
the ActivateTask message with the following fields updated as appropriate
Table 6.2.3-8: Parameters that may be changed in a ModifyTask message when
updating interception at the CC-POI in the UPF
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ETSI TS 103 221-1 field | Description | M/C/O | | name | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TargetIdentifiers | Updated packet detection | M | | | criteria as determined by | | | | the CC-TF in the SMF. | | | | | | | | NOTE: See notes on | | | | TargetIdentifiers in Table | | | | 6.2.3-6. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
When the CC-TF in the SMF detects that a targeted PDU session is changing
(i.e., when the SMF sends the N4: PFCP Session Modification Request to the
UPF, see TS 29.244 [15] clause 6.3.3) for which the interception had not been
previously activated in the CC-POI in the UPF (e.g., in case of previous
unsuccessful LI activation at the CC-POI in the UPF by the CC-TF in the SMF),
the CC-TF shall send an activation message to the CC-POI in the UPF over the
LI_T3 interface. The activation message shall contain the correlation
identifiers that the CC-POI in the UPF shall use with the xCC. This can be
achieved by sending an ActivateTask message as defined in ETSI TS 103 221-1
[7] clause 6.2.1 with the details provided by table 6.2.3-6.
When the CC-TF in the SMF detects that the PDU session has been released (i.e.
when the SMF sends the N4: PFCP Session Deletion Request to the UPF, see TS
29.244 [15] clause 6.3.4) for a target UE, it shall send a deactivation
message to the CC-POI in the UPF over the LI_T3 interface. When using ETSI TS
103 221-1 [7] this is achieved by sending a DeactivateTask message with the
XID field set to the XID associated with the interception, as described in
ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] clause 6.2.3.
By default, interception shall occur at the anchor UPF as described in
6.2.3.3.3.
When a warrant that includes the service scoping of CC is activated for a
target UE with an established PDU session and when the IRI-POI present in the
SMF generates the xIRI containing an
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record (see clause 6.2.3.2.5),
the CC-TF present in the SMF shall send an activation message to the CC-POI
present in the UPF to generate the xCC.
##### 6.2.3.3.2 CC interception with multi-homed PDU session
When a target UE accesses multiple Data Networks (DNs) via a multi-homed PDU
session (see TS 23.501 [2] clause 5.6.4.3), multiple UPFs are involved in
providing the PDU Session Anchors, with one UPF providing the Branching Point
functionality. The Branching Point UPF may, or may not, be a PDU Session
Anchor UPF (see TS 33.127 [5] Annex A3.2). The CC-TF present in the SMF shall
send the CC intercept trigger to the CC-POI present in an UPF if and only if
that UPF is selected to provide the CC-POI functions.
When the target UE is involved in multi-homed PDU session, the CC-TF present
in the SMF (i.e. in the SMF that establishes the PDU session) shall determine
which UPF(s) is(are) more suitable to provide the CC-POI functions adhering to
the following requirements specified in TS 33.127 [5]:
> \- All applicable user plane packets are captured and delivered.
>
> \- Duplicate delivery of CC is suppressed to the extent possible.
This clause assumes that a PDU session contains only one Branching Point UPF
(with N3 reference point toward the target UE) and one PDU Session Anchor UPF
for each DN connection.
Since the present document requires the interception of all DN connections,
the SMF may choose either all the PDU Session Anchor UPFs or the Branching
Point UPF to provide the CC-POI functions.
The Branching Point UPF may be chosen when all user plane packets pass through
the Branching Point UPF, and the CC-TF present in the SMF may choose the
Branching Point UPF to provide the CC-POI function and accordingly, send the
CC interception trigger to the CC-POI present in the Branching Point UPF. The
CC intercept trigger shall include the packet detection rules. An example of
these rules is:
\- Generate the xCC from all the incoming and outgoing user plane packets to
the target UE.
In this case, the CC-TF present in the SMF shall not select any of the PDU
Session Anchor UPFs to provide the CC-POI functions.
When a Branching Point UPF is chosen to provide the CC-POI functions, and if
the Branching Point UPF is removed from the user plane path during a PDU
session, then the CC POI functions will have to be moved to the PDU Session
Anchor UPFs.
The xCC delivered to the MDF3 shall be correlated to the PDU session related
xIRI. The use of Correlation Id shall be on a user-plane path basis, which
means that the xCC generated at different UPFs that belong to different PDU
sessions may need to have separate Correlation IDs, each correlating to their
own PDU session related xIRI.
##### 6.2.3.3.3 CC Interception only at PDU Session Anchor UPFs
An option is to intercept a copy of the packets sent and received on the N6
interface [2] side of the PDU Anchor UPF (for each UL classifier in case of
selective routing or _Service and Session Continuity_ mode 3) for all DNs the
subject is connected to. In the in-bound roaming case for home-routed roaming,
the CSP shall deliver a copy of the packets sent and received on the N9 side
of the PDU Anchor UPF towards the serving network.
#### 6.2.3.4 IRI-POI in UPF triggering over LI_T2
When interception of Packet Data Headers is required, and if the approach 1 as
specified in TS 33.127 [5] for packet data information reporting is used, the
IRI-TF in the SMF sends a trigger to the IRI-POI in the UPF over the LI_T2
interface.
When the IRI-TF in the SMF detects that a PDU session has been established
(i.e. when the SMF sends the N4: PFCP Session Establishment Request to the
UPF, see TS 29.244 [15] clause 6.3.2) for a target UE, it shall send an
activation message to the IRI-POI in the UPF over the LI_T2 interface. The
activation message shall contain the correlation ID that the IRI-POI in the
UPF shall use when generating xIRI. This shall be achieved by sending an
ActivateTask message as defined in TS 103 221-1 [7] clause 6.2.1 with the
following details.
Table 6.2.3-9: ActivateTask message for triggering the UPF IRI-POI
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ETSI TS 103 221-1 field | Description | M/C/O | | name | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | XID | Allocated by the IRI-TF as | M | | | per ETSI TS 103 221-1 | | | | [7]. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TargetIdentifiers | Packet detection criteria | M | | | as determined by the IRI-TF | | | | in the SMF, which enable | | | | the UPF IRI-POI to isolate | | | | target traffic. The IRI-POI | | | | in the UPF shall support at | | | | least the identifier types | | | | given in Table 6.2.3-7. | | | | | | | | NOTE: This value is the | | | | target identifier for the | | | | IRI-POI in the UPF and may | | | | be different from the | | | | target identifier specified | | | | in the warrant. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | DeliveryType | Set to \"X2Only\". | M | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TaskDetailsExtensions/ | Header reporting-specific | M | | | tag to be carried in the | | | HeaderReporting | _TaskDetailsExtensions_ | | | | field of ETSI TS 103 221-1 | | | | [7]. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ListOfDIDs | Delivery endpoints of | M | | | LI_X2. These delivery | | | | endpoints shall be | | | | configured by the IRI-TF in | | | | the SMF using the | | | | _CreateDestination_ message | | | | as described in ETSI TS 103 | | | | 221-1 [7] clause 6.3.1 | | | | prior to first use. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | CorrelationNumber | Correlation ID to assign | M | | | for xIRI generated by the | | | | IRI-POI in the UPF. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ProductID | Shall be set to the XID of | M | | | the Task Object associated | | | | with the interception at | | | | the IRI-TF. This value | | | | shall be used by the | | | | IRI-POI in the UPF to fill | | | | the XID of X2 PDUs. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
Table 6.2.3-10: ActivatePDHReporting Parameters
+------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | pDHType | This field shall be set to either: | M | | | | | | | - \"PDHR,\" for packet-by-packet reporting. | | | | | | | | - \"PDSR,\" for summarized reporting. | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | pDSRType | If pDHType is PDSR, this field shall be set | C | | | to one of the following triggers: | | | | | | | | a)- timer expiry (along with a timer value | | | | and unit). | | | | | | | | b)- packet count (along with a value for the | | | | number of packets detected before a summary | | | | is to be triggered). | | | | | | | | c)- byte count (along with a value for the | | | | cumulative byte size reached across all | | | | packets belonging to the summary before said | | | | summary is to be triggered). | | | | | | | | Summary reports shall not be cumulative, | | | | i.e., each summary report shall describe only | | | | the packets contained in its respective | | | | range, and each new summary shall start its | | | | count (of whichever attribute from the | | | | numbered list above applies) from zero, i.e., | | | | the information in the (n+1)\'th summary | | | | report starts immediately after the end of | | | | the n\'th summary report. | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+
When the IRI-TF in the SMF detects that a targeted PDU session has changed
(i.e. when the SMF sends the N4: PFCP Session Modification Request to the UPF,
see TS 29.244 [15] clause 6.3.3) in a way which requires changes to the
interception by the IRI-POI in the UPF, the IRI-TF in the SMF shall modify the
interception at the IRI-POI in the UPF over the LI_T2 interface. This is
achieved by sending an ModifyTask message as defined in ETSI TS 103 221-1[ [7]
clause 6.2.2. The ModifyTask message contains the same details as the
ActivateTask message with the following fields updated as appropriate.
Table 6.2.3-11: Parameters that may be changed in a ModifyTask message when
updating interception at the IRI-POI in the UPF
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+ | TargetIdentifiers | Updated packet detection criteria as | M | | | determined by the IRI-TF in the SMF. | | | | | | | | NOTE: See notes on TargetIdentifiers | | | | in Table 6.2.3-6. | | +-------------------+----------------------------------------+-------+
When the IRI-POI in the SMF detects that the PDU session has been released
(i.e. when the SMF sends the N4: PFCP Session Deletion Request to the UPF, see
TS 29.244 [15] clause 6.3.4) for a target UE, it shall send a deactivation
message to the IRI-POI in the UPF over the LI_T2 interface. When using ETSI TS
103 221-1 [7] this is achieved by sending a DeactivateTask message with the
XID field set to the XID associated with the interception, as described in
ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] clause 6.2.3.
When a PDU session involves multiple UPFs, the selection of UPF to provide the
IRI-POI functions shall be done in the same way an UPF is selected to provide
the CC-POI functions as described in clauses 6.2.3.3.2 and 6.2.3.3.3.
When a warrant that does not include the service scoping of CC (but includes
the service scoping of IRI) is activated for a target UE with an established
PDU session and when the IRI-POI present in the SMF generates the xIRI
containing an SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record, if the
approach 1 specified in TS 33.127 [5] is used for packet data header
information reporting, then the IRI-TF present in the SMF shall send an
activation message to the IRI-POI present in the UPF to generate the Packet
Data Header report related xIRIs from the user plane packets of that PDU
session.
#### 6.2.3.5 Generation of xIRI at UPF over LI_X2
##### 6.2.3.5.1 Packet data header reporting
The IRI-POI in the UPF generates packet data header information either in per-
packet form, as Packet Data Header Reports (PDHRs), or in summary form, as
Packet Data Header Summary Reports (PDSRs).
##### 6.2.3.5.2 Fragmentation
If the IRI-POI in the UPF is placed on a link which fragmented the original IP
packet (see IETF RFC 791[34] for basic fragmentation rules, and IETF RFC 815
[26] for more complex re-assembly rules), a situation may occur in which only
the first fragment can be sensibly reported in a PDHR, while the subsequent
fragments may be missing essential fields that are mandatory, which may cause
simplistic implementations to mis-report them, or omit them altogether.
In this case, the IRI-POI in the UPF shall report the first fragment of a
fragmented IP packet, including the port numbers when they are included within
this first fragment, using the length of the fragment to determine if the port
numbers are indeed encoded within this first fragment. The subsequent
fragments are reported without port information. This technique relieves the
IRI-POI in the UPF from having to reassemble the original IP packet (at line
speed) at the cost of accuracy of the reported fields.
##### 6.2.3.5.3 Packet Data Header Reporting (PDHR)
If the per-packet form of packet data header reporting, i.e. PDHR, is used,
the IRI-POI in the UPF extracts the following information from each packet.
Table 6.2.3-12: PDHeaderReport record
+----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionID | The PDU session ID received | M | | | from the IRI-TF in the SMF. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sourceIPAddress | Shall contain the source | M | | | address of the packet from | | | | the 32-bit _\"Source | | | | Address\"_ field in IPv4, | | | | as defined in IETF RFC 791 | | | | [34], or from the 128-bit | | | | _\"Source Address\"_ field | | | | in IPv6, as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 2460 [27]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sourcePort | Shall contain the _\"Source | C | | | Port_ \" number that | | | | indicates an application or | | | | service running on top of | | | | the transport, if the | | | | _\"Protocol\"_ IP field | | | | (see the | | | | _nextLayerProtocol_ field | | | | below in this table) is one | | | | of: | | | | | | | | a) Transmission Control | | | | Protocol (**TCP**), IP | | | | \"Protocol\" field decimal | | | | \"6\"; see IETF RFC 793 | | | | [28]. | | | | | | | | b) User Datagram Protocol | | | | (**UDP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"17\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 768 [29]. | | | | | | | | c) Datagram Congestion | | | | Control Protocol | | | | (**DCCP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"33\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 4340 [30]. | | | | | | | | d) Stream Control | | | | Transmission Protocol | | | | (**SCTP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"132\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 4960 [31]. | | | | | | | | For further details on | | | | Layer four protocols, see | | | | IANA [32]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | destinationIPAddress | Shall contain the | M | | | destination address of the | | | | packet from the 32-bit | | | | _\"Destination Address\"_ | | | | field in IPv4, as defined | | | | in IETF RFC 791 [34], or | | | | from the 128-bit | | | | _\"Destination Address\"_ | | | | field, as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 2460 [27]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | destinationPort | Shall contain the | C | | | _\"Destination Port_ \" | | | | number that indicates an | | | | application or service | | | | running on top of the | | | | transport, if the | | | | _\"Protocol\"_ IP field | | | | (see the | | | | _nextLayerProtocol_ field | | | | below in this table) is one | | | | of: | | | | | | | | a) Transmission Control | | | | Protocol (**TCP**), IP | | | | \"Protocol\" field decimal | | | | \"6\"; see IETF RFC 793 | | | | [28]. | | | | | | | | b) User Datagram Protocol | | | | (**UDP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"17\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 768 [29]. | | | | | | | | c) Datagram Congestion | | | | Control Protocol | | | | (**DCCP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"33\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 4340 [30]. | | | | | | | | d) Stream Control | | | | Transmission Protocol | | | | (**SCTP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"132\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 4960 [31]. | | | | | | | | For further details on | | | | Layer four protocols, see | | | | IANA [32]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | nextLayerProtocol | Shall contain the contents | M | | | of the IP _\"Protocol\"_ | | | | field as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 791 [34] (bits 72..79 | | | | in the IP header), and is | | | | one of the assigned | | | | Internet protocol numbers | | | | defined in _IANA_ [32]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | iPv6flowLabel | If the IP addresses in the | C | | | report are IPv6, this field | | | | shall contain the 20-bit | | | | IPv6 \"Flow Label\" as | | | | defined in: | | | | | | | | - IPv6 IETF RFC 2460 | | | | [27], and | | | | | | | | - IPV6 Flow Label | | | | Specification IETF RFC 6437 | | | | [33]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | direction | Shall contain the direction | M | | | of the intercepted packet, | | | | and it indicates either | | | | \"from target\" or \"to | | | | target.\" | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | packetSize | Shall contain the value of | M | | | the _\"Total Length_ \" IP | | | | header field if IPv4 is | | | | used, as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 791 [34], or the | | | | value of the \"_Payload | | | | Length_ \" field if IPv6 is | | | | used, as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 2460 [27]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
##### 6.2.3.5.4 Packet Data Summary Reporting (PDSR)
If the summary form of the packet data header reporting, i.e. PDSR, is used,
the IRI-POI in the UPF extracts from each packet the following information,
and aggregates it in summaries.
Table 6.2.3-13: PDSummaryReport record
+----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDUSessionID | The PDU session ID received | M | | | from the IRI-TF in the SMF. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sourceIPAddress | Shall contain the source | M | | | address of the packet from | | | | the 32-bit _\"Source | | | | Address\"_ field in IPv4, | | | | as defined in IETF RFC 791 | | | | [34], or from the 128-bit | | | | _\"Source Address\"_ field | | | | in IPv6, as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 2460 [27]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | sourcePort | Shall contain the _\"Source | C | | | Port_ \" number that | | | | indicates an application or | | | | service running on top of | | | | the transport, if the | | | | _\"Protocol\"_ IP field | | | | (see the | | | | _nextLayerProtocol_ field | | | | below in this table) is one | | | | of: | | | | | | | | a) Transmission Control | | | | Protocol (**TCP**), IP | | | | \"Protocol\" field decimal | | | | \"6\"; see IETF RFC 793 | | | | [28]. | | | | | | | | b) User Datagram Protocol | | | | (**UDP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"17\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 768 [29]. | | | | | | | | c) Datagram Congestion | | | | Control Protocol | | | | (**DCCP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"33\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 4340 [30]. | | | | | | | | d) Stream Control | | | | Transmission Protocol | | | | (**SCTP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"132\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 4960 [31]. | | | | | | | | For further details on | | | | Layer four protocols, see | | | | IANA[32]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | destinationIPAddress | Shall contain the | M | | | destination address of the | | | | packet from the 32-bit | | | | _\"Destination Address\"_ | | | | field in IPv4, as defined | | | | in IETF RFC 791 [34], or | | | | from the 128-bit | | | | _\"Destination Address\"_ | | | | field, as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 2460 [27]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | destinationPort | Shall contain the | C | | | _\"Destination Port_ \" | | | | number that indicates an | | | | application or service | | | | running on top of the | | | | transport, if the | | | | _\"Protocol\"_ IP field | | | | (see the | | | | _nextLayerProtocol_ field | | | | below in this table) is one | | | | of: | | | | | | | | a) Transmission Control | | | | Protocol (**TCP**), IP | | | | \"Protocol\" field decimal | | | | \"6\"; see IETF RFC 793 | | | | [28]. | | | | | | | | b) User Datagram Protocol | | | | (**UDP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"17\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 768 [29]. | | | | | | | | c) Datagram Congestion | | | | Control Protocol | | | | (**DCCP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"33\"; see | | | | IETF RFC 4340 [30]. | | | | | | | | d) Stream Control | | | | Transmission Protocol | | | | (**SCTP**), IP \"Protocol\" | | | | field decimal \"132\"; | | | | Stream Control Transmission | | | | Protocol [31]. | | | | | | | | For further details on | | | | Layer four protocols, see | | | | IANA [32]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | nextLayerProtocol | Shall contain the contents | M | | | of the IP _\"Protocol\"_ | | | | field as defined in IETF | | | | RFC 791 [34] (bits 72..79 | | | | in the IP header), and is | | | | one of the assigned | | | | Internet protocol numbers | | | | defined in _IANA_ [32]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | iPv6flowLabel | If the IP addresses in the | C | | | report are IPv6, this field | | | | shall contain the 20-bit | | | | IPv6 \"Flow Label\" as | | | | defined in IPv6 IETF RFC | | | | 2460 [27] and the _IPV6 | | | | Flow Label Specification_ | | | | IETF RFC 6437 [33]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | direction | Shall contain the direction | M | | | of the intercepted packet, | | | | and it indicates either | | | | \"from target\" or \"to | | | | target.\" | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | pDSRSummaryTrigger | Shall contain the trigger | M | | | that caused the summary | | | | report to be generated, | | | | which is one of the | | | | following: | | | | | | | | a) timer expiry. | | | | | | | | b) packet count. | | | | | | | | c) byte count. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | firstPacketTimestamp | Shall contain the timestamp | M | | | that represents the time | | | | that the IRI-POI in the UPF | | | | detected the first packet | | | | in the set represented by | | | | this summary. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | lastPacketTimestamp | Shall contain the timestamp | M | | | that represents the time | | | | that the IRI-POI in the UPF | | | | detected the last packet in | | | | the set represented by this | | | | summary. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | packetCount | Shall contain the number of | M | | | packets detected during the | | | | creation of this summary. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | byteCount | Shall contain the number of | M | | | bytes summed across all | | | | packets that belong to this | | | | summary. For IPv4 it is the | | | | sum of the _\"Total | | | | Length\"_ fields across all | | | | packets in the summary as | | | | defined in _Internet | | | | Protocol_ IETF RFC 791 | | | | [34], while for IPv6 it | | | | is the sum of the | | | | _\"Payload Length_ \" fields | | | | across all packets in the | | | | summary as defined in | | | | _Internet Protocol, Version | | | | 6 (IPv6) Specification_ , | | | | IETF RFC 2460 [27]. | | +----------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
#### 6.2.3.6 Generation of xCC at CC-POI in the UPF over LI_X3
The CC-POI present in the UPF shall send xCC over LI_X3 for each IP packet
matching the criteria specified in the Triggering message (i.e. ActivateTask
message) received over LI_T3 from the CC-TF in the SMF.
NOTE: Implementers are reminded of the completeness and non-duplication
requirements (see TS 33.127 [5]).
Each X3 PDU shall contain the contents of the GTP-U packet given using the
GTP-U message payload format value 12 (see ETSI TS 103 221-2 [8] table 7 in
clause 5.4 and clause 5.4.13).
#### 6.2.3.7 Generation of IRI over LI_HI2
When an xIRI is received over LI_X2 from the IRI-POI in SMF, the MDF2 shall
send the IRI message over LI_HI2 without undue delay. The IRI message shall
contain a copy of the relevent record received from LI_X2. The record may be
enriched by other information available at the MDF (e.g. additional location
information).
The timestamp field of the ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9] PSHeader structure shall be
set to the time at which the SMF event was observed (i.e. the timestamp field
of the xIRI). The LIID and CID fields shall correctly reflect the target
identity and communication session to which the IRI message belongs.
The threeGPP33128DefinedIRI field (see ETSI TS 102 232-7 [10] clause 15) shall
be populated with the BER-encoded IRIPayload.
When an additional warrant is activated on a target UE and the LIPF uses the
same XID for the additional warrant, the MDF2 shall be able to generate and
deliver the IRI message containing the
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record to the LEMF associated
with the additional warrant without receiving a corresponding xIRI. The
payload of the SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record is
specified in table 6.2.3-4. The MDF2 shall generate and deliver the IRI
message containing the SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession record
for each of the established PDU sessions to the LEMF associated with the new
warrant.
#### 6.2.3.8 Generation of CC over LI_HI3
When the xCC is received over LI_X3, the MDF3 shall emit the CC over LI_HI3
without undue delay.
The timestamp field of the ETSI TS 102 232-1 [9] PSHeader structure shall be
set to the time that the UPF observed the data (i.e. the timestamp field of
the xCC data). The LIID and CID fields shall correctly reflect the target
identity and communication session to which the CC belongs.
The MDF3 shall populate the threeGPP33128DefinedCC field (see clause 5.5.3 of
the present document) with a BER-encoded CCPayload structure containing
either:
1\. The uPFCCPDU field containing the GTP-U packet received over LI_X3. It
shall only be used if the content of the GTP-U packet is an IPv4 or IPv6
packet.
2\. The extendedUPFCCPDU field as described in Table 6.2.3-14.
The MDF3 shall support delivery using either option.
Table 6.2.3-14: ExtendedUPFCCPDU structure
* * *
Field name Description M/C/O payload Payload of the GTP-U packet without GTP-U
encapsulation. Content shall be supplied according to Table 6.2.3-15. M qFI
Shall be populated with the QoS Flow Identifier value from the GTP-U header
extension (see TS 38.415 [35] clause 5.5.3.3) if present over LI_X3. C
* * *
Table 6.2.3-15: UPFCCPDUPayload structure
* * *
Field name Description uPFIPCC Contains an IPv4 or IPv6 packet. uPFEthernetCC
Contains an Ethernet frame. uPFUnstructuredCC Contains an unstructured packet.
* * *
#### 6.2.3.9 Packet Data Information Reporting at MDF2
As described in TS 33.127 [5] clause 6.2.3.1, the warrants that do not require
the interception of communication contents may require IRI messages that
require access to the user plane packets. One such service that requires such
a capability is the packet data header information reporting which includes
the following two IRI messages:
> \- Packet Data Header Reporting (PDHR).
>
> \- Packet Data Summary Reporting (PDSR).
NOTE: Packet Data Header Reporting is done using the IRI messges containing
the PDHeaderReport record and the Packet Data Summary Reporting is done using
the IRI messages containing the PDSummaryReport record.
TS 33.127 [5] provides two approaches for the generation of such IRI messages.
In approach 1, the IRI-POI present in the UPF based on a trigger received from
IRI-TF present in the SMF constructs and delivers the xIRIs to the MDF2. The
details of this are described in clause 6.2.3.5.
In approach 2, the CC-TF present in the SMF triggers the CC-POI present in the
UPF to deliver the xCC to the MDF3 as described in clause 6.2.3.5. The MDF3
forwards the xCC to the MDF2 over the LI-MDF interface and MDF2 generates the
IRI messages containing the PDHeaderReport and PDSummaryReport records from
the xCC. The payload of PDHeaderReport and PDSummaryReport records are as
described in clause 6.2.3.5, table 6.2.3-11. Note that in approach 2, the MDF2
generates these IRI messages containing PDHeaderReport and PDSummaryReport
records without receiving the equivalent xIRI from an IRI-POI. The actions of
MDF2, MDF3 and CC-TF in SMF are managed as part of the intercept data
provisioned to them over the LI_X1 interface.
### 6.2.4 LI at UDM for 5G
#### 6.2.4.1 General description
In 5G packet core network, the UDM provides the unified data management for
UE. The UDM shall have LI capabilities to generate the target UE\'s service
area registration related xIRI. See clause 7.2.2 for the details.
### 6.2.5 LI at SMSF
#### 6.2.5.1 Provisioning over LI_X1
The IRI-POI present in the SMSF is provisioned over LI_X1 by the LIPF using
the X1 protocol as described in clause 5.2.2.
The POI in the SMSF shall support the following Target Identifier Formats in
the ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7] messages:
\- SUPI.
\- PEI.
\- GPSI.
#### 6.2.5.2 Generation of xIRI over LI_X2
The IRI-POI present in the SMSF shall send xIRI over LI_X2 for the event
listed in TS 33.127 [5] clause 6.2.5.3, the details of which are described in
the following sub-clause.
#### 6.2.5.3 SMS Message
The IRI-POI in the SMSF shall generate an xIRI containing an SMSMessage record
for the following cases:
SMS-MO case:
\- When a target UE originates an SMS message or when any UE originates an SMS
message destined to a target non-local ID.
SMS-MT case:
\- When an SMS message delivery to a target UE is attempted or when an SMS
message delivery originated from a target non-local ID is attempted to any UE.
\- When an SMS message is successfully delivered to a target UE or when an SMS
message originated from a target non-local ID is successfully delivered to any
UE.
The SMS-MT case can also apply to the scenario when a receipt of SMS delivery
from the far end is delivered successfully to the target UE or when a receipt
of SMS delivery from a target non-Local ID is successfully delivered to the
originating UE.
The IRI-POI present in the SMSF shall generate the xIRI containing the
SMSMessage record when it detects following events:
\- The SMSF receives a SMCP message CP-DATA_RPDATA [SUBMIT_SMS] from a target
UE (via AMF in Nsmsf_SMService_UplinkSMS message) or from any UE with TP-DA
field within the SUBMIT_SMS containing a target non-Local ID and SMSF returns
the SMCP: CP-ACK to that originating UE.
\- The SMSF receives a Nsmsf_SMService_UplinkSMS with SmsRecordData IE
containing the SMCP message CP-DATA_RP-ACK [SMS-DELIVER-REPORT] in response to
a previously sent SMCP: Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer with
N1MessageContainer having the SMCP message CP-DATA_RP-DATA [SMS-DELIVER].
NOTE 1: In the above-mentioned descriptions, the requirements of target Non-
Local ID do not apply when both originating and terminating users of an SMS
message are served by the same CSP. The method used to identify a target non-
Local ID is different from the method used to identify a local target ID.
Table 6.2.5-1: Payload for SMSMessage record
+---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | originatingSMSParty | Identity of the originating SMS | M | | | party. See NOTE 2. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | terminatingSMSParty | Identity of the terminating SMS | M | | | party. See NOTE 3. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | direction | Direction of the SMS with respect to | M | | | the target. See NOTE 4. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | transferStatus | Indicates whether the transfer | M | | | succeeded or not. See NOTE 5. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | otherMessage | In the event of a server-initiated | M | | | transfer, indicates whether the | | | | server will send another SMS. May be | | | | omitted if the transfer is | | | | target-initiated. See NOTE 6. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | peerNFAddress | Address of the other network | C | | | function (SMS-GMSC/IWMSC/SMS-Router) | | | | involved in the communication of the | | | | SMS, if available. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | peerNFType | Type of the other network function | C | | | (SMS-GMSC/IWMSC/SMS-Router) involved | | | | in the communication of the SMS, if | | | | available. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | location | Location information associated with | C | | | the UE sending or receiving the SMS, | | | | if available. See NOTE 7. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _userLocation_ | | | | parameter | | | | (_loc | | | | ation >locationInfo>userLocation_), | | | | see Annex A. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+ | sMSTPDUData | SMS TPDU, encoded as per TS 23.040 | M | | | [18] clause 9. See NOTE 8. | | +---------------------+--------------------------------------+-------+
NOTE 2: For the SMS-MO case, the originating party is the address of the UE
from which the SMSF receives the CP-DATA_RP_DATA (SUBMIT-MS) message (via AMF
in the Nsmsf_SMService_UplinkSMS). The GPSI is one of the data fields used in
the Nsmsf related messages (see TS 29.540 [21]). Alternatively, the SMSF may
find the originating party address in the same way it finds the address when
generating charging records. For SMS-MT case, this is derived from TP-OA field
(TS 23.040 [18]).
NOTE 3: For SMS-MT case, the terminating party is the address of the UE to
which the SMSF sends the CP-DATA_RP_DATA (SMS-DELIVER) message (via AMF in
Namf_Communications_N1N2MessageTransfer). The GPSI is one of the data fields
used in the Namf related messages (TS 29.518 [22]). Alternatively, the SMSF
may find the terminating party address in the same way it finds the address
when generating charging records. For SMS-MO case, this is derived from the
TP-DA field (TS 23.040 [18]).
NOTE 4: For the SMS-MO case, for SMS originated from the target UE, the value
fromTarget is used and for SMS destined to target Non-local ID, the toTarget
is used. For SMS-MT case, for SMS terminated to the target UE, the value
toTarget is used and for SMS originated from a target Non-local ID, the
fromTarget is used.
NOTE 5: This field is set to transferSucceeded or transferFailed as follows:
\- SMS-MO case:
\- To transferSucceeded: when the IRI-POI in the SMSF detects that SMSF sends
the MO-FORWARD-SHORT-MESSAGE-request [SUBMIT SMS] message to the SMS-IWMSC.
\- To transferFailed: when the IRI-POI in SMSF detects the scenarios where
SMSF cannot send the MO-FORWARD-SHORT-MESSAGE-request [SMS-SUBMIT] to SMS-
IWMSC, but still generates an xIRI containing the SMSMessage record.
\- SMS-MT case:
\- To transferSucceeded: when the IRI-POI in the SMSF detects that SMSF sends
the MT-FORWARD-SHORT-MESSAGE-answer [SMS-DELIVER-REPORT] message to the SMS-
IWMSC.
\- To transferFailed: when the IRI-POI in SMSF detects the scenarios where
SMSF cannot send the MT-FORWARD-SHORT-MESSAGE-Answer [SMS-DELIVER-REPORT] to
the SMS-GMSC, but an xIRI containing the SMSMessage record is still generated.
NOTE 6: This is only applicable to the SMS-MT case and can be derived from the
TP-MMS (More Message to Send) field present in the SMS-DELIVER sent to the UE
(via AMF in the Namf_Communications_N1N2MessageTransfer).
NOTE 7: This is derived from the ueLocation field of SmsRecord IE received
from the AMF in the Nsmsf_SMService_UplinkSMS message (TS 29.540 [21]). For
the SMS-MO case, the SMCP message is CP-DATA_RP-DATA [SMS-SUBMIT] and for the
SMS-MT case, the SMCP message is CP-DATA-RP-ACK [SMS-DELIVER-REPORT].
NOTE 8: According to the intercept related data provisioning received over the
LI_X1 reference point from the LIPF, the IRI-POI present in the SMSF may
discover that the Interception Product may not include the CC. In this case,
the IRI-POI present in the SMSF may remove the sMSTPDUDATA from the SMSMessage
record sent to the MDF2. When multiple warrants are issued on a target UE, the
SMSF may deliver the SMSMessage record with the sMSTPDUDATA present to the
MDF2. In that case, the MDF2 is expected to remove the equivalent information
from the IRI message sent over the LI_HI2 reference point when it discovers
from the intercept related data provisioned to it over LI_X1 reference point.
#### 6.2.5.4 Generation of IRI over LI_HI2
When an xIRI containing the SMSMessage record is received over LI_X2 from the
IRI-POI in SMSF, the MDF2 shall send the IRI message over LI_HI2 without undue
delay. The IRI message shall contain a copy of the SMSMessage record received
over the LI_X2. The SMSMessage record may be enriched by other information
available at the MDF (e.g. additional location information).
The threeGPP33128DefinedCC field (see ETSI TS 102 232-7 [10] clause 15) shall
be populated with the BER-encoded IRIPayload.
The timestamp field of the psHeader structure shall be set to the time that
the SMSF event was observed (i.e. the timestamp field of the xIRI). The LIID
and CID fields shall correctly reflect the target identity and communication
session to which the IRI belongs.
National regulations may require that the MDF2 removes information regarded as
content from the smsTPDUData field in case of an IRI only warrant. The details
of what needs be removed, and under what circumstances this is for national
regulation, are outside the scope of the present document.
### 6.2.6 LI support at NRF
The SIRF present within the NRF provides SBA-related information to the LIPF
over the LI_SI interface. Details for this interface are not considered in the
present document and are for further study.
## 6.3 4G
The present document does not specify details of the LI interfaces for 4G /
LTE. Details for this release are specified in TS 33.108 [12].
## 6.4 3G
The Present document does not specify details of the LI interfaces for 3G /
UMTS. Details for this release are specified in TS 33.108 [12].
# 7 Service Layer Based Interception
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause describes any remaining fields, behaviours or details necessary to
implement the required LI interfaces for specific 3GPP-defined services which
are not described in clauses 4 and 5.
## 7.2 Central Subscriber Management
### 7.2.1 General description
This clause describes interception at central subscriber management functions
or databases (e.g. UDM and HSS).
### 7.2.2 LI at UDM
#### 7.2.2.1 General description
In 3GPP network, the UDM provides the unified data management for UE. The UDM
shall have LI capabilities to generate the target UE\'s service area
registration and subscription management related xIRI.
#### 7.2.2.2 Provisioning over LI_X1
The IRI-POI present in the UDM is provisioned over LI_X1 by the LIPF using the
X1 protocol as described in clause 5.2.2.
#### 7.2.2.3 Generation of xIRI over LI_X2
##### 7.2.2.3.1 General description
The IRI-POI present in the UDM shall send xIRI over LI_X2 for each of the
events listed in TS 33.127 [5] clause 7.2.2.4, the details of which are
described in the following sub-clauses.
NOTE: The present document supports only the xIRIs containing the
UDMServingSystemMessage record.
##### 7.2.2.3.2 Serving system
The IRI-POI in the UDM shall generate an xIRI containing the
UDMServingSystemMessage record when it detects the following events:
\- When the UDM receives the amf3GPPAccessRegistration from the AMF in the
Nudm_UEContextManagement_Registration message (see TS 29.503 [25], clause
5.3.2.2.2).
\- When the UDM receives the amfNon3GPPAccessRegistration from the AMF in the
Nudm_UEContextManagement_Registration message (see TS 29.503 [25], clause
5.3.2.2.3).
When a target UE registers to both 3GPP and non-3GPP access, two separate
xIRIs each containing the UDMServingSystemMessage record may be generated by
the IRI-POI in the UDM.
Table 7.2.2.3-1: Payload for UDMServingSystemMessage record
* * *
Field name Description M/C/O sUPI SUPI associated with the target UE, see TS
29.571 [17]. M pEI PEI associated with the target UE, when known, see TS
29.571 17]. C gPSI GPSI associated with the target UE, when known, see TS
29.571 [17]. C gUAMI Serving AMF\'s GUAMI, when known. See NOTE 1. C gUMMEI
Serving MME\'s GUMMEI See NOTE 2. C pLMNID Serving PLMN Id. See TS 29.571
[17]. See NOTE 3. C servingSystemMethod Identifies method used to access the
serving system, see NOTE 4. M
* * *
NOTE 1: GUAMI is the global unique identifier of an AMF [2] and its format is
defined in TS 29.571 [17]. As defined in TS 23.501 [2], clause 5.9.4, GUAMI
consists of \ \ \ \ \. The
GUAMI is reported if the UDM receives the same from the AMF.
NOTE 2: GUMMEI is the global unique identifier of an MME and its format is
defined in TS 23.003 [19]. As defined in TS 23.003 [19], clause 2.8.1, GUMMEI
consists of \ \ \. The GUMMEI is reported if the UDM
receives the same from the MME.
NOTE 3: PLMN Id provides the VPLMN Id when the target UE is roaming.
NOTE 4: This identifies whether the xIRI containing the
UDMServingSystemMessage record is generated due to the reception of an
amf3GPPAccessRegistration, or an amfNon3GPPAccessRegistration. See TS 29.503
[25].
##### 7.2.2.3.3 Subscriber record change
Subscriber record change is not supported in the present document.
##### 7.2.2.3.4 Cancel location
Cancel location is not supported in the present document.
##### 7.2.2.3.5 Location information request
Location information request is not supported in the present document.
#### 7.2.2.4 Generation of IRI over LI_HI2
When an xIRI message is received over LI_X2 from the IRI-POI in UDM, the MDF2
shall send an IRI message over LI_HI2 without undue delay.
The timestamp field of the psHeader structure shall be set to the time that
the UDM event was observed (i.e. the timestamp field of the xIRI). The LIID
and CID fields shall correctly reflect the target identity and communication
session to which the IRI message belongs.
### 7.2.3 LI at HSS
The present document does not specify details of the LI interfaces at the HSS.
Details for this release are specified in TS 33.108 [12].
## 7.3 Location
### 7.3.1 Lawful Access Location Services (LALS)
#### 7.3.1.1 General description
The LALS architecture and functionality is specified in TS 33.127 [5], clause
7.3.3.
#### 7.3.1.2 Provisioning over LI_X1
#### 7.3.1.2.1 Target positioning service
For the LALS target positioning service (TS 33.127 [5], clause 7.3.3.2) the
IRI-POI provided by the LI-LCS client is directly provisioned over LI_X1 by
the LIPF using the LI_X1 protocol as described in clause 5.2.2 with the
TaskDetailsExtensions field of the ActivateTask message specifying the type of
the target positioning request, immediate vs. periodic, and, in the latter
case, the periodicity of the positioning requests.
Based on national regulatory requirements and CSP policy, the
TaskDetailsExtensions may also include the QoS parameters (specified in OMA-
TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C [20]) for the use on the Le interface towards the LCS
Server/GMLC. Alternatively, the QoS parameters may be statically configured in
the LI-LCS client.
Table 7.3.1.2-1 shows the details of the LI_X1 ActivateTask message used for
the LI-LCS client provisioning for the target positioning service.
The LI_X1 DeactivateTask shall be issued by the LIPF to terminate the target
positioning service and withdraw the associated provisioning data, except for
the Immediate target positioning service in which case the LI_X1
DeactivateTask is not used.
Table 7.3.1.2-1: ActivateTask message for LI-LCS client target positioning
provisioning
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ETSI TS 103 221-1 field | Description | M/C/O | | name | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | XID | XID assigned by LIPF. | M | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TargetIdentifiers | One of the following: | M | | | | | | | - SUPI. | | | | | | | | - PEI. | | | | | | | | - GPSI. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | DeliveryType | Set to \"X2Only\". | M | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ListOfDIDs | Delivery endpoints of | M | | | LI_X2 interface or MDF2 | | | | address. These delivery | | | | endpoints are configured | | | | using the CreateDestination | | | | message as described in | | | | ETSI TS 103 221-1 [7], | | | | clause 6.3.1 prior to the | | | | task activation. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TaskDetailsExtensions/ | \"Immediate\" or | M | | | \"Periodic\". | | | PositioningServiceType | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TaskDetailsExtensions/ | Time interval between the | C | | | positioning requests in | | | PositioningPeriodicity | case of Periodic | | | | positioning, in seconds. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TaskDetailsExtensions/ | Set of optional parameters | O | | | for MLP SLIR message, per | | | PositioningParameters | OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C | | | | [20]: | | | | | | | | - requested location type | | | | (clause 5.3.60). | | | | | | | | - requested response type | | | | (clause 5.3.112.1). | | | | | | | | - max location age (clause | | | | 5.3.65). | | | | | | | | - response timing required | | | | (clause 5.3.106). | | | | | | | | - response timer (clause | | | | 5.3.107). | | | | | | | | - horizontal accuracy with | | | | QoS class (clause 5.3.44). | | | | | | | | - altitude accuracy with | | | | QoS class (clause 5.3.6). | | | | | | | | - motion state request | | | | (clause 5.3.70). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
#### 7.3.1.2.2 Triggered location service
For the LALS triggered location service (TS 33.127 [5], clause 7.3.3.3) the
IRI-TF (LTF) is provisioned by the LIPF using the LI_X1 protocol as described
in clause 5.2.2. The \"TaskDetailsExtensions\" parameter of the ActivateTask
message in this case will carry the address of LI-LCS client to be used for
the service and, optionally, the positioning parameters for use on the Le
interface, similar to the target positioning provisioning.
Table 7.3.1.2-2 defines the details of the LI_X1 ActivateTask message used for
the LTF provisioning for the Triggered Location service.
Table 7.3.1.2-2: ActivateTask message for LTF triggered location service
provisioning
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ETSI TS 103 221-1 field | Description | M/C/O | | name | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | XID | XID assigned by LIPF. | M | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TargetIdentifiers | One of the following: | M | | | | | | | - SUPI. | | | | | | | | - PEI. | | | | | | | | - GPSI. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | DeliveryType | Set to \"X2Only\". | M | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ListOfDIDs | Delivery endpoints for | M | | | LI-LCS Client LI_X2. These | | | | delivery endpoints are | | | | configured in LTF using the | | | | CreateDestination message | | | | as described in ETSI TS 103 | | | | 221-1 [7], clause 6.3.1 | | | | prior to the task | | | | activation. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TaskDetailsExtensions/ | The IP address of the | M | | | LI-LCS Client for | | | LI-LCSClientAddress | triggering. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TaskDetailsExtensions/ | Set of optional parameters | O | | | for MLP SLIR message, per | | | PositioningParameters | OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C | | | | [20]: | | | | | | | | - requested location type | | | | (clause 5.3.60). | | | | | | | | - requested response type | | | | (clause 5.3.112.1). | | | | | | | | - max location age (clause | | | | 5.3.65). | | | | | | | | - response timing required | | | | (clause 5.3.106). | | | | | | | | - response timer (clause | | | | 5.3.107). | | | | | | | | - horizontal accuracy with | | | | QoS class (clause 5.3.44). | | | | | | | | - altitude accuracy with | | | | QoS class (clause 5.3.6). | | | | | | | | - motion state request | | | | (clause 5.3.70). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
#### 7.3.1.3 Triggering over LI_T2
An LTF, provisioned as described in clause 7.3.3.2.2, triggers the triggered
IRI-POI provided by the LI-LCS client using the LI_T2 protocol as described in
clause 5.2.4. The \"TaskDetailsExtensions\" in the LI_T2 \"ActivateTask\"
message carries the positioning parameters mapped from the LTF provisioning
over the LI_X1. The LI_T2 \"ActivateTask\" message header may include a
correlation ID from the triggering xIRI, if available.
Prior to issuing one or more \"ActivateTask\" requests towards an LI-LCS
Client, the LPF shall provision the LI-LCS client with the LI_X2 destinations
by using the \"CreateDestination\" operation(s), as per clause 5.2.2. The LI-
LCS client shall implicitly deactivate the task upon issuing the final xIRI
for the trigger. There is no DeactivateTask operation on the LI_T2 for the LI-
LCS client.
The Table 7.3.1.3-1 shows the details of the LI_T2 ActivateTask message used
by the LTF to trigger LI-CS client for the triggered location service.
Table 7.3.1.3-1: ActivateTask message from LTF to LI-LCS client for the
triggered location service triggering
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ETSI TS 103 221-1 field | Description | M/C/O | | name | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | XID | The same value as in the | M | | | LTF provisioning (clause | | | | 7.3.3.2.2). | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TargetIdentifiers | One of the following, per | M | | | LTF provisioning: | | | | | | | | - SUPI. | | | | | | | | - PEI. | | | | | | | | - GPSI. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | DeliveryType | Set to \"X2Only\". | M | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | ListOfDIDs | Delivery endpoints for | M | | | LI-LCS Client LI_X2. These | | | | delivery endpoints are | | | | configured in LTF using the | | | | CreateDestination message | | | | as described in ETSI TS 103 | | | | 221-1 [7], clause 6.3.1 | | | | prior to the task | | | | activation. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | TaskDetailsExtensions/ | Set of parameters | C | | | (requested location type, | | | PositioningParameters | requested response type | | | | (SYNC vs ASYNC) and timing, | | | | QoS (max location age, | | | | accuracy and QoS Class), | | | | mapData request, velocity | | | | request), as per | | | | OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C | | | | [20], as specified in the | | | | LTF provisioning message | | | | over LI_X1. | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
#### 7.3.1.4 Generation of xIRI over LI_X2
The IRI-POI provided by the LI-LCS client shall deliver the target location
reports to respective MDF(s) as xIRI over the LI_X2 interface.
Table 7.3.1.4-1: LALSReport record
+------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | Field name | Description | M/C/O | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | sUPI | SUPI of the target, if used for the service. | C | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | pEI | PEI of the target, if used for the service. | C | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | gPSI | GPSI of the target, if used for the service. | C | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+ | location | Location of the target, if obtained | C | | | successfully. | | | | | | | | Encoded as a _positioningInfo_ parameter | | | | (_location >positioningInfo_). Both the | | | | _positionInfo_ | | | | (_location >positioningInfo>positionInfo_) | | | | and the _mLPPositionData_ | | | | (_location >posit | | | | ioningInfo>rawMLPResponse>mLPPositionData_) | | | | are present in the case of successful | | | | positioning. In the case of positioning | | | | failure only the _mLPErrorCode | | | | (location >po | | | | sitioningInfo>rawMLPResponse>mLPErrorCode)_ | | | | is present. See Annex A. | | +------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------+
The LI_X2 header (as per clause 5.3.2) of the LALSReport record presented in
Table 7.3.1.4-1 shall contain the correlation ID (if provided) from a
respective LI_T2 ActivationTask message.
#### 7.3.1.5 Generation of IRI over LI_HI2
The LALSReport payload, defined in clause 7.3.1.4, shall be used as the
payload of the respective LALSReport record, no payload mediation is required.
NOTE: In some specific scenarios the amount of LALS reports data may overload
the LI-HI2 and/or LI_X2 interfaces. To prevent the overload, a flow control
for LALS triggered location reports may be implemented in MDF and/or LI-LCS
client, e.g. by limiting the frequency of the reports for individual targets.
### 7.3.2 Cell database information reporting
#### 7.3.2.1 General description
When the location information present within an xIRI includes the cell
identity, the MDF2 that receives the xIRI may retrieve the cell site
information for that cell from a CSP database and deliver the same to the LEMF
either within the IRI message generated from the received xIRI or in a
separate IRI message containing the MDFCellSiteReport record.
For each intercept, if the MDF2 reports the cell site information, then it
shall provide such information at least on the initial appearance of the cell
identity in the related xIRI.
NOTE: The CSP needs to ensure that the most recent cell site information is
reported to the LEA.
#### 7.3.2.2 Delivery of cell site information over LI_HI2
The cell site information is encoded as the cellSiteInformation ASN.1
parameter and delivered either within the location field of an IRI message
carrying the respective cell identity, or in a stand-alone IRI message
containing the MDFCellSiteReport record.
The MDF2 shall use the IRI message containing the MDFCellSiteReport record to
convey cell site information retrieved asynchronously with the sending of the
IRI message that caused the retrieval.
When the cell site information is readily available at MDF2 or is retrieved
synchronously (i.e., blocking the sending of the IRI message until the
retrieval is complete), the cell site information shall be conveyed within the
location field of the IRI message that caused the retrieval.
The cell site information for multiple cell identities can be delivered to the
LEMF within an IRI message that carries the respective cell identities or
within the IRI message containing the MDFCellSiteReport record (see Annex A).
###### ## Annex A (normative): Structure of both the Internal and External
Interfaces
TS33128Payloads
{itu-t(0) identified-organization(4) etsi(0) securityDomain(2)
lawfulIntercept(2) threeGPP(4) ts33128(19) r15(15) version5(5)}
DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS EXTENSIBILITY IMPLIED ::=
BEGIN
\-- =============
\-- Relative OIDs
\-- =============
xIRIPayloadOID RELATIVE-OID ::= {threeGPP(4) ts33128(19) r15(15) version4(4)
xIRI(1)}
xCCPayloadOID RELATIVE-OID ::= {threeGPP(4) ts33128(19) r15(15) version4(4)
xCC(2)}
iRIPayloadOID RELATIVE-OID ::= {threeGPP(4) ts33128(19) r15(15) version4(4)
iRI(3)}
cCPayloadOID RELATIVE-OID ::= {threeGPP(4) ts33128(19) r15(15) version4(4)
cC(4)}
lINotificationPayloadOID RELATIVE-OID ::= {threeGPP(4) ts33128(19) r15(15)
version5(5) lINotification(5)}
\-- ===============
\-- X2 xIRI payload
\-- ===============
XIRIPayload ::= SEQUENCE
{
relativeOID [1] RELATIVE-OID,
event [2] XIRIEvent
}
XIRIEvent ::= CHOICE
{
\-- Access and mobility related events, see clause 6.2.2
registration [1] AMFRegistration,
deregistration [2] AMFDeregistration,
locationUpdate [3] AMFLocationUpdate,
startOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE [4]
AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE,
unsuccessfulAMProcedure [5] AMFUnsuccessfulProcedure,
\-- PDU session-related events, see clause 6.2.3
pDUSessionEstablishment [6] SMFPDUSessionEstablishment,
pDUSessionModification [7] SMFPDUSessionModification,
pDUSessionRelease [8] SMFPDUSessionRelease,
startOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession [9]
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession,
unsuccessfulSMProcedure [10] SMFUnsuccessfulProcedure,
\-- Subscriber-management related events, see clause 7.2.2
servingSystemMessage [11] UDMServingSystemMessage,
\-- SMS-related events, see clause 6.2.5
sMSMessage [12] SMSMessage,
\-- LALS-related events, see clause 7.3.3
lALSReport [13] LALSReport,
\-- PDHR/PDSR-related events, see clause 6.2.3.4.1
pDHeaderReport [14] PDHeaderReport,
pDSummaryReport [15] PDSummaryReport
}
\-- ==============
\-- X3 xCC payload
\-- ==============
\-- No additional xCC payload definitions required in the present document.
\-- ===============
\-- HI2 IRI payload
\-- ===============
IRIPayload ::= SEQUENCE
{
relativeOID [1] RELATIVE-OID,
event [2] IRIEvent,
targetIdentifiers [3] SEQUENCE OF IRITargetIdentifier OPTIONAL
}
IRIEvent ::= CHOICE
{
\-- Registration-related events, see clause 6.2.2
registration [1] AMFRegistration,
deregistration [2] AMFDeregistration,
locationUpdate [3] AMFLocationUpdate,
startOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE [4]
AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE,
unsuccessfulRegistrationProcedure [5] AMFUnsuccessfulProcedure,
\-- PDU session-related events, see clause 6.2.3
pDUSessionEstablishment [6] SMFPDUSessionEstablishment,
pDUSessionModification [7] SMFPDUSessionModification,
pDUSessionRelease [8] SMFPDUSessionRelease,
startOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession [9]
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession,
unsuccessfulSessionProcedure [10] SMFUnsuccessfulProcedure,
\-- Subscriber-management related events, see clause 7.2.2
servingSystemMessage [11] UDMServingSystemMessage,
\-- SMS-related events, see clause 6.2.5
sMSMessage [12] SMSMessage,
\-- LALS-related events, see clause 7.3.3
lALSReport [13] LALSReport,
\-- PDHR/PDSR-related events, see clause 6.2.3.4.1
pDHeaderReport [14] PDHeaderReport,
pDSummaryReport [15] PDSummaryReport,
\-- MDF-related events, see clause 7.3.4
mDFCellSiteReport [16] MDFCellSiteReport
}
IRITargetIdentifier ::= SEQUENCE
{
identifier [1] TargetIdentifier,
provenance [2] TargetIdentifierProvenance OPTIONAL
}
\-- ==============
\-- HI3 CC payload
\-- ==============
CCPayload ::= SEQUENCE
{
relativeOID [1] RELATIVE-OID,
pDU [2] CCPDU
}
CCPDU ::= CHOICE
{
uPFCCPDU [1] UPFCCPDU,
extendedUPFCCPDU [2] ExtendedUPFCCPDU
}
\-- ===========================
\-- HI4 LI notification payload
\-- ===========================
LINotificationPayload ::= SEQUENCE
{
relativeOID [1] RELATIVE-OID,
notification [2] LINotificationMessage
}
LINotificationMessage ::= CHOICE
{
lINotification [1] LINotification
}
\-- ==================
\-- 5G AMF definitions
\-- ==================
\-- See clause 6.2.2.2.2 for details of this structure
AMFRegistration ::= SEQUENCE
{
registrationType [1] AMFRegistrationType,
registrationResult [2] AMFRegistrationResult,
slice [3] Slice OPTIONAL,
sUPI [4] SUPI,
sUCI [5] SUCI OPTIONAL,
pEI [6] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [7] GPSI OPTIONAL,
gUTI [8] FiveGGUTI,
location [9] Location OPTIONAL,
non3GPPAccessEndpoint [10] UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
fiveGSTAIList [11] TAIList OPTIONAL
}
\-- See clause 6.2.2.2.3 for details of this structure
AMFDeregistration ::= SEQUENCE
{
deregistrationDirection [1] AMFDirection,
accessType [2] AccessType,
sUPI [3] SUPI OPTIONAL,
sUCI [4] SUCI OPTIONAL,
pEI [5] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [6] GPSI OPTIONAL,
gUTI [7] FiveGGUTI OPTIONAL,
cause [8] FiveGMMCause OPTIONAL,
location [9] Location OPTIONAL
}
\-- See clause 6.2.2.2.4 for details of this structure
AMFLocationUpdate ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI,
sUCI [2] SUCI OPTIONAL,
pEI [3] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [4] GPSI OPTIONAL,
gUTI [5] FiveGGUTI OPTIONAL,
location [6] Location
}
\-- See clause 6.2.2.2.5 for details of this structure
AMFStartOfInterceptionWithRegisteredUE ::= SEQUENCE
{
registrationResult [1] AMFRegistrationResult,
registrationType [2] AMFRegistrationType OPTIONAL,
slice [3] Slice OPTIONAL,
sUPI [4] SUPI,
sUCI [5] SUCI OPTIONAL,
pEI [6] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [7] GPSI OPTIONAL,
gUTI [8] FiveGGUTI,
location [9] Location OPTIONAL,
non3GPPAccessEndpoint [10] UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
timeOfRegistration [11] Timestamp OPTIONAL,
fiveGSTAIList [12] TAIList OPTIONAL
}
\-- See clause 6.2.2.2.6 for details of this structure
AMFUnsuccessfulProcedure ::= SEQUENCE
{
failedProcedureType [1] AMFFailedProcedureType,
failureCause [2] AMFFailureCause,
requestedSlice [3] NSSAI OPTIONAL,
sUPI [4] SUPI OPTIONAL,
sUCI [5] SUCI OPTIONAL,
pEI [6] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [7] GPSI OPTIONAL,
gUTI [8] FiveGGUTI OPTIONAL,
location [9] Location OPTIONAL
}
\-- =================
\-- 5G AMF parameters
\-- =================
AMFID ::= SEQUENCE
{
aMFRegionID [1] AMFRegionID,
aMFSetID [2] AMFSetID,
aMFPointer [3] AMFPointer
}
AMFDirection ::= ENUMERATED
{
networkInitiated(1),
uEInitiated(2)
}
AMFFailedProcedureType ::= ENUMERATED
{
registration(1),
sMS(2),
pDUSessionEstablishment(3)
}
AMFFailureCause ::= CHOICE
{
fiveGMMCause [1] FiveGMMCause,
fiveGSMCause [2] FiveGSMCause
}
AMFPointer ::= INTEGER (0..63)
AMFRegistrationResult ::= ENUMERATED
{
threeGPPAccess(1),
nonThreeGPPAccess(2),
threeGPPAndNonThreeGPPAccess(3)
}
AMFRegionID ::= INTEGER (0..255)
AMFRegistrationType ::= ENUMERATED
{
initial(1),
mobility(2),
periodic(3),
emergency(4)
}
AMFSetID ::= INTEGER (0..1023)
\-- ==================
\-- 5G SMF definitions
\-- ==================
\-- See clause 6.2.3.2.2 for details of this structure
SMFPDUSessionEstablishment ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI OPTIONAL,
sUPIUnauthenticated [2] SUPIUnauthenticatedIndication OPTIONAL,
pEI [3] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [4] GPSI OPTIONAL,
pDUSessionID [5] PDUSessionID,
gTPTunnelID [6] FTEID,
pDUSessionType [7] PDUSessionType,
sNSSAI [8] SNSSAI OPTIONAL,
uEEndpoint [9] SEQUENCE OF UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
non3GPPAccessEndpoint [10] UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
location [11] Location OPTIONAL,
dNN [12] DNN,
aMFID [13] AMFID OPTIONAL,
hSMFURI [14] HSMFURI OPTIONAL,
requestType [15] FiveGSMRequestType,
accessType [16] AccessType OPTIONAL,
rATType [17] RATType OPTIONAL,
sMPDUDNRequest [18] SMPDUDNRequest OPTIONAL
}
\-- See clause 6.2.3.2.3 for details of this structure
SMFPDUSessionModification ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI OPTIONAL,
sUPIUnauthenticated [2] SUPIUnauthenticatedIndication OPTIONAL,
pEI [3] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [4] GPSI OPTIONAL,
sNSSAI [5] SNSSAI OPTIONAL,
non3GPPAccessEndpoint [6] UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
location [7] Location OPTIONAL,
requestType [8] FiveGSMRequestType,
accessType [9] AccessType OPTIONAL,
rATType [10] RATType OPTIONAL
}
\-- See clause 6.2.3.2.4 for details of this structure
SMFPDUSessionRelease ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI,
pEI [2] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [3] GPSI OPTIONAL,
pDUSessionID [4] PDUSessionID,
timeOfFirstPacket [5] Timestamp OPTIONAL,
timeOfLastPacket [6] Timestamp OPTIONAL,
uplinkVolume [7] INTEGER OPTIONAL,
downlinkVolume [8] INTEGER OPTIONAL,
location [9] Location OPTIONAL
}
\-- See clause 6.2.3.2.5 for details of this structure
SMFStartOfInterceptionWithEstablishedPDUSession ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI OPTIONAL,
sUPIUnauthenticated [2] SUPIUnauthenticatedIndication OPTIONAL,
pEI [3] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [4] GPSI OPTIONAL,
pDUSessionID [5] PDUSessionID,
gTPTunnelID [6] FTEID,
pDUSessionType [7] PDUSessionType,
sNSSAI [8] SNSSAI OPTIONAL,
uEEndpoint [9] SEQUENCE OF UEEndpointAddress,
non3GPPAccessEndpoint [10] UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
location [11] Location OPTIONAL,
dNN [12] DNN,
aMFID [13] AMFID OPTIONAL,
hSMFURI [14] HSMFURI OPTIONAL,
requestType [15] FiveGSMRequestType,
accessType [16] AccessType OPTIONAL,
rATType [17] RATType OPTIONAL,
sMPDUDNRequest [18] SMPDUDNRequest OPTIONAL,
timeOfSessionEstablishment [19] Timestamp OPTIONAL
}
\-- See clause 6.2.3.2.6 for details of this structure
SMFUnsuccessfulProcedure ::= SEQUENCE
{
failedProcedureType [1] SMFFailedProcedureType,
failureCause [2] FiveGSMCause,
initiator [3] Initiator,
requestedSlice [4] NSSAI OPTIONAL,
sUPI [5] SUPI OPTIONAL,
sUPIUnauthenticated [6] SUPIUnauthenticatedIndication OPTIONAL,
pEI [7] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [8] GPSI OPTIONAL,
pDUSessionID [9] PDUSessionID OPTIONAL,
uEEndpoint [10] SEQUENCE OF UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
non3GPPAccessEndpoint [11] UEEndpointAddress OPTIONAL,
dNN [12] DNN OPTIONAL,
aMFID [13] AMFID OPTIONAL,
hSMFURI [14] HSMFURI OPTIONAL,
requestType [15] FiveGSMRequestType OPTIONAL,
accessType [16] AccessType OPTIONAL,
rATType [17] RATType OPTIONAL,
sMPDUDNRequest [18] SMPDUDNRequest OPTIONAL,
location [19] Location OPTIONAL
}
\-- =================
\-- 5G SMF parameters
\-- =================
SMFFailedProcedureType ::= ENUMERATED
{
pDUSessionEstablishment(1),
pDUSessionModification(2),
pDUSessionRelease(3)
}
\-- ==================
\-- 5G UPF definitions
\-- ==================
UPFCCPDU ::= OCTET STRING
\-- See clause 6.2.3.8 for the details of this structure
ExtendedUPFCCPDU ::= SEQUENCE
{
payload [1] UPFCCPDUPayload,
qFI [2] QFI OPTIONAL
}
\-- =================
\-- 5G UPF parameters
\-- =================
UPFCCPDUPayload ::= CHOICE
{
uPFIPCC [1] OCTET STRING,
uPFEthernetCC [2] OCTET STRING,
uPFUnstructuredCC [3] OCTET STRING
}
QFI ::= INTEGER (0..63)
\-- ==================
\-- 5G UDM definitions
\-- ==================
UDMServingSystemMessage ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI,
pEI [2] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [3] GPSI OPTIONAL,
gUAMI [4] GUAMI OPTIONAL,
gUMMEI [5] GUMMEI OPTIONAL,
pLMNID [6] PLMNID OPTIONAL,
servingSystemMethod [7] UDMServingSystemMethod
}
\-- =================
\-- 5G UDM parameters
\-- =================
UDMServingSystemMethod ::= ENUMERATED
{
amf3GPPAccessRegistration(0),
amfNon3GPPAccessRegistration(1),
unknown(2)
}
\-- ===================
\-- 5G SMSF definitions
\-- ===================
\-- See clause 6.2.5.3 for details of this structure
SMSMessage ::= SEQUENCE
{
originatingSMSParty [1] SMSParty,
terminatingSMSParty [2] SMSParty,
direction [3] Direction,
transferStatus [4] SMSTransferStatus,
otherMessage [5] SMSOtherMessageIndication OPTIONAL,
location [6] Location OPTIONAL,
peerNFAddress [7] SMSNFAddress OPTIONAL,
peerNFType [8] SMSNFType OPTIONAL,
sMSTPDUData [9] SMSTPDUData OPTIONAL
}
\-- ==================
\-- 5G SMSF parameters
\-- ==================
SMSParty ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI OPTIONAL,
pEI [2] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [3] GPSI OPTIONAL
}
SMSTransferStatus ::= ENUMERATED
{
transferSucceeded(1),
transferFailed(2),
undefined(3)
}
SMSOtherMessageIndication ::= BOOLEAN
SMSNFAddress ::= CHOICE
{
iPAddress [1] IPAddress,
e164Number [2] E164Number
}
SMSNFType ::= ENUMERATED
{
sMSGMSC(1),
iWMSC(2),
sMSRouter(3)
}
SMSTPDUData ::= CHOICE
{
sMSTPDU [1] SMSTPDU
}
SMSTPDU ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..270))
\-- ===================
\-- 5G LALS definitions
\-- ===================
LALSReport ::= SEQUENCE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI OPTIONAL,
pEI [2] PEI OPTIONAL,
gPSI [3] GPSI OPTIONAL,
location [4] Location OPTIONAL
}
\-- =====================
\-- PDHR/PDSR definitions
\-- =====================
PDHeaderReport ::= SEQUENCE
{
pDUSessionID [1] PDUSessionID,
sourceIPAddress [2] IPAddress,
sourcePort [3] PortNumber OPTIONAL,
destinationIPAddress [4] IPAddress,
destinationPort [5] PortNumber OPTIONAL,
nextLayerProtocol [6] NextLayerProtocol,
iPv6flowLabel [7] IPv6FlowLabel OPTIONAL,
direction [8] Direction,
packetSize [9] INTEGER
}
PDSummaryReport ::= SEQUENCE
{
pDUSessionID [1] PDUSessionID,
sourceIPAddress [2] IPAddress,
sourcePort [3] PortNumber OPTIONAL,
destinationIPAddress [4] IPAddress,
destinationPort [5] PortNumber OPTIONAL,
nextLayerProtocol [6] NextLayerProtocol,
iPv6flowLabel [7] IPv6FlowLabel OPTIONAL,
direction [8] Direction,
pDSRSummaryTrigger [9] PDSRSummaryTrigger,
firstPacketTimestamp [10] Timestamp,
lastPacketTimestamp [11] Timestamp,
packetCount [12] INTEGER,
byteCount [13] INTEGER
}
\-- ====================
\-- PDHR/PDSR parameters
\-- ====================
PDSRSummaryTrigger ::= ENUMERATED
{
timerExpiry(1),
packetCount(2),
byteCount(3)
}
\-- ===========================
\-- LI Notification definitions
\-- ===========================
LINotification ::= SEQUENCE
{
notificationType [1] LINotificationType,
appliedTargetID [2] TargetIdentifier OPTIONAL,
appliedDeliveryInformation [3] SEQUENCE OF LIAppliedDeliveryInformation
OPTIONAL,
appliedStartTime [4] Timestamp OPTIONAL,
appliedEndTime [5] Timestamp OPTIONAL
}
\-- ==========================
\-- LI Notification parameters
\-- ==========================
LINotificationType ::= ENUMERATED
{
activation(1),
deactivation(2),
modification(3)
}
LIAppliedDeliveryInformation ::= SEQUENCE
{
hI2DeliveryIPAddress [1] IPAddress OPTIONAL,
hI2DeliveryPortNumber [2] PortNumber OPTIONAL,
hI3DeliveryIPAddress [3] IPAddress OPTIONAL,
hI3DeliveryPortNumber [4] PortNumber OPTIONAL
}
\-- ===============
\-- MDF definitions
\-- ===============
MDFCellSiteReport ::= SEQUENCE OF CellInformation
\-- =================
\-- Common Parameters
\-- =================
AccessType ::= ENUMERATED
{
threeGPPAccess(1),
nonThreeGPPAccess(2),
threeGPPandNonThreeGPPAccess(3)
}
Direction ::= ENUMERATED
{
fromTarget(1),
toTarget(2)
}
DNN ::= UTF8String
E164Number ::= NumericString (SIZE(1..15))
FiveGGUTI ::= SEQUENCE
{
mCC [1] MCC,
mNC [2] MNC,
aMFRegionID [3] AMFRegionID,
aMFSetID [4] AMFSetID,
aMFPointer [5] AMFPointer,
fiveGTMSI [6] FiveGTMSI
}
FiveGMMCause ::= INTEGER (0..255)
FiveGSMRequestType ::= ENUMERATED
{
initialRequest(1),
existingPDUSession(2),
initialEmergencyRequest(3),
existingEmergencyPDUSession(4),
modificationRequest(5),
reserved(6)
}
FiveGSMCause ::= INTEGER (0..255)
FiveGTMSI ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295)
FTEID ::= SEQUENCE
{
tEID [1] INTEGER (0.. 4294967295),
iPv4Address [2] IPv4Address OPTIONAL,
iPv6Address [3] IPv6Address OPTIONAL
}
GPSI ::= CHOICE
{
mSISDN [1] MSISDN,
nAI [2] NAI
}
GUAMI ::= SEQUENCE
{
aMFID [1] AMFID,
pLMNID [2] PLMNID
}
GUMMEI ::= SEQUENCE
{
mMEID [1] MMEID,
mCC [2] MCC,
mNC [3] MNC
}
HomeNetworkPublicKeyID ::= OCTET STRING
HSMFURI ::= UTF8String
IMEI ::= NumericString (SIZE(14))
IMEISV ::= NumericString (SIZE(16))
IMSI ::= NumericString (SIZE(6..15))
Initiator ::= ENUMERATED
{
uE(1),
network(2),
unknown(3)
}
IPAddress ::= CHOICE
{
iPv4Address [1] IPv4Address,
iPv6Address [2] IPv6Address
}
IPv4Address ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))
IPv6Address ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(16))
IPv6FlowLabel ::= INTEGER(0..1048575)
MACAddress ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(6))
MCC ::= NumericString (SIZE(3))
MNC ::= NumericString (SIZE(2..3))
MMEID ::= SEQUENCE
{
mMEGI [1] MMEGI,
mMEC [2] MMEC
}
MMEC ::= NumericString
MMEGI ::= NumericString
MSISDN ::= NumericString (SIZE(1..15))
NAI ::= UTF8String
NextLayerProtocol ::= INTEGER(0..255)
NSSAI ::= SEQUENCE OF SNSSAI
PLMNID ::= SEQUENCE
{
mCC [1] MCC,
mNC [2] MNC
}
PDUSessionID ::= INTEGER (0..255)
PDUSessionType ::= ENUMERATED
{
iPv4(1),
iPv6(2),
iPv4v6(3),
unstructured(4),
ethernet(5)
}
PEI ::= CHOICE
{
iMEI [1] IMEI,
iMEISV [2] IMEISV
}
PortNumber ::= INTEGER(0..65535)
ProtectionSchemeID ::= INTEGER (0..15)
RATType ::= ENUMERATED
{
nR(1),
eUTRA(2),
wLAN(3),
virtual(4)
}
RejectedNSSAI ::= SEQUENCE OF RejectedSNSSAI
RejectedSNSSAI ::= SEQUENCE
{
causeValue [1] RejectedSliceCauseValue,
sNSSAI [2] SNSSAI
}
RejectedSliceCauseValue ::= INTEGER (0..255)
RoutingIndicator ::= INTEGER (0..9999)
SchemeOutput ::= OCTET STRING
Slice ::= SEQUENCE
{
allowedNSSAI [1] NSSAI OPTIONAL,
configuredNSSAI [2] NSSAI OPTIONAL,
rejectedNSSAI [3] RejectedNSSAI OPTIONAL
}
SMPDUDNRequest ::= OCTET STRING
SNSSAI ::= SEQUENCE
{
sliceServiceType [1] INTEGER (0..255),
sliceDifferentiator [2] OCTET STRING (SIZE(3)) OPTIONAL
}
SUCI ::= SEQUENCE
{
mCC [1] MCC,
mNC [2] MNC,
routingIndicator [3] RoutingIndicator,
protectionSchemeID [4] ProtectionSchemeID,
homeNetworkPublicKeyID [5] HomeNetworkPublicKeyID,
schemeOutput [6] SchemeOutput,
routingIndicatorLength [7] INTEGER (1..4) OPTIONAL
\-- shall be included if different from the number of meaningful digits given
\-- in routingIndicator
}
SUPI ::= CHOICE
{
iMSI [1] IMSI,
nAI [2] NAI
}
SUPIUnauthenticatedIndication ::= BOOLEAN
TargetIdentifier ::= CHOICE
{
sUPI [1] SUPI,
iMSI [2] IMSI,
pEI [3] PEI,
iMEI [4] IMEI,
gPSI [5] GPSI,
mISDN [6] MSISDN,
nAI [7] NAI,
iPv4Address [8] IPv4Address,
iPv6Address [9] IPv6Address,
ethernetAddress [10] MACAddress
}
TargetIdentifierProvenance ::= ENUMERATED
{
lEAProvided(1),
observed(2),
matchedOn(3),
other(4)
}
Timestamp ::= GeneralizedTime
UEEndpointAddress ::= CHOICE
{
iPv4Address [1] IPv4Address,
iPv6Address [2] IPv6Address,
ethernetAddress [3] MACAddress
}
\-- ===================
\-- Location parameters
\-- ===================
Location ::= SEQUENCE
{
locationInfo [1] LocationInfo OPTIONAL,
positioningInfo [2] PositioningInfo OPTIONAL,
locationPresenceReport [3] LocationPresenceReport OPTIONAL
}
CellSiteInformation ::= SEQUENCE
{
geographicalCoordinates [1] GeographicalCoordinates,
azimuth [2] INTEGER (0..359) OPTIONAL,
operatorSpecificInformation [3] UTF8String OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.4.6.2.6
LocationInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
userLocation [1] UserLocation OPTIONAL,
currentLoc [2] BOOLEAN OPTIONAL,
geoInfo [3] GeographicArea OPTIONAL,
rATType [4] RATType OPTIONAL,
timeZone [5] TimeZone OPTIONAL,
additionalCellIDs [6] SEQUENCE OF CellInformation OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.7
UserLocation ::= SEQUENCE
{
eUTRALocation [1] EUTRALocation OPTIONAL,
nRLocation [2] NRLocation OPTIONAL,
n3GALocation [3] N3GALocation OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.8
EUTRALocation ::= SEQUENCE
{
tAI [1] TAI,
eCGI [2] ECGI,
ageOfLocatonInfo [3] INTEGER OPTIONAL,
uELocationTimestamp [4] Timestamp OPTIONAL,
geographicalInformation [5] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
geodeticInformation [6] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
globalNGENbID [7] GlobalRANNodeID OPTIONAL,
cellSiteInformation [8] CellSiteInformation OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.9
NRLocation ::= SEQUENCE
{
tAI [1] TAI,
nCGI [2] NCGI,
ageOfLocatonInfo [3] INTEGER OPTIONAL,
uELocationTimestamp [4] Timestamp OPTIONAL,
geographicalInformation [5] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
geodeticInformation [6] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
globalGNbID [7] GlobalRANNodeID OPTIONAL,
cellSiteInformation [8] CellSiteInformation OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.10
N3GALocation ::= SEQUENCE
{
tAI [1] TAI OPTIONAL,
n3IWFID [2] N3IWFIDNGAP OPTIONAL,
uEIPAddr [3] IPAddr OPTIONAL,
portNumber [4] INTEGER OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 38.413 [23], clause 9.3.2.4
IPAddr ::= SEQUENCE
{
iPv4Addr [1] IPv4Address OPTIONAL,
iPv6Addr [2] IPv6Address OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.28
GlobalRANNodeID ::= SEQUENCE
{
pLMNID [1] PLMNID,
aNNodeID [2] CHOICE
{
n3IWFID [1] N3IWFIDSBI,
gNbID [2] GNbID,
nGENbID [3] NGENbID
}
}
\-- TS 38.413 [23], clause 9.3.1.6
GNbID ::= BIT STRING(SIZE(22..32))
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.4
TAI ::= SEQUENCE
{
pLMNID [1] PLMNID,
tAC [2] TAC
}
TAIList ::= SEQUENCE OF TAI
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.5
ECGI ::= SEQUENCE
{
pLMNID [1] PLMNID,
eUTRACellID [2] EUTRACellID
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.6
NCGI ::= SEQUENCE
{
pLMNID [1] PLMNID,
nRCellID [2] NRCellID
}
RANCGI ::= CHOICE
{
eCGI [1] ECGI,
nCGI [2] NCGI
}
CellInformation ::= SEQUENCE
{
rANCGI [1] RANCGI,
cellSiteinformation [2] CellSiteInformation OPTIONAL,
timeOfLocation [3] Timestamp OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 38.413 [23], clause 9.3.1.57
N3IWFIDNGAP ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(16))
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.28
N3IWFIDSBI ::= UTF8String
\-- TS 29.571 [17], table 5.4.2-1
TAC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..3))
\-- TS 38.413 [23], clause 9.3.1.9
EUTRACellID ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(28))
\-- TS 38.413 [23], clause 9.3.1.7
NRCellID ::= BIT STRING (SIZE(36))
\-- TS 38.413 [23], clause 9.3.1.8
NGENbID ::= CHOICE
{
macroNGENbID [1] BIT STRING (SIZE(20)),
shortMacroNGENbID [2] BIT STRING (SIZE(18)),
longMacroNGENbID [3] BIT STRING (SIZE(21))
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.4.6.2.3
PositioningInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
positionInfo [1] LocationData OPTIONAL,
rawMLPResponse [2] RawMLPResponse OPTIONAL
}
RawMLPResponse ::= CHOICE
{
\-- The following parameter contains a copy of unparsed XML code of the
\-- MLP response message, i.e. the entire XML document containing
\-- a \ (described in OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C [20], clause 5.2.3.2.2)
or
\-- a \ (described in OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C [20], clause
5.2.3.2.3) MLP message.
mLPPositionData [1] UTF8String,
\-- OMA MLP result id, defined in OMA-TS-MLP-V3_5-20181211-C [20], Clause 5.4
mLPErrorCode [2] INTEGER (1..699)
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.3
LocationData ::= SEQUENCE
{
locationEstimate [1] GeographicArea,
accuracyFulfilmentIndicator [2] AccuracyFulfilmentIndicator OPTIONAL,
ageOfLocationEstimate [3] AgeOfLocationEstimate OPTIONAL,
velocityEstimate [4] VelocityEstimate OPTIONAL,
civicAddress [5] CivicAddress OPTIONAL,
positioningDataList [6] SET OF PositioningMethodAndUsage OPTIONAL,
gNSSPositioningDataList [7] SET OF GNSSPositioningMethodAndUsage OPTIONAL,
eCGI [8] ECGI OPTIONAL,
nCGI [9] NCGI OPTIONAL,
altitude [10] Altitude OPTIONAL,
barometricPressure [11] BarometricPressure OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.2.5
LocationPresenceReport ::= SEQUENCE
{
type [1] AMFEventType,
timestamp [2] Timestamp,
areaList [3] SET OF AMFEventArea OPTIONAL,
timeZone [4] TimeZone OPTIONAL,
accessTypes [5] SET OF AccessType OPTIONAL,
rMInfoList [6] SET OF RMInfo OPTIONAL,
cMInfoList [7] SET OF CMInfo OPTIONAL,
reachability [8] UEReachability OPTIONAL,
location [9] UserLocation OPTIONAL,
additionalCellIDs [10] SEQUENCE OF CellInformation OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.3.3
AMFEventType ::= ENUMERATED
{
locationReport(1),
presenceInAOIReport(2)
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.2.16
AMFEventArea ::= SEQUENCE
{
presenceInfo [1] PresenceInfo OPTIONAL,
lADNInfo [2] LADNInfo OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.4.27
PresenceInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
presenceState [1] PresenceState OPTIONAL,
trackingAreaList [2] SET OF TAI OPTIONAL,
eCGIList [3] SET OF ECGI OPTIONAL,
nCGIList [4] SET OF NCGI OPTIONAL,
globalRANNodeIDList [5] SET OF GlobalRANNodeID OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.2.17
LADNInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
lADN [1] UTF8String,
presence [2] PresenceState OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], clause 5.4.3.20
PresenceState ::= ENUMERATED
{
inArea(1),
outOfArea(2),
unknown(3),
inactive(4)
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.2.8
RMInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
rMState [1] RMState,
accessType [2] AccessType
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.2.9
CMInfo ::= SEQUENCE
{
cMState [1] CMState,
accessType [2] AccessType
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.3.7
UEReachability ::= ENUMERATED
{
unreachable(1),
reachable(2),
regulatoryOnly(3)
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.3.9
RMState ::= ENUMERATED
{
registered(1),
deregistered(2)
}
\-- TS 29.518 [22], clause 6.2.6.3.10
CMState ::= ENUMERATED
{
idle(1),
connected(2)
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.5
GeographicArea ::= CHOICE
{
point [1] Point,
pointUncertaintyCircle [2] PointUncertaintyCircle,
pointUncertaintyEllipse [3] PointUncertaintyEllipse,
polygon [4] Polygon,
pointAltitude [5] PointAltitude,
pointAltitudeUncertainty [6] PointAltitudeUncertainty,
ellipsoidArc [7] EllipsoidArc
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.3.12
AccuracyFulfilmentIndicator ::= ENUMERATED
{
requestedAccuracyFulfilled(1),
requestedAccuracyNotFulfilled(2)
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause
VelocityEstimate ::= CHOICE
{
horVelocity [1] HorizontalVelocity,
horWithVertVelocity [2] HorizontalWithVerticalVelocity,
horVelocityWithUncertainty [3] HorizontalVelocityWithUncertainty,
horWithVertVelocityAndUncertainty [4]
HorizontalWithVerticalVelocityAndUncertainty
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.14
CivicAddress ::= SEQUENCE
{
country [1] UTF8String,
a1 [2] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
a2 [3] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
a3 [4] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
a4 [5] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
a5 [6] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
a6 [7] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
prd [8] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
pod [9] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
sts [10] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
hno [11] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
hns [12] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
lmk [13] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
loc [14] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
nam [15] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
pc [16] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
bld [17] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
unit [18] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
flr [19] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
room [20] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
plc [21] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
pcn [22] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
pobox [23] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
addcode [24] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
seat [25] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
rd [26] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
rdsec [27] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
rdbr [28] UTF8String OPTIONAL,
rdsubbr [29] UTF8String OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.15
PositioningMethodAndUsage ::= SEQUENCE
{
method [1] PositioningMethod,
mode [2] PositioningMode,
usage [3] Usage
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.16
GNSSPositioningMethodAndUsage ::= SEQUENCE
{
mode [1] PositioningMode,
gNSS [2] GNSSID,
usage [3] Usage
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.6
Point ::= SEQUENCE
{
geographicalCoordinates [1] GeographicalCoordinates
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.7
PointUncertaintyCircle ::= SEQUENCE
{
geographicalCoordinates [1] GeographicalCoordinates,
\-- The uncertainty parameter has been deprecated and shall be set to 0.
\-- The uncertaintySBI parameter shall be used instead.
uncertainty [2] Uncertainty,
uncertaintySBI [3] UncertaintySBI OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.8
PointUncertaintyEllipse ::= SEQUENCE
{
geographicalCoordinates [1] GeographicalCoordinates,
uncertainty [2] UncertaintyEllipse,
confidence [3] Confidence
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.9
Polygon ::= SEQUENCE
{
pointList [1] SET SIZE (3..15) OF GeographicalCoordinates
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.10
PointAltitude ::= SEQUENCE
{
point [1] GeographicalCoordinates,
altitude [2] Altitude
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.11
PointAltitudeUncertainty ::= SEQUENCE
{
point [1] GeographicalCoordinates,
altitude [2] Altitude,
uncertaintyEllipse [3] UncertaintyEllipse,
\-- The uncertaintyAltitude parameter has been deprecated and shall be set to
0.
\-- The uncertaintyAltitudeSBI parameter shall be used instead.
uncertaintyAltitude [4] Uncertainty,
confidence [5] Confidence,
uncertaintyAltitudeSBI [6] UncertaintySBI OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.12
EllipsoidArc ::= SEQUENCE
{
point [1] GeographicalCoordinates,
innerRadius [2] InnerRadius,
\-- The uncertaintyRadius parameter has been deprecated and shall be set to 0.
\-- The uncertaintyRadiusSBI parameter shall be used instead.
uncertaintyRadius [3] Uncertainty,
offsetAngle [4] Angle,
includedAngle [5] Angle,
confidence [6] Confidence,
uncertaintyRadiusSBI [7] UncertaintySBI OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.4
GeographicalCoordinates ::= SEQUENCE
{
latitude [1] UTF8String,
longitude [2] UTF8String
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.22
UncertaintyEllipse ::= SEQUENCE
{
\-- The semiMajor parameter has been deprecated and shall be set to 0.
\-- The semiMajorSBI parameter shall be used instead.
semiMajor [1] Uncertainty,
\-- The semiMinor parameter has been deprecated and shall be set to 0.
\-- The semiMinorSBI parameter shall be used instead.
semiMinor [2] Uncertainty,
orientationMajor [3] Orientation,
semiMajorSBI [4] UncertaintySBI OPTIONAL,
semiMinorSBI [5] UncertaintySBI OPTIONAL
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.18
HorizontalVelocity ::= SEQUENCE
{
hSpeed [1] HorizontalSpeed,
bearing [2] Angle
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.19
HorizontalWithVerticalVelocity ::= SEQUENCE
{
hSpeed [1] HorizontalSpeed,
bearing [2] Angle,
vSpeed [3] VerticalSpeed,
vDirection [4] VerticalDirection
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.20
HorizontalVelocityWithUncertainty ::= SEQUENCE
{
hSpeed [1] HorizontalSpeed,
bearing [2] Angle,
uncertainty [3] SpeedUncertainty
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.2.21
HorizontalWithVerticalVelocityAndUncertainty ::= SEQUENCE
{
hspeed [1] HorizontalSpeed,
bearing [2] Angle,
vSpeed [3] VerticalSpeed,
vDirection [4] VerticalDirection,
hUncertainty [5] SpeedUncertainty,
vUncertainty [6] SpeedUncertainty
}
\-- The following types are described in TS 29.572 [24], table 6.1.6.3.2-1
Altitude ::= UTF8String
Angle ::= INTEGER (0..360)
UncertaintySBI ::= UTF8String
Orientation ::= INTEGER (0..180)
Confidence ::= INTEGER (0..100)
InnerRadius ::= INTEGER (0..327675)
AgeOfLocationEstimate ::= INTEGER (0..32767)
HorizontalSpeed ::= UTF8String
VerticalSpeed ::= UTF8String
SpeedUncertainty ::= UTF8String
BarometricPressure ::= INTEGER (30000..155000)
Uncertainty ::= INTEGER (0..127)
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.3.13
VerticalDirection ::= ENUMERATED
{
upward(1),
downward(2)
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.3.6
PositioningMethod ::= ENUMERATED
{
cellID(1),
eCID(2),
oTDOA(3),
barometricPresure(4),
wLAN(5),
bluetooth(6),
mBS(7)
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.3.7
PositioningMode ::= ENUMERATED
{
uEBased(1),
uEAssisted(2),
conventional(3)
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.3.8
GNSSID ::= ENUMERATED
{
gPS(1),
galileo(2),
sBAS(3),
modernizedGPS(4),
qZSS(5),
gLONASS(6)
}
\-- TS 29.572 [24], clause 6.1.6.3.9
Usage ::= ENUMERATED
{
unsuccess(1),
successResultsNotUsed(2),
successResultsUsedToVerifyLocation(3),
successResultsUsedToGenerateLocation(4),
successMethodNotDetermined(5)
}
\-- TS 29.571 [17], table 5.2.2-1
TimeZone ::= UTF8String
END
###### ## Annex B (normative): LI Notification
Based on clause 5.6 of the present document, this annex defines a system of
management notification of LI system with the LI_HI4 interface.
The LI_HI4 interface shall be used to transport specific LI service O&M
information (referred to as LI Notification) from the CSP to the LEMF. The
individual parameters of the LI Notification message shall be coded using
ASN.1 and the basic encoding rules (BER). The delivery of LI Notification
shall be performed directly using the same mechanism as used for delivery of
IRI messages over LI_HI2 and CC over LI_HI3.
The LI Notification shall be used to send electronic notification to the LEMF
in the following cases:
1) after the activation of lawful interception;
2) after the deactivation of lawful interception;
3) after the modification of an active lawful interception.
Table B.1-1: LINotification message
* * *
Field name Description M/C/O notificationType Information on the type of
notification: activation, deactivation or modification M deliveryInformation
Delivery Information which has been decided by the LEA in terms of delivery
numbers, IP addresses for LI_HI2 and LI_HI3 O appliedTargetID Target
Identifier applied in the ADMF for the warrant O appliedStartTime Start time
applied to the ADMF for the warrant C appliedEndTime End time applied to the
ADMF for the warrant C
* * *
Conditional parameters shall be set as follows:
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **LI Activation | | | | Notification** | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Field name** | **Description** | **M/C/O** | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationType | Activation | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | appliedStartTime | Always present and | C | | | represents: | | | | | | | | The Start Date/Time in | | | | the warrant or, | | | | | | | | The Date/Time of the CSP | | | | activation in the ADMF | | | | or, | | | | | | | | The scheduled future | | | | Start Date/Time. | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | appliedEndTime | [Absence | C | | | means]{.underline} the | | | | interception has been | | | | activated with no | | | | predefined End Date/Time. | | | | | | | | [Presence | | | | means]{.underline} the | | | | End time is scheduled to | | | | be applied at that | | | | (future) time. | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
* * *
**LI Modification Notification**  
**Field name** **Description** **M/C/O** notificationType Modification M
appliedStartTime Present and provides the new Start Date/Time if modified by
the LI Modification command C appliedEndTime Present and provides the new End
Date/Time if modified by the LI Modification command C
* * *
* * *
**LI Deactivation Notification**  
**Field name** **Description** **M/C/O** notificationType Deactivation M
appliedStartTime Absent C appliedEndTime Present and provides the actual End
Date/Time, e.g. timed stop as per initial warrant or as per new warrant, or as
pre-emptive audited stop from the LEA, or major LI failure. C
* * *
The individual notifications parameters shall be sent to the LEMF as soon as
possible with the lowest latency at least once (if available).
The MDF2/3 will deliver the LINotification message to LEMF.
###### ## Annex C (normative): XSD Schema for LI_X1 extensions
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex D (informative): Drafting Guidance
# D.1 Introduction
This annex provides drafting guidance for contributors wishing to propose
changes to the present document.
# D.2 Drafting conventions
Table D.2-1: Drafting conventions
D.2.1 The details for each field, including a complete description of the
usage, format, cardinality and conditionality of that field, are given in the
prose in the main body of the document.
* * *
D.2.2 The field names used in the main body of the document match those used
in the ASN.1. D.2.3 ASN.1 comments are not used, except for to indicate where
to find a description of the field or structure in the main body of the
specification. D.2.4 If a field is made conditional, the condition for its
presence or absence is specified.
# D.3 Naming conventions
Table D.3-1: Naming conventions
D.3.1 To meet ASN.1 syntax rules, the first character of each ASN.1 field name
are lower-cased.
* * *
D.3.2 To meet ASN.1 syntax rules, the first character of an ASN.1 type name
are upper-cased. D.3.3 To meet ASN.1 syntax rules, the first character of a
field or a type name is not a number. D.3.4 Only the character ranges A-Z, a-z
and 0-9 are used in names. D.3.5 Names are be CamelCased, where the first
character of each word is upper-cased (except for the first character of the
name -- see rule D.3.1). D.3.6 Any acronyms in a name should be entirely
upper-cased (except for the first character of the name -- see rule D.3.1).
ExampleBadStructure ::= SEQUENCE
{
[F]{.underline}irstField [1] FirstFieldType, -- D.3.1 First letter of field is
upper case
secondField [2] [s]{.underline}econdFieldType, -- D.3.2 First letter of type
is lower case
[3]{.underline}rdField [3] [3]{.underline}rdFieldType, -- D.3.3 Names starts
with digit
fourth[-]{.underline}field [4] Fourth[_]{.underline}Field_Type, -- D.3.4 Names
include hyphen and underscore
fifth[f]{.underline}ield [5] Fifth[f]{.underline}ield[t]{.underline}ype, --
D.3.5 Names are not camelCased
m[sisdn]{.underline} [6] MSISDN, -- D.3.6 Acronyms in field name not wholly
upper-cased
mSISDN [7] M[sisdn]{.underline} -- D.3.6 Acronyms in type name not wholly
upper-cased
}
Figure 1 -- Naming convention counter-examples
# D.4 ASN.1 Syntax conventions
Table D.4-1: ASN.1 Syntax conventions
D.4.1 Modules are be defined with EXTENSIBILITY IMPLIED unless there is a
specific reason to limit extensibility.
* * *
D.4.2 The AUTOMATIC TAGS module directive are not be used. D.4.3 SEQUENCE and
CHOICE tag numbers start at one. D.4.4 ENUMERATED tag numbers start at one.
D.4.5 Anonymous types are not be used. Non-trivial fields should be assigned
their own named type. D.4.6 Consideration should be given to making types re-
usable and independent of a particular release. Res-using or extending an
existing type, where the intent is the similar, is preferable to creating a
new type. D.4.7 Consideration should be given to making types extensible by
declaring them as a SEQUENCE or CHOICE where possible. D.4.8 Multiple smaller
messages or structures with fewer OPTONAL fields are preferred to larger
structures with many OPTIONAL fields, as this increases the ability of the
ASN.1 schema to enforce the intent of the specification. D.4.9 Field names,
tag numbers, field types and optional flags are be space-aligned where
possible. D.4.10 Field and type names (when defining a type) are not in bold.
D.4.11 Braces are given their own line.
ConformatModule
{itu-t(0) identified-organization(4) etsi(0) securityDomain(2)
lawfulIntercept(2) ... }
DEFINITIONS EXTENSIBILITY IMPLIED ::=
BEGIN
Structure1 ::= SEQUENCE
{
field1 [1] Field1,
field2 [2] Field2
}
Field1 ::= ENUMERATED
{
choice1(1),
choice2(2),
choice3(3)
}
Field2 ::= OCTET STRING
END
Figure 2 -- Syntax convention example
NonconformantModule
{itu-t(0) identified-organization(4) etsi(0) securityDomain(2)
lawfulIntercept(2) ... }
DEFINITIONS [AUTOMATIC TAGS]{.underline} ::= -- D.4.1 Not declared with
EXTENSIBILITY IMPLIED
\-- D.4.2 Declared AUTOMATIC TAGS
BEGIN
Structure1 ::= SEQUENCE [{]{.underline} -- D.4.11 Braces not given their own
line
field1 [[0]]{.underline} ::= [ENUMERATED]{.underline} -- D.4.3 SEQUENCE tags
don\'t start at 1
{ -- D.4.5 Anonymous type used
choice1[(0),]{.underline} -- D.4.4 ENUMERATED tag numbers don\'t start at 1
choice2(2),
choice3(3)
},
**[field2]{.underline}** [2] Field2 -- D.4.10 Field name is bold
}
**[Field2]{.underline}** ::= OCTET STRING -- D.4.10 Type names in definitions
is bold
END
Figure 3 -- Syntax convention counter-examples
#