# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The 5G mobile networks is envisioned to enable fast deployment of new
services, support of diverse services and business models, and provision of
differentiated services in terms of functionalities, performance, and security
protection. Network slicing is a new network technology/architecture to be
employed to meet these requirements.
Network slicing has been studied and is being standardized in various aspects.
For example, the architecture for next generation system is being specified
with the network slicing as one of the 5G features in TS23.501 [11] and
TS23.502 [12]. More recently, the management and orchestration of network
slicing has been studied for the next generation network and the study report
was published in TR28.801 [5]. The normative text for the provisioning of
network slicing for 5G networks and services and the management of network
slicing in mobile networks, concepts, use cases and requirements will be
specified in TS 28.531 [3] and TS 28.530 [2].
However, the security aspects of above issues of TS 28.531 [3] and TS 28.530
[2] are not addressed. It is thus the motivation and objectives of the study
in the present document.
# 1 Scope
> The present document is a study on the threats, potential security
> requirements and solutions for the features of 5G network slicing management
> as described in TS 28.530 [2] and TS 28.531[3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS28.530: \"Management of network slicing in mobile networks;
Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS28.531: \"Provisioning of network slicing for 5G networks and
services\".
[4] 3GPP TS22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1 (Release
15)\".
[5] 3GPP TR28.801 V2.0.1 (2017-09): \"Study on management and orchestration of
network slicing for next generation network (Release 15)\".
[6] IETF RFC 5246 "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2".
[7] IETF RFC 4279 "Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer Security
(TLS)".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.310 "Network Domain Security (NDS); Authenticaiton Framework
(AF)".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"OAuth2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; Provisioning\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Managed network slice:** Defined in 3GPP TS 28.530[2].
**Managed network slice instance:** Defined in 3GPP TS 28.530[2].
**Managed network slice subnet:** Defined in 3GPP TS 28.530[2].
**Managed network slice subnet instance:** Defined in 3GPP TS 28.530[2]
**Network slice:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501[11]
**Network slice instance:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501[11]
**Network Slice Subnet Template (NSST):** Defined in 3GPP TS 28.530[2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
NSaaS Network Slice as a Service
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
NSST Network Slice Subnet Template
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key issue #1: Unauthorized access to Management Exposure Interface
### 4.1.1 Key issue details
Network slicing allows operators to offer customised services to customers. It
is possible for 5G systems, based on operators' policies, to provide
standardized APIs to creation, modification, deletion, monitoring, and update
of services of network slices [4].
A **management interface between the** Network Slice Management Function
(NSMF) and the Communication Service Management Function (CSMF) **described in
[5] or between** Communication Service Provider (CSP) and Communication
Service Customer (CSC) described in **TS28.530 [2] is for this purpose.**
The CSMF/ CSP is responsible for translating the service related requirement
to network slice related requirements and inform the NSMF of the operator's
network through the management interface. For example, a customer may want to
have a specific network slice instance created by the operator. He will inform
the operator's network through CSMF/ CSP and the management exposure
interface, the NSMF of the operator network may create the network slice
instance for the customer accordingly. This feature may be charged.
Other than the network instance creation, the operator may allow activation
/deactivation, modification of configuration, deletion, and/or monitoring of a
network slice instance.
This management interface will need to be secured so that only authorized
parties can create, alter, and delete network slice instances. Without secure
protection, an attacker could:
\- use charged for services in an unauthorized way
\- create a network slice instance to deny services to or track customers who
expect to use a specific network instance
\- deny services to customers using an existing slice instance by modifying
slice services
\- perform a man-in-the-middle attack by modifying a slice instance to reroute
the traffic maliciously
\- deny services by deleting a slice instance
Attackers could gain access to this interface,
\- if it is not secured
\- if they can pretend to be a genuine network manager
\- if they are able to replay a valid message
\- if they can modify a valid message undetected
### 4.1.2 Security threats
**If the interface is not secured, attackers may gain access to capabilities
for the network management without authorization. Attackers may create network
slice instances requiring significant network resources or a large number of
network slice instances to exhaust the network resources and potentially bring
down the network. Attackers may also modify the configuration of other
customers' slice instances to fail their SLA. Attackers could replay
management messages causing repeated management operations (e.g. creating
duplicated network slices) and false charging etc.**
### 4.1.3 Potential security requirements
\- A communication service customer shall be authenticated by the network
before accessing to the slice management interface.
\- A communication service customer shall authenticate the network before
accessing to the slice management interface.
\- The slice management interface shall only be accessed by authorized
communication service customers.
\- The management capabilities that a communication service customer is
allowed to use are defined by the HPLMN.
\- The slice management interface shall be designed securely to ensure that
security features cannot be bypassed.
\- It shall be possible to integrity protect the slice management interface
messages.
\- It shall be possible to **confidentiality** protect the slice management
interface messages.
\- It shall be possible to protect the slice management interface messages
**against replay attacks**.
## 4.2 Key issue #2: Protecting the results of NSI supervision/reporting
### 4.2.1 Key issue details
During the operation phase of management aspects of a Network Slice Instance,
supervision and performance reporting (e.g. for KPI monitoring) are included.
NSI modification can be triggered by the result of supervision/reporting[3],
so protecting the integrity of the result of the supervision/reporting data is
important. A tampered result may cause an unnecessary or improper NSI
modification action such as creation or modification of NSI constituents.
Protecting the confidentiality of the supervision and reporting data may also
be needed. An attacker may be able to extract sensitive information such as
topology if the information is sent in clear text.
### 4.2.2 Security threats
An attacker can tamper the result of supervision/reporting to cause a
modification of an NSI. This may cause consumption of network resource or
changes to a running slice instance.
An attacker can eavesdrop the transmission of supervision and reporting data
and extract sensitive information that can be used to execute attacks of
running network slice instances.
### 4.2.3 Potential security requirements
The result of supervision/reporting should be integrity protected.
The supervision and reporting data may be confidentiality protected.
## 4.3 Key issue #3: Protecting Network Slice Subnet Template
### 4.3.1 Key issue details
A network Slice Subnet Template (NSST)[5] is used during on-boarding and
creation of a slice instance. The template describes the structure (i.e.
contained components and connectivity between them) and configuration of the
network slice subnet, as well as network capability and other artifacts
necessary to provision an instance based on the template[3]. To detect a
tampered template which could create a compromised NSI, the integrity of
template should be protected. The correctness and source of template should
also be verified.
The confidentiality of an NSST should be protected to prevent attackers
getting sensitive information such as topology and configuration about the
running NSI.
### 4.3.2 Security threats
Attackers can tamper network slice subnet template during on-boarding,
transmission, and storage. Based on a tampered NSST, a slice instance may not
be created correctly or successfully.
Attackers can get sensitive information about NSIs if NSSTs can be read in
clear text during transmission and in storage. This sensitive information can
later be used to attack a running NSI.
### 4.3.3 Potential security requirements
The network slice subnet template should be integrity protected
The management system should verify the correctness and source of the network
slice subnet template.
The network slice subnet template should be confidentiality protected during
transmission and in storage.
## 4.4 Key issue #4: Insecure procedure for capability negotiation
### 4.4.1 Key issue details
Operators may offer customised services as described under Network Slice as a
Service (NSaaS) in TS28.530 [2]. These services are offered based on the
operator network containing the network slice. Depending on the service
offered, the communication service customer may desire specific network slice
characteristics, and would like to manage the network slice.
**The services or network slice characteristics identified in TS28.530 [2]
include radio access technology, bandwidth, latency, reliability,
guaranteed/non-guaranteed QoS, security level etc. It should be possible for
these items to be securely negotiable in a standardized way.**
The objective of this key issue is to secure the negotiation procedure and
standardize the security procedure.
### 4.4.2 Security threats
If the network slice negotiation procedures are not secured in a standardized
way, the slice management may be subject to malicious attacks, e.g. man-in-the
middle (MitM) attacks to modify and downgrade the slice capabilities.
### 4.4.3 Potential security requirements
\- the negotiation procedure shall be authenticated
\- the negotiation procedure shall be integrity protected
\- the negotiation procedure shall be replay protected
\- the negotiation procedure shall be confidentiality protected
\- access to the network management interface shall be authorised
# 5 Solutions
## 5.1 Solution #1.1: Security procedures for Management Exposure Interface
### 5.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue of #1 unauthorized access to management
exposure interface.
### 5.1.2 Solution details
#### 5.1.2.1 Security within operator's trust domain
It is up to the operator's security policy to protect the interface.
#### 5.1.2.2 Security when CSMF is outside the operator's trust domain
##### 5.1.2.2.1 Mutual authentication
Mutual authentication is performed between CSMF and NSMF based on client and
server certificate using TLS [6], or based on pre-shared key using TLS-PSK
[7].
Certificate based authentication follows the profiles given in 3GPP TS 33.310
[8], clauses 6.1.3a and 6.1.4a. The structure of the PKI used for the
certificate is out of scope of the present document. The key distribution of
PSK is up to the operator's security policy and out of scope of the present
document.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 Security profiles
TLS is used to provide integrity protection, replay protection and
confidentiality protection for the management exposure interface. The support
of TLS on the management exposure interface is mandatory.
##### 5.1.2.2.3 Authorization of CSMF's slicing management service requests
After the mutual authentication, NSMF determines whether the CSMF is
authorized to send requests through management interface. One option of the
authorization mechanism is to check the local policy. Another option is that
OAuth 2.0 [9] can be used as the authorization mechanism.
### 5.1.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the key issue of #1 unauthorized access to management
exposure interface.
The solution has the following advantages:
\- TLS is used to provide mutual authentication, integrity protection, replay
protection and confidentiality protection for the management exposure
interface. So this solution could meet the requirement of key issue of #1
\- TLS is a mature standard which has been widely used. So it is easily and
conveniently deployed for operator.
\- CT4 adopts RESTful and HTTP as the interface protocol for service based
architecture corresponding to SA2 architecture. TLS is used for the HTTPS
protocol. Now SA5 has also adopted RESTful as the service based architecture
as in 3GPP TS 28.532 [10]. The TLS-based solution matches well.
\- It allows mutual authentication procedure between NSMF and CSMF utilizing
the existing mechanism, which is secure and convenient for operator to deploy.
\- It allows the choice for operator to choose certificate or pre shared key
mechanism for authentication, which gives flexibility to operator.
\- The certificate based authentication follows the profiles in 3GPP TS 33.310
[8], which is a mature standard.
\- It provides an authorization mechanism for CSMF's access to slice
management function, this authorization mechanism is based on OAuth mechanism
that is widely used and easily deployed.
## 5.2 Solution #2.1: OAuth based authorization for access to management
functions
### 5.2.1 Introduction
This solution addresses several key issues of #2: Protecting the results of
NSI supervision/reporting, #3: Protecting Network Slice Subnet Template and
#4: Insecure procedure for capability negotiation.
This solution provides a general authorization procedure that is suitable for
key issues #2, #3 and #4 since the management functions within an operator's
trust domain need to consume services provided by other management functions.
### 5.2.2 Solution details
The Management Function (MF) service consumer performs as the client, the MF
service producer performs as the resource server, and the MF authorization
server performs as the authorization server [2].
Assume MF service consumer and MF service producer have authenticated each
other, the authorization procedure is as follows:
1) MF service consumer requests authorization from MF authorization server
before accessing a service provided by MF service producer.
2) MF authorization server checks the authorization information and make
decision. If the service access is permitted, an access token shall be sent to
MF service consumer.
3) MF service consumer requests to access the slice management service along
with sending the token to MF service producer.
4) MF service producer verifies the access token. If valid, MF service
producer responds with the slice management service.
Figure 5.2.2-1: Slice Management Service Authorization Procedure
### 5.2.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the key issues of #2: Protecting the results of NSI
supervision/reporting, #3: Protecting Network Slice Subnet Template and #4:
Insecure procedure for capability negotiation.
The advantages are as follows:
First, the 5G architecture will adopt service based architecture approach
identifying the individual management functions and the related service-based
interfaces. This solution is based on the OAuth [9] framework that is suitable
for the service based architecture.
Besides, OAuth framework has been widely used and easily deployed for
operators.
Third, this solution has provided a general framework that is suitable in NSI
supervision/reporting, network slice subnet template protection and capability
negotiation procedure.
## 5.3 Solution #3.1: Integrity protection of NSST
This solution assumes that an NSST will be created using a structured format
(e.g XML). The integrity protection is provided using digital signatures
during transmission, on-boarding and storage of the NSSTs.
### 5.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the integrity protection requirements in KI#3
### 5.3.2 Solution details
This solution describes the procedures used to integrity protect an NSST
during the life-cycle of an NSST.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Procedure for integrity protection of NSST
The steps of the procedure are described as follows:
1) During the setup of the network design environment a key-pair is on-
boarded. The private key of the key-pair is used to create a digital signature
on the NSST. The private key should be stored in tamper-resistant storage.
2) The public key of the key-pair referred to in step 1 is on-boarded into the
NSSMF. This is used to verify the data digital signatures on the NSSTs created
by the network design app. The public key should be stored in tamper-resistant
storage.
3) When an NSST is created during the network slice subnet preparation phase
it will be digitally signed by the network design app using the private key
on-boarded in step 1.
4) The digitally signed NSST is on-boarded to the NSSMF.
5) The NSSMF verifies the digital signature on the NSST using the public key
on-boarded in step 2. If the verification of the digital signature fails, the
NSSMF shall reject the NSST and it is not stored in the NSST store.
6) The digitally signed NSST is stored in the NSST store.
7) The NSSMF receives an order for an NSSI in the network slice subnet
creation phase.
8) The NSSMF fetches the NSST from the NSST store.
9) The NSSMF verifies the digital signature on the NSST using the public key
on-boarded in step 2. If the digital signature cannot be verified, the NSSMF
shall reject using the NSST as a basis for the creation of an NSSI.
### 5.3.3 Evaluation
This solution describes a procedure that integrity protects an NSST through
its life cycle that addresses the security requirements (for integrity) in key
issue #3. Protecting Network Slice Subnet Template.
The solution has the following advantages:
\- It can protect the integrity of the network slice subnet template during
transmission, in storage, in the stage of preparation and creation.
\- The solution does not specify which data signature algorithm to use, but a
recommendation is to use ECDSA with at least a 256 bit key size. The signature
algorithm using asymmetric key pairs for integrity protection is mature and
widely used.
\- It allows the management systems to verify the source of the network slice
subnet template which is resistant to forgery and helps for responsibility
tracking.
## 5.4 Solution #3.2: Confidentiality protection of NSST
This solution assumes that an NSST will be created using a structured format
(e.g XML). The confidentiality protection is provided using encryption during
transmission, on-boarding and storage of the NSSTs.
### 5.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the confidentiality protection requirements in KI#3
### 5.4.2 Solution details
This solution describes the procedures used to confidentiality protect an NSST
during the life-cycle of an NSST.
Figure 5.4.2-1: Procedure for confidentiality protection of NSST
The steps of the procedure are described as follows:
1) During the setup of the network design environment an NSST confidentiality
key will be on-boarded into the NSSMF. The NSST confidentiality key should be
stored in tamper-resistant storage.
2) The NSST will be produced in the network design app.
3) If the NSST is on-boarded to the NSSMF over a communication link, the
communication link should be a secure connection (e.g using TLS 1.2 or higher)
4) The NSST is on-boarded to the NSSMF using the secure connection.
5) The NSSMF encrypts the NSST using the confidentiality key on-boarded in
step 1.
6) The encrypted NSST is stored in the NSST store.
7) The NSSMF receives an order for an NSSI in the network slice subnet
creation phase.
8) The NSSMF fetches the NSST from the NSST store.
9) The NSSMF decrypts the NSST using the confidentiality key on-boarded in
step 1.
### 5.4.3 Evaluation
This solution describes a procedure that confidentiality protects an NSST
through its life cycle which fulfils the security requirements (for
confidentiality) in KI#3. The solution does not specify which confidentiality
algorithm to use, but a recommendation is to use file encryption based on AES
with at least a 256 bit key size.
## 5.5 Solution #2.2: Security procedures between network slicing management
functions
### 5.5.1 Introduction
The 5G network management framework supports service-based management. When
the mobile network operators subdivide their network slice and corresponding
management functions into trust domains, or the management functions within
one trust domain need to consume services provided by other management
functions, security procedures between network slicing management service
consumer and the related producer should be provided.
This solution addresses key issues of #2: Protecting the results of NSI
supervision/reporting, #3: Protecting Network Slice Subnet Template and #4:
Insecure procedure for capability negotiation.
### 5.5.2 Solution details
#### 5.5.2.1 Protection at the network or transport layer
All the network slicing management functions shall support TLS.
The TLS profile shall follow the profile given in TS 33.310 [8].
#### 5.5.2.2 Authorization between network slicing management functions
The network slicing management service consumer should be authorized to access
the services provided by the producer. OAuth 2.0 [9] is used as the
authorization mechanism.
### 5.5.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses key issue of #2: Protecting the results of NSI
supervision/reporting, #3: Protecting Network Slice Subnet Template and #4:
Insecure procedure for capability negotiation.
The solution has the following advantages:
\- It allows mutual authentication procedure between network slicing
management functions utilizing the existing mechanism, which is secure and
convenient for operator to deploy.
\- It provides integrity protection, replay protection and confidentiality
protection between the network slicing management functions in trust domains.
# 6 Conclusions
The present document has studied a few potential security issues with respect
to the features of 5G network slicing management as described in TS 28.530 [2]
and TS 28.531[3]. The following agreements are reached in the studies:
\- The network slice management interface that is exposed to communication
service providers is required to be securely protected to prevent unauthorized
access.
\- If normative work is required, then Solution #1.1 should be considered as
the preferred solution.
#