# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Quantum computing poses a long-term threat to information security. This may
apply to some of the current protection measures in 5G systems. These threats
are studied in this document so as to ensure that 5G systems remain secure
also in the future.
The threats will impact symmetric and asymmetric cryptographic algorithms in
different ways. This document focuses on symmetric cryptographic algorithms.
In particular, it focuses on the implications of introducing 256 bit
cryptographic keys and algorithms.
The study allows informed decisions on why, when, where, and how symmetric
cryptographic algorithms used in 3GPP systems could be strengthened to counter
the identified threats.
WHY: Commercial applications (e.g., critical infrastructure, financial,
medical, and pharmaceutical) and government organizations may need enhanced
protection for confidential information.
WHEN: This study establishes a timeline for the introduction of enhanced
protection measures. It is currently not clear when, e.g., quantum computers
may pose a realistic threat. The timeline may take into account the following
factors:
the number of years that data that are sent protected in 5G (over the various
interfaces) need to remain secure;
the number of years it will take to introduce 256-bit keys in the 5G system
(standardization and deployment)
the number of years it takes to decrypt data protected with 128-bit keys,
taking into account technological progress.
The study should also seek to align the security levels and timelines for
introducing new asymmetric cryptographic algorithms with those for symmetric
cryptographic algorithms in 5G. The reason is that the 5G system also makes
use of asymmetric cryptographic algorithms, e.g. in network domain security,
in untrusted non-3GPP access, and in 5G identity privacy, and it does not make
sense to have different security levels for different types of algorithms in
the same release of a 5G system.
WHERE: Not all parts of the 5G system may be affected in the same way. The
study should therefore investigate the impacts on UE, gNB, and core network
entities separately. As an example, the study may investigate whether
encryption between the UE and a gNB in an operator network (where the
cleartext is available to the operator in the gNB) and encryption between the
UE and a core network entity in a slice are affected by the requirements in
the same way.
HOW: The focus of this proposed new work will include, but will not be limited
to, supporting 256-bit keys and algorithms, bolstering integrity protection by
increasing the size of MAC-I in 5G networks, key derivation, AKA key
generation, key distribution, key refresh, negotiation of the key size, and
processing of confidential CP/UP/MP information.
# 1 Scope
The present document details the following:
\- An assessment of threats and potential countermeasures posed due to quantum
computing and a resulting assessment of relevant countermeasures in the 5G
system.
\- An assessment of the timelines for the introduction of any countermeasures,
in particular the increase of key lengths to 256 bits. This includes an
alignment with the timeline for strengthening asymmetric cryptographic
algorithms used in 5G systems.
\- An assessment of which parts of the 5G system will be affected and in which
way.
\- A Study of full entropy 256 bit keys in the 5G key hierarchy, beginning
with the permanent pre-shared key. Including a study into modifying the
derivation algorithms in order to derive child keys from the 256-bit master
key instead of the 128-bit key.
\- A study to determine whether a longer MAC is appropriate for 5G.
\- A study of the coexistence of different size keys. In 3GPP networks,
256-bit keys in 5G will need to coexist with 128-bit keys in legacy networks
or earlier 5G phases. This includes storage of keys and separate key
derivation algorithms both on the UE and in the core network.
\- A study into the desired number of 256-bit algorithms, e.g. if two 256-bit
AKA key generation algorithm sets are needed.
\- A study of the desired performance aspects for the new 256-bit algorithms
taking into account software and hardware aspects.
\- A study of key size negotiation.
\- A study into whether the current methods for distribution and refresh of
security keys are equally applicable to larger key sizes and can remain the
same.
\- A study into the Encryption and integrity algorithms that could be needed.
This includes 256-bit session/intermediate keys in 5G, may, in some cases,
simply entail using larger-key versions of current algorithms, while in other
cases new algorithms may need to be chosen altogether.
\- Recommendations for suitable requirements for the needed algorithms for use
with 256-bit keys and ask ETSI SAGE to provide those algorithms.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [2] Markus Grassl, Brandon Langenberg, Martin Roettler, Rainer Steinwandt
> (2015); \"Applying Grover's algorithm to AES: quantum resource estimates\".
> https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.04965.pdf
>
> [3] Vlad Gheorghiu, Michele Mosca (2017); \"GRI quantum risk assessment
> report: A resource estimation framework for quantum attacks against
> cryptographic functions\". http://globalriskinstitute.org/download/summary-
> report-3/
[4] Scott Fluhrer (2017); \"Reassessing Grover's Algorithm\".
https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/811.pdf
> [5] Matthew Amy, Olivia Di Matteo, Vlad Gheorghiu, Michele Mosca, Alex
> Parent, John Schanck (2016); \"Estimating the cost of generic quantum pre-
> image attacks on SHA-2 and SHA-3\". https://arxiv.org/pdf/1603.09383.pdf
[6] Daniel J. Bernstein (2009); \"Cost analysis of hash collisions: Will
quantum computers make SHARCS obsolete?\"
https://cr.yp.to/hash/collisioncost-20090517.pdf
> [7] NISTIR 8105 (2016); \"Report on Post-Quantum Cryptography\".
> https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/nistir/8105/final
>
> [8] John M. Martinis (2015); \"Qubit metrology for building a fault-tolerant
> quantum computer\". https://www.nature.com/articles/npjqi20155.pdf
>
> [9] Martin Roetteler, Michael Naehrig, Krysta M. Svore, and Kristin Lauter,
> \"Quantum Resource Estimates for Computing Elliptic Curve Discrete
> Logarithms". In Proc. ASIACRYPT 2017. https://www.microsoft.com/en-
> us/research/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/1706.06752.pdf
>
> [10] Austin G. Fowler, Matteo Mariantoni, John M. Martinis, and Andrew N.
> Cleland, \"Surface codes: Towards practical large-scale quantum
> computation". October 26, 2012.
> https://web.physics.ucsb.edu/\~martinisgroup/papers/Fowler2012.pdf
>
> [11] Markus Grassl, Brandon Langenberg, Martin Roetteler, and Rainer
> Steinwandt, \"Applying Grover's algorithm to AES: quantum resource
> estimates".\ https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-
> content/uploads/2016/04/1512.04965-1.pdf
>
> [12] MIT Technology Review, Practical Quantum Computers.
> https://www.technologyreview.com/s/603495/10-breakthrough-
> technologies-2017-practical-quantum-computers/
>
> [13] Thomas Häner, Martin Roetteler, and Krysta M. Svore. \"Factoring using
> 2n+2 qubits with Toffoli based modular multiplication\". Quantum Information
> and Computation, 18(7&8):673--684, 2017
>
> [14A] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication
> Framework (AF) \"
>
> [15B] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP
> network layer security\"
>
> [16C] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\"
>
> [17D] 3GPP TR 33.834 v0.4.0: \"Study of Long Term Key Update Procedure\"
[18E] IETF RFC 7165: \"Use Cases and Requirements for JSON Object Signing and
Encryption (JOSE) \"
[19F] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature (JWS)\"
[20G] IETF RFC 7516: \"JSON Web Encryption (JWE)\"
[21H] IETF RFC 7517: \"JSON Web Key (JWK)\"
[22I] IETF RFC 7518: \"JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)\"
[23J] IETF RFC 7519: \"JSON Web Tokens (JWT)\"
[24K] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\"
[25] NIST Special Publication 800-38B: \"Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes
of Operation: The CMAC Mode for Authentication\"
# 3 Definitions abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AKA Authentication and Key Agreement
CK Ciphering Key
DHE Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral
EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol
ECDHE Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral
ECIES Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption Scheme
HN Home Network
IKEv2 Internet Key Exchange version 2
IPX IP Exchange
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
KDF Key Derivation Function
NAS Non Access Stratum
NDS Network Domain Security
OTA Over The Air
RES RESponse
RRC Radio Resource Control
SBA Service Based Architecture
SEAF Security Anchor Function
SEPP Security Edge Protection Proxy
SUCI SUbscription Concealed Identifier
SUPI SUbscription Permanent Identifier
TLS Transport Layer Security
UE User Equipment
# 4 Threats and potential countermeasures posed due to quantum computing
### 4.1 Introduction
A quantum computer is a computer which makes use of quantum-mechanical
effects. These effects include superposition, which allows quantum bits
(qubits) to exist in a combination of several states at once, and
entanglement, which allows connections between separate quantum systems such
that they cannot be described independently. There exist quantum algorithms
that use these effects to solve certain cryptographic problems more
efficiently than they could be solved on a classical computer. However, due to
the reliance on physical effects quantum computing is inherently error prone,
meaning that circuits for quantum algorithms require extra qubits for error
correction. This quantum error correction means that the complexity of the
quantum computer required to carry out certain quantum algorithms is greater
in practice than in theory. With the advances in quantum computing, the
security community feels it is important to start preparing our information
security systems to be resilient to this potential threat.
### 4.2 Threats to asymmetric cryptography
Shor's quantum algorithm for integer factorization runs in polynomial time on
a quantum computer. As the security of RSA relies on the hardness of
factorizing large integers, the system's security is terminally undermined by
quantum computation. A variant of Shor's algorithm enables a quantum computer
to calculate discrete logarithms in polynomial time, both over finite fields
and elliptic curves. This variant renders several other public-key
cryptosystems insecure, including Diffie-Hellman and Elliptic Curve Diffie-
Hellman.
To counter the threat of quantum computing to asymmetric cryptography it is
necessary to swap existing algorithms for new, quantum-resistant algorithms.
However, it should be noted that all quantum-resistant key-exchange algorithms
currently being considered are much less studied than traditional public key
systems such as RSA and Diffie-Hellman. As such, a balance will need to be
struck between countering the quantum threat and ensuring the use of stable
and tested systems.
### 4.3 Threats to symmetric cryptography
Grover's search algorithm offers a theoretical quadratic speed-up on
unstructured search problems. This is applicable to symmetric key cryptography
as, with use of Grover's algorithm, the key for an N-bit block cipher would be
recovered with O(2^N/2^) operations.
The real speed up offered by Grover's algorithm is difficult to evaluate and
depends on a variety of factors including the scheme being analysed, the
precise functionality of a quantum computer and the necessity for error-
correction codes. There has been limited analysis of the effect of Grover's
algorithm on 128-bit block ciphers, but various papers [2][3] have calculated
that, while the security of AES-128 would be reduced with the development of a
quantum computer, it would not fall to the theoretical 64 bits. It should also
be noted that Grover's algorithm does not parallelise efficiently, suggesting
that the security assumptions to apply in this scenario may be different to
those in classical computing. It may be more appropriate to consider attacks
that run in bounded time, taking into account the likely capabilities of an
attacker and the amount of likely parallelisation [4].
To counter this threat to symmetric cryptography from a quantum computer it
would certainly suffice to double the key-size of an algorithm, thus doubling
the number of bits of classical security. As discussed above there is an
ongoing discussion as to whether this response is overly conservative, as the
changes would have other business, interoperability and security consequences.
### 4.4 Threats to hash algorithms
Grover's algorithm also poses a threat to the security of hash algorithms. As
for symmetric algorithms, the theoretical speed-up is quadratic, but it is
difficult to evaluate this in a real world scenario. For example, [5]
estimates that a single pre-image attack on SHA-256 would take O(2^166^)
operations, rather than the theoretical O(2^128^). Looking at another measure
of cryptographic hash security, there is no known quantum algorithm which
finds collisions in general hash functions more efficiently than the most
efficient classical algorithms [6].
# 5 Assessment of quantum computing impact timelines
## 5.1 Predicted timescales and resources for quantum computing
It is unclear when a quantum computer that threatens cryptography will become
available. However, [7] cites an estimate that a quantum computer capable of
breaking 2048-bit RSA may be built by 2030 for a cost of one billion US
dollars. It is likely that the cost of building a quantum computer will fall
rapidly in the years following this. The efficacy of a quantum computer is
inherently connected to its fault-tolerance and the requirement for quantum
error correcting codes. It is worth noting that current estimates for one
logical qubit are 3200 physical qubits for quantum error correction [10];
furthermore [8] describes improving fault tolerance in a scalable architecture
as "a potential show stopper for the entire effort".
Two research papers, [9, Table 2] and [13], have estimated the quantum
resource needed to break ECC and RSA algorithms based on Shor's algorithm
under certain assumptions. They estimate that for current asymmetric
cryptographic algorithms O(2^12^) logical qubits are required, and O(2^40^) to
O(2^50^) quantum gates. This implies that commonly used asymmetric
cryptographic algorithms are at risk when a quantum computer with O(2^23^)
physical qubits can be built.
Grassl et al. analyzed the quantum resources required to carry out an
exhaustive key search for the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) by using
Grover's algorithm, [11]. The paper suggests that a similar number of
logical/physical qubits will be required to attack one AES key, but the number
of gates required is significantly higher with a total of O(2^86^), of depth
O(2^81^), for AES-128, rising to O(2^151^), depth O(2^145^), for AES-256.
The report [12] states that it is conceivable that a 2^20^ physical qubit
system will be available in 10 years, though it does not give an estimate of
the cost. If so, a large-scale quantum computer with sufficient qubits for
some cryptographic problems could be built in 10-20 years, which is within the
lifecycle of 5G systems. However, [11] also notes that with their estimate of
the large circuit depth required to implement Grover's algorithm, \"it seems
challenging to implement this algorithm on an actual physical quantum
computer\".
## 5.2 Timelines for transitioning asymmetric algorithms
In 2017 NIST launched a study to evaluate and standardize one or more quantum-
resistant public key cryptographic algorithms. The results of the study are
expected between 2023 and 2025. Currently no quantum-resistant public key
algorithms are standardized by NIST as it is assessed that not enough time has
been spent analysing them.
## 5.3 Timelines for transitioning symmetric algorithms
The threat to symmetric cryptography from quantum computing is lower than that
for asymmetric cryptography. As such there is little benefit in transitioning
symmetric algorithms without corresponding changes to the asymmetric
algorithms that accompany them.
# 6 Impacted NextGen areas
Editor\'s Note: This section will contain text on the impacted areas of
NextGen that may be impacted by advances in quantum computing.
## 6.1 Impacted use of asymmetric cryptography
### 6.1.1 Introduction
In 6.1 the assumption is made that an attacker has access to a quantum
computer with an implementation of Shor's algorithm for integer factorisation
and/or the discrete log problem. The threats to cryptographic protocols and
algorithms are considered in isolation, with no mitigating factors discussed.
In particular, certain attacks rely on the attacker having access to a
network. The difficulty and likelihood of these attacks are not discussed in
this section.
### 6.1.2 TLS for service based interfaces
TLS is supported by all network functions in the 5G architecture, following
the profile given in Annex E of TS 33.310 [A]. On the N32 interface it is
recommended to use TLS between the SEPP and the next-hop IPX entity and where
there are no IPX entities between two SEPPs TLS shall be used between them.
All mandatory and recommended TLS cipher suites use ECDHE or DHE for key
agreement. RSA may also be used as a key agreement algorithm. An attacker with
access to the network interfaces where these TLS cipher suites are used may be
able to collect these communications and decrypt them. This decryption would
not need to take place in real time.
All TLS cipher suites which are authenticated by a digital signature algorithm
also rely on asymmetric cryptography. An attacker with appropriate access
could sign communications as if they were a genuine network function and may
be able to inject false messages into a network. Only pre-shared key cipher
suites are free from this additional risk.
### 6.1.3 NDS/IP for non-service based interfaces
Interfaces based on DIAMETER or GTP are protected using NDS/IP as specified in
TS 33.210 [B]. When confidentiality protection is required, IKEv2 is used to
establish a shared secret. The cryptographic algorithm for this is Diffie-
Hellman. Whenever IKEv2 certificate based authentication is used an attacker
with appropriate access could sign communications in the same way as described
for TLS in 6.1.2.
### 6.1.4 SUPI protection
In 5G AKA the UE generates a SUCI using a protection scheme based on a home
network public key. If the public key encryption scheme used were broken a
user could be deanonymized. In the case of ECIES, as specified in Annex C of
TS 33.501 [C], an attacker in possession of a HN public key could calculate
the private key in advance of a connection, allowing immediate calculation of
the SUPI encryption key when the UE public key is seen. In this case, the
encryption scheme would offer no privacy protection for the subscriber.
### 6.1.5 OAuth in SBA
In SBA the OAuth 2.0 framework is used for Network Function authorization. The
observations on TLS in 6.1.2 apply to the OAuth framework, as credentials and
access tokens should be sent between entities under TLS.
In addition, there may be other uses of cryptography, for example if the
system uses self-encoded access tokens created using JSON Web Tokens [J],
which use JSON Web Signatures. If this was broken, an attacker with
appropriate access could request resources from a compromised network node
that that node should not be authorized to consume.
### 6.1.6 N32 interface security
It is desired to have an application layer fine-grained security protocol on
the N32 connection between networks (and IPXs). Initial discussion has
highlighted JOSE (Javascript Object Signing and Encryption) as an appropriate
protocol [E], with further details in [F], [G], [H], [I]. The algorithms
chosen are implementation specific, but all asymmetric algorithms are RSA, or
Diffie-Hellman over a field or curve and hence could be broken by an attacker
with a quantum computer.
### 6.1.7 Network product software package integrity
TS 33.117 [K] sets out the requirement that network product shall support
software package integrity validation via cryptographic means, e.g. digital
signature. An attacker who knew an authorized software source's public key
could calculate the corresponding private key and use this to sign a malicious
software package to be delivered to devices.
### 6.1.8 EAP TLS
Private networks using the 5G system may use EAP TLS for authentication and
key agreement, as specified in Annex B of [C]. EAP TLS uses public key
algorithms for key agreement. An attacker could decrypt communications sent
under keys derived from the calculated pre master secret and non-confidential
values such as the client and server random. With appropriate access they
could also perform injection attacks as described for TLS in 6.1.2.
### 6.1.9 LTKUP
> Editor\'s Note: It is FFS whether the Long Term Key Update Procedure (LTKUP)
> will be impacted by advances in quantum computing. This will depend on the
> outcome of TR 33.834 [D]. If a certificate based or Diffie-Hellman based
> solution is selected, then the impact of a quantum computer should be
> considered here.
### 6.1.10 Ephemeral key agreement in primary authentication
Editor\'s Note: If an ephemeral Diffie-Hellman exchange is added to primary
authentication for 5G Phase 2 this will be impacted by advances in quantum
computing. This section is FFS if such an adoption happens.
## 6.2 Impacted use of symmetric cryptography
### 6.2.1 Introduction
In 6.2 the assumption is made that an attacker has access to a quantum
computer with an implementation of Grover's algorithm. The threats to
cryptographic protocols and algorithms are considered in isolation, with no
mitigating factors discussed. In particular, certain attacks rely on the
attacker having access to a network. The difficulty and likelihood of these
attacks are not discussed in this section.
### 6.2.2 Ciphering algorithms
128-NEA1, 128-NEA2 and 128-NEA3 use 128-bit keys K~UPenc~, K~RRCenc~ and
K~NASenc~ for User Plane, RRC signalling and NAS signalling encryption
respectively. If these algorithms were broken by a quantum computer an
attacker could recover the relevant key and decrypt any data encrypted under
that stream until the key was updated.
A more resource intensive attack could recover a subscriber's long-term key.
This would require an attacker to know or guess parameters related to both the
home and serving network, to model the key derivation algorithm (e.g.
Milenage) and the inputs to the KDF in the key hierarchy. It would also
require a quantum circuit modelling the entire key derivation hierarchy. The
complexity of this circuit is not well understood at this time. An attacker
doing this would be able to decrypt all traffic belonging to that subscriber
which was not encrypted at the application layer. Recovery of the subscriber's
long-term key would also allow the attacker to pose as the subscriber to the
network.
### 6.2.3 Integrity algorithms
128-NIA1, 128-NIA2 and 128-NIA3 use 128-bit keys K~UPint,~ K~RRCint~ and
K~NASint~ for User Plane, RRC signalling and NAS signalling integrity
protection. If these algorithms were broken by a quantum computer an attacker
may be able to recover one of these keys from the MAC-I or NAS-MAC. In the
current 5G system the MAC-I and NAS-MAC are 32 bits long meaning that, with a
classical attack, at least four messages would be required to recover the key.
> Editor\'s Note: It is for further study how many protected messages would be
> required to recover the key with a quantum attack in this scenario.
In this scenario an attacker would be required to recover the integrity
protection key quickly enough to use it before a key refresh took place.
Having done this the recovered key could be used to verify the integrity of a
spoofed message. If an attacker wanted to send an arbitrary message they may
also need to have recovered the corresponding encryption key.
### 6.2.4 OTA mechanism
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how the OTA mechanism is affected by advances in
quantum computing.
## 6.3 Impacted use of hash functions
### 6.3.1 Introduction
In 6.3 the same assumptions are made as in 6.2.
### 6.3.2 Key derivation function
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how the key derivation function is affected by
advances in quantum computing.
### 6.3.3 Authentication and key agreement
During 5G AKA RES* is sent from the UE to the SEAF in the serving network. An
attacker could recover the subscriber's long term key from RES*, using a
quantum circuit modelling the key derivation hierarchy. A similar attack could
also be applied to RES in EAP-AKA'. This would require an attacker to know or
guess parameters related to both the home and serving network, to model the
key derivation algorithm (e.g. Milenage) and the inputs to the KDF in the key
hierarchy. The complexity of the quantum circuit required for this attack is
not well understood at this time.
# 7 Study of full entropy 256 bit keys in the 5G key hierarchy
## 7.1 Risks and mitigations for quasi-random IVs in counter mode
### 7.1.1 The attacks and their cost
When a block cipher is used in counter mode, reuse of the same counter block
can compromise the confidentiality of the system even with different keys. If
known plaintext is encrypted with the same counter block by many different
keys, and if the attacker can collect 2^k^ of these cipher blocks, and thus
2^k^ blocks of keystream, then the attacker would expect to perform 2^n-k^
trial encryptions of the counter block to find one match with high
probability. Note that the blocks may come from different users, and there is
no control over which key is recovered.
It is difficult to assess the impact of quantum computing in this instance
through Grover's algorithm which is usually phrased in terms of finding as
single input to a function that gives one specific output. However, classical
computing may reach zetta-scale power by 2030 if Moore's law continues to
hold. That means, it is plausible to expect that the most powerful
supercomputer in 2030-40, will be able to perform O(2^70^) FLOPS. A
cryptographically significant computation is not equivalent to one floating-
point operation (say on a Xeon), so this may equate to fewer cryptographic
operations per second per super computer, perhaps around O(2^64^). Thus an
attack with n=128 and k=32 may take hundreds, if not thousands, of years. For
reference, over the previous 20 years, the leading super-computers of the day
cost between 100 and 400 million dollars.
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether FLOPS is the most appropriate measure of
computing power for this assessment.
Regardless of the actual costs, it cannot be shown that the attack is
practically infeasible from a computation view point alone.
### 7.1.2 Applicability to 3GPP use of counter mode
3GPP NEA algorithms do not use a random field as an IV. The counter block is
constructed as follows:
  * COUNT, 32 bits, increasing per-message sent under the same key to avoid repeated keystreams, different COUNTs are used for different security associations, initialised to 0.
  * BEARER, 5 bits
  * DIRECTION, 1 bit
  * 0-padding, 26 bits
  * COUNTER, 64-bit counter incremented per cipher block, initialised to 0
Thus, an attacker would need to collect all messages with the same COUNT,
BEARER, DIRECTION and COUNTER for the attack, as well as to reliably know the
plain text.
Editor's Note: it is FFS to what extent and where (NAS, RRC, UP) predictable
plain texts will be repeatedly encrypted with any of the different keys and
the same counter value in 3GPP systems.
This attack recovers one of the session confidentiality keys.
### 7.1.3 Mitigations
If the risks are deemed sufficient, a simple mitigation for this threat is to
include some random data in part of the counter block to ensure that the
counter block is sufficiently unlikely to repeat across large numbers of
different users. Alternatively, the key size could be made longer to render
the attack impractical, though the attack still implies that the security is
affected, and thus to maximise the security of the system, it could be
advisable to randomise the IV regardless of the key size.
In the simple solution case, for NEA1/2/3 the 26 bits of 0-padding could be
replaced with a random value. For more security, some of the 64-bit counter
could be given over to a random field. The random value need only change when
the encryption key changes. It needs to be established if this is sufficient,
how many bits should be randomised, and if it introduces any further issues.
# 8 Assessment of the requirement for and impact of a longer MAC
Editor\'s Note: This section will contain the study on whether a longer MAC is
appropriate for 5G. Note that the higher data rates achievable in 5G should be
able to accommodate a reasonable MAC-I size increase without suffering
significant performance degradation. It is also to be studied whether an
integrity algorithm different from the ones standardized for 5G phase 1 needs
to be developed.
### 8.1 Introduction
Within 3GPP networks, when a use case requires integrity protection for user
plane traffic using a MAC longer than 32 bits, it can currently be achieved
using over-the-top application layer integrity protection mechanisms. These
require no changes to the 3GPP network. Currently 3GPP networks do not provide
native support for a MAC longer than 32 bits, and this support would require
changes to the network and protocols.
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether there are security risks that compromise the
integrity of the applications if a longer MAC is not supported by 3GPP
networks natively and if so, what they are. It is also FFS how the use of
longer MAC can be negotiated securely given that there might be legacy
networks that do not support longer MAC.
All (non-null) 5G integrity algorithms use a 128-bit key and result in a
32-bit MAC. If it is deemed that quantum computing requires modification of
the confidentiality algorithms to use 256-bit keys, then the integrity
algorithms may need to change accordingly. This change is independent of the
security requirements on MAC length.
### 8.2 Integrity Protection for Control and User Planes
Currently, 3GPP requires integrity protection only for Control Plane traffic
for UMTS, EPS, and Rel-15 of 5GS. Integrity protection of User Plane traffic
in Rel-15 of 5GS is optional to use.
It is arguably more expensive to implement larger MAC size for User Plane
integrity protection than for Control Plane integrity. However, one can
envision a line of services that require levels of OTA integrity protection
that are higher than established 32-bit MAC can provide.
### 8.3 MAC tag length impact on security
The MAC-I is fundamental for ensuring that messages sent within the 3GPP
system have cryptographic integrity protection ensuring they cannot be forged
or modified. Currently, 5G specifies the use of MAC algorithms with 128-bit
key and a 32-bit MAC tag length. In the case of NIA1 and NIA2, the 32-bit tag
length is obtained by truncating the output of the MAC algorithm; NIA1
natively produces a 64-bit tag, while NIA2 produces a 128-bit tag.
Truncating MAC tags is a common practice, provided that the MAC key length is
sufficient to meet the desired security strength of the scheme. However, the
MAC tag length does have an impact on security, as it indicates the likelihood
that an adversary with no knowledge of the MAC key can present a message and
tag that would pass verification. That is, with a 32-bit MAC tag length, a
trivial forgery attack would allow an attacker to forge a message after
2^32^/2 attempts on average. Short MAC tags could create an unacceptable
security risk in systems that allow an attacker to attempt a large number of
messages that would be verified by a given MAC key, depending on the system's
tolerance for accepting a forged message. Some operator services (e.g., Ultra-
Reliable Communications, Critical Communications, Government Communication)
may require levels of integrity protection that are beyond the level achieved
by a 32-bit MAC.
While guidance from NIST allows MAC tags as short as 32-bits, it recommends
tag lengths of at least 64-bits [25] to reduce the likelihood of accepting
forged data. Use of shorter MAC tags may be appropriate in certain constrained
use cases where the system is able to limit the number of messages failing
verification under a given key. Protocols with high data throughput and long-
lived keys should use a MAC tag of at least 64 bits. This guidance is not
related to quantum computing.
Editor\'s Note: It is for future study and analysis the application of this
attack to the specific 3GPP case, i.e. what an attacker can achieve in
practice with an attempted forgery attack on 3GPP integrity protection.
Note: There are other attacks against integrity algorithms discussed in [xx],
including replay attacks and collision attacks. While on average 232/2
messages are required to find a collision between two MACs (for a MAC tag
length of 32-bits), collision attacks typically rely on finding two MACs which
are the same length before truncation. As such, the block size of the
algorithm is more important than the MAC tag length for this attack. Replay
attacks are prevented by adding COUNT, BEARER and DIRECTION values to a
message before calculating the MAC, thus uniquely identifying that session.
## 8.4 Impact of a longer MAC tag on network
There is no cryptographic overhead in increasing the MAC tag length in the
3GPP integrity algorithms from 32 to 64 bits. As the native tag lengths for
NIA1 and NIA2 are both at least 64-bits, a longer MAC tag length could be
achieved by simply reducing the truncation of the output.
Editor\'s Note: The impact of a longer MAC on the RAN, UE and existing
hardware is FFS
## 8.5 Minimal Level of Integrity Protection
The currently adopted 32-bit size of MAC-I and the corresponding level of
protection should be minimally accepted when integrity protection is applied
in 5GS Rel-16 and beyond.
Editor\'s Note: It is for future study the appropriate length of MAC-I for
messages with different rsisk levels
8.6 Conclusion
Editor\'s Note: To be added.
# 9 Study of coexistence of different size keys and key size negotiation.
Editor\'s note: This section needs to be reviewed once content in the clauses
above has been added.
Editor\'s Note: This section will contain study on key size negotiation: The
security specification should be flexible so as to be easily adapted or
upgraded in the future, particularly taking into consideration roaming
situations.
Editor\'s Note: This section will also contain study on coexistence of
different size keys: In 3GPP networks, 256-bit keys in 5G will need to coexist
with 128-bit keys in legacy networks or earlier 5G phases. This entails
storage of keys and separate key derivation algorithms both on the UE and in
the core network.
## 9.1 Ensuring system parameters support variable length keys
Since the 5G system will be expected to support 128-bit as well as 256-bit
keys, it cannot be assumed that any such key is of a fixed length.
Accordingly, all messages, fields and other parameters communicating cipher
keys and integrity keys in the 5G system should allow for the fact that the
associated key has variable length.
The entropy of other keys in the key hierarchy (K~SEAF~, K~AMF~, K~gNB~ etc.)
is decided by the entropy of long term key. As a general principle, it would
be desirable to preserve as much entropy as possible through the key
hierarchy. Even if independent 256-bit ciphering and integrity keys derived
from 256-bit K is established between the UE and any node, entropy of the keys
is 256 bits. Accordingly, messages, fields and other parameters communicating
other keys in the hierarchy should allow for the fact that the associated key
may have variable length.
Editor\'s Note: Use of concept of entropy key to describe security parameters
is FFS.
Any public keys in the 5G system may have to be of variable size to support
security equivalents of the different symmetric key lengths. In particular,
proposed quantum safe public key algorithms sometimes have very large key
sizes (running into many thousands of bits). Accordingly, messages, fields and
other parameters communicating public keys should potentially allow for very
long message sizes: thousands of octets or more.
To avoid making multiple changes in future specifications, it is proposed not
to set upper bounds on key lengths in any key e.g. to use LV or TLV
constructions rather than zero-padding keys up to a larger fixed length.
## 9.2 Ensuring system parameters support variable length MACs, AKA messages
etc.
Using a 256-bit key with -- for example -- a 32-bit MAC or a 64-bit AUTN or
RES looks unusual going forwards. While standardizing increased key lengths,
3GPP should take the opportunity to revise the maximum lengths of other input
and output parameters, in order to facilitate a consistent security level.
Accordingly, all messages, fields and other parameters communicating inputs
and outputs to AKA, or output from any integrity algorithm in the 5G system,
should allow for variable lengths. Again, to avoid making multiple changes in
future specifications, it is proposed not to set upper bounds on lengths in
any of these constructions e.g. to use LV or TLV constructions.
## 9.3 Ensuring Key Derivation Functions support variable length keys
All key derivation functions should allow for variable length output. In some
cases, a derivation function will generate 128-bit keys; in others it will
generate 256-bit keys. As identified in point 9.1, intermediate keys in the
hierarchy may have variable length as well. To ensure cryptographic
separation, the desired output key length or lengths (if several keys are
being derived at once) should be provided as an input parameter to the KDF.
## 9.4 Using 256-bit keys in New RAN with legacy core
A special concern arises in cases where a new 5G RAN is combined with a legacy
LTE core. The gNB could attempt to negotiate 256-bit keys with the UE in such
cases, but the core would not be aware of this. It needs to be considered if
this approach is workable, or introduces more security problems than it
potentially solves.
## 9.5 Co-existence between 128-bit and 256-bit key lengths.
If future releases support 256-bit key size, a secure negotiation protocol has
to be established to ensure mitigation against bidding down attacks.
Editors Note: This requires further investigation on how this can be achieved
and on the key entropy.
## 9.6 Co-existence between multiple or variable lengths MAC tags.
Rel-15 5GS supports 32-bit MAC-I. If future releases support larger MAC-I
size(s), a secure negotiation protocol has to be established to ensure
mitigation against bidding down attacks.
Editors Note: Granularity of application for larger MAC-I is FFS.
Editors Note: This requires further investigation on how this can be achieved.
## 9.X Reduce complexity of Key Derivation Function negotiation
Supporting both variable length keys and variable KDF algorithms would benefit
from addressing negotiation of both the size of the keys to derive and the KDF
used to derive the keys in the same procedures. Many existing security
mechanisms already support KDF negotiation.
KDF negotiation in the 5G system becomes quite complex because there are many
Network Entities that need to negotiate KDFs with the UE, e.g., gNB, AMF,
SEAF, AUSF, UDM and potentially introduce additional overhead in the
signalling.
If KDF negotiation is supported in the 5G system design consideration should
be taken, for example, to reuse the existing signalling, combine two
negotiations, etc.
# 10 Study of desired number of 256-bit algorithms
## 10.1 Overview of existing GSMA/3GPP symmetric algorithms
This section lists and analyses the existing symmetric GSMA/3GPP algorithms
for authentication, AKA key generation, encryption and integrity.
### 10.1.1 Algorithms for authentication and AKA key generation
Figure 10.1.1-1lists the GSMA and 3GPP algorithms for authentication and AKA
key generation. Legacy algorithms with keys smaller than 128 bits are no
longer recommended and should be phased out due to their short key length.
* * *
Cipher Proprietary Proprietary Proprietary AES Keccak Input Key Size 128 128
128 128 128, 256 Output Key Size 54 54 64 128 128, 256 RES Size 32 32 32 64
32,64,128,256 Name COMP-128-1 COMP-128-2 COMP-128-3 MILENAGE TUAK
* * *
Figure 10.1.1-1: Algorithms for authentication and AKA key generation
3GPP systems has normally specified two cryptographically strong algorithms
for each functionality. Together with algorithm negotiation, this means that
the 3GPP systems are strong even if a weakness is found in one of the two
algorithms. For AKA key generation with 256-bit keys, as well as RES sizes
larger than 64 bits, only one algorithm is currently specified (TUAK based on
the Keccak sponge function also used in SHA-3).
To follow the principle of having two parallel algorithms (which has served
cellular systems well), GSMA/3GPP need to standardize a second AKA key
generation algorithm for 256-bit keys and longer RES. One possible option
being MILENAGE extended with AES-256 in addition to AES-128.
### 10.1.2 Algorithms for encryption and integrity
Figure 10.1.2-1 lists the GSMA and 3GPP algorithms for encryption and
integrity. Legacy algorithms with keys smaller than 128 bits are no longer
recommended and should be phased out due to their short key length.
* * *
Cipher Proprietary Proprietary KASUMI KASUMI KASUMI SNOW 3G SNOW 3G AES AES
ZUC ZUC Key Size 64 64 64 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 Mode XOR XOR f8-mode
f8-mode CBC-MAC XOR CW-MAC1 CTR CMAC XOR CW-MAC2 Type ENC ENC ENC ENC INT ENC
INT ENC INT ENC INT MAC Size - - - - 32 - 32 - 32 - 32 GSM A5/1 A5/2 A5/3 A5/4  
GPRS GEA1 GEA2 GEA3 GEA4 GIA4 GEA5 GIA5  
UMTS UEA1 UIA1 UEA2 UIA2  
LTE 128-EEA1 128-EIA1 128-EEA2 128-EIA2 128-EEA3 128-EIA3 NR 128-NEA1 128-NIA1
128-NEA2 128-NIA2 128-NEA3 128-NIA3
* * *
Figure 10.1.2-1: Algorithms for encryption and integrity
All existing integrity algorithms uses a MAC length of 32 bits. In addition to
the algorithms listed in Figure 10.1.2-1, the terms A5/0, GEA0, UEA0, UIA0,
EEA0, EIA0, NEA0, NIA0 are used as different names for the NULL algorithm.
# 11 Study the desired performance aspects for the new 256-bit algorithms
Editor\'s Note: This section will study the desired performance aspects for
the new 256-bit algorithms taking into account software and hardware aspects.
# 12 Study of key management
Editor\'s Note: This section will study key management, key distribution and
key refresh. It should include whether the current methods for distribution
and refresh of security keys are equally applicable to larger key sizes and
can remain the same.
# 13 Study of individual algorithm details
Editor\'s Note: This section will study the details of encryption and
integrity algorithms. For example, accommodating 256-bit session/intermediate
keys in 5G, may, in some cases, simply entail using larger-key versions of
current algorithms, while in other cases new algorithms may need to be chosen
altogether.
## 13.1 Radio interface encryption and integrity algorithms
### 13.1.1 AES
It appears fairly straightforward to adapt the encryption and integrity
algorithms based on 128-bit AES to use 256-bit AES instead. There are
published attacks that are notionally very slightly better than exhaustive
search on 256-bit AES
(http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-19962-7_3), but in
practice it remains a completely standard choice of strong algorithm.
### 13.1.2 SNOW 3G
The internal state of the SNOW 3G keystream generator is more than 512 bits.
Furthermore, SNOW 3G is adapted (strengthened) from SNOW 2.0, which was
designed in the first place to support keys up to 256 bits. While more study
is needed, it seems plausible that SNOW 3G (and the encryption and integrity
algorithms based on it) may be able to support a 256-bit key without
significant change.
### 13.1.3 ZUC
The internal state of ZUC is 560 bits. Since ZUC has only been evaluated with
respect to a 128-bit key, further evaluation would be needed on ZUC-256, which
is a scaled-up version of the existing algorithm with enough security
redundancy in mind. It is suggested that such evaluation should start sooner
rather than later.
## 13.2 AKA algorithms
### 13.2.1 MILENAGE
MILENAGE is built around AES. The same observations apply as in section
13.1.1. It should be reasonably straightforward to create a 256-bitversion of
MILENAGE (although some slight construction changes would be needed to produce
256-bit output values).
### 13.2.2 TUAK
TUAK is already designed to accommodate 256-bit keys, and produce 256-bit
outputs, if required.
## 13.3 Key derivation algorithms
### 13.3.1 SHA-256
The KDF used for many purposes in 3GPP is based on HMAC-SHA-256. Using HMAC-
SHA-256 to derive (up to) 256-bit keys from 256-bit keys is in line with
standard advice.
# 14 Potential Requirements
Editor\'s Note: This section will study suitable requirements for the needed
algorithms for use with 256-bit keys
# 15 Conclusions
#