# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it shall be the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides additional use cases of UAV and identifies
potential requirements to improve 5G system's support of UAV applications, UAV
operations and management, including:
  * Provide additional information to the UAV operator/USS to execute > pre-flight preparations and inflight operation (e.g, flight > mission application, flight path recommendation, flight monitoring > and control);
  * Use 5G system to support enhancing the UAV flight/route management > based on network capacity and QoS information along the planned > route;
  * Use 5G system to further enhance the safety and security of UAV > operations, e.g. supporting UTM in UAV detection and DAA (Detect > and Avoid);
  * Identify potential new security, charging and regulatory > requirements on 5GS, when used for UAS operation;
  * Identify potential new requirements related to redundancy and > reliability of command and control (C2) traffic for UAV.
For the identified use cases, a gap analysis is performed between potential
new service requirements and existing 3GPP requirements and functionalities.
NOTE: This study investigates requirements for additional 5GS capabilities to
assist UTM, with the assumption that liability and responsibility for UAV
operation remain under the domain of the UTM/UAV operator.
NOTE: Potential overlaps with ongoing stage-2 work (on UAS), and other SA1
studies (e.g. FS_Sensing) have been considered and avoided.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Global UTM Association UTM Architecture v1:
https://www.gutma.org/docs/Global_UTM_Architecture_V1.pdf
[3] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAM Advanced Air Mobility
BRID Broadcast Remote Identification
BVLOS Beyond Visual Line of Sight
CAA Civil Aviation Authority
C2 Command and Control
C2C Command and Control Centre
DAA Detect And Avoid
GUTMA Global UTM Association
NASA North American Space Agency
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
UAV-C Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle Controller
USS Uncrewed Aerial System Service Supplier
USSP U-space service provider
UTM Uncrewed Aerial System Traffic Management
VLoS Visual Line of Sight
# 4 Overview
The present document focuses on improving the 3GPP support for the
applications and security for various scenarios using low altitude UAVs. The
present document provides potential use cases and defines potential new
service level requirements and KPIs for supporting identified use cases by
3GPP system. Use cases cover various scenarios to enhance the combination of
3GPP system and **UAV ecosystem and t** his study presents use cases based on
continuation/enhancement of TS 22.125 [3]. The present document considers
service requirements related to further enhancement of the Network support and
exposure for UAV usage and f _urther enhancement of the control, safety, and
security of UAV operations._
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use case on UAV detection
### 5.1.1 Description
3GPP aerial features are activated based on \"aerial subscription\" flag
specified in Rel-15. This implies that an operator using these features will
provide UAV users with USIMs that are associated to a user profile with the
\"aerial subscription\" flag set.
It is however technically possible for a UAV user to insert a USIM not meant
for UAV in a UE that is on board a UAV (this UE being used for C2C or for
other purpose). The user could do that either intentionally (e.g. to have a
lower tariff or to bypass some restrictions applied to UAVs) or not (e.g.
because he/she is not aware that UAVs need to be used with specific USIMs).
In this case, with current specifications, the 3GPP network is not able to
recognize that the UE is on board a UAV and therefore cannot activate aerial
features. More importantly, the 3GPP network will not perform UAV
Authentication and Authorization procedures with the UTM, and may cause the UE
to use a frequency band that is not allowed for aerial usage where the UAV is
located due to the risk of interference to users or adjacent frequency bands
(e.g. military installation, weather radar). This has security implications.
In addition, the 3GPP network cannot fulfill the requirements of TS 22.125 [3]
applicable to UE on board a UAV.
From Rel-17 onwards, the 3GPP network is able to reject registration when the
UE provides a \"CAA-level UAV ID\" and does not have the \"aerial
subscription\" flag set in its subscription. This mitigates the above issue,
but the issue still exists if the UE is pre-R17 or is not configured with a
CAA-level UAV ID.
There is therefore a need to enable the 5G System network to detect that a UE
is on board a UAV, without relying on subscription information or on
indication provided by the UE.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
A UAV user has inserted in a UE on board a UAV, a USIM that is associated to a
user profile without the \"aerial subscription\" flag set.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
1\. The UE registers in 5GS and starts communicating. The UAV takes off.
2\. The network detects that the UE is on board a UAV.
3\. The network takes action, e.g. activates aerial features, changes the QoS,
populates charging records, alert the UTM and/or let the UTM take over the
communication used to control the UAV.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The UTM may take over the communication used to control the UAV and force the
UAV to land safely.
Later, the UTM and/or network operator informs or reminds the user that a
specific USIM needs to be used for proper operation of a UE on board a UAV.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\- \"aerial subscription\" flag in subscription;
\- Provision of \"CAA-level UAV ID\" by the UE;
\- detection of UE above altitude thresholds by the eNB / gNB (per TS 36.331 &
TS 38.331).
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.1.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to detect that a connected UE is
airborne, while UE's subscription does not include the \"aerial subscription\"
flag set.
## 5.2 Use case on supporting UAV pre-flight preparation
### 5.2.1 Description
During the operation of UAVs using the 3GPP network access, the network needs
to ensure that the UAVs can access the network smoothly and timely. UAV flight
mission need to be ensured for the real-time performance and stability of
flight control link to guarantee the continuity of the flight.
5G network can provide wide-area, high-quality and secure connectivity that
can enable cost-efficient UAV operations beyond visual line-of-sight (BVLOS)
range. In some industrial UAV scenarios, the UAV would be provided pre-
scheduled flight plan for autonomous flying. When UAV uses 3GPP network as the
access type, the UTM/UAV operator may need to acknowledge the network status
for flight path scheduling with the help of 3GPP network.5G system can assist
the UTM and drone operator with providing alternative flight path based on the
supported QoS in specific area or reconfigure network resources to achieve the
needed QoS.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Pipeline company uses UAV A and logistics company uses UAV B. UAV A and UAV B
are both individual terminals that subscribe to the communication service from
5G network.
Operator A provides 5G network coverage and communication services for remote
command and control (C2) communication between UAV and UAV control platform.
The UTM has good cooperation with Operator A to have UAV-related information
which is fetched from the 5G network.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
{width="4.868055555555555in" height="2.542361111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1: Supporting UAV pre-flight preparation
1\. The pipeline company plans to use UAV A to provide video inspection of
pipelines from X to Y and the logistics company uses UAV B to deliver express
from X to Z.
2\. UAV/UAV-C A and UAV/UAV-C B register in 5G network and can communicate
with UTM though 5G network.
3\. The UAV-C A provides planned flight path information from X to Y to UTM
(e.g. waypoints and required QoS from X to Y). The UAV-C B provides planned
flight path on start point X, end point Z and needed QoS.
4\. UTM checks with 5G system for required and needed QoS information in
predictions/statistics (e.g. end-to-end latency, QoE) along required and
possible flight paths.
5\. Based on the available analytics information, the 5G system can provide
confirmation that required QoS is available for UAV A flight path or
alternatively can reconfigure network resources to be able to provide the
required QoS to UAV A along the flight path. As UAV B can take alternative
routes, 5G system can provide optimized flight path considering where the QoS
is available.
6\. UTM/UAS determines the final flight paths based on the information from
Operator A and sends to UAV/UAV-C A and UAV/UAV-C B separately.
7\. UAV A and UAV B receive the flight path information from UTM/UAS via the
5G system and start flight mission.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
UAV A and UAV B can finish their respective tasks with the support of 5G
system.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[P.R 5.2.6-001] Based on operator's policy, the 5G system shall be able to
support a method to predict network conditions and QoS (e.g. bitrate, latency,
reliability) along a continuous geographic planned flight path of a UAV at
specific times of its expected flight duration.
[P.R 5.2.6-002] Based on operator's policy, the 5G system shall be able to
provide UTM with the information about geographic areas where UAV service
requirements could or could not be met based on predicted network conditions
and QoS (e.g. bitrate, latency, reliability).
[P.R 5.2.6-003] Based on 3^rd^ party request, the 5G system shall be able to
provide to the 3^rd^ party alternative UAV flight paths, as long as UTM-
provided required waypoints (e.g. start/end locations), required QoS, and
exclusion zones are fulfilled.
[P.R 5.2.6-004] Based on 3^rd^ party request and operator's policy, the 5G
system shall be able to reconfigure network resources to provide the required
QoS along a UAV planned flight path, e.g. at particular geographical area(s)
and time(s).
## 5.3 Use case on Geofencing for Visual Line-of-Sight UAV missions
### 5.3.1 Description
3GPP has specified a wide range of aerial features, activated through an
\"aerial subscription\". Three types of C2 communications have been defined
for R17, in TS.22.125 [3]:
  * Direct C2 communications (when the UAV controller and UAV establish a direct C2 link to communicate with each other);
  * Network-Assisted C2 communications (when the UAV controller and UAV communicate with each other via 5G network);
  * UTM-Navigated C2 communication (for pre-scheduled autonomous flights).
3GPP features for Network-Assisted C2 communications and UTM-Navigated C2
communication mostly cover Beyond Visual Line-of-Sight (BVLoS) UAV operations,
and Direct C2 communications are constrained by their radio coverage range,
which is generally much wider than the VLoS constraints imposed by airspace
authorities.
In all three cases, it is thus technically possible that an UAV controller
does not comply with airspace regulatory requirements related to VLoS
operations.
Ensuring that an aerial UE is complying with regulatory Visual Line-of-Sight
constraints, by supporting pre-flight preparations and inflight operation
flight monitoring and control, enhances the safety and security of UAV
operations.
There is a need to enable the 5G system to be aware if VLoS constraints should
be applied to UAV operations, and if so, to monitor the relative positions of
an aerial UE with respect to its pilot to ensure that this aerial UE is
complying with Line-of-Sight constraints.
NOTE: UAV-C is capable of 3GPP communications or not, but remains attached to
the DN using other technologies.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The UAV is associated with an aerial UE profile and a "VLoS" option is
activated together with its subscription. The UAV is associated with an UAV
Controller (UAV-C). The 5G system is informed by the UTM of the maximal
distance authorized between the UAV and the UAV-C (VLoS distance threshold,
usually around 200 or 300m), which usually depends on airspace regulation and
may potentially account for other conditions (e.g. weather, type of
environment, type of UAV, temporary or localized special authorization, etc.).
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
1\. The UAV registers in 5GS as an aerial UE with the VLoS option activated.
2\. The UAV is associated with an UAV-C. The UAV takes off.
3\. The network tracks the geolocalization of both the UAV and UAV-C, and
deduces the distance between both. If the UAV-C does not belong to the 3GPP
system, its geolocalization may be obtained, for example, from the UTM/USSP.
4\. In case this distance exceeds the VLoS threshold, the network takes
action, e.g. alerts the UTM and/or lets the UTM takes over the communication
used to bring back the UAV within the authorized VLoS constraints, or sends a
new waypoint within the authorized VLoS constraints.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
The UTM may take over the communication used to control the UAV and force the
UAV to land safely.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\- \"Aerial subscription\" option in subscription, as specified in Rel-15;
\- UAV / UAV-C association, as in TS 23.256 for example;
\- Tracking of the geolocalization of the UAV as in TS 23.256 for example.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.3.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to be informed of VLoS regulatory
requirements (e.g. maximal distance threshold) and shall be informed if the
UTM needs to be supported in meeting such requirements for a given UAS.
[PR 5.3.6-002] The 5G system shall be able to track the UAV-Controller,
regardless of the type of connection.
[PR 5.3.6-003] Based on MNO policies and/or regulatory requirements, the 5G
system shall be able to alert the UTM, when the 5G system detects that a
condition is met (e.g. maximal distance threshold exceeded).
[PR 5.3.6-004] Based on MNO policies and/or regulatory requirements, the 5G
system shall enable the UTM to take over the communication used to control the
UAV, when the 5G system detects that a condition is met (e.g. maximal distance
threshold exceeded).
## 5.4. Use case on network-assisted UAV DAA
### 5.4.1 Description
Collection of information for UAV detection and avoidance in order to support
tactical deconfliction is one of the key functions to guarantee UAV service
safety. Previous studies on 3GPP mostly focused on the aspect that the
detection and resolution of collisions is locally performed between UAVs using
direct UAV to UAV communication over PC5. However, UAV to UAV DAA is only one
component of the overall solution and, as in current aviation system, support
by ground systems for tactical deconfliction and collision avoidance is an
essential complement. With the development of network capabilities for the
support of UAVs, new system capabilities like sensing in the 3GPP network can
also effectively assist the UAV DAA scenario to ensure the flight safety by
providing a ground-assisted component.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
UAV A is 3GPP aerial UE and subscribes the communication service from 5G
network.
UAV B is an aerial vehicle not capable of 3GPP communications and could setup
communication with USS/UTM directly.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
{width="4.330555555555556in" height="2.5444444444444443in"}
Figure 5.4.3-1: Network-assisted UAV DAA
1\. UAV A registers in 5G network and can setup communications with UTM though
5G network. UAV B setup communication with UTM directly.
2\. The UTM subscribes network-assisted UAV DAA service from Operator M.
3\. Operator M could use base station(s) to perform sensing to collect
information about the UAV A and B in certain area and provide the collected
information to UTM for DAA operation or to UAV A.
4\. Operator M could also collect information from UAV A about the flight
status and reports to UTM.
5\. UTM could trigger DAA notifications for the flying UAV A and B under its
area based on the information from network.
6\. UAV A and B receive the notification and take actions accordingly.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
UAV A and B can fly safely under the control of UTM with the support of 5G
network.
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
SA1 has performed a study on UAV DAA in previous releases, where related
normative stage 1 requirements are introduced in TS 22.125 [3].
**TS 22.125 [3] clause 6.2 introduces the network support for UAV detection as
below:**
[R-5.2.1-001] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism for a UTM to provide
route data, along with flight clearance, to a UAV.
[R-5.2.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver route modification
information received from a UTM to a UAS with a latency of less than 500ms.
[R-5.2.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver the notifications
received from a UTM to a UAV controller with a latency of less than 500ms.
[R-5.2.1-004] Based on MNO policies and/or regulatory requirements, the 3GPP
system shall enable the UTM to take over the communication used to control the
UAV.
**TS 22.125 [3] clause 5.2 introduces the introduces network support for UAV
avoidance as below:**
[R-6.2-001] The 3GPP system shall provide means to allow a 3rd party to
request and obtain real-time monitoring the status information (e.g., location
of UAV, communication link status) of a UAV.
[R-6.2-002] Based on operator \'s policy, the 3GPP system shall provide means
to provide a 3rd party with the information regarding the service status for
UAVs in a certain geographical area and/or at a certain time.
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[P.R 5.4.6-001] Based on operator's policy, the 5G system shall be able to
provide a method to provide UTM and UAVs with the information collected or
generated by the 5G system (e.g., based on sensing results), including e.g.
the location or relative distance of 3GPP UAVs and other flying objects (can
be drones not using 3GPP connectivity) with timestamp.
## 5.5 Use case on the 3GPP network as an information source to the UTM
### 5.5.1 Description
The UTM is a complex system in which actors outside the 3GPP System work to
ensure the required safety level of UAS operations. For this reason, the UTM
is defined by GUTMA (Global UTM Association) as "a system of stakeholders and
technical systems collaborating in certain interactions, and according to
certain regulations, to maintain safe separation of uncrewed aircraft, between
themselves and from ATM users, at very low level, and to provide an efficient
and orderly flow of traffic"
A system like UTM requires a high-quality set of data flows to remain fully
aware of the system it is operating within and to effectively meet the mission
brief. In figures 1 and 2 below, the GUTMA architecture [2] shows that a high
number of data sources are considered to keep the UTM functional.
{width="6.029166666666667in" height="4.108333333333333in"}
Figure 5.5.1-1: A view of a UTM system (source: GUTMA Global UTM Architecture
v1 [2])
{width="6.0875in" height="4.834027777777778in"}
Figure 5.5.1-2: NASA UTM system (source: GUTMA Global UTM Architecture v1 [2])
The 3GPP System can act as a data source towards the UTM in order to provide
spatial, surveillance, meteorological, and real-time positioning information.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
A UTM exists which is capable of accepting a 3GPP network as data source. A
partner 3GPP operator is prepared to supply information to the UTM based on
the capabilities of the network. Agreements on trust, responsibility,
liability, privacy, and data management have been made.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
1\. A UTM determines what data is required from the 3GPP network which can act
as an information source.
2\. Based on the capabilities of the 3GPP network, an operator begins to
gather data according to agreements made with a UTM operator where the UTM
provides the type of information and optional conditions regarding such
information (e.g. reporting for a specific area, reporting specific events,
etc.). This data is gathered from a number of sources which may include the
following: RAN awareness of UE altitude (detect UEs above a certain altitude
from the ground), Wireless Sensing results, UE registration, UE location
reporting, network-based UE location determination.
3\. The operator begins to feed data towards a UTM according to the
information requested by the UTM.
4\. The UTM accepts the data from the operator and is responsible for
processing (corelating data sets, identifying objects, deduplication) and
acting on (warnings, notifications) this data according to mechanisms outside
the scope of 3GPP.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The UTM has an increased situational awareness because of the increased data
provided by the 3GPP network.
### 5.5.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
**Related requirements in TS 22.125 [3]:**
[R-5.1-003] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to send UTM the UAV data which
can contain: unique identity (this may be a 3GPP identity), UE capability of
the UAV, make & model, serial number, take-off weight, position, owner
identity, owner address, owner contact details, owner certification, take-off
location, mission type, route data, operating status.
[R-5.1-004] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to send UTM the UAV controller
data which can contain: unique identity (this may be a 3GPP identity), UE
capability of the UAV controller, position, owner identity, owner address,
owner contact details, owner certification, UAV operator identity, UAV
operator license, UAV operator certification, UAV pilot identity, UAV pilot
license, UAV pilot certification and flight plan.
[R-5.1-006] The 3GPP system shall support capability to extend UAS data being
sent to UTM with the evolution of UTM and its support applications in future.
[R-5.1-009] The 3GPP system should enable an MNO to augment the data sent to a
UTM with the following: network-based positioning information of UAV and UAV
controller.
[R-5.1-017] The 3GPP system shall support the UTM in detection of UAV
operating without authorization.
[R-6.3-001] The 3GPP network shall be able to support network-based 3D space
positioning (e.g., with altitude 30\~300m) of a UE onboard UAV.
Table 7.3-1 lists typical scenarios and the corresponding positioning
requirements for horizontal and vertical accuracy, availability, heading,
latency, and UE speed.
**Related requirements in TS 22.261 [4]:**
The 5G system shall be able to make the position-related data available to an
application or to an application server existing within the 5G network,
external to the 5G network, or in the User Equipment.
NOTE: the position service latency can be tailored to the use cases.
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[P.R 5.5.6-001] Based on operator policy and UTM's request, the 5G system
shall be able to provide UTM with a UEs' location (specifically 5GC Location
Services derived positioning or UE-derived positioning e.g. from GNSS) and
identity.
[P.R 5.5.6-002] Subject to user consent and national or regional regulation,
based on operator policy, and the UTM's request, the 5G system may be able to
provide aerial object location(s) derived by 5G Wireless Sensing to the UTM.
## 5.6 Use case on supporting UAV inflight operations
### 5.6.1 Description
For UAVs operated using the 3GPP network access, the network needs to ensure
that the UAVs can use the network reliably and with adequate performance. UAV
flight mission need to be monitored for the real-time performance and
stability of flight control link to guarantee the safety and continuity of the
flight.
5G network can provide wide-area, high-quality and secure connectivity that
can enable cost-efficient UAV operations beyond visual line-of-sight. When UAV
uses 3GPP network for communications, the UTM/UAV operator may need to monitor
the network status along the flight path with the help of 3GPP network.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
In the logistics company, UAV A and UAV B are both individual terminals for
express delivery and subscribe the communication service from the 5G network.
Operator A provides 5G network coverage and communication services for remote
commands and control (C2) communication between UAV and UAV control platform.
The UTM relies on Operator A to monitor and provide network status from the 5G
network for UAV inflight related information.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
Figure 5.6.3-1: Supporting UAV inflight monitoring
1\. The logistics company uses UAV A and UAV B to perform delivery operations.
UAVs planned flight paths shared a common portion, along waypoint #1 and
waypoint #2.
2\. UAV/UAV-C A and UAV/UAV-C B register in 5G network and can communicate
with UTM though 5G network.
3\. The UAV-C A provides planned flight path #A information to UTM (e.g.,
flight path and required QoS along the planned flight path).
4\. UAV A receive the flight path information from UTM/UAS via 5G network and
start flight mission.
5\. UTM requests 5G network for network condition information (e.g., bitrate,
latency, reliability) along the flight path of UAV A.
6\. The 5G network provides the requested statistics (e.g., end-to-end
latency, QoE) for specific requested area/areas (e.g., degraded QoE at
waypoint #2).
7\. The UAV-C B provides planned flight path #B (along waypoint #1 and
waypoint #2) information to UTM.
8\. UTM/UAS determines the final flight path #B (e.g., adjusted to take
waypoint #2\') and scheduling for UAV/UAV-C B based on the information from
Operator A along UAV A flight route, and sends it to UAV/UAV-C B.
9\. UAV B receive the flight path #B information from UTM/UAS via 5G network
and start flight mission.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
UAV A and UAV B can finish their delivery tasks with the support of 5G
network.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Existing related service requirements are captured in 3GPP TS 22.125 [3]
clause 6.2 \"Network exposure for UAV services\".
[R-6.2-001] The 3GPP system shall provide means to allow a 3^rd^ party to
request and obtain real-time monitoring the status information (e.g., location
of UAV, communication link status) of a UAV.
[R-6.2-002] Based on operator \'s policy, the 3GPP system shall provide means
to provide a 3^rd^ party with the information regarding the service status for
UAVs in a certain geographical area and/or at a certain time.
NOTE: Service status is about the information of whether the communication
service to the UAV can be provided with a certain QoS by the network.
These requirements do not include explicit requirements on QoS related network
conditions like bitrate, latency and reliability.
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[P.R 5.6.6-001] Based on operator's policy, the 5G system shall be able to
provide a method to monitor and provide a 3rd party with information about
network conditions and QoS (e.g. bitrate, latency, reliability) along a UAV
flight path.
[P.R 5.6.6-002] Based on operator's policy, the 5G system shall be able to
provide a method to monitor and provide a 3rd party with information about
deviations and violations along a UAV flight path and time.
NOTE: Deviations can be e.g. in location and/or time with respect to the
original flight plan. Violations can be e.g. with respect to exclusion zones
provided together with the flight plan or known via other means.
## 5.7 Use case on UAV flight route tracking at Rendezvous points
### 5.7.1 Description
Commercial UAV flights are usually BVLOS. Tracking the UAV flights to ensure
that they are sticking to the planned route is critical to the success of the
mission and the safety of the public. For UAVs that have network communication
capability, cellular networks can greatly assist in UAV flight route tracking
thanks to their ubiquitous network coverage. However, there are UAVs in the
markets today that lack 5G network connection capabilities and probably will
remain so for a long time. For such non-networked UAVs, ground stations or
stationary devices can provide means to UTM/UAV operator in flight route
tracking.
Ground stations or stationary devices can be operated by the 5G network
operator which has service agreements with the USS/UTM or by a third-party
service provider. The ground stations or stationary devices are deployed along
popular flight routes. The UTM/UAV operator can have a need to track the
flight route of a non 3GPP capable UAVs using the assistance of 5G network and
ground station devices to further enhance the safety and security of UAV
operations (e.g., for DAA) while also supporting legacy UAVs.
Figure 5.7.1-1: UAV flight route tracking at Rendezvous points
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
A USS/UTM provides environmental surveillance services in an area. It
regularly sends out UAVs to fly a planned route collecting environmental data.
The UAV is not the subscriber UE of the 5G cellular network operator and can
be considered as non-networked UAV for the 5G operator.
A 5G cellular network operator provides 5G network services in the area.
A 5G cellular network operator provides UAV tracking service in the area. For
example, it has several ground stations or stationary devices deployed in
strategic areas (e.g., along popular flight routes, close to important
infrastructure as airports). The ground stations or stationary devices are
capable of 5G connectivity and also detection or communication with non-
networked UAVs using e.g. 5G device-to-device communication technologies. The
5G network operator has access to information about the available ground
stations.
The technologies for detection of any UAV along a flight route is outside the
scope of the use-case, however the tracking mechanisms for specific UAV needs
to support unambiguous identification of the UAVs to ensure reliable and
accurate tracking data about the UAV.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
1\. The USS/UTM requests tracking of one of more UAVs from the 5G operator.
2\. The 5G network to track those non-network UAVs. The USS/UTM provides the
planned flight route information to the 5G network (e.g., waypoints, ETA).
3\. The 5G network start to track those UAV, such as requests selected ground
stations to monitor the presence of the target UAVs in its proximity. The
ground stations monitor the UAV flight route based on the available
information about the planned flight route.
4\. When a ground station detects and identifies the target UAV in its
proximity, e.g., by receiving BRID information from the target UAV, the ground
station in the 5G network informs the UTM that the UAV is following the
planned route.
5\. At estimated time-of-arrival (ETA), the relevant ground station(s) monitor
the presence of the target UAV in its proximity and the 5G network informs the
UTM that the UAV has completed its flight as scheduled.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
The UAV finishes the mission with USS/UTM reassured during the whole flight.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Identification of UAVs which don't have subscription with the 5G operator for
DAA has been specified in Rel-18. Tracking for such UAVs is currently not
covered in Rel-18 because release 18 only supports the capability to allow the
5G operator tracking of those UAVs which have the subscription with the 5G
operator.
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[P.R 5.7.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to support a mechanism to enable a
network operator to track a UAV which doesn't have subscription with this
network operator.
## 5.8 Use case on UAV simultaneous traffic over two networks
### 5.8.1 Description
Reliability of UAV traffic is a very important challenge and target for the
aviation industry, e.g., for command and control (C2) or other critical data.
One scenario of interest includes UAVs, provided with dual SIM/subscription,
able to connect simultaneously via two networks for transferring different
type of traffic, e.g., using the most reliable network for C2 or other
critical data, while other type of traffic is transmitted over the second
network.
As an example, let us assume the case of a UAV company ("SafeSky") that offers
monitoring and surveillance services for specific venues (e.g., stadiums) or
public events. Their drones are 5G-capable and configurable with dual
subscription, one for nationwide PLMN connectivity (with MNO-A), one for ad-
hoc UAV coverage using networks deployed in specific public safety
venues/locations (can be a PLMN or NPN, managed by MNO-A or other MNO).
In such scenario, when there is available coverage from both NWs, SafeSky can
configure their UAVs to transfer C2 traffic with a local UAV-Controller
(UAV-C) via the ad-hoc PLMN1/NPN (most suitable for low volume/data rate, but
very stringent real-time latency and reliability), while less critical user
data is exchanged with the UAV Supplier Service (USS) and UTM via the wide-
area PLMN2 coverage. This is illustrated, at high level, in Figure 5.8.1-1,
where PLMN1/NPN is the local NW and PLMN2 is the wide area network.
{width="2.9791666666666665in" height="2.138888888888889in"}
Figure 5.8.1-1: Example of separating UAV traffic over two PLMNs
In other examples, different traffic differentiation configurations are
possible (in a similar venue scenario), e.g., UAVs may transfer real-time
critical payload traffic (e.g., streaming a 4K video of a sport event) with a
local endpoint via the ad-hoc PLMN1/NPN, while C2 and UAV monitoring data via
the wide-area PLMN2 network.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
SafeSky UAV has dual subscription (dual SIM, or SIM and NPN credentials) to
two different PLMNs (or a PLMN and an NPN). It is assumed that SafeSky has
negotiated with both MNOs proper data policies for traffic generated by its
UAVs over their respective networks (e.g., QoS, traffic profile/activity,
charging, etc.).
UAV is capable of dual radio operation (e.g., NR+NR).
UAV's application configuration policies include when/where to use
connectivity via two PLMNs, which network to use for which traffic, specific
C2 traffic/QoS parameters, etc. In this example, C2 traffic should go over
PLMN1/NPN1 (offering ultra-reliable connectivity), other traffic over PLMN2.
It is assumed, in this use case, that UAV connects to the same USS/UTM and
UAV-C during the whole flight operation.
This scenario assumes mostly UAV-originated traffic and/or that UTM is aware
of which data goes over each PLMN connection, so that corresponding uplink and
downlink traffic (e.g., for C2 communication) is transferred over the same
PLMN connection (e.g., PLMN1).
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
Based on UAV configuration policy:
1\. SafeSky UAV registers to both PLMN1/NPN1 and PLMN2, using their respective
home subscription.
2\. When monitoring surveillance service is started, UAV connects with both
networks.
3\. UAV traffic is transferred simultaneously on both networks, where C2
communication with the UAV-C is routed over PLMN1 and other traffic monitoring
data with USS/UTM is routed over PLMN2.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
The surveillance service runs smoothly, with no glitch in UAV operation and
manoeuvring.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
There are no service requirements in TS 22.125 [3] about UAS multi-NW/PLMN
support. Other requirements (e.g., from TS 22.261 [4] or TS 22.101 [5]) do not
cover the specific target UAV scenarios and functionalities. Some examples of
existing requirements are captured below:
**[from TS 22.261 [4] sec. 6.18: Multi-network connectivity and service
delivery across operators]**
The 5G system shall enable users to obtain services from more than one network
simultaneously on an on-demand basis.
For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of multiple serving
networks operated by different operators shall be under the control of the
home operator.
When a service is offered by multiple operators, the 5G system shall be able
to maintain service continuity with minimum service interruption when the
serving network is changed to a different serving network operated by a
different operator.
> NOTE 1: A business agreement is required between the network operators.
In the event of the same service being offered by multiple operators, unless
directed by the home operator\'s network, the UE shall be prioritized to
receive subscribed services from the home operator\'s network.
> NOTE 2: If the service is unavailable (e.g., due to lack of network
> coverage) from the home operator\'s network, the UE may be able to receive
> the service from another operator\'s network.
>
> NOTE 3: QoS provided by the partner operator\'s network for the same service
> will be based on the agreement between the two operators and could be
> different than that provided by the home operator\'s network.
**[from TS 22.101 [5] sec. 13.4]**
The 3GPP system shall support ME with multiple USIMs (on the same UICC or on
different UICCs) that are registered at the same time.
The 3GPP system shall treat each registration from the USIMs of a MUSIM UE
independently. Each registered USIM in a MUSIM UE shall be associated with a
dedicated IMEI/PEI.
**[from others]**
In addition, there are existing UAV requirements (from TS 22.125 [3]) on 3GPP
system to provide monitoring and notification regarding C2 communication
changes, which are not specific to inter-PLMN connectivity, for example:
The 3GPP system shall support C2 communication with required QoS for pre-
defined C2 communication models (e.g. using direct ProSe Communication between
UAV and the UAV controller, UTM-navigated C2 communication based on flight
plan between UTM and the UAV).
The 3GPP system shall support C2 communication with required QoS when
switching between the C2 communication models.
The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for the UTM to request monitoring of
the C2 communication with required QoS for pre-defined C2 communication models
(e.g. using direct ProSe Communication between UAV and the UAV controller,
UTM-navigated C2 communication between UTM and the UAV).
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.8-001] The 5G system shall be able to support service enablement layer
exposure mechanisms for the UTM or other authorized 3rd party to provide the
UAV application with configuration information to route different traffic
across different PLMN connections simultaneously, e.g. C2 traffic via one PLMN
and other data via the second PLMN.
NOTE 1: The above requirements can be extended to scenarios where one network
is a PLMN and one is an NPN.
NOTE 2: There is no impact on legacy network selection.
NOTE 3: It is assumed that UAV traffic handling, over each PLMN, is subject to
network control mechanisms (e.g. in accordance with MNO traffic routing
priorities, available QoS/resources, etc.).
## 5.9 Use case on UAV traffic over alternative networks
### 5.9.1 Description
One of the Aviation industry recommendations for UAV operation (and AAM \-
Advanced Air Mobility) is the ability to support robust reliability and
flexible redundancy of critical communication links, including cellular, e.g.,
for Command and Control (C2) and other flight-critical communications.\ Within
the context of improving 5G reliability and redundancy for UAVs, scenarios
with dual subscription and multi-NW connectivity become of interest. For
example, drones can be equipped with dual SIM (or dual credentials) and use
one subscription for active communication with one network while the second
subscription for setting up a "stand-by" connection path, to be used in case
the first network becomes unsuitable or unavailable.
Figure 5.9.1-1 shows, at high level, the two connectivity options, where UAV
traffic is first active on the preferred network (PLMN-1), then switched to
the second network (PLMN-2). Other options are not precluded, e.g., one of the
two networks could be an NPN.
{width="5.180555555555555in" height="2.7888888888888888in"}
Figure 5.9.1-1: UAV traffic over two alternative PLMNs (one active at a time)
Which PLMN to use, and when to switch between them, would be based on specific
conditions and policies configurable by the UAV owner/operator.
One example is about a UAV operator ("SkyTV"), offering professional aerial
video/TV services, in an environment where there is 5G coverage provided by
PLMN1 (possibly shared with other PLMNs) overlapping with 5G coverage provided
by PLMN2. It can be that both PLMNs are managed by the same MNO (MNO-A), or
different MNOs, using different SIM/subscription credentials to access each
PLMN. In order to support seamless aerial service and UAV traffic management,
the whole flight path can require consistent network connection and complete
network coverage. In certain areas, though, the coverage of the first PLMN
cannot be guaranteed, or is not preferable (e.g. due to network congestion),
while the coverage of PLMN2 is better, or preferred.
In such environment, SkyTV is contracted by a national TV broadcaster for
video streaming of e.g., outdoor events, races, marathons etc. To improve the
reliability and QoS experience, SkyTV can equip its UAVs with dual SIM
subscription (to PLMN1 and PLMN2) and configure them such that PLMN-1 is the
preferred network, while PLMN-2 should be the stand-by network, together with
policies and conditions for switching between them. The example is further
elaborated below.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
SkyTV UAV has dual SIM subscription to PLMN1 and PLMN2. It is assumed that
SkyTV has negotiated with both MNOs proper data subscriptions for traffic
generated by its UAVs (e.g., QoS, traffic profile/activity, charging, etc.).
UAV's application is configured to use both PLMNs via both subscriptions
(USIM1/USIM2), transfer user data via PLMN-1 if/when available or suitable,
otherwise switch to PLMN-2. Network switch is decided and controlled by UAV or
UTM, based on configured application policies in the UAV or UTM.
UAV's application policy can include e.g., when/where to use connectivity via
two PLMNs, which PLMN should be active/stand-by, specific C2 traffic/QoS
policies, switch conditions, etc.
It is assumed, in this use case, that UAV's application connects to the same
USS/UTM or UAV-C during the whole flight operation (regardless of which PLMN
connection is used).
This scenario assumes mostly UAV-originated traffic and/or that UTM is aware
of which PLMN connection is used by the UAV, so that both uplink and downlink
traffic are transferred over the same active PLMN connection, and USS/UTM
interacts with the active PLMN e.g., for UAS identification and traffic
management. For example, when UAV application sends the data packets over one
PLMN connection, the UTM can reply over the same PLMN connection.
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
1\. An outdoor marathon event is starting, and SkyTV UAV is set to follow the
peloton for all the itinerary (20 miles). SkyTV service provider has
configured the UAV application with specific policy on how to route traffic
over the two subscribed PLMN networks.
2\. Before the kick-off, UAV's communication module using USIM1 and USIM2 is
registered to both PLMNs, has established C2 connection with the UAV-C or
USS/UTM, using respective subscriptions/USIM credentials, and is idle (no
traffic). Based on UAV operator (SkyTV) policy, PLMN-1 is configured initially
as active network (to transfer video data and C2 data) while PLMN-2 is
configured as standby network.
2\. At the start, UAV's application transfers real-time video data and
exchange control and command data with the USS/UTM or UAV-C via PLMN1, while
PLMN-2 connection remains inactive (standby connection).
3\. Based on configured UAV application policies, along the itinerary, UAV
video traffic and C2 data is switched over PLMN-2: UAV switches its active C2
connection with UAV-C or USS/UTM to PLMN2 while PLMN-1 becomes the standby
network.
4\. Later, video and C2 traffic is switched back by UAV to PLMN-1 (PLMN2 is
inactive).
> Steps 3&4 can be repeated along the route.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
SkyTV video service runs smoothly for all 20 miles, with no service
degradation when transitioning in and out of PLMN-1 spotty coverage areas and
the UAV is under control and monitored by USS/UTM and UAV-C all the time.
### 5.9.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
There are no service requirements in TS 22.125 [3] about UAS multi-NW/PLMN
support. Other requirements (e.g., from TS 22.261 [4] or TS 22.101 [5]) do not
cover the specific target UAV scenarios and functionalities. Some examples of
existing requirements are captured below:
**[from TS 22.261 [4] sec. 6.18: Multi-network connectivity and service
delivery across operators]**
The 5G system shall enable users to obtain services from more than one network
simultaneously on an on-demand basis.
For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of multiple serving
networks operated by different operators shall be under the control of the
home operator.
When a service is offered by multiple operators, the 5G system shall be able
to maintain service continuity with minimum service interruption when the
serving network is changed to a different serving network operated by a
different operator.
NOTE 1: A business agreement is required between the network operators.
In the event of the same service being offered by multiple operators, unless
directed by the home operator\'s network, the UE shall be prioritized to
receive subscribed services from the home operator\'s network.
NOTE 2: If the service is unavailable (e.g., due to lack of network coverage)
from the home operator\'s network, the UE may be able to receive the service
from another operator\'s network.
NOTE 3: QoS provided by the partner operator\'s network for the same service
will be based on the agreement between the two operators and could be
different than that provided by the home operator\'s network.
**[from TS 22.101 [5] sec. 13.4]**
The 3GPP system shall support ME with multiple USIMs (on the same UICC or on
different UICCs) that are registered at the same time.
The 3GPP system shall treat each registration from the USIMs of a MUSIM UE
independently. Each registered USIM in a MUSIM UE shall be associated with a
dedicated IMEI/PEI.
**[from others]**
In addition, there are existing UAV requirements (from TS 22.125 [3]) on 3GPP
system to provide monitoring and notification regarding C2 communication
changes, which are not specific to inter-PLMN connectivity, for example:
The 3GPP system shall support C2 communication with required QoS for pre-
defined C2 communication models (e.g., using direct ProSe Communication
between UAV and the UAV controller, UTM-navigated C2 communication based on
flight plan between UTM and the UAV).
The 3GPP system shall support C2 communication with required QoS when
switching between the C2 communication models.
The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for the UTM to request monitoring of
the C2 communication with required QoS for pre-defined C2 communication models
(e.g., using direct ProSe Communication between UAV and the UAV controller,
UTM-navigated C2 communication between UTM and the UAV).
### 5.9.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.9.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to support service enablement layer
exposure mechanisms for the UTM or other authorized 3rd party to provide the
UAV application with configuration information to route and switch traffic
between one active and one standby PLMN connection, e.g. for C2 communication
reliability and redundancy purpose.
NOTE 1: The above requirement can be extended to scenarios where one network
is a PLMN and one is an NPN.
NOTE 2: There is no impact on legacy network selection.
NOTE 3: It is assumed that UAV traffic handling, over each PLMN, is subject to
NW control mechanisms (e.g. in accordance with MNO routing priorities,
available QoS/NW resources, etc.).
## 5.10 Use case on UAV control in different aerial flight zones
### 5.10.1 Description
5G networks can provide connectivity to UAV for a variety of services, e.g.,
command and control, telemetry, remote ID, DAA, payload transfer (e.g.,
video), etc. In some scenarios, it would be beneficial to control and
differentiate UAV operation and communication, e.g., regarding the use of
specific network resources and/or specific application(s) settings, in
different geographical areas. Some aspects of the 5G connectivity
configuration, indeed, may need to be different depending on the area where
the UAV is flying, e.g., in urban versus rural, or in areas close to high-risk
obstacles or with stricter safety restrictions, like airports, stadiums, etc.
This use case describes some means to efficiently support and control
differentiation of UAV traffic across different zones and corresponding
potential requirements.
For example, the UAV and UTM provider may identify different types of aerial
flight zones in the territory, e.g., based on data traffic information, flight
statistics, network topology. local conditions, events, etc. Based on business
agreement with an MNO, the UTM and network can configure specific information
on different flight zones, which can include e.g., the geographical location
(footprint or 3D volume) of the flight zones and their mapping to different
network areas, associated zone type or other means to identify a specific
flight zone, and target UAV communication/QoS parameters (per flight zone).
UTM and/or the network can then convey to the UAV corresponding policy
configuration (static or dynamic), controlling how the UAV should use
connectivity services for various applications in different flight zones
(e.g., per zone type). The network should also assist UAV to identify and
differentiate specific flight zones, so that a UAV can apply the right
configured policy based on the actual flight zone it is currently located in.
A general example of flight zones settings is illustrated in Fig.1, based on
different geographical, logistical and safety factors (e.g., around city
centre, stadiums, airports, harbour, rural areas, etc.). The figure may
represent the flight zone settings for a specific day, or time of the day, and
may vary based on local/temporary change of conditions.
{width="3.2256944444444446in" height="2.0131944444444443in"}
Figure 5.10.1-1: Example of UAV flight zones configuration
The UAV policy could also contain a default configuration that can be used
when no specific flight zone type is applicable or not indicated/available to
the UAV.
The above would provide the ability for UTM to collaborate with the 5G network
to provide flexible control of UAV communication over the identified flight
zones, including scalable and dynamic adaptation based on temporary/local
changes (e.g., data traffic, NW resources, environmental changes, local events
or restrictions), by creating new flight zones that map on specific network
areas and/or modifying existing zone types, etc.
One specific scenario and flow is further elaborated below.
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
A UAV service provider (U-Serv), offering monitoring & surveillance UAV
services in multiple cities of the country, has an agreement with PLMN-A
operator, including the configuration of two different flight zones (for all
cities) mapped to different parts of the territory and network, with the
following UAV application/traffic policies and conditions:
  * \- Zone A (no restriction/condition): for most areas/location of the cities' territory
○ normal/default UAV application and communication settings
  * \- Zone B (with restriction/condition): for areas/locations e.g., with larger data traffic/congestion and/or higher drones' density (e.g., where/when special events or emergency situations happen).
○ Increased frequency and QoS of C2 communication (for more reliable command
and control operation)
○ Reduced data traffic activity/QoS for other communications (to reduce
network congestion)
The Zone B policy configuration may also include other options, e.g.,
restrictions/conditions may vary based on UAV altitude (above / below a
certain threshold, or within a certain range), time of the day, etc.
### 5.10.3 Service Flows
  1. 1\. A U-Serv UAV, located in Zone A, is registered to PLMN-A and starts its daily surveillance service.
  2. 2\. The UAV detects it is in Zone A, e.g., if indicated by the network or based on UAV available information or pre-configuration, and connects to the network using the corresponding traffic policy for Zone A (normal/default operation).
  3. 3\. Along the UAV itinerary, UAV detects or is notified of being in a new zone type, Zone B, thus UAV application will apply corresponding traffic settings according to Zone B policy.
  4. 4\. If UAV detects or is notified that flight zone type changes to Zone A, UAV application will switch back to default traffic policy.
Note that change of flight zone type may happen due to the UAV moving across
different geographical areas (associated to different zone types) or by change
of zone type for the same UAV geographical location (e.g., based on temporary
events).
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
U-Serv UAV application can provide smooth service and is able to adapt its
communication settings when flying across special locations/areas (zone B),
based on UAV traffic policies and flight zone settings under control of UTM
and network.
### 5.10.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None identified.
### 5.10.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.10.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to support mechanisms for the UTM
to configure different aerial flight zones where UAV application settings and
communication QoS may be different, and provide network and UAV with means to
identify those flight zones.
[PR 5.10.6-002] The 5G system shall be able to support mechanisms for the UTM
to provide network and UAV with policy information including UAV application
settings and communication QoS to be applied in specific aerial flight zones,
e.g. based on flight zone type indicated or available to the UAV in a certain
geographical location.
# 6 Consolidated potential requirements
## 6.1 Network support and exposure for UAV usage
+-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +=============+=====================+================+=========+ | CPR 6.1-001 | Based on operator's | P.R 5.2.6-001 | | | | policy, the 5G | | | | | system shall be | P.R 5.6.6-001 | | | | able to support a | | | | | method to predict, | | | | | monitor network | | | | | conditions and QoS | | | | | (e.g. bitrate, | | | | | latency, | | | | | reliability) and | | | | | report to 3rd party | | | | | along a continuous | | | | | geographic planned | | | | | flight path of a | | | | | UAV at specific | | | | | times of its | | | | | expected flight | | | | | duration. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-002 | Based on operator's | P.R 5.2.6-002 | | | | policy, the 5G | | | | | system shall be | | | | | able to provide UTM | | | | | with the | | | | | information about | | | | | geographic areas | | | | | where UAV service | | | | | requirements could | | | | | or could not be met | | | | | based on predicted | | | | | network conditions | | | | | and QoS (e.g. | | | | | bitrate, latency, | | | | | reliability). | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-003 | Based on a 3^rd^ | P.R 5.2.6-003 | | | | party request, the | | | | | 5G system shall be | | | | | able to provide to | | | | | the 3^rd^ party | | | | | alternative UAV | | | | | flight paths, as | | | | | long as | | | | | UTM-provided | | | | | required waypoints | | | | | (e.g. start/end | | | | | locations), | | | | | required QoS, and | | | | | exclusion zones are | | | | | fulfilled. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-004 | Based on a 3^rd^ | P.R 5.2.6-004 | | | | party request and | | | | | operator's policy, | | | | | the 5G system shall | | | | | be able to | | | | | reconfigure network | | | | | resources to | | | | | provide the | | | | | required QoS along | | | | | a UAV planned | | | | | flight path, e.g. | | | | | at particular | | | | | geographical | | | | | area(s) and | | | | | time(s). | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-005 | The 5G system shall | P.R 5.7.6-001 | | | | be able to support | | | | | a mechanism to | | | | | enable a network | | | | | operator to track a | | | | | UAV which doesn't | | | | | have subscription | | | | | with this network | | | | | operator. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-006 | The 5G system shall | P.R 5.8.6-001 | | | | be able to support | | | | | service enablement | P.R 5.9.6-001 | | | | layer exposure | | | | | mechanisms for the | | | | | UTM or other | | | | | authorized 3rd | | | | | party to provide | | | | | the UAV application | | | | | with configuration | | | | | information to | | | | | route and switch | | | | | traffic between one | | | | | active and one | | | | | standby PLMN | | | | | connection, e.g. | | | | | for C2 | | | | | communication | | | | | reliability and | | | | | redundancy purpose, | | | | | or to route | | | | | different traffic | | | | | across different | | | | | PLMN connections | | | | | simultaneously, | | | | | e.g. C2 traffic via | | | | | one PLMN and other | | | | | data via the second | | | | | PLMN. | | | | | | | | | | > NOTE 1: The above | | | | | > requirement can | | | | | > be extended to | | | | | > scenarios where | | | | | > one network is a | | | | | > PLMN and one is | | | | | > an NPN. | | | | | > | | | | | > NOTE 2: There is | | | | | > no impact on | | | | | > legacy network | | | | | > selection. | | | | | > | | | | | > NOTE 3: It is | | | | | > assumed that UAV | | | | | > traffic handling, | | | | | > over each PLMN, | | | | | > is subject to NW | | | | | > control | | | | | > mechanisms (e.g. | | | | | > in accordance | | | | | > with MNO routing | | | | | > priorities, | | | | | > available QoS/NW | | | | | > resources, etc.). | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-007 | The 5G system shall | P.R 5.10.6-001 | | | | be able to support | | | | | mechanisms for the | | | | | UTM to configure | | | | | different aerial | | | | | flight zones where | | | | | UAV application | | | | | settings and | | | | | communication QoS | | | | | may be different, | | | | | and provide network | | | | | and UAV with means | | | | | to identify those | | | | | flight zones. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-008 | The 5G system shall | P.R 5.10.6-002 | | | | be able to support | | | | | mechanisms for the | | | | | UTM to provide | | | | | network and UAV | | | | | with policy | | | | | information | | | | | including UAV | | | | | application | | | | | settings and | | | | | communication QoS | | | | | to be applied in | | | | | specific aerial | | | | | flight zones, e.g. | | | | | based on flight | | | | | zone type indicated | | | | | or available to the | | | | | UAV in a certain | | | | | geographical | | | | | location. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-009 | Based on operator | P.R 5.5.6-001 | | | | policy and UTM's | | | | | request, the 5G | | | | | system shall be | | | | | able to provide UTM | | | | | with a UEs' | | | | | location and | | | | | identity. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-010 | Subject to user | P.R 5.5.6-002 | | | | consent and | | | | | national or | | | | | regional | | | | | regulation, based | | | | | on operator policy, | | | | | and the UTM's | | | | | request, the 5G | | | | | system may be able | | | | | to provide aerial | | | | | object location(s) | | | | | derived by 5G | | | | | Wireless Sensing to | | | | | the UTM. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+
## 6.2 Safety and Security
+-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +=============+=====================+================+=========+ | CPR 6.2-001 | The 5G system shall | PR 5.1.6-001 | | | | be able to detect | | | | | that a connected UE | | | | | is airborne, when | | | | | UE's subscription | | | | | does not include | | | | | "aerial". | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.2-002 | The 5G system shall | PR 5.3.6-001 | | | | be able to be | | | | | informed of VLoS | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements (e.g. | | | | | maximal distance | | | | | threshold) and | | | | | shall be informed | | | | | if the UTM needs to | | | | | be supported in | | | | | meeting such | | | | | requirements for a | | | | | given UAS. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.2-003 | Based on operator's | P.R 5.6.6-002 | | | | policy, the 5G | | | | | system shall be | | | | | able to support a | | | | | method to monitor | | | | | and provide a 3^rd^ | | | | | party with | | | | | information about | | | | | deviations and | | | | | violations along a | | | | | UAV flight path and | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | Note: Deviations | | | | | can be e.g. in | | | | | location and/or | | | | | time with respect | | | | | to the original | | | | | flight plan. | | | | | Violations can be | | | | | e.g. with respect | | | | | to exclusion zones | | | | | provided together | | | | | with the flight | | | | | plan or known via | | | | | other means. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.2-004 | Based on operator's | P.R 5.4.6-001 | | | | policy, the 5G | | | | | system shall be | | | | | able to support a | | | | | method to provide | | | | | UTM and UAVs with | | | | | the information | | | | | collected or | | | | | generated by the 5G | | | | | system (e.g., based | | | | | on sensing | | | | | results), including | | | | | e.g. the location | | | | | or relative | | | | | distance of 3GPP | | | | | UAVs and other | | | | | flying objects (can | | | | | be drones not using | | | | | 3GPP connectivity). | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.2-005 | The 5G system shall | PR 5.3.6-002 | | | | be able to track | | | | | the UAV-Controller, | | | | | regardless of the | | | | | type of connection. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.2-006 | Based on MNO | PR 5.3.6-003 | | | | policies and/or | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements, the | | | | | 5G system shall be | | | | | able to alert the | | | | | UTM, when the 5G | | | | | system detects that | | | | | a condition is met | | | | | (e.g. maximal | | | | | distance threshold | | | | | exceeded). | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.2-007 | Based on MNO | PR 5.3.6-004 | | | | policies and/or | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements, the | | | | | 5G system shall | | | | | enable the UTM to | | | | | take over the | | | | | communication used | | | | | to control the UAV, | | | | | when the 5G system | | | | | detects that a | | | | | condition is met | | | | | (e.g. maximal | | | | | distance threshold | | | | | exceeded). | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
The present document contains several use cases and service requirements for
enhanced UAV usage and safety.
It is recommended to define normative service requirements based on the
consolidated potential requirements identified in Section 6.
#