# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
Network sharing enables operators to maximize rollout and improve overall
network quality. The 3GPP system supports different types of network sharing
since Rel-5, most of which are inherited by 5G (Rel-15 onward). With the
expanding of 5G deployments more network sharing scenarios can arise,
depending on different operators' strategies, commercial agreements, and
specific rules/legislation in different countries. One of the challenges for
the operators is the maintenance of the interconnections (e.g., number of
network interfaces) between the shared NG-RAN and participating operators'
core networks, especially in the case of a large number of the shared base
stations. It is therefore suggested to investigate other type of network
sharing scenarios, where a NG-RAN is shared among multiple operators without
necessarily assuming a direct connection between the shared radio access
network and the participating operator's core network.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates use cases and potential new requirements
related to 3GPP system enhanced support of specific 5G network sharing
deployment scenarios, in particular where there is no direct interconnection
between the shared NG-RAN and participating operators' core networks. It
includes the following aspects:
\- Mobility and service continuity, e.g., when moving from a non-shared 4G/5G
network to a shared 5G network and vice versa, with focus on CN aspects.
\- Potential security requirements.
\- Charging requirements (e.g., based on traffic differentiation in specific
network sharing geographical areas).
\- User/service experience (e.g., maintain the communication latency for
voice, and SMS) when accessing the shared network, including scenarios of
home-routed traffic or local breakout.
\- Other aspects, e.g., regulatory requirements, emergency services, PWS
support.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
  1. 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
  2. 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
  3. 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
  4. 3GPP TS 29.513: \"5G System; Policy and Charging Control signalling flows and QoS parameter mapping; Stage 3\".
  5. 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode\".
  6. 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
  7. 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
  8. 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1\".
  9. "Highway makes desert travel easy", http://en.people.cn/n3/2022/0706/c90000-10119553.html
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Indirect Network Sharing** : describes the communication between the shared
access NG-RAN and the Participating NG-RAN Operator's core network being
routed through the Hosting NG-RAN Operator's core network.
**Hosted Service** : a service containing the operator\'s own application(s)
and/or trusted third-party application(s) in the Service Hosting Environment,
which can be accessed by the user.
**Service Hosting Environment** : the environment, located inside of 5G
network and fully controlled by the operator, where Hosted Services are
offered from.
**_Hosting NG-RAN Operator_** : _the operator that has operational control of
a_ shared N _G-RAN._
NOTE 1: **_Hosting NG-RAN Operator_** can also be a Hosting RAN Operator _._
See 3GPP TS 22.101 [2].
**_Participating NG-RAN Operator_** : _authorized operator that is sharing NG-
RAN resources provided by a Hosting NG-RAN Operator._
_NOTE_ 2 _:_ Participating NG-RAN Operator can also be participating operator.
See 3GPP TS 22.101 [2].
_**Shared NG-RAN** : NG-RAN t_hat is shared among a number of operators.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
HTA High Traffic Areas
LTA Low Traffic Areas
MOCN Multi-Operator Core Network
NG-RAN Next Generation Radio Access Network
SST Slice/Service Type
# 4 Overview
The present document introduces the newly supported network sharing scenario,
where a NG-RAN is shared among multiple operators without necessarily assuming
a direct connection between the shared radio access network and the
participating operator's core network. Use cases including service continuity
and QoS, access control and mobility, international roamers in shared network,
hosted services, long-distance road transport are analyzed. This study
provides alternatives for existing operators who intend to deploy a NG Radio
Access Network to complement the existing market, taking into account of
operators' business consideration, such as network planning, operation and
other factors.
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Use Case on Network Sharing without Direct Connections between the
Shared Access and the Core Networks of the Participating Operators
### 5.1.1 Description
As stated in TS 22.261 [3] the increased density of access nodes needed to
meet future performance objectives pose considerable challenges in deployment
and acquiring spectrum and antenna locations. RAN sharing is seen as a
technical solution to these issues.
Sharing access networks and network infrastructure has become more important
part of 3GPP systems.
When two or more operators have respectively deployed or plan to deploy 5G
access networks and core networks, a MOCN configuration can be considered for
network sharing between these operators, i.e., a Multi-Operator Core Network
(MOCN) in which multiple CN nodes are connected to the same radio access and
the CN nodes are operated by different operators.
One of the challenges for the partners' network operators is the maintenance
generated by the interconnection (e.g., number of network interfaces) between
the shared RAN and two or more core networks, especially for a large number of
shared base stations.
For these reasons, it is suggested investigating other types of network
sharing scenarios, where a 5G RAN is shared among multiple operators without
necessarily assuming a direct connection between shared access and the core
networks of the participating operators.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Two (or more) operators provide coverage with their respective radio access
networks in different parts of a country but together cover the entire
country.
There is an agreement between all the operators to work together and to build
a shared network, but utilizing the different operator's allocated spectrum
appropriately in different parts of the coverage area (for example, Low
Traffic Areas, LTA and High Traffic Areas, HTA).
The hosting operator 1, as illustrated below, can share its NG-RAN with the
participating operators with or without direct connections between the shared
access and the core networks of the participating operators.
The following preconditions apply,
1) 1. OP1 owns the NG-RAN to be shared with three other operators; OP2, OP3,
and OP4.
2) 2. NG-RAN is shared with certain conditions, e.g., within a specific 5G
frequency band or within specific area.
3) 3. NG-RAN does not have direct connections between the shared access and
the core networks of the participating operators OP2 and OP3.
4) 4. OP4 has a MOCN arrangement with OP1.
5) 5. In this example UE 1 is subscribed to OP1, UE 2 is subscribed to OP 2,
UE 3 is subscribed to OP3, and UE 4 is subscribed to OP4.
Both options of direct and indirect connections between the shared access and
the core networks of the participating operators are illustrated in Figure
5.1.2-1 below.
Figure 5.1.2-2 shows the option of Indirect Network Sharing involving core
network of hosting operator, as indirect connection between the shared access
and the core networks of the participating operators.
{width="6.570833333333334in" height="4.5465277777777775in"}
Figure 5.1.2-1: Different options both direct and indirect connections between
the shared access and the core networks of the participating operators
{width="6.45625in" height="4.508333333333334in"}
Figure 5.1.2-2: Indirect Network Sharing scenario involving core network of
hosting operator between the shared access and the core networks of the
participating operators
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
1) UE1 can successfully attach to NG-RAN, and the display of the network
operator name is the name of OP1.
2) UE2 can successfully attach to NG-RAN, and the display of the network
operator name is the name of OP2.
3) UE3 can successfully attach to NG-RAN, and the display of the network
operator name is the name of OP3.
4) UE4 can successfully attach to NG-RAN, and the display of the network
operator name is the name of OP4.
5) The service provider of UE 1 is OP1.
6) The service provider of UE 2 is OP2.
7) The service provider of UE 3 is OP3.
8) The service provider of UE 4 is OP4.
For UEs accessing the Shared NG-RAN, the network of the hosting operator needs
to know which participating operator a UE is registered to and what type of
network sharing (e.g., MOCN or otherwise) is in place for that participating
operator. The inter-connection between participating operators' core networks
and Shared NG-RAN of the Hosting Operator can be supported via an element of
the Hosting Operator.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The hosting network will be able to provide accessing to all participating
operators\' users.
### 5.1.5 Existing Features partly or fully covering Use Case Functionality
Network sharing has been studied in previous releases, where related normative
stage 1 requirements are introduced in 3GPP TS 22.101 [2] and TS 22.261[3].
3GPP TS 22.101 [2] introduces general requirements of network sharing, stated
as follows:
> _Network sharing shall be transparent to the user._
>
> _The specifications shall support both the sharing of:_
>
> _(i) radio access network only;_
>
> _(ii) radio access network and core network entities connected to radio
> access network._
>
> _NOTE: In a normal deployment scenario only one or the other option will be
> implemented._
The provisioning of services and service capabilities is described in 3GPP TS
22.101 [2].
> _The provision of services and service capabilities that is possible to
> offer in a network shall not be restricted by the existence of the network
> sharing It shall be possible for a core network operator to differentiate
> its service offering from other core network operators within the shared
> network._
>
> _It shall be possible to control the access to service capabilities offered
> by a shared network according to the core network operator the user is
> subscribed to._
The selection of 3GPP access network is described in 3GPP TS 22.261 [3] clause
6.19 :
> _The UE uses the list of PLMN/RAT combinations for PLMN selection, if
> available, typically during roaming situations. In non-roaming situations,
> the UE and subscription combination typically matches the HPLMN/EHPLMN
> capabilities and policies, from a SST (slice/service type) perspective. That
> is, a 5G UE accessing its HPLMN/EHPLMN should be able to access SSTs
> according to UE capabilities and the related subscription. [...]_
>
> _The 5G system shall support selection among any available PLMN/RAT
> combinations, identified through their respective PLMN identifier and Radio
> Access Technology identifier, in a prioritised order. The priority order
> may, subject to operator policies, be provisioned in an Operator Controlled
> PLMN Selector lists with associated RAT identifiers, stored in the 5G UE._
>
> _The 5G system shall support, subject to operator policies, a User
> Controlled PLMN Selector list stored in the 5G UE, allowing the UE user to
> specify preferred PLMNs with associated RAT identifier in priority order._
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the Use Case
[PR 5.1.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to support network sharing with
indirect connection between the Shared NG-RAN and one or more Participating
NG-RAN Operators' core networks.
[PR 5.1.6-002] The 5G system shall be able to support means for Participating
Operators to provide their operator's name to a registered UE, for display to
the user.
## 5.2 Use Case on Service Continuity and QoS
### 5.2.1 Description
In Indirect Network Sharing scenario, the requirements to the services
provided by the participating operator and the hosting operator for a UE
moving between their service areas needs to be clearly defined. These service
considerations are based on their user subscriptions and charging requirements
from the participating operator. The service principle is not expected to be
significantly different from the MOCN access sharing. The business here
includes not only the operator's name displayed in the UE UI, but also the
service logic provided by both the participating operator and the hosting
operator for the services, such as voice, SMS and data communications for the
UE.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Assumptions,
1\. OP 1 is a Hosting NG-RAN Operator.
2\. The core network of OP 2 does not have direct connection with OP1's Shared
NG-RAN.
3\. There is connection between the OP1's CN and OP2's CN.
4\. UE 1 belongs to OP 1. UE 2 and UE N belong to OP 2.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
{width="5.559417104111986in" height="3.8049136045494314in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1: Basic service scenario without direct connections between the
Shared NG-RAN and the core networks of the participating operators
1\. UE 2 successfully registers to OP 2's PLMN via the Shared NG-RAN.
2\. UE 1 successfully registers to OP 1\'s PLMN.
3\. UE N successfully registers to OP 2\'s PLMN, via OP2's wireless access
network.
4\. UE 2 initiates a service, for example a 5G voice call to user N, and
succeeds under the shared network.
> \- OP 2 and OP1 do not need to expose the IMS network to each other, e.g.,
> UE2 may also access services provided by their home environment in the same
> way even if the UE2 moves to the coverage of Shared NG-RAN of OP1, and it is
> not necessary to assume that the IMS network of OP1 is involved in this
> scenario.
>
> \- When UE 2 moves to OP 2\'s 4G area from the shared network, the call
> continues.
>
> \- When UE 2 moves to OP 2\'s 5G area from the shared network, the call does
> not drop.
  1. UE2 may also use other services under the shared network, just as it usually does in the OP2's network while OP1 and OP2 have different network services and service capabilities.
  2. The network sharing partners may set a specific sharing allocation model for a network sharing method communicating with. It is necessary to understand the number of the users, and how long users using a certain shared network method will take. The collection of charging information associated with the sharing method that the UE accesses with should be possible.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The service of UE 2 succeeds, when UE 2 moves between shared access network
and participating operator's network.
### 5.2.5 Existing Features partly or fully covering Use Case Functionality
SA1 has performed various studies on services aspects in previous releases.
For the definition of service continuity and the description of user
experience see 3GPP TS 22.261 [3]. Requirements to service capabilities are
described in 3GPP TS 22.101 [2] as follows:
> _The provision of services and service capabilities that is possible to
> offer in a network shall not be restricted by the existence of the network
> sharing It shall be possible for a core network operator to differentiate
> its service offering from other core network operators within the shared
> network._
>
> _It shall be possible to control the access to service capabilities offered
> by a shared network according to the core network operator the user is
> subscribed to._
>
> _The 3GPP System shall support service continuity for UEs that are moving
> between different Shared RANs or between a Shared RAN and a non-shared RAN._
>
> _Subscribers shall have a consistent user experience regardless of the
> domain used, subject to the constraints of the UE and access network._
Some 5G specific requirements are described in TS 22.261 [3] as follows:
> _The 5G system shall support mobility procedures between a 5G core network
> and an EPC with minimum impact to the user experience (e.g. QoS, QoE)._
>
> _The 5G system shall support inter- and/or intra- access technology mobility
> procedures within 5GS with minimum impact to the user experience (e.g. QoS,
> QoE)._
In addition to the charging requirements of 5G system introduced in Chapter 9
of TS 22.261 [3], the following requirement is defined in TS 22.101 [2]:
> _Charging and accounting solutions shall support the shared network
> architecture so that end users can be appropriately charged for their usage
> of the shared network, and network sharing partners can be allocated their
> share of the costs of the shared network resources._
Further charging requirements are specified in TS 29.513 [4].
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the Use Case
[PR 5.2.6-001] The 5G core network shall be able to support collection of
charging information associated with a UE accessing a Shared NG-RAN using
Indirect Network Sharing.
[PR 5.2.6-002] In case of Indirect Network Sharing and subject to Hosting and
Participating Operators' policies, the 3GPP system shall support service
continuity for UEs that are moving between different Shared NG-RANs or between
a Shared NG-RAN and a non-shared RAN (managed by Hosting and Participating
Operators).
[PR 5.2.6-003] In case of Indirect Network Sharing and subject to Hosting and
Participating Operators' policies, the 3GPP system shall be able to minimize
the impact to the user experience (e.g., QoS, QoE) of UEs in an active
communication moving between different Shared NG-RANs or between a Shared NG-
RAN and a non-shared RAN (managed by Hosting and Participating Operators).
[PR 5.2.6-004] In case of Indirect Network Sharing, the 5G system shall
support a mechanism for a UE to access the subscribed PLMN services when
entering a Shared NG-RAN.
## 5.3 Use Case on Network Access Control and Mobility between Sharing Parties
### 5.3.1 Description
It is worth mentioning that 5G networks have been designed to be able to
provide shared facilities from the beginning. This means that in the case that
the 4G network has both non-shared and shared E-UTRAN at the same time, there
could be a number of different types of coverage in the same region:
> \- Non-shared E-UTRA coverage,
>
> \- Shared E-UTRA coverage,
>
> \- Non-shared 5G NR coverage,
>
> \- Shared 5G NR coverage.
This study introduces a new sharing method arises as without direct connection
between Shared NG-RAN and the core network of participating operators.
Therefore, network access control and mobility management need to be
considered when introducing the potential requirements of this new sharing
method with existing network.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
1\. It is assumed that OP1, OP2 and OP3 has deployed 4G and 5G networks.
NOTE: The home 4G and 5G network of OP1, OP2 and OP3 may be deployed with non-
shared and shared wireless access technology.
> \- Both OP1 and OP3 are Hosting NG-RAN Operators, which shared NG-RAN with
> participating OP2.
>
> \- UEs subscribe to OP2's home PLMN.
>
> \- UEs may register successfully to OP1 and OP3's shared 5G network.
2\. Both operators (i.e., OP1 and OP3) agreed to share their networks via
indirect connection between the shared radio access network and the OP2's core
network.
3\. Potential scenario1: The coverage of OP1 and OP3's shared 5G network may
overlap with OP2's 4G network; may also overlap with OP2's 5G network (i.e.,
at OP1 and OP2's border, at OP3 and OP2's border).
4\. Potential scenario2: The coverage of OP1's shared 5G network may overlap
with OP3's shared 5G network (i.e., at OP1's and OP3's border). Some parts of
shared areas do not overlap the OP2's network. There are none-shared areas in
OP1 or OP3 networks as well.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
Mobility and access control scenarios in shared network are illustrated in the
following:
  * Scenario 1 (Figure 5.3.3-1a): a UE with a subscription from OP2 moves between OP2's own 4G access networks and either OP1's or OP3's shared 5G networks.
  * Scenario 2 (Figure 5.3.3-1b): a UE with a subscription from OP2 moves between OP2's own 5G access networks and either OP1's or OP3's shared 5G networks.
  * Scenario 3 (Figure 5.3.3-2): a UE with a subscription from OP2 moves between coverage of OP1's and OP3's shared 5G access networks.
{width="4.263194444444444in" height="2.3090277777777777in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1a: Scenario 1: a UE with a subscription from OP2 moves between
OP2's own 4G access networks and either OP1's or OP3's shared 5G networks.
{width="4.679166666666666in" height="2.009027777777778in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1b: Scenario 2: a UE with a subscription from OP2 moves between
OP2's own 5G access networks and either OP1's or OP3's shared 5G networks.
NOTE 1: OP1_5G/OP3_5G are OP1/OP3's shared 5G network via indirect connection
between the shared radio access network and the OP2's core network in the
Figure 5.3.3-1a and Figure 5.3.3-1b.
NOTE 2: OP2_5G/OP2_4G is OP2's network, may be MOCN networks or non-shared
network.
1\. UE connects to the participating OP2_4G network then accesses to the
hosting OP1_5G or OP3_5G network when the UE crosses the border between the
shared network managed by hosting operators and the OP2's own 4G access
networks in the scenario 1 (As shown as ① in Figure 5.3.3-1a).
2\. UE connects to the participating OP2_5G network then accesses to the
hosting OP1_5G or OP3_5G network when the UE crosses the border between the
shared network managed by hosting operator and the OP2's own 5G access
networks in the scenario 2 (As shown as ② in Figure 5.3.3-1b).
{width="4.584722222222222in" height="2.222916666666667in"}
Figure 5.3.3-2: Scenario 3: a UE with a subscription from OP2 moves between
coverage of OP1's and OP3's shared 5G access networks
3\. UE connects to the hosting OP1_5G network then accesses to the hosting
OP3_5G network when the UE crosses the border between the two shared networks
managed by different hosting operators in the scenario 3 (As shown as ③ in
Figure 5.3.3-2).
4\. The UE accesses the shared network via indirect sharing network method in
the specific geographical area as OP1_5G (shared) and/or OP3_5G (shared) shown
in Figure 5.3.3-2, based on the agreements between the hosting and the
participating operators.
5\. The UE connects to an appropriate access network, when the user moves to
an area where more than one operator\'s access networks provide connectivity,
e.g., existing OP3's 5G network and the OP2's 4G network, or existing OP1's 5G
network and OP3's 5G network, based on the agreement between the hosting and
participating operators.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
All forms of mobility (i.e., between participating operators RAN and shared
RAN for both CONNECTED mode and IDLE mode UE, see the clause 3.1 of TS 23.122
[5]) are successfully processed in a sharing scenario without direct
connections between the shared access and the core networks of the
participating operator.
### 5.3.5 Existing Features partly or fully covering Use Case Functionality
SA1 has performed various studies on mobility and network sharing in previous
releases, where related normative stage 1 requirements are introduced in 3GPP
TS 22.101 [2] and 22.261 [3].
3GPP TS 22.261 [3] introduces requirements of Diverse mobility management,
stated as follows:
> _The 5G system shall support inter- and/or intra- access technology mobility
> procedures within 5GS with minimum impact to the user experience (e.g. QoS,
> QoE)._
3GPP TS 22.261 [3] describes various access related requirements, stated as
follows:
> _Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support steering a UE to
> select certain 3GPP access network(s)._
3GPP TS 22.101 [2] introduces requirements of mobility of network sharing,
stated as follows:
> _It shall be possible to support different mobility management rules,
> service capabilities and access rights as a function of the home PLMN of the
> subscribers._
The above requirements are based on MOCN.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the Use Case
[PR 5.3.6-001] In case of indirect network sharing, the 3GPP system shall
support mechanisms to minimize service interruptions for UEs that are moving
between different Shared RANs or between a Shared RAN and a non-shared RAN
(managed by Hosting and Participating Operators).
[PR 5.3.6-002] In case of Indirect Network Sharing and subject to Hosting and
Participating Operators' policies, the 3GPP system shall support access
control for a UE accessing a Shared NG-RAN.
[PR 5.3.6-003] In case of Indirect Network Sharing and subject to Hosting and
Participating Operators' policies, the 3GPP system shall be able to select an
appropriate radio access network (i.e., 4G, 5G) for a UE.
[PR 5.3.6-004] In case of Indirect Network Sharing and subject to Hosting and
Participating Operators' policies, the 3GPP system shall support a mechanism
to enable a UE with a subscription to a Participating Operator to access an
authorized Shared NG-RAN.
## 5.4 Use Case on International Roaming Users in a Shared Network
### 5.4.1 Description
There are network sharing scenarios in the process of 5G deployment due to
different operators' business consideration, such as network planning,
operation and other factors, which introduce demand for 5G network sharing
with indirect connection between the shared access network and a participating
operator's core network, especially in countries with a wide range of rural
areas, where seamless 5G radio coverage is hard to achieve. Benefit from 5G
network sharing technology, an operator can not only save investment for 5G
deployment, but also expand 5G coverage in vaster area as well. However, in
this case, it is also required to allow inbound international roaming
subscribers to use the shared resources of a hosting operator. Therefore, it
is suggested investigating how to realize the scenario in this situation.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
In the 5G scenario, an operator may deploy its network as an applicable shared
network to other operators.
As illustrated in Figure 5.4.2-1, three operators (OP1, OP2, OP3) are
involved:
> \- OP1, as a Hosting NG-RAN Operator, owns an applicable Shared NG-RAN which
> can be shared to other operators (e.g., OP2).
>
> \- OP2, as a Participating NG-RAN Operator, has 5G network sharing agreement
> with OP1. In addition, OP2 may have its own non-shared 5G network.
>
> \- Shared NG-RAN of OP1 does not have direct connections between the shared
> access and the core networks of the participating operators OP2.
>
> \- OP3 is a roaming partner of OP2, but has no roaming agreement with OP1.
>
> \- UE subscribes to OP3's network as a foreign operator's network.
Figure 5.4.2-1: Scenario of International Roaming Users in a Shared Network
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
When a UE of OP3 travels to the coverage of OP2's NG-RAN, it can enjoy
services provided by their home environment in another country via OP2's
network.
When a UE of OP3 travels to the coverage of OP1's shared NG-RAN, it can enjoy
services provided by their home environment in another country via OP1's
shared access network and OP2's network.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
It is the same for the service experience and treatment of OP2's UE and OP3's
UE in the coverage of OP1's Shared NG-RAN, based on the agreement between
operators.
### 5.4.5 Existing Features partly or fully covering Use Case Functionality
3GPP TS 22.011 [6] introduces requirements on roaming in shared networks, as
described below:
_The following requirements are applicable to GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN and NG-RAN
sharing scenarios:_
_\- When network sharing exists between different operators and a user roams
into the shared network it shall be possible for that user to register with a
core network operator (among the network sharing partners) that the user's
home operator has a roaming agreement with, even if the operator is not
operating a radio access network in that area._
Other roaming related requirements are described in TS 22.101 [2]:
_3GPP specifications should be in compliance with the following objectives:_
_e) to provide support of roaming users by enabling users to access services
provided by their home environment in the same way even when roaming._
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the Use Case
[PR 5.4.6-001] The 5G system shall enable Shared NG-RAN of a Hosting Operator
with the indirect connection between Shared NG-RAN and a Participating NG-RAN
Operator's core network to provide services for inbound roaming users.
NOTE: Inbound roaming users mentioned above refer to the subscribers of a
foreign operator having a roaming agreement with one participating operator.
## 5.5 Use Case on Hosted Services
### 5.5.1 Description
Subscribers have the opportunity to visit the Hosted Services via its own
operator\'s network, specified in TS 22.261[3]. These Hosted Services contain
applications provided by operators and/or trusted 3rd parties. Usually,
operators use some technologies to optimize the path of the user plane to
reduce latency and bandwidth pressure, if the Hosted Services run on the
operator\'s Service Hosting Environment.
GSMA provides a scenario when Hosted Services of party operator is located at
a shared edge node of hosting operator, the Hosted Services are also
applicable for the users accessing through the PLMN of party operator. The
sharing edge node means that hosting operator deploys applications on cloud
resources in its edge node as requested by a party operator and provides an
application endpoint to the party operator, referred to S2-2208120.
However, when users access through a shared network, it is still expected the
Hosted Services to be available. This use case provides the possibility for
subscribers visiting Hosted Services via shared networks.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
Assumptions,
1\. OP1 is a Hosting NG-RAN Operator.
2\. The core network of OP2, as the participating operator, does not have
direct connection with OP1's shared NG-RAN.
3\. There is connection between the OP1's CN and OP2's CN.
4\. OP2 provides Hosted Services for subscribers in the local area 1 and 2\.
OP2 wishes to provide Hosted Services for subscribers accessing through OP1's
and OP2's network in the local area 1.
### {width="5.747222222222222in" height="3.7222222222222223in"}5.5.3 Service
Flows
{width="5.7340277777777775in" height="3.8118055555555554in"}
Figure 5.5.3-1: Scenario of visiting Hosted Services via shared network
1\. UE is the subscriber of OP2, and enjoy the Hosted Services of OP2 in the
local area 2.
2\. UE is ready to move to the shared network of OP1. During this process, the
Service Hosting Environment hosting the service may or may not change.
3\. Available Service Hosting Environment can still be found in local area 1
to provide services for UE. The Hosted Services are applicable when the UE
crosses the local area 1 and 2 and/or stay within area 1.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The visiting hosted service via shared network succeeds, when UE moves between
shared access network and participating operator's network.
### 5.5.5 Existing Features partly or fully covering Use Case Functionality
Session 6.5 of TS 22.261 mainly introduces the relevant terms and related
requirements of Hosted Services. Some typical requirements for service in
network sharing are:
> _5G is designed to meet diverse services with different and enhanced
> performances (e.g. high throughput, low latency and massive connections) and
> data traffic model (e.g. IP data traffic, non-IP data traffic, short data
> bursts and high throughput data transmissions)._
>
> _User plane should be more efficient for 5G to support differentiated
> requirements. On one hand, a Service Hosting Environment located inside of
> operator\'s network can offer Hosted Services closer to the end user to meet
> localization requirement like low latency, low bandwidth pressure. These
> Hosted Services contain applications provided by operators and/or trusted
> 3rd parties. On the other hand, user plane paths can be selected or changed
> to improve the user experience or reduce the bandwidth pressure, when a UE
> or application changes location during an active communication._
In addition, Chapter 4.23.9 of 23.502[7] provides some further work related
with efficient user plane, which mainly describe additional PDU Session Anchor
and Branching Point or UL CL controlled by I-SMF.
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the Use Case
[PR 5.5.6-001] In case of Indirect Network Sharing, the 5G system shall
support a mechanism to enable a UE subscribed to the participating operator to
access the participating operator's Hosted Services.
## 5.6 Use Case on Emergency Call
### 5.6.1 Description
The network is allowed to route the emergency call to the emergency response
centre in the area where the operator provides services, as specified in TS
22.101[2], in accordance with national regulations and where the subscriber is
located.
In order to route emergency calls to the correct emergency response centre,
operators may need to use the UE location information. Operators may use
different location information based on the requirement of the national
regulation. Sometimes operators have to change the network configuration to
provide correct routing or services related to location information in an
area.
This use case provides the possibility that the subscriber of the
participating operator may initiate an emergency call in the shared network,
which leads to the problem to the service provider of routing the emergency
call according to the location information of the hosting operator.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Assumptions:
1\. OP-1 is a Hosting NG-RAN Operator. There is a connection between the
OP-1's CN and OP-2's CN, while OP-2 as a participating operator indirectly
sharing the network.
2\. OP-2, as the participating operator, is an emergency call service
provider. The network of OP-2 is connected to the emergency response centre
located in Area 1.
3\. OP-3 is the Hosting RAN operator of NG-RAN and E-UTRAN. And OP-3 and OP-2
have a sharing agreement with MOCN.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
{width="0.7479166666666667in"
height="0.6388888888888888in"}{width="6.834722222222222in"
height="3.765972222222222in"}
Figure 5.6.3-1: Emergency call routing in network sharing scenarios
{width="4.1666666666666664e-2in" height="8.333333333333333e-2in"}
1\. UE is registered to OP-2. UE accesses the shared network of OP-1, and
registered with the OP-2's IMS. The nearest emergency response centre to UE\'s
current geographic location is in Area 1, shown as Fig. 5.6.3-1.
2\. UE initiates an emergency call in the shared network, it is most
reasonable for the core network of OP-2 to route the emergency call to PSAP
within area 1.
3\. OP-2's network routes the emergency call to PSAP in Area 1 according to
the location information transmitted by the shared network.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
The emergency call can be correctly routed to the appropriate PSAP to serve
the UE according to its location information.
### 5.6.5 Existing Features partly or fully covering Use Case Functionality
Chapter 10 of TS 22.101[2] defines the emergency call service. According to
National regulations, the requirement of UE's location of emergency call
service is different in deployment scenarios, examples are:
> _National regulations may require wireless networks to provide the emergency
> caller\'s location. This requirement typically overrides the caller\'s right
> to privacy with respect to their location being revealed, but remains in
> effect only as long as the authorities need to determine the caller\'s
> location. The interpretation of the duration of this privacy override may
> also be different, subject to national regulation. For example, some
> countries require location to be available from the wireless network only
> while the call is up, while others may allow PSAP\'s to unilaterally decide
> how long the location must be made available._
>
> _Therefore, the requirement for providing location availability is to allow
> the network to support providing a mobile caller\'s location to the
> authorities for as long as required by the national regulation in force for
> that network._
>
> _Note: See TS 22.071 [8] for location service requirements on emergency
> calls._
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the Use Case
[PR 5.6.6-001] Subject to national or regional regulatory and operator
policies, the 5G system shall support emergency call from a UE accessing a
Shared NG-RAN via Indirect Network Sharing.
[PR 5.6.6-002] Subject to national or regional regulatory and operator
policies, the 5G system shall provide to the Participating Operator the
location information of an emergency caller accessing a Shared NG-RAN via
Indirect Network Sharing.
## 5.7 Use Case on Long-distance Mobility in and across Shared Networks
### 5.7.1 Description
Despite the aircraft and rail have been developed to serve more and more
regions, road transport remains the most important way to deliver goods. As
the logistics industry is booming, the total length of long-distance road
transport has increased every year in the last ten years. How to provide
communication service during long-distance transport is valuable to be
discussed serving the transportation and logistics customers. Network sharing
offers a way for the network operator to share the heavy deployment of mobile
networks, as well as improve the service availability and user experience
along the transport routes.
Compared with MOCN configuration, network sharing with the indirect connection
between Shared NG-RAN and the core network of participating operators allows
flexible access options for the sharing parties to consider. For example, one
network operator needs to provide communication service along a dedicated
transport route across dense urban, rural, and desert, but can't find one
hosting operator with full coverage of the whole route. It's possible to
cooperate with a terrestrial network operator and a 3GPP satellite network
operator separately to ensure the full coverage. Also, with the agreement,
it's possible to leverage the temporary coverage enhancement plan of hosting
operators for certain regions, such as deploying onboard base stations in
dense urban, to provide better user experience to their own users.
{width="2.951388888888889in" height="2.0277777777777777in"}
Figure 5.7.1-1 Desert Highway across shared networks [9]
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
It is assumed that network operators OP1, OP2, and OP3 have deployed 5G
networks respectively in a country. Their radio access network can provide
coverage to different regions of the country, and together cover the entire
country with overlapping in certain regions.
OP1 and OP3 are agreed with OP2 to share radio access network in the planned
geographic area via the indirect connection between their shared radio access
network and OP2's core network.
> \- OP1 is a Hosting NG-RAN Operator, who has deployed different types of 5G
> access nodes (e.g., Macro, Micro, onboarding, and IAB). It only shares Macro
> base stations (e.g., 5G BS#A, BS#B, BS#C) with participating operator OP2
> but allows to access to dedicated type of access nodes (e.g., onboarding)
> temporarily regarding the agreement and the policy.
>
> \- OP3 is another Hosting RAN Operator, sharing 3GPP Satellite access nodes
> with OP2.
>
> \- OP2 has non-shared 5G access network deployed in some regions of the
> country, as 4G&5G BS.
>
> \- UE on the vehicle supports all 5G RATs and has the subscription with
> OP2's network.
{width="3.685416666666667in" height="2.722916666666667in"}
Figure 5.7.2-1: Long-distance mobility in and across shared networks
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
1\. UE on the vehicle connects to OP2's network via OP1 shared access nodes
and is authorized to initiate a communication service (e.g., data transfer,
IMS voice call) during the movement.
2\. In geographic Area #A, UE connects to OP2's network only through the
access nodes like 5G BS #A based on the agreement and the policies of OP1 and
OP2.
3\. A regional earthquake happens and results in unstable performance of 5G BS
#B in Area #B. OP1's UAV base stations are shared to OP2 as a supplementary or
an alternative access node based on OP1 and OP2 agreement.
4\. When UE reaches Location Loc #A, where it can detect the radio signal of
both 5G BS #B and UAV base station, UE will access a proper OP1 access node
(e.g., 5G UAV BS ) to continue the service regarding the subscription, and the
policy and agreement of OP1 and OP2.
5\. When UE reaches Location Loc #B, where it can detect the radio signal of
OP1 5G BS#C and OP3 Satellite access node, UE will access a proper Hosting RAN
operator's access node (e.g., OP3 Satellite) to continue the service regarding
the subscription and the policy and agreement of OP1, OP3 and OP2.
6\. When UE reaches Location Loc #C, where it can detect the radio signal of
OP3 Satellite access node and OP2 4G&5G BS, UE will select OP2 5G BS to
continue the service regarding the policies of OP3 and OP2.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
UE can get services with the displayed serving network as OP2's network when
move in OP1's Shared NG-RAN, across OP1's and OP3's shared RANs, and across
OP3's shared RAN and OP2's non-shared RAN.
OP2 ensures service continuity with proper mobility and access control to the
shared access nodes of the same or different Host RAN Operators.
### 5.7.5 Existing Features partly or fully covering Use Case Functionality
The normative stage1 requirements of network sharing has been introduced to
TS22.101 [2] and TS 22.261 [3] in previous releases. TS 22.101[2] specifies
the service principle about Network Sharing that
> _It shall be possible to support different mobility management rules,
> service capabilities and access rights as a function of the home PLMN of the
> subscribers. [clause 4.9]_
>
> _The 3GPP System shall support a Shared RAN (E-UTRAN or NG-RAN) to cover a
> specific coverage area (e.g. from a complete network to a single cell, both
> outdoor and indoor). [clause 28.2.1]_
The network sharing has been extended to different types of access networks,
as stated TS 22.261 [3].
> _A 5G satellite access network shall support NG-RAN sharing._
TS 22.261[3] has also illustrated general requirements about access, the
mobility management and service continuity between different access networks
as below.
> _Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support steering a UE to
> select certain 3GPP access network(s). [clause 6.3.2]_
>
> _The 5G system shall support inter- and/or intra- access technology mobility
> procedures within 5GS with minimum impact to the user experience (e.g., QoS,
> QoE). [clause 6.2.2]_
_The 5G system shall support service continuity between 5G terrestrial access
network and 5G satellite access networks owned by the same operator or owned
by different operators having an agreement. [clause 6.2.3]_
In MOCN configuration, that multiple shared access networks have direct
connections to the Participating Operator's core network, the access control
and mobility management are performed by Participating Operator's core network
directly.
However, in Indirect Network Sharing, besides Participating Operator's core
network, Host RAN Operator's core network may be involved in the access
control and mobility management. Also, UE may connect to Participating
Operator's core network via the shared access nodes of different Host RAN
Operators.
TS 22.261[3] has defined requirements about multi-network connectivity and
service delivery across operators as below.
> _To provide a better user experience for their subscribers with UEs capable
> of simultaneous network access, network operators could contemplate a
> variety of sharing business models and partnership with other network and
> service providers to enable its subscribers to access all services via
> multiple networks simultaneously, and with minimum interruption when
> moving._
>
> _For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of multiple serving
> networks operated by different operators shall be under the control of the
> home operator._
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.7.6-001] Subject to the agreement between Hosting Operators and
Participating Operator, the 5G system shall support a mechanism to authorize a
UE with the subscription to the Participating Operator to obtain services in a
Shared NG-RAN of Hosting Operators using Indirect Network Sharing.
[PR 5.7.6-002] In case of Indirect Network Sharing, based on the Hosting and
Participating Operators' policies, the 5G system shall enable the
Participating Operator to provide steering information to the Hosting
Operator.
NOTE 1: Such steering information for a given UE of the Participating Operator
could be applied by the Hosting Operator to select amongst the Hosting
Operator's available shared access network(s).
[PR 5.7.6-003] In case of Indirect Network Sharing, the 5G system shall be
able to apply different access control for different access networks of Shared
NG-RANs based on the Hosting and Participating Operator's agreement and
policies.
## 5.8 Use Case on Support of PWS in Shared NG-RAN in Indirect Interconnection
with the Participating Operators
### 5.8.1 Description
Operators 1 and 2, both licensed to operate a 4G network and a 5G network
share the 5G part of the radio access network in some areas of the country.
The Public Safety Agency sends the PWS message in a certain area covered by
NG-RAN1 and RAN2 of Operator 1 and Operator 2 respectively and by the shared
NG-RAN area of Operator 1 and Operator 2.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
  * Operator 1 owns NG-RAN 1 which is not shared.
  * Operator 2 owns RAN 2 which is not shared.
  * NG-RAN is a shared NG-RAN between Operator 1 and Operator 2.
  * Operator 1 is the hosting operator.
  * Operator 2 is a participating operator. Operator 1 and Operator 2 share NG-RAN in an indirect sharing method.
  * Operator 1 has a regulatory obligation to broadcast PWS message to all UEs operating on NG-RAN 1 and NG-RAN.
  * Operator 2 has a regulatory obligation to broadcast PWS message to all UEs operating on NG-RAN and RAN 2.
  * UEs operating in NG-RAN 1 or RAN 2 may handover to NG-RAN during the period the PWS message is periodically rebroadcasting.
  * UEs subscribed to Operator 1 operating in NG-RAN may handover to NG-RAN 1 during the period the PWS message is periodically rebroadcasting (and vice versa).
  * UEs subscribed to Operator 2 operating in NG-RAN may handover to RAN 2 during the period the PWS message is periodically rebroadcasting (and vice versa).
{width="6.666666666666667in" height="3.75in"}
Figure 5.8.2-1 PWS Scenario in Indirect Network Sharing
### 5.8.3 Service flows
1) The Public Safety Agency (PSA) sends the PWS message in a certain Shared
NG-RAN radio coverage area designated by the PSA where Operator 1 and Operator
2 share the RAN access.
2) Operator 1 and Operator 2 both broadcast the PWS message in the area
covered by their respective not shared RAN they have regulatory obligations
(NG-RAN 1 and RAN 2).
3) The UEs served by NG-RAN 1 and RAN 2 receive the warning message from their
corresponding operating radio access.
4) The UEs served by Shared NG-RAN of the hosting Operator 1 receive the
public warning message created for the specific region which is covered by NG-
RAN.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
For UEs subscribed to unshared accesses NG-RAN 1 and RAN 2, the public warning
message can only be received by UEs subscribed to these operators owning the
access.
UEs served by Shared NG-RAN receive the public warning message issued by the
PSA in the radio coverage area of the Shared NG-RAN designated for the warning
message.
The UEs only display one copy of the PWS message according to and regardless
of the RAN it is operating in or may handover to.
The UEs present new content of public warning messages after entering and
leaving the shared network.
### 5.8.5 Existing requirements to PWS Support in Shared Networks
See TS 22.101 [2].
**28.2.5 PWS support of Shared E-UTRAN/NG-RAN**
A Participating Operator potentially has regulatory obligations to initiate
the broadcast of PWS messages regardless of E-UTRAN/NG-RAN sharing.
The following requirements apply:
The shared E-UTRAN/NG-RAN shall be able to broadcast PWS messages originated
from the core networks of all Participating Operators.
NOTE 1: Rel-11 design requires a shared PWS core. However, some regulatory
obligations require a solution in which no common PWS core network entity is
involved.
**28.3.5 PWS support of Shared GERAN or UTRAN**
A Participating Operator potentially has regulatory obligations to initiate
the broadcast of PWS messages regardless of GERAN or UTRAN sharing.
The following requirements apply:
The shared GERAN or UTRAN shall be able to broadcast PWS.
NOTE 2: The Hosting RAN Operator is responsible for the delivery of PWS
messages to the UEs.
Identifying, changing, and adding appropriate functionality in the network
will definitely lead to a better shared-network operation.
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the Use Case
[PR 5.8.6-001] Subject to regulatory requirements and mutual agreement between
the Participating Operators and the Hosting Operator, the 5G system shall be
able to support PWS when connectivity is provided via Indirect Network
Sharing.
[PR 5.8.6-002] Subject to regulatory requirements and mutual agreement between
the Participating Operators and the Hosting Operator, Shared NG-RAN in
Indirect Network Sharing shall be able to broadcast PWS messages originated
from the core network of the Hosting Operator.
# 6 Other considerations
## 6.1 Considerations on security
Different from MOCN configuration, which routes UE to the core network of a
participating operator directly through Shared RAN of hosting operator,
Indirect Network Sharing needs to involve the core network of the Hosting NG-
RAN Operator in the signaling exchange. The interoperability between the core
networks of Hosting NG-RAN Operators and participating operator will expose
more information about the subscribers, the operator's policies and operations
of respective core networks, especially those irrelevant to Indirect Network
Sharing. Therefore, more security relative to user privacy and the operator's
policy can be taken into account for the Indirect Network Sharing
configuration.
# 7 Consolidated requirements
## 7.1 Introduction
Potential requirements on Indirect Network Sharing have been identified in
Section 5 out of the use cases under the following aspects:
\- General
\- Mobility
\- Network access control
\- Regulatory services
\- Charging
These requirements have been especially introduced to support the newly
defined network sharing scenario, where a NG-RAN is shared among multiple
operators without necessarily assuming a direct connection between the shared
NG-RAN and the Participating NG-RAN Operator's core network.
NOTE: These enhanced requirements may go beyond existing RAN sharing
requirements in Rel-13.
## 7.2 Consolidated Potential Requirements
### 7.2.1 Description
Indirect Network Sharing is another type of NG-RAN sharing, to facilitate the
operators to extend the availability of 5G services to more coverage areas for
their subscribers. It can allow NG-RAN resources to be used by two or more
operators simultaneously while minimizing the impact on the network and
associated services.
The deployment of Indirect Network Sharing is expected to be transparent to
the users when they obtain network services in subscribed PLMN as other NG-RAN
sharing configuration (e.g., MOCN). The involvement of the core network of the
Hosting Operator e.g., for signaling exchange between the users and the core
network of Participating Operator could cause exposure of the subscriber's
information to the hosting network.
Thus, extra scrutiny is expected to avoid sharing information not needed for
the Indirect Network Sharing operation between the hosting operator and the
participating operator.
### 7.2.2 General
Table 7.2.2-1 General requirements
+---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===============+================+================+================+ | CPR 7.2.2-001 | The 5G system | [PR | Align with the | | | shall be able | 5.1.6-001] | definitions. | | | to support | | | | | Indirect | | | | | Network | | | | | Sharing | | | | | between the | | | | | Shared NG-RAN | | | | | and one or | | | | | more | | | | | Participating | | | | | NG-RAN | | | | | Operators' | | | | | core networks, | | | | | by means of | | | | | the connection | | | | | being routed | | | | | through the | | | | | Hosting NG-RAN | | | | | Operator's | | | | | core network. | | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR 7.2.2-002 | In case of | [PR | Align with the | | | Indirect | 5.1.6-002] | definitions. | | | Network | | | | | Sharing, the | | Updated | | | 5G system | | wording | | | shall be able | | | | | to support | | | | | means for a | | | | | Participating | | | | | NG-RAN | | | | | Operator to | | | | | provide its | | | | | information on | | | | | op | | | | | erator/network | | | | | name to UEs, | | | | | e.g., for | | | | | display to the | | | | | user. | | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR 7.2.2-003 | In case of | [PR | Align with the | | | Indirect | 5.2.6-004] | definitions. | | | Network | | | | | Sharing, UEs | | Updated | | | shall be able | | wording | | | to access | | | | | their | | | | | subscribed | | | | | PLMN services | | | | | when accessing | | | | | a Shared | | | | | NG-RAN, where | | | | | the subscribed | | | | | PLMN is one of | | | | | the | | | | | Participating | | | | | NG-RAN | | | | | Operators. | | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR 7.2.2-004 | Subject to the | [PR | Align with the | | | agreement | 5.5.6-001] | definitions. | | | between | | | | | hosting | [PR | PRs merged. | | | operators and | 5.7.6-001] | | | | the | | | | | participating | | | | | operator, the | | | | | 5G system | | | | | shall support | | | | | a mechanism to | | | | | enable a UE to | | | | | obtain its | | | | | subscribed | | | | | services, | | | | | including | | | | | Hosted | | | | | Services, of | | | | | participating | | | | | operator via a | | | | | Shared NG-RAN | | | | | using Indirect | | | | | Network | | | | | Sharing. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: the | | | | | requirement | | | | | assumes no | | | | | impact to UE. | | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.2.3 Mobility
Table 7.2.3-1 Consolidated Requirements to Mobility
+---------------+------------------+------------------+-------------+ | CPR | Consolidated | Original PR | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===============+==================+==================+=============+ | CPR 7.2.3-001 | In case of | [PR 5.2.6-002] | PRs merged | | | Indirect Network | | | | | Sharing scenario | [PR 5.3.6-001] | | | | and subject to | | | | | hosting and | [PR 5.2.6-003] | | | | participating | | | | | operators' | | | | | policies, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | support service | | | | | continuity and | | | | | minimize the | | | | | impact on the | | | | | user experience | | | | | and service | | | | | interruptions | | | | | between | | | | | different Shared | | | | | NG-RANs and/or | | | | | between a Shared | | | | | NG-RAN and a | | | | | non-Shared | | | | | NG-RAN networks. | | | +---------------+------------------+------------------+-------------+ | CPR 7.2.3-002 | In case of | [PR 5.4.6-001] | PR modified | | | indirect network | | | | | sharing, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | enable the | | | | | Shared NG-RAN of | | | | | a hosting | | | | | operator to | | | | | provide services | | | | | for inbound | | | | | roaming users. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: Inbound | | | | | roaming users | | | | | may not have a | | | | | roaming | | | | | agreement with | | | | | the hosting | | | | | operator but | | | | | only with a | | | | | participating | | | | | operator. | | | +---------------+------------------+------------------+-------------+
### 7.2.4 Network Access Control
Table 7.2.4-1 Consolidated Requirements on Network Access Control
+---------------+--------------------+------------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===============+====================+==================+=========+ | CPR 7.2.4-001 | In case of | [PR 5.3.6-004] | | | | Indirect Network | | | | | Sharing and | [PR 5.3.6-003] | | | | subject to Hosting | | | | | and Participating | | | | | Operators' | | | | | policies, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | support a | | | | | mechanism to | | | | | enable a UE with a | | | | | subscription to a | | | | | Participating | | | | | Operator to select | | | | | an appropriate | | | | | radio access | | | | | network (i.e., | | | | | E-UTRAN, NG-RAN) | | | | | and/or access an | | | | | authorized Shared | | | | | NG-RAN. | | | +---------------+--------------------+------------------+---------+ | CPR 7.2.4-002 | In case of | [PR 5.3.6-002] | | | | Indirect Network | | | | | Sharing and | [PR 5.7.6-003] | | | | subject to Hosting | | | | | and Participating | | | | | Operators' | | | | | policies, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | support access | | | | | control for a UE | | | | | accessing a Shared | | | | | NG-RAN and be able | | | | | to apply | | | | | differentiated | | | | | access control for | | | | | different access | | | | | networks of Shared | | | | | NG-RANs when more | | | | | than one Shared | | | | | NG-RAN are | | | | | available for the | | | | | Participating | | | | | Operator to choose | | | | | from. | | | +---------------+--------------------+------------------+---------+ | CPR 7.2.4-003 | In case of | [PR 5.7.6-002] | | | | Indirect Network | | | | | Sharing, based on | | | | | the Hosting and | | | | | Participating | | | | | Operators' | | | | | policies, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | enable the | | | | | Participating | | | | | Operator to | | | | | provide steering | | | | | information in | | | | | order to assist a | | | | | UE with access | | | | | network selection | | | | | amongst the | | | | | Hosting Operator's | | | | | available Shared | | | | | RAN(s). | | | +---------------+--------------------+------------------+---------+
NOTE: the above requirements assume no UE impacts.
### 7.2.5 Regulatory Services
Table 7.2.5-1 Consolidated Requirements to the Regulatory Services
+---------------+------------------+------------------+-------------+ | CPR | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===============+==================+==================+=============+ | CPR 7.2.5-001 | In case of | [PR 5.6.6-001] | PRs merged | | | Indirect Network | | | | | Sharing and | [PR 5.8.6-001] | | | | subject to | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements and | | | | | mutual agreement | | | | | between the | | | | | participating | | | | | operators and | | | | | the hosting | | | | | operator, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | support | | | | | regulatory | | | | | services (e.g., | | | | | PWS, emergency | | | | | calls). | | | +---------------+------------------+------------------+-------------+ | CPR 7.2.5-002 | In Indirect | [PR 5.6.6-002] | PR modified | | | Network Sharing, | | | | | the 5G system | | | | | shall be able to | | | | | provide a UE | | | | | accessing a | | | | | Shared NG-RAN | | | | | network with | | | | | positioning | | | | | service in | | | | | compliance with | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements. | | | +---------------+------------------+------------------+-------------+ | CPR 7.2.5-003 | Subject to | [PR 5.8.6-002] | PR modified | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements and | | | | | mutual agreement | | | | | between the | | | | | participating | | | | | operators and | | | | | the hosting | | | | | operator the | | | | | Shared NG-RAN | | | | | operator shall | | | | | be able to | | | | | broadcast PWS | | | | | messages | | | | | originated from | | | | | the core network | | | | | of the hosting | | | | | operator. | | | +---------------+------------------+------------------+-------------+
### 7.2.6 Charging
Table 7.2.6-1 Charging requirements
+---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===============+================+================+================+ | CPR 7.2.6-001 | The 5G core | [PR | Align with the | | | network shall | 5.2.6-001] | definitions. | | | be able to | | | | | support | | shared network | | | collection of | | | | | charging | | ->Shared | | | information | | NG-RAN | | | associated | | | | | with a UE | | | | | accessing a | | | | | Shared NG-RAN | | | | | using Indirect | | | | | Network | | | | | Sharing. | | | +---------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 8 Conclusion and recommendations
This document analyzes a number of use cases to enhance the support of network
sharing. Some considerations and the resulting potential consolidated
requirements have been captured in clauses 6 and 7.
It is recommended to proceed with normative work and include the consolidated
requirements identified in order to better serve communication services.
#