# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes use cases related to the following three
Roaming Value-Added Services (RVAS) that are enabled by the PLMN for 5GS
roaming:
  * Welcome SMS
  * Steering of Roaming (SoR) during the registration procedure
  * Subscription-based routing to a particular core network (e.g., in a different country)
Potential requirements are derived for these three services and consolidated
in a dedicated chapter. The report ends with recommendation regarding the
continuation of the work.
NOTE: This document is not expected to introduce any changes to the security
mechanisms between operators, and responsible groups will verify that 5GS
security mechanisms are not negatively impacted by these requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\"
[3] 3GPP TR 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service Accessibility\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
RVAS Roaming Value-Added Services
# 4 Overview
Roaming Value-Added Services (RVAS) form part of the roaming services
ecosystem and have traditionally been provided by either the PLMN or
outsourced to a fully trusted entity. The RVAS provider acting on behalf of
the PLMN could be any trusted 3rd party. The focus of this work is on RVAS
enabled by the PLMN for 5GS roaming.
With the introduction of e2e encryption for roaming in 5GS [2], it is in some
cases not possible for the trusted entities to provide RVAS in a proprietary
way and they therefore need to be standardized in order to work in a multi-
vendor environment.
This report describes the following three RVAS that are enabled by the PLMN
for 5GS roaming:
  * Welcome SMS
  * Steering of Roaming (SoR) during the registration procedure
  * Subscription-based routing to a particular core network (e.g. in a different country)
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use case on welcome SMS
### 5.1.1 Description
A welcome SMS is a SMS sent to a roaming subscriber's UE when the UE is
registered in a new network for the first time. The SMS typically follows a
predefined template and is sent on behalf of the home operator and may contain
relevant information related to the visited country e.g., the cost to call
home, how to reach the operator's customer service etc.
The use case describes how the home operator identifies that a user is
registered in a new network and trigger sending a welcome SMS to the UE. The
formatting and sending of the welcome SMS are done by an application server in
the same way as many other SMS applications and is not described further in
the use case.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
A user X has a subscription with operator MNO1.
User X is going to a country for trip and brings the phone.
One of the operators in the country is MNO2.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
User X arrives to the countries capital airport and turns off airplane mode on
the UE at arrival.
The UE register to MNO2's network.
MNO2 forwards the registration to user X's HPLMN (i.e., MNO1).
MNO1 identifies that User X is registered in a new network and initiates a
welcome SMS using a northbound API including the information about MNO2's
network and the needed subscriber information.
Either the HPLMN or a trusted 3^rd^ party will trigger a welcome SMS to user
X's UE.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
Shortly an SMS is delivered to the UE with a welcome SMS containing useful
information related to the new country.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The functionality to send MT SMS to the UE is "old as a rock" and is defined
in a normative annex in 3GPP TS 22.003 [3].
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.1.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to support mechanisms for the HPLMN
to provide a notification, including equipment and subscription identifiers,
to a trusted application server when a UE successfully registers in a VPLMN.
In response to the notification, the trusted application server can indicate
specific actions to the HPLMN (e.g., send an SMS to the UE).
NOTE: The trusted application server can be hosted by the home operator or a
trusted 3^rd^ party and is out of 3GPP scope.
## 5.2 Use case on Steering of Roaming (SoR) during the registration procedure
### 5.2.1 Description
HPLMNs can steer their subscribers to preferred partner networks in case of
roaming by means of issuing commands and updating the Operator Controlled PLMN
Selector list on the USIM, either by using SMS or via signalling, as defined
in TS 22.011 [2].
Additionally, for more short-term balancing of distribution across VPLMNs,
operators use mechanisms to reject registration attempts from some share of
UEs to certain VPLMNs to make them select a different VPLMN.
Both mechanisms -- SoR as defined in 3GPP and the here described SoR during
the registration procedure -- can be applied in parallel by a HPLMN.
This use case describes how the home operator identifies that a roaming user
attempts to register in a new network and triggers the sending of reject
messages to the UE, resulting in the UE attempting to register to another
VPLMN. The details of how often a reject is sent to a particular UE to achieve
the desired result and to prevent the UE from being without a network, are
left to the application server and not described here.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Users X and Y have a subscription with operator HPLMN1.
Both users X and Y are travelling to another country, where two networks are
available -- VPLMN1 and VPLMN2. Both networks have a roaming agreement with
HPLMN1.
VPLMN1 has a higher priority for both users.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
Users X and Y arrive at the country and switch on their phones. According to
existing procedures both UEs select VPLMN1 as their first choice for
registration and try to register on that network.
VPLMN1 forwards the registration request messages of the UEs of users X and Y
to the HPLMN1.
HPLMN1 recognises the registration attempts and invokes the steering service
via a northbound API. The steering service, hosted by the HPLMN or some
trusted 3^rd^ party, decides if some steering action is needed for any of the
UEs.
In this use case it decides to allow the UE of user X to register on VPLMN1
whereas user Y's UE should not use VPLMN1.
The steering service triggers the steering action using the northbound API for
user Y's UE, which results in a reject message being sent to this UE,
including an appropriate reason for the rejection. The registration process
for user X's UE is not affected.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
While the UE of user X successfully registered to VPLMN1 the UE of user Y
selects VPLMN2 as the only other available network and registers there.
If more than one remaining VPLMN is available, the UE picks one of them
according to network selection procedures. The process of rejecting could be
repeated as needed.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Registration to networks and rejecting registration attempts with different
information corresponding to the reason for rejection, causing the UE to
search for other networks.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.2.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to support mechanisms enabling the
HPLMN to:
\- provide a notification, including subscription and equipment identifiers,
to a trusted application server when a UE tries to register in a VPLMN
\- receive a notification reply from the trusted application server indicating
specific actions to the HPLMN e.g., reject UE registration (with a specific
cause), trigger a SoR command.
NOTE: The trusted application server can be hosted by the home operator or a
trusted 3rd party and is out of 3GPP scope.
## 5.3 Use case on Subscription-based routing to a particular core network
### 5.3.1 Description
Some operators use more than one PLMN ID, e.g., multi-national operators. Due
to certain business and operational demands, it might be necessary to route
signalling traffic of a certain customer segment, typically from a certain
IMSI range of USIMs, of a PLMN to another PLMN and to further handle the
subscriber there. This means the signalling is not handled by the \"real\"
HPLMN (according to MNC and MCC) but by some alternative PLMN.
This e.g. enables the case where several national subsidiaries of a multi-
national operator offer various services for different customer segments but
for operational efficiency the actual service for a certain group is provided
by only one dedicated network.
This mechanism is not visible for the UE and it therefore do not need any
additional features to support this RVAS.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
Subscriptions a, b, c and d are with operator MNO1.
Subscriptions b and c are part of a certain customer segment X and this
information is part of the subscription.
MNO1 has an agreement with MNO2 that MNO2 shall handle the signalling of
subscriptions of all UEs belonging to the customer segment X. For this
purpose, there is a connection between the networks of MNO1 and MNO2.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
#### 5.3.3.1 Non roaming case
The UEs of subscribers a, b, c and d attach to the PLMN of MNO1.
The network recognizes subscriptions b and c to be part of customer segment X
and forwards the signalling to the PLMN of MNO2 via the pre-established
connection.
Subscriptions a and d are not affected.
Later, subscription c is removed from customer segment X by customer care.
This results in removal of the corresponding information in the subscription.
From now on signalling related to subscription c will be handled by the
network of MNO1 again.
Further on, subscription a is added to the customer segment X by customer care
and subscription data are updated accordingly. So, signalling related to
subscription a will be handled by the network of MNO2.
The UEs of subscribers c and a are not aware of these updates.
#### 5.3.3.2 Roaming case
Subscribers a, b, c and d attach to a VPLMN. The corresponding signalling is
routed to their HPLMN (network of MNO1).
The further procedure is the same as in the non-roaming case: The HPLMN
recognizes subscriptions b and c to be part of customer group X and forwards
the signalling to the PLMN of MNO2 via the pre-established connection.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
Subscriptions of customer group X are handled by the network of MNO2, all
other subscriptions by the regular HPLMN MNO1.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Subscriptions can contain a routing indicator which might be re-used for
assigning a subscription to a certain customer group which requires routing to
a different network.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.3.6-001] The 5G system shall be able to support a mechanism for
forwarding signalling traffic pertaining to UEs of specific subscribers from
their HPLMN to a target PLMN, e.g., to enable further handling of those UEs by
the target PLMN. The forwarding mechanism shall minimize signalling traffic in
the HPLMN, e.g., by using efficient means to forward traffic from selected
UEs.
NOTE 1: The above requirement assumes that the HPLMN has an agreement with the
target PLMN and routing policies are in place.
NOTE 2: In case of UEs connected via a VPLMN, it is assumed that signalling
traffic is forwarded to the target PLMN by the HPLMN.
# 6 Consolidated potential requirements
Table 6-1 --Consolidated Potential Requirements
+-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===========+======================+================+=========+ | CPR 6-001 | The 5G system shall | PR 5.1.6-001 | | | | be able to support | | | | | mechanisms for the | | | | | HPLMN to provide a | | | | | notification, | | | | | including equipment | | | | | and subscription | | | | | identifiers, to a | | | | | trusted application | | | | | server when a UE | | | | | successfully | | | | | registers in a | | | | | VPLMN. In response | | | | | to the notification, | | | | | the trusted | | | | | application server | | | | | can indicate | | | | | specific actions to | | | | | the HPLMN (e.g., | | | | | send an SMS to the | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: The trusted | | | | | application server | | | | | can be hosted by the | | | | | home operator or a | | | | | trusted 3^rd^ party | | | | | and is out of 3GPP | | | | | scope. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6-002 | The 5G system shall | PR 5.2.6-001 | | | | be able to support | | | | | mechanisms enabling | | | | | the HPLMN to: | | | | | | | | | | - provide a | | | | | notification, | | | | | including | | | | | subscription and | | | | | equipment | | | | | identifiers, to a | | | | | trusted application | | | | | server when a UE | | | | | tries to register in | | | | | a VPLMN | | | | | | | | | | - receive a | | | | | notification reply | | | | | from the trusted | | | | | application server | | | | | indicating specific | | | | | actions to the HPLMN | | | | | e.g., reject UE | | | | | registration (with a | | | | | specific cause), | | | | | trigger a SoR | | | | | command. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: The trusted | | | | | application server | | | | | can be hosted by the | | | | | home operator or a | | | | | trusted 3rd party | | | | | and is out of 3GPP | | | | | scope. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6-003 | The 5G system shall | PR 5.3.6-001 | | | | be able to support a | | | | | mechanism for | | | | | forwarding | | | | | signalling traffic | | | | | pertaining to UEs of | | | | | specific subscribers | | | | | from their HPLMN to | | | | | a target PLMN, e.g., | | | | | to enable further | | | | | handling of those | | | | | UEs by the target | | | | | PLMN. The forwarding | | | | | mechanism shall | | | | | minimize signalling | | | | | traffic in the | | | | | HPLMN, e.g., by | | | | | using efficient | | | | | means to | | | | | forward traffic from | | | | | selected UEs. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: The above | | | | | requirement assumes | | | | | that the HPLMN has | | | | | an agreement with | | | | | the target PLMN, and | | | | | routing policies are | | | | | in place. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: In case of | | | | | UEs connected via a | | | | | VPLMN, it is assumed | | | | | that signalling | | | | | traffic is forwarded | | | | | to the target PLMN | | | | | by the HPLMN. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
This technical report provides use cases and potential new requirements for
the three RVAS:
  * Welcome SMS
  * Steering of Roaming (SoR) during the registration procedure
  * Subscription-based routing to a particular core network (e.g., in a different country)
The resulting service requirements have been consolidated and can be found in
chapter 6.
It is recommended to consider the consolidated requirements identified in this
TR as the baseline for subsequent normative work.
#