# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides stage 1 use cases and potential 5G requirements
on the following aspects regarding enhancements to Energy Efficiency of 5G
network and application service enabler aspects:
\- Defining and supporting energy efficiency criteria as part of communication
service to user and application services;
\- Supporting information exposure of systematic energy consumption or level
of energy efficiency to vertical customers;
\- Gap analysis between the identified potential requirements and existing 5GS
requirements or functionalities;
\- Potential requirements on security, charging and privacy aspects.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI ES 201 554: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Measurement method for
Energy efficiency of Mobile Core network and Radio Access Control equipment\".
[3] ETSI ES 203 228: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Assessment of mobile
network energy efficiency\".
[4] GSMA Intelligence: \"Going green: benchmarking the energy efficiency of
mobile\", June 2021.
[5] 3GPP TR 21.866: \"Study on Energy Efficiency Aspects of 3GPP Standards\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.310: \"Management and orchestration; Energy efficiency of 5G\".
[7] 3GPP TR 28.813: \"Management and orchestration; Study on new aspects of
Energy Efficiency (EE) for 5G\".
[8] 3GPP TR 38.864: \"Study on network energy savings for NR \".
[9] ETSI ES 202 336‑1: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring and
control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling and building
environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 1: Generic
Interface\".
[10] ETSI ES 202 336‑12: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring and
control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling and building
environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12: ICT
equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring information
model\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[14] Void
[15] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\"
[17] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\"
[18] 3GPP TS 32.299: \" Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging applications\".
[19] NGMN: \"NGMN Energy Efficiency White Paper, Phase 2\", Dec 2022.
[20] GSMA: \"5G energy efficiencies: green is the new black, Nov 2020\".
[21] Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs): https://www.epa.gov/green-power-
markets/renewable-energy-certificates-recs
[22] ETSI EN 303 472: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Energy Efficiency
measurement methodology and metrics for RAN equipment\".
[23] ETSI GS OEU 020 (v1.1.1): \"Operational energy Efficiency for Users
(OEU); Carbon equivalent Intensity measurement; Operational infrastructures;
Global KPIs; Global KPIs for ICT Sites\".
[24] Methodological standard for the environmental assessment for Internet
Service Provision (ISP), February 2023,
https://librairie.ademe.fr/cadic/7695/pcr_internet_services_provision__english_version.pdf.
Accessed April 29^th^, 2023
[25] 3GPP TR 28.829: \"Study on network and service operations for energy
utilities\"
[26] 3GPP TR 28.913: \"Study on new aspects of EE for 5G networks phase 2\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**energy state:** state **of a cell, a network element and/or a network
function** with respect to energy, e.g. (not) energy saving states, which are
defined in TS 28.310 [6].
**energy charging rate** : a means of determining the energy consumption
consequence (use of energy credit) associated with charging events.
**energy credit** : a quantity of credit associated with the subscriber that
can be used for credit control by the 5G system.
**maximum energy consumption** : a policy establishing an upper bound on the
quantity of energy consumption by the 5G system in a specific period of time
or space, e.g. energy consumption inside a given service area.
**maximum energy credit limit** : a policy establishing an upper bound on the
aggregate quantity of energy consumption by the 5G system to provide services
to a specific subscriber, e.g. in kilowatt hours.
NOTE 1: The term maximum energy credit limit is distinct from \'maximum energy
consumption\' because the credit limit is a total amount of energy consumed,
where maximum energy consumption is a limit to the consumption in a given
interval of time.
**carbon emissions:** kilograms of equivalent carbon dioxide emitted (kg of
CO~2~ equivalent)
**carbon intensity:** quantity of CO~2~ equivalent emission per unit of final
energy consumption for an operational period of use [23]
**communication service pooling:** refers to an operator serving subscribers
from other operators traditionally providing communication service over the
same geographical area, but which temporarily stop providing their service
over their own network infrastructure for energy saving, e.g. via cell switch-
off.
NOTE 2: Communication service pooling can be achieved, e.g. via NG-RAN sharing
techniques or national roaming agreements wherever applicable, and apply to
coverage and/or capacity layers.
**renewable energy** : energy from renewable sources as energy from renewable
non-fossil sources, namely wind, solar, aerothermal, geothermal, hydrothermal
and ocean energy, hydropower, biomass, landfill gas, sewage treatment plant
gas and biogases
NOTE 3: This definition was taken from [22].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AS Application Server
DV Data Volume
EC Energy Consumption
EE Energy Efficiency
# 4 Overview
Climate change and global energy shortage are issues that requires
international cooperation and coordinated solutions at all levels, many
regions and countries have published related policies and requirements to
control carbon release and promote energy efficiency. These policies have made
energy efficiency a strategic priority for many telecom operators around the
world. Energy efficiency has been considered in many standard groups and
specifications.
The existing studies concentrate more on how to satisfy user experience and
try to achieve energy efficiency at the same time and achieve energy
efficiency within the network, so the requirements, use cases and solutions
are basically within the network itself. Verticals and customers have no
approach for energy efficiency related information from the network.
Introducing energy efficiency as a service will allow users to have the choice
to select proper energy efficiency criteria as well as other network
performance parameters when they need them, which may include:
> \- Define and support energy efficiency criteria as part of communication
> service to user and application services.
>
> \- Provide information exposure on systematic energy consumption or level of
> energy efficiency to vertical customers.
Such as in satellite and terrestrial convenience scenario, for some regions
where both satellite and terrestrial coverage exist, energy saving could be
taken as a dimension while providing the communication service, users or
operators could have the choice to find out a best way in satisfying both user
experience and energy efficiency. From another perspective, the network could
also react to different energy consumption modes of applications or adjust
network resources.
Both aspects above need more interactions between applications and networks on
energy consumption status. It is worth considering how to deliver services
with energy efficiency as service criteria, associated with verticals'
preferences, and how to support the policy of handling energy as part of a
subscription.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use case on e**nergy** consumption **as a performance criteria for best
effort communication**
### 5.1.1 Description
Currently energy consumption and efficiency can be monitored and considered
through O&M and network operation, but not as a service performance criterion,
as for example bit rate, latency or availability. Guidance from SA to all
working groups states:
_\"The EE-specific efforts so far undertaken e.g., in SA5 have aimed mostly at
improving the energy efficiency by impacting the operations of the system. As
we now are starting to specify the 5G-Advanced features, TSG SA kindly
requests the recipient WGs and TSGs to consider EE even more as a guiding
principle when developing new solutions and evolving the 3GPP systems
specification, in addition to the other established principles of 3GPP system
design._
_TSG SA clarifies that in addition to EE, other system level criteria shall
continue to be met (i.e. the energy efficiency aspects of a solution defined
in 3GPP is not to be interpreted to take priority or to be alternative to
security, privacy, complexity etc. and to meeting the requirements and
performance targets of the specific feature(s) the solution addresses).\"_
There is an important type of traffic where energy efficiency policy, for
example a _maximum amount of energy to be utilized_ could be applied without
conflict with this guidance. Best effort traffic is a type of traffic that is
provided as a service to customers _everything else being equal_. Of course,
security, privacy and complexity principles will not be sacrificed, but there
is no conflict between a service policy that constrains performance (e.g.
latency, throughput, even availability) on the basis of energy consumption and
a best effort service, since there are no guarantees in the case of best
effort traffic. We can say that best effort traffic is not associated with QoS
policy service performance level criteria.
Today the 5G system works to support services efficiently, though does not
take into account energy consumption at the service level. The use case
explores a particular opportunity to identify this information and use it to
make more efficient use of all network resources without sacrificing service
quality. In particular, information gathered through O&M, and in the future
possibly from the network (see 5.1.5 which identifies a gap and opportunity),
can be leveraged to make it possible to employ energy consumption information
as part of service delivery.
In the following use case, the possibility of using energy consumption as a
new service criterion for this less constrained type of mobile
telecommunication service is explored.
A large-scale logistics company L has deployed a large number of communicating
components. These are integrated into vehicles, palettes, facilities, etc.
Essentially, IoT terminals enable remote tracking and monitoring functions.
The information gathered is relevant, but not constrained with respect to
latency. In fact, eventual delivery (e.g. after hours or even a full day) of
communication is entirely acceptable for L. The MNO M offers a \'green
service\' which limits the rate of energy consumed for communication over a
particular time interval (e.g. per day) and this service is appropriate for L,
whose overall corporate goals are also served by \'green service,\' as they
strive to operate with energy efficiency.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
L deploys many UEs with associated \'green service\' subscriptions from M.
These subscriptions policies include the following criteria:
\- Best Effort Service (service that is not associated with QoS policy service
performance level criteria)
\- Energy Constraints applied to service delivery
### 5.1.3 Service flows
1\. The fleet of trucks belonging to L leave the logistic center located in
the middle of the uninhabited region hundreds of kilometers northeast of the
major city Erehwon. There are many devices located in this fleet. The trucks
and their contents comprise a physically dense group of UEs, all communicating
periodically with the network. This \'massive IoT\' group leaves the coverage
of the logistics center. The network coverage over the road through the
uninhabited region is very sparse.
2\. As the trucks proceed into extreme low coverage, the energy consumed to
communicate with the IoT devices increases. This energy consumption increase
is monitored by the 5G network and can be aggregated, e.g. at the slice level.
3\. The \'green service\' policy for the service provided to L includes a
maximum energy consumption rate. At a certain point the IoT communication of
the fleet exceed _s_ this maximum energy consumption rate.
4\. The policy indicates that latency can be traded off with energy
consumption for service to L; the communication service is delay tolerant in
this condition. As the energy consumption rate has exceeded the maximum, the
latency is increased to enforce this policy. In effect, L\'s fleet receives
very limited service, with high latency, even for a limited period of time, no
service at all.
NOTE: This use case does not describe how latency is increased, but does
assume that this increase will result in a reduction of energy consumption. It
is possible to reduce energy consumption by offering less service.
The use case description does not define how operator M offers the \'green
service\'. One possibility is that the maximum energy consumption policy
applies to all services for the subscription of a device deployed by L with
operator M. This simple policy may not be appropriate if the UEs deployed by L
use different kinds of services at different times. In this case, the policy
would apply to specific services (service flows, etc.) A requirement at the
service flow level is not pursued in this use case.
A further option is that specific network slices apply a \'green service\'
policy to all services communicating by means of that slice.
The use case does not describe how energy consumption is determined. There is
related work in SA5 and RAN3 to determine energy consumption. If energy
consumption cannot be determined at the granularity, e.g. of a specific
service or network slice or even the aggregate energy consumption of a
subscriber, it is still possible to identify the total energy consumption of
different elements in the 5G network. It is therefore possible, at least in
principle, to divide the total energy by the number of served sessions,
subscribers, etc. \'Average consumption\' of a node or cell or slice, etc. is
a course unit of measurement, and does not reflect the true energy consumption
at the finer granularity, though it still can be a useful metric.
Though an averaging approach could be useful to count the total amount of
energy used to attribute to each subscriber, this approach is not enough to
measure the rate of energy consumption as described in this use case. For
this, there would have to be finer granularity energy reporting than \'per
node\' or \'per cell.\' Though this is not yet supported in the 5G network.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The IoT devices in the fleet belonging to L are able to communicate with
varying latency, depending on the energy consumption required to serve the
devices. When the UEs are in poor coverage, they communicate seldom, when
under good coverage, they can communicate more frequently.
The total energy consumption of M\'s network has reduced while still providing
adequate service to customer L.
It is important to emphasize that there has been no trade-off between \'energy
efficiency\' and \'service quality.\' Customer L received what was necessary
while using less energy precisely because the energy consumption was taken
into account in the service delivery.
### 5.1.5 Existing feature partly or fully covering use case functionality
The 5G network can monitor energy consumption. The existing energy consumption
monitoring is done at an O&M level, per network node, per cell and per slice.
The number of UEs per network node, cell and slice are also known. Please see
Annex A for an overview of existing energy efficiency standardization, which
includes the determining energy consumption for use in calculating energy
efficiency.
The 5G network can enforce performance criteria, as described in TS 22.261,
6.7 [15]. Most of the enforcement requirements refer to prioritization, but
policies that result in other enforcement are possible too, e.g. gating,
charging, credit control, restrictions with respect to maximum allowed
resources, etc.
Gap: there is currently no means for the 5G network to determine the per
subscriber or per network slice service flow energy consumption. This
information is not included in network data analytic services.
### 5.1.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.1.6-1] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G network shall support
subscription policies that define a maximum energy consumption rate for
services without QoS criteria (also termed \"best effort\" services.)
NOTE 1: The granularity of the subscription policies can either apply to the
subscriber (all services), or to particular services. This requirement\'s
applicability is limited to UEs that _only_ support services without QoS
criteria.
[PR.5.1.6-2] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G network shall support
enforcement of subscription policies that define a maximum energy consumption
rate for services without associated QoS criteria (also termed \"best effort\"
services.)
[PR.5.1.6-3] The 5G network shall support a means to define maximum energy
consumption rate with specific granularities:
a) subscriber granularity (considering all services of the 5G network for the
subscriber);
b) network slice granularity.
NOTE 2: The energy consumption of the UE is out of scope of this requirement.
[PR.5.1.6-4] Subject to operator\'s policy, the 5G network shall support
energy consumption monitoring at per network slice and per subscriber
granularity.
NOTE 3: Energy consumption monitoring as described in the preceding
requirement is done by means of averaging or applying a statistical model. The
requirement does not imply that some form of \'real time\' monitoring is
required.
## 5.2 Use case on supporting different energy-related SLAs in industrial
campus
### 5.2.1 Description
Industrial campuses are very typical scenarios of edge computing and local
traffic offload. Dedicated network facilities are usually deployed near the
campus for lower latency and local data protection. This brings a problem that
these network facilities are used only for the campus, so while the
manufacturing load is light or during vacation, these network facilities will
be in very light load or even no load. Under this scenario, the energy
consumption of these network facilities will be unnecessary.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Factory F, a smart manufacturing factory locates in a remote area outside the
city. Factory F requires low latency in AGV transporting services and local
data processing using computing vision to support image comparison for fault
detection in circuit boards. Factory F has an agreement with Operator T on the
communication service with certain SLA. As the manufacturing activity is not
consistent, Operator T provides a replaceable SLA which can be used during
off-peak time. This replaceable SLA can reduce energy consumption by changing
the energy state of network functions used locally (e.g. to "energy saving"
state), and the action can be activated either by pre-configured policy or by
notification from Factory F.
### 5.2.3 Service flows
1\. Operator T provides a dedicate set of UPF and MEC platform for factory F.
Factory F is an environmental conscious enterprise that cares about energy
saving (and efficiency) along its whole industrial chain.
2\. When the manufacturing load of Factory F reaches a certain threshold
(lower or higher), which is evaluated by Factory F, a notification will be
sent to Operator T.
3\. Operator T will change the energy state of the dedicated network functions
accordingly to energy saving, based on the pre-agreed policy with Factory F.
4\. After one year of this kind of usage, the charging information of the
communication service will consider the actual usage time of the different
energy states.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
Manufacturing of Factory F will be not affected, while energy consumption of
the communication service could be saved by dynamically changing energy states
of network functions, and the expenses of the communication service will be
lower to encourage this kind of environmental-friendly action.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
In TS 28.310 [6], there are existing requirements to switch off edge UPFs
during off-peak hours:
_**REQ-SOUPF-FUN-1:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to collect
the traffic load performance measurements of its edge UPFs._
_**REQ-SOUPF-FUN-2:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to
administratively prohibit selected edge UPFs from performing services for its
users, either with immediate effect or only when no more users are using these
UPFs._
### 5.2.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.2.6-1] The 5G system shall support different energy states of network
elements and network functions.
[PR.5.2.6-2] The 5G system shall support dynamic changes of energy states of
network elements and network functions, based on pre-configured policy with
authorised 3^rd^ party.
NOTE 1: Pre-configured policy may include: the time of changing energy states,
which energy state map to which level of load, etc.
[PR.5.2.6-3] The 5G system shall support different charging mechanisms based
on the different energy states of network elements and network functions.
## 5.3 Use case on energy consumption exposure considering possible deployment
scenarios
### 5.3.1 Description
When considering Energy as a service or network performance criteria, it is
necessary to consider different 5G network deployment scenarios, e.g. for RAN
network with dual connectivity, RAN network with CU-DU deployment, RAN
sharing, etc. That means whatever the deployment scenario, the energy
consumption of the 5G network which relates to the industry customer is
expected to be acquired and exposed to the authorized third parties.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The network operator A deploys 5G network "N" to serve industry customers C
and D.
In the 5G network "N", some of the gNBs can support dual-connectivity. In
order to achieve more flexible deployment and reduce the cost, operator A also
deploys a large number of DUs in some hotspot area, each DU is for covering a
certain area. For customer C, dual-connectivity is utilized, while for
customer D, multiple DUs have been configured.
Industry customers C and D have also subscribed the "Green Energy Moni" value-
added service from network operator A, thus they can access energy consumption
information corresponding to their respective network functions from a web
application provided by Operator A.
### 5.3.3 Service flows
1\. The 5G network "N" of operator A acquires the energy consumption
information of related 5G network functions serving customers C and D.
2\. Customer C asks the "Green Energy Moni" of Operator A to provide the
network energy consumption information associated with the 5G network
functions serving it via dual-connectivity deployment.
3\. Operator A provides the network energy consumption information to customer
C.
4\. Customer D asks the "Green Energy Moni" of Operator A to provide the
network energy consumption information associated with the 5G network
functions serving it via DU deployment.
5\. Operator A provides the network energy consumption information to customer
D.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
Customers C and D can get the energy consumption information of the network
functions serving them, independently from NG-RAN deployment scenarios.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.3.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.3.6-1] Subject to operator's policy and consent by the vertical
customer, the 5G system shall be able to acquire energy consumption
information of the network functions serving the customer, independently from
NG-RAN deployment scenarios, and expose this information to the customer and
authorized third parties.
## 5.4 Use case on energy efficiency information exposure under NPN RAN
sharing
### 5.4.1 Description
In the practice of 5G NPN deployment, in order to save time and cost, RAN
sharing (i.e. NG-RAN is shared by any combination of PLMNs and NPNs) is a
common deployment scenario for vertical industries. The customers will concern
about the energy efficiency of their communication service especially in RAN
sharing cases. Thus, it is reasonable for 5G system to acquire and expose the
energy efficiency information of the customer including when it is served by
RAN sharing network.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The 5G network operator A deploys local NPN "N1" network in factories for
customer C which is sharing resource of operator A's PLMN "R".
Customer C has subscribed the "Green energy Moni" value-added service for its
NPN "N1" from network operator A, thus it can access energy efficiency
information corresponding to the "N1" network from a web application provided
by Operator A.
### 5.4.3 Service flows
1\. The 5G network of operator A acquires the energy efficiency information of
the NPN "N1" and PLMN "R".
2\. Customer C asks the "Green Energy Moni" of Operator A to provide the
energy efficiency information of its network "N1".
3\. The operator A acquires and provides energy efficiency information of the
network "N1" to customer C.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Customer C can get the energy efficiency information of its network "N1".
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 28.554 [12] already defines EE, EC and DV-related KPIs and use cases to
acquire and calculate energy-efficiency at various levels within the 5G
system.
### 5.4.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.4.6-1] Subject to operator's policy and consent by the customer of NPN,
the 5G system shall be able to acquire energy efficiency information of the
NPN, including the shared network function(s) which is (are) serving the NPN,
and expose this information to the NPN customer and authorized third parties.
## 5.5 **Use case on service energy monitoring by an application server**
### 5.5.1 Description
In this scenario, a service provider monitors events resulting from energy
consumption policy triggers in the 5G system. These triggers correspond to
monitoring policy in the 5G system as well as energy enforcement policies.
{width="5.257214566929134in" height="0.9375481189851269in"}
Figure 5.5-1: Monitoring of Energy Events by the 5G network for an AS
In Figure 5.5.1, the application server AS obtains information corresponding
to the energy consequences of a UE \'A\' served by the 5G network.
This use case will provide a description of a scenario in which the service
provider (who operates an application server) cares about energy consumption
in the 5G system as a result of the service to UE A. This could be for 3
reasons:
\- the service provider needs to show they are saving energy;
\- the service has an associated energy cost, and the service provider wants
to reduce it. This is analogous to the use of industrial or consumer
electronics when energy rates are lower, and also as an incentive to operate
more efficiently;
\- the service provider recognizes that there are policies that limit energy
use (such as aggregate energy use of a slice) and controls the overall use of
the service to operate within those constraints.
The use case introduces five new concepts related to new energy events and
energy event monitoring:
a) the ability for the network operator to create a \'maximum energy credit\'
policy, after which services are gated;
b) the ability for the network operator to inform an AS of the \'maximum
energy credit expired\' event;
c) the ability for the 5G system to calculate \'energy credit\' use;
d) the ability to monitor and provide to the AS the use of \'energy credits\'
(or other energy \'quantum\');
e) the support a new policy that establishes the energy consequence for
charging control - either charging for use of energy or establishing an
\'energy credit limit\' for enforcement by the 5G system.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The UE \"A\" has a subscription that enables it to make use of \'best effort
communication subject to energy constraints\' policy for communication. This
class of communication was introduced in clause 5.1.
The application service provider of \"AS\" is capable monitoring service
aspects of the 3GPP system, e.g. through network exposure of information as
described in TS 22.261 [15] for QoS monitoring or TS 22.115 [16] related to
credit limit policy and control.
### 5.5.3 Service flows
1\. The application service provider of AS has an energy policy related to the
service for the subscription related to UE \"A\". As a result, AS requests to
monitor \'Energy Use\', which is a kind of usage monitoring supported by the
5G system. The monitoring policy has an established \'threshold\' for the 5G
system to notify the AS.
In addition, the AS requests to monitor \'Out of Energy Credit\' events.
2\. The 5G system provides service to UE A according to a \'best effort
communication subject to energy constraints\' policy, where the policy charges
for energy use and also imposes an \'energy credit\' limit, after which the UE
A subscription is \'gated\' (receives no further services from the 5G system
until more \'energy credit is available).
3\. UE A proceeds to use services of the 5G system, especially data
communication. As it does so, the charging system is triggered and generates
records. The 3GPP charging system uses a means to identify how much credit is
used and whether a credit limit is exceeded. The 3GPP charging system in this
use case also uses a means of calculating energy credits on the basis of
charging events. That is, there is a \'rating policy\' used to multiply a
\'charging event\' by an \'energy consumption\' unit.
NOTE 1: The actual amount of energy corresponding to an \'energy unit\' used
in energy credit control is out of scope of this use case. A mobile network
operator can develop a model by which they analyze the total energy needed to
provide services and assign fractions of these to each event triggered in the
charging system.
4\. When the total \'energy units\' exceed the reporting threshold according
to the energy monitoring policy, the 5G system exposes this energy consumption
information to AS.
NOTE 2: Monitoring of energy consumption could be done by other means than
\'energy units\' corresponding to the same units as the credit limit. This
could be useful for the third party. However, only by exposing units that
result in charging or gating enforcement by the network operator can the third
party determine the consequences of their use of services and potentially
change their use of those services, e.g. to communicate sparingly, to
communicate more efficiently (e.g. at times in less energy use is reported per
\'byte\', etc. of communication, as calculated by the third party based on
their own measurements and the monitoring reports of the 5G system.)
5\. When the total \'energy units\' exceed the energy credit limit, this
results in the 5G system exposing this event to the AS. The AS could take some
action to restore energy credit, but this is out of scope of the use case.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The UE A\'s energy consumption can be monitored by AS. The AS can alter their
activity (e.g. communicate less intensely or less frequently) to remain within
their expectation - be it to keep the charging per energy consumption to their
expectation, or to avoid exhausting A\'s energy credit limit.
The MNO is able to create and enforce policies that attach consequences to
energy consumption. This can lead to energy efficient behaviour on the part of
service providers which is both in their interest and the interest of the MNO.
### 5.5.5 Existing feature partly or fully covering use case functionality
The 5G system provides support for credit limits [16, clause 8.2] and for
performance monitoring [15]. There are a number of other events that are
exposed by the 5G system to third parties by the Policy and charging control
framework by the 5G System [17]. These events and their triggers, which are
not detailed in stage 1, allow for usage monitoring to be exposed to a third
party in specific circumstances, e.g. sponsored connectivity. The scenario in
this use case is similar to sponsored connectivity, as the application service
provider is a directly concerned party that seeks to operate successfully in
an efficient manner, as there are charging and even gating consequences as the
UE communicates with AS.
Note that the existing usage monitoring and reporting for sponsored
connectivity is not sufficient to support this use case because these do not
in any way take into account the _energy consequence_ of the service. Only
traffic volume and time-based monitoring are supported today. Other chargeable
events (and therefore significant from an energy perspective) are not captured
by usage monitoring as supported in the 5G system.
### 5.5.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.5.6-1] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G system shall support
subscription policies that define a maximum energy credit limit for services.
[PR.5.5.6-2] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G system shall support
subscription policies that support a means to associate energy consumption
units with charging records.
[PR.5.5.6-3] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G system shall support a means
to expose energy consumption to authorized third parties for services, such
that the energy consumption information clearly identifies the \'approaching\'
enforcement of an energy credit limit.
[PR.5.5.6-4] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G system shall support a
mechanism to perform energy consumption credit limit control for services.
NOTE 1: The result of the credit control is not specified by this requirement.
Examples include gating, increased charging rates, etc.
NOTE 2: Credit control [18] compares against a credit control limit. In this
use case, charging events are assigned a corresponding energy consumption and
this is compared against a policy of energy credit limit. The use case assumes
it is possible that there is a new policy to limit energy consumption allowed.
## 5.6 Use case on supporting service-level energy efficiency analysis for
verticals
### 5.6.1 Description
Company A is located in an industrial campus. There are three internal
applications used by employees for daily work which are based on two network
slices. App A is for internal communication. App B is for production control.
App C is for office automation. A and C are running on one slice, while B
running on a separate slice. The data of these three applications are all
dealt with a locally deployed UPF in this campus. The operator provides the
additional service of exposing energy consumption of locally deployed UPF.
Company A find that energy consumption of the UPF become higher recently, but
cannot find out the cause, hope that 5G system can help to analysis which
users or application are abnormal.
5G system analysis the data volume on this UPF and energy consumption of each
app periodically.
{width="5.436805555555556in" height="2.46875in"}
Figure 5.6-1: Supporting service-level energy efficiency analysis for
verticals
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
5G system support energy consumption analysis based on data volume and energy
consumption of network functions, which can be done by UPF.
### 5.6.3 Service flows
1.Company A finds abnormal energy consumption on the local network entity and
request 5G system to report data usage of app A, B and C in past 3 days.
2.5G system analyses data volume and energy consumption of each app in every 2
hours.
3.5G system report shows that app B has a large data usage during 3am-5am
every day.
4.Company A finds that app B has an abnormal setting which lead to system
update repeatedly and large energy consumption.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
Company A located the abnormal app and machine. They reset the setting and fix
the problem.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Requirements for DV measurement control and Power, Energy and Environmental
(PEE) measurement has been defined to support for 5G NF measurement control.
In SA5 TS 28.554 [12], clause 6.7.3.3 Network Slice Energy Consumption are
introduced.
In SA2, quota for PDU sessions per network slice and user numbers are already
defined.
### 5.6.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.6.6-1] The 5G system shall support energy consumption measurement of
network functions and exposure to authorised 3^rd^ party.
NOTE: The granularity of energy consumption measurement could vary according
to different situations, for example, when several services share a same
network slice, etc. Energy consumption monitoring as described in the
preceding requirement is done by means of averaging or applying a statistical
model. The requirement does not imply that some form of \'real time\'
monitoring is required.
## 5.7 Use case on energy consumption information exposure considering QoS
### 5.7.1 Description
Quality of service (QoS) refer to the network measurement of the overall
performance about a communication service for the user. This network
performance statistic can be e.g, packet loss, data rate, transmission delay,
jitter, etc. When provide the energy as a service or a network performance
criteria, e.g. in clause 5.2, the industrial park customer can be provided
different energy-related SLAs under different energy states of network by
operator, it is reasonable that not only the energy consumption information of
the network or network functions but also the associated network performance
statistic information are collected and exposed together to the customers or
authorized third parties which will help customers to achieve more visible
network service under different energy states of network functions.
The network performance statistic information can be pre-configured by the
customer, authorized third parties or by Operator to be associated with the
network functions energy consumption information. The network performance
statistic information can be packet loss, data rate, transmission delay,
jitter, etc. which can be collected and calculated the average value based on
5QI refer TS28.554.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
The network Operator deploys 5G NPN network in industrial park to provide
energy as a service "GreenPark" for the industry park customer M. The
"GreenPark" service can provide high data rate communication service and
higher reliability service either. The industry customer M has subscribed the
high data rate service with SLA "H". The network Operator also provides a
replaceable SLA "E2H" which can be used during off-peak working time. This
replaceable SLA can reduce energy consumption by changing the energy state of
**a cell, a network element and/or a network function belong to the 5G NPN**
(e.g. to "energy saving" state), and the action can be activated either by
pre-configured policy or by notification from customer M.
### 5.7.3 Service flows
1\. Customer M asks the "GreenPark" Operator to provide the "GreenPark" energy
consumption information and its communication services network performance
statistic information (e.g. the data rate, packet delay and packet loss) per
hour during the working time (e.g. from 9am to 5pm) in the industrial park.
2\. The operator acquires the energy consumption information of the 5G NPN
serving customer M every hour.
3\. At the same time, operator collects the network performance statistic
information (e.g. average data rate, average packet delay and average packet
loss) from the 5G NPN serving customer M every hour.
4\. The operator provides the energy consumption information of the 5G NPN
serving the customer M and the network performance statistic information from
the 5G NPN e.g. the average data rate, average packet delay and average packet
loss during the working time in the industrial park.
5\. According to the pre-configured policy with customer M, the Operator
changes the energy state of the 5G network functions of the 5G NPN serving
customer M for energy saving. The operator continues to acquire the energy
consumption information and collects the network performance statistic
information from the 5G NPN under new energy state and provides this
information together to the customer M.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
Customers M can get the not only the energy consumption information but also
the average data rate, average packet delay and average packet loss from 5G
NPN during the working time and off-peak working time.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The QoS monitoring requirements have been specified in the TS22.261 section
6.23. But it has not any consideration on energy consumption. Some related
requirements are listed below:
_The 5G system shall be able to provide real time QoS parameters and events
information to an authorized application/network entity._
_NOTE 2: The QoS parameters to be monitored and reported can include latency
(e.g. UL/DL or round trip), jitter, and packet loss rate._
_The 5G system shall support different levels of granularity for QoS
monitoring (e.g. per flow or set of flows)_
_The 5G system shall support an update/refresh rate for real time QoS
monitoring with a specified value (e.g., at least one update per second)_
In TR 28.829 [25], there are solutions of collect network information of
energy utility via OA&M.
In TR28.913 [26], section 4.6, the key issue is to add reliability KPI into
the URLLC network slice energy efficiency formula. In this key issue, the
energy efficiency is calculated in the 3GPP domain, the related information is
not exposed together to external.
### 5.7.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.7.6-1] Subject to Operator policy and consent by the customer, the 5G
system shall be able to collect and expose to the authorized third party,
through same update rate e.g. hourly or daily, the energy consumption
information for the network functions serving the customer, together with the
network performance statistic information for the services provided by that
network functions.
NOTE: The network performance statistic information could be the data rate,
packet delay and packet loss, etc.
[PR.5.7.6-2] Subject to Operator policy, the 5G system shall provide means for
the trusted 3^rd^ party, to configure which network performance statistic
information (e.g. the data rate, packet delay and packet loss) for the
communication service provided to the customer, needs to be exposed along with
the energy consumption information of the network functions serving the
customer.
## 5.8 Use case on Application energy efficiency monitoring
### 5.8.1 Description
Next generation mobile communication systems are expected to accommodate more
demanding services, e.g., XR, AI/ML which will require much energy consumption
at the device side as well as the network side. The impact on devices and the
network to support these services will be huge and sometimes unpredictable.
When Operator A is deploying a communication service to meet the application
service requirements (e.g. gaming app requirements), the customer (e.g.
service provider or vertical) needs to make sure that the application service
doesn't consume significant energy for the end users as well as for the data
network side.
Possible high energy consumption or low energy efficiency of the application
service can lead to an application layer adaptation at the service provider's
domain to deal with this. An example of application layer adaptation would be
to trigger the adaptation of the service level due to high expected energy
consumption for the given application in a certain service area (e.g. edge
service area).
The Application service Energy Efficiency (AEE) can be monitored and predicted
at the 5GS and can be exposed as a monitoring event to the Service Provider to
allow an application layer action. Such monitoring may relate to whether the
AEE is sustainable for a given service area and time of the day, or can be
provided when the energy consumption for the application service is reaching
the upper bound (upper bound can be set based on the SLA). The monitoring
result can be exposed either periodically or event-based (e.g. when upper
threshold is reached as defined in Energy-related KPIs) subject to the
application service provider's requirement (based on the SLA).
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
The service provider X wants to deploy an application service (e.g., gaming
service) in a given service area and for a target number of users, where the
service is expected to be communicated via 5G network "N" of the 5GS of
operator A. The application service may have different service levels, which
may be different KPIs associated with the service, and can correspond e.g., to
different levels of automation or video quality targets.
The service provider X subscribes to the operator A for the "App EnergyEff
Moni" feature with the requested service level(s) to monitor whether the
application service is energy-efficient when using 5G system of operator A for
the given service level(s).
The operator A and service provider X have agreed on certain energy efficiency
target for the application service and optionally for given service levels.
### 5.8.3 Service flows
1\. Service provider X asks the "App EnergyEff Moni" of Operator A to provide
the predicted application service energy efficiency information for App
Service #1 and one or more service modes for a given service area and time of
the day.
2\. The 5G system of operator A acquires the energy consumption information of
related 5G system functions serving the App Service #1 of service provider X.
Such information can be derived per application service and can include
statistical data related to the application service energy consumption within
a given service area.
Then, the 5G system of operator A calculates or predicts the AEE for the
application service #1 and optionally the service mode X, based on the
acquired energy consumption information.
3\. Operator A exposes the calculated or predicted AEE for the application
service #1 (and optionally the service mode X) to the Service Provider X.
4\. Service Provider X configures or adapts the application service parameters
based on the Operator A feedback. Such adaptation of the application service
parameters can be for instance the application server re-location to an edge
data network to enhance the energy efficiency for the application.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
Service provider X can get the energy related statistics or predictions for
the application service #1, independently from NG-RAN deployment scenarios,
and this can help either adapting the application service parameters (e.g.
service levels, application relocation) or configuring the application service
in an energy-efficient manner.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
EE TS 28.310 [6] specifies the work in 3GPP related to energy efficiency. It
specifies use cases relating to energy efficiency such as switching off edges
UPFs for low-latency communication in certain geographical areas when no user
is actively using them. Based on the scenarios the document presents
requirements to be considered to support energy efficiency. The main
requirements among them are requirements related to Power, Energy and
Environmental measurements as well as requirements concerning energy saving.
This use case uses the existing 3GPP features as input for the application-
level energy efficiency prediction, without providing an overlapping
capability. In particular, the energy monitoring and optimization tasks in OAM
cannot consider per application / session energy monitoring/predictions, and
are limited to the energy calculation and monitoring per managed element (e.g.
NG-RAN, UPF, slice...).
### 5.8.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.8.6-1] Based on operator policy and service agreement between the
operator and application service provider, the 5G system shall be able to
derive energy efficiency information for one or more application services, and
expose energy efficiency information notifications to the application service
provider.
NOTE: The granularity of energy efficiency information notifications could
vary according to different situations, for example, application service
energy consumption can be acquired based on means of averaging or applying a
statistical model for the energy consumed by the application sessions within
the application service in the service area, etc.
[PR.5.8.6-2] Based on operator policy and service agreement between the
operator and application service provider, the 5G system shall be able to
provide means to predict the energy efficiency per application service, and
expose the predicted energy efficiency information to the application service
provider.
[PR.5.8.6-3] Based on operator policy and service agreement between the
operator and application service provider, the 5G system shall enable the
application service provider to subscribe, update, and unsubscribe for energy
efficiency information notifications.
## 5.9 Use case on renewable energy consumption information exposure
### 5.9.1 Description
According to a recent GSMA report [20], all major operators have set up
targets to reduce carbon intensity from 50% to 70% in next couple of years
with the ultimate goal of achieving net-zero emissions. Though 5G NR offers
improved energy-efficiency, new 5G use cases and the wider adoption of 5G NR
will result in an increased number of sites and antennas, which may offset
these gains if left unmitigated.
To address this, cut down on emissions and increase network efficiency,
operators have an interest in powering their network using renewable energy
sources to reduce emissions and enhance network efficiency. It is also
important for operators to understand and track the proportion of energy
consumed in their networks that is sourced from renewable sources, which can
be made available to customers and authorized third parties.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
The network operator R has deployed a 5G network \"N\" and is promoting its
services as \"Green Energy\". This is due to the fact that 60% (this could be
any % number, 60% is just provided as an example) of the energy required for
network operations is sourced from renewable resources. The government is
providing tax credits to companies using renewable energy, and R provides its
customers with information about the proportion of renewable energy consumed
and renewable energy certificates (RECs) [21], if applicable.
Company X, which places a high value on environmental sustainability, has
subscribed to R's Green Energy services requesting for minimum ratio of
renewable energy used for the communication service. R provides X with a
dedicated slice (or NPN) guaranteeing this minimum ratio. R provides periodic
reporting information regarding the percentage of renewable energy consumed.
As a result, X is eligible to receive tax credits from the government for its
purchase of renewable energy.
### 5.9.3 Service flows
1\. Customer X subscribes to the 'Green Energy' service for its warehouse,
provided by operator R.
2\. The warehouse is served by a limited "X" number of base stations and the
core network could be hosted in a central cloud location that is powered by
renewable energy.
3\. Operator R provides a dedicated network slice that utilizes a minimum 80%
renewable energy for customer X's NPN at their warehouse. The 5G system will
not actively monitor the dedicated resources for energy consumption.
4\. Operator R periodically calculates statistics about the ratio of renewable
energy consumption of the network elements used within the customer X's
dedicated slice (or NPN).
5\. Customer X receives periodic report every month regarding the ratio of
renewable energy consumption from Operator R.
6\. Operator R supplies customer X with the requested information.
7\. Customer X can advertise that it is committed to a "Green Energy" and is
using 80% renewable energy for the dedicated communications service at its
warehouse. Additionally, Customer X can also claim tax credits from the
government.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
Customer X can get a dedicated network slice or NPN utilizing a minimum ratio
of renewable energy used by the network serving its warehouse.
Customer X receives a periodic report on the ratio of renewable energy used by
the network serving its warehouse.
### 5.9.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.9.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.9.6-1] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G system shall enable the
operation of a dedicated network above a minimum ratio of renewable energy as
requested by an authorized 3rd party.
NOTE 1: This requirement does not imply that the 5G system will actively
monitor the dedicated resources.
[PR.5.9.6-2] Subject to operator's policy, the 5G system shall be able to
provide to a 3^rd^ party the reporting of the ratio of renewable energy used
to provide dedicated communication service to the 3^rd^ party on periodic
basis.
NOTE 2: The reporting period could be set, e.g., on monthly or yearly basis.
## 5.10 Use case on supporting carbon-aware communication service
### 5.10.1 Description
Global warming caused by excessive emissions of GHG (Green House Gas, e.g.,
carbon dioxide) due to human activity (e.g., burning fossil fuels for
electricity generation) is the main driver to climate change, which poses a
significant threat to society and the environment. To achieve carbon
neutrality, it is important to reduce the GHG incl. carbon emissions in the
first place rather than offset them later. Recent advancements in
communication capabilities of networks (e.g., 5GS) enables a wide range of
services (e.g., AR/XR). However, the rising demand for communication services
in turn triggers a rising demand for energy and a greater risk of an even
higher resulting GHG footprint. 3GPP plays a crucial role in the ICT sector to
enable the deployment of these technologies on a global scale and therefore
must also play a central role in enabling a sustainable future.
The adoption of alternative sustainable sources of energy incl. renewable
energy (e.g., solar, wind, hydropower, geothermy) and nuclear power could help
offset the GHG footprint of energy generation based on fossil fuels, even
though their corresponding environmental impact also need to be considered.
From an ICT standpoint and, 3GPP system in particular, the energy used by
network nodes can be from varied energy with different related levels of
environmental impact incl. GHG emissions. Due to the highly variable and
unpredictable nature of renewable energy sources (Mother Nature's dictate),
the average GHG emissions per consumed energy unit varies substantially by
time and location. Hence, it is critical to take temporal and spatial
dimensions of energy sources into account to provide communication services
not only for a better traceability of the energy sources used but in turn for
enabling a more sustainable energy use.
In the following use case, telecom operator provides the estimation of carbon
emissions for the services.
Note that ADEME, the French Agency for Ecological Transition, has introduced a
methodological standard for the environmental assessment of digital services.
[24] According to this standard, "internet service providers and telecoms
operators (physical and virtual) for fixed and mobile networks must inform
their subscribers of the amount of data consumed and indicate the equivalent
in greenhouse gas emissions." The objective is to communicate on a monthly
bill the carbon impact of a subscriber using the mobile network of operator 1
in \ with a consumption of \ GB is: \ g CO2 eq.
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
Eva uses her XR device during the commute. This XR device receives 5G service
from the mobile network operator A.
The 5G system operated by operator A is powered by both of renewable energy
(e.g., solar energy) and non-renewable energy (e.g., coal).
Carbon intensity, defined as the quantity of CO~2~ equivalent emission per
unit of final energy consumption for an operational period of use (e.g.,
gCO~2~ per kW·h), is used to estimate the amount of carbon emissions incurred
by the 5G system operations. Such carbon intensity information can be
collected from a third party.
The operator A offers a "carbon-aware communication service" which provides
the estimated carbon emissions of communication services. The estimation is
based on the subscriber's data volume, the operator's energy consumption and
the carbon intensity of network. The estimated carbon emissions information is
exposed to the service provider B. Users can acquire the estimated carbon
emissions from the service provider B.
Eva loves our planet, so she prefers to know how her requested services
produce carbon emissions.
### 5.10.3 Service flows
  1. Eva subscribes the communication service provided by operator A.
  2. During the commute between the home and the workplace, Eva wears her XR device and enjoys the immersive entertainment via 5G system operated by operator A.
  3. During the service time, the 5G system incurs carbon emissions due to the energy consumption.
  4. The operator A collects the carbon intensity information of energy consumption from an authorized third party.
  5. By \"carbon-aware communication service", the operator A calculates the estimated carbon emissions for the service and exposes the estimated carbon emissions result to the service provider B.
  6. From the service provider B, Eva can know the estimation of carbon emissions for her requested service from the operator A.
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
Eva can enjoy low-carbon XR entertainment with the awareness of its
environmental impacts.
### 5.10.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.10.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.10.6-1] Subject to user consent, operator policy and regulatory
requirements, the 5G system shall be able to provide a mechanism to expose to
the authorized third parties the energy efficiency information (e.g.,
including the estimated carbon emissions) related to a subscriber based on the
subscriber's data volume over a specific period of time, the operator's energy
consumption, and the carbon intensity of operator's network.
NOTE 1: The carbon intensity of operator's network can be provided by an
authorized third party and can vary based on locations.
NOTE 2: The granularity of reporting (e.g., per month) is not discussed in
this study.
## 5.11 Use case on Temporarily pooling communication services over a
geographical area for energy saving
### 5.11.1 Description
One of the strategies to save energy within mobile networks is to shut down
some RAN nodes at times of low usage. Eventually only one communication
service would be used. Thus, there is a potential for further gain to be
exploited by pooling the communication service on a local basis among
operators at times of low usage.
Agreements could be put in place between operators so that in the low load
periods (e.g., night time) only one of multiple mobile networks may be active
in an area and will provide communication service to the subscribers of all
networks, whereas the other networks can apply cell shutdown of their own
infrastructure to obtain network energy savings.
Alternatively, based on risks of power outage nationwide/regionwide,
regulators could ask operators to "optimize" their coverage e.g., shutdown
some nodes in overlapping coverage areas during energy peak hours and/or in
specific geographical areas, whilst still guaranteeing minimum
coverage/service (in particular emergency calls).
This can also apply between NPN operators and/or with PLMN operators.
### 5.11.2 Pre-conditions
\- OP1 and OP2 are two PLMN operators.
\- There is an overlap coverage between OP1 and OP2, which both provide mobile
communication services to their subscribers on various bands.
\- There are mutual agreements between OP1 and OP2 allowing them to provide
communication services to the subscribers of the other network, in case it is
not active in an area for low load. They define e.g. on a daily basis or
specific locations a time when the communication service pooling starts and
ends, and can include other parameters like preferred bands etc.
\- OP3 operates an NPN dedicated to a factory around its campus, which is
mainly used for IIoT purposes, but also for employees.
\- There is a business agreement between the OP1 and OP3, i.e. OP3 users can
be served by OP1 network (but not the other way around) based on certain
conditions. At night, OP3 shuts down its network when the machines are off, as
the little remaining traffic is generated by some employees staying late or
overnight. The agreement requests OP1 to provide access to OP3 UEs during the
night hours for this type of traffic.
\- UE 1 belongs to OP1. UE 2 belongs to OP2. UE 3 belongs to OP3.
### 5.11.3 Service flows
{width="6.515489938757655in" height="1.2938210848643918in"}
Figure 5.11-1: Basic service scenario of communication service pooling for
energy saving
1) At 8PM, OP3 ("beneficiary" network) starts informing its currently served
UEs within a specific area that it will shut down its network and request them
to move to OP1 ("donor" network). It can also indicate the time when it will
resume connectivity (e.g. 8AM).
2) OP1 accepts OP3's UEs onto its network based on "EE-based communication
service pooling" reason (it wouldn't have without agreement).
3) Once OP3 detects no UE is served anymore on its network, it shuts down its
network
4) On the next morning at 8AM, OP3 powers up its network again in that area
5) OP3 UEs return to OP3
6) OP1 stop serving OP3 UEs.
Furthermore, as this is an industrial campus area, traffic for OP2 is low this
Saturday (only OP3 factory is working). Based on its EE KPIs in that area and
according to the agreement with OP1, OP2 decides to shut down its cells until
Monday morning 6AM with the same mechanism. OP1 starts serving OP2 UEs under
its own network during this time. In this case the decision is dynamic and not
only based on fixed times, but on other conditions, within the agreed
conditions between operators (e.g., anytime during weekends).
### 5.11.4 Post-conditions
After OP2 and OP3 have shut down their networks, their subscribers can still
be served via OP1.
OP2 subscribers under "EE-based communication service pooling" are not charged
differently when served by OP1 network, with respect to when they are under
OP2 network coverage. OP2 may be charged by OP1 as per their company
agreement, e.g. based on a flat cost, per subscriber, data volume, duration
etc.
OP3 may also be charged by OP1 as per their company agreement.
### 5.11.5 Existing feature partly or fully covering use case functionality
Network sharing is an existing technique used to save resources across
operators (see TS 22.261, cl 6.21), which could be leveraged for
"communication service pooling" for energy saving purposes.
However, current network sharing agreements are mainly on a permanent basis
with little flexibility in time and space. Indirect network sharing is a
promising technique that can be considered for this use case.
Minimization of Service Interruption (MINT) as defined in TS 22.261, cl 6.31
in another existing feature, which has specified that "_UEs can obtain service
in the event of a disaster, if there are PLMN operators prepared to offer
service. The minimization of service interruption is constrained to a
particular time and place. To reduce the impact to the 5G System and EPS of
supporting Disaster Roaming, the potential congestion resulting from an influx
or outflux of Disaster Inbound Roamers is taken into account._ ". Requirements
exist, e.g., "_to provide means to enable a UE to access PLMNs in a forbidden
PLMN list if a Disaster condition applies and no other PLMN is available
except for PLMNs in the forbidden PLMN list_ ".
Disaster roaming is further specified in clauses 4.4.3.3.1 and 3.10 of TS
23.122.
However, this use case is not related to disaster condition. Furthermore,
differently from disaster roaming, there may be no detection of failure of
home PLMN by the UE, and the pooling (i.e., roaming) duration may be known in
advance.
### 5.11.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.11.6-1] Subject to regulatory requirements and operators' policies, the
5G system shall support temporary pooling of communication services of
multiple operators on a single operator within a geographical area.
NOTE 1: policies may include predefined times/locations, energy
consumption/efficiency thresholds, preferred bands etc.
[PR.5.11.6-2] Subject to regulatory requirements and operators' policies, the
5G system shall enable an operator providing communication service pooling to
serve UEs of other operators.
[PR.5.11.6-3] Subject to operators' policies, the 5G system shall enable a UE
to display the subscriber's home operator network name during communication
service pooling, even when this UE is served by another operator.
[PR.5.11.6-4] The 5G system shall be able to support collection of charging
information associated with a UE served using communication service pooling.
## 5.12 Use case on supporting communication service with best-effort
renewable energy consumption
### 5.12.1 Description
Climate change caused by excessive emissions of GHG (Green House Gas, e.g.,
carbon dioxide) due to human activity (e.g., burning fossil fuels for
electricity generation) is the main driver to climate change, which poses a
significant threat to society and the environment. Toward the goal of carbon
neutrality, it is important to reduce the GHG incl. carbon emissions in the
first place rather than offset them later. Recent advancements in cellular
technologies (e.g., 5GS) that enable a wide range of applications has led to
an explosive growth of service demands in networks. ICT sector is expected to
account for 20% of the global energy consumption by 2040. 3GPP plays a crucial
role in the ICT sector to enable the deployment of these technologies on a
global scale and therefore must also play a central role in enabling a
sustainable future.
To reduce the carbon footprint, telecom operators are utilizing more renewable
energy (e.g., solar, wind) that does not release carbon dioxide when producing
electricity. The energy used by network can be from varied energy with
different related levels of environmental impact incl. GHG emissions. Due to
the highly variable and unpredictable nature of renewable energy sources, the
supply of renewable energy varies substantially by time and location.
In the following use case, telecom operator provides communication service
considering the supply of renewable energy, in which operator utilizes
renewable energy sources in a best-effort manner while ensuring the QoS levels
of services to be met.
### 5.12.2 Pre-conditions
Eva has video calls with her family during the commute. She receives 5G
service from the mobile network operator A.
The 5G system operated by operator A is powered by both of renewable energy
(e.g., solar energy) and non-renewable energy (e.g., coal). The ratio of
renewable energy is determined as the ratio of the power that is used from
renewable energy sources as a percentage of total power usage in a given time
unit. Calculation of ratio of renewable energy is done by means of averaging
or applying a statistical model.
The operator A offers a "green communication service option" for which the
supply of renewable energy is additionally considered during the provision of
the services to users. If the green communication service option is determined
to be enabled by the operator A, the operator A utilizes renewable energy
sources in a best-effort manner while ensuring the QoS levels of services
still be met.
The operator A monitors the supply of renewables in 5GS and the network
operates on different ratios of renewable energy over time. The operator may
also report to user the statistics of ratio of renewable energy for providing
the requested communication service.
Eva loves our planet, so she subscribes the green communication service option
which utilize as much renewable energy as possible without sacrificing the
quality of serve for her video calls.
NOTE: This green service ensures that QoS level criteria continues to be met
(i.e., there is no trade-off between energy efficiency and service quality)
since the usage of renewable energy is just a best effort attempt.
### 5.12.3 Service flows
  1. During the commute, Eva has video calls with her family via the 5G system operated by operator A.
  2. Eva subscribes the green communication service option provided by operator A, which ensures the QoS level of service to be met and utilize renewable energy sources in a best-effort manner.
  3. The operator A monitors the supply of renewables for its 5G system, which varies substantially by time and/or location due to the highly variable and unpredictable nature of renewable energy sources.
  4. During early morning, the operator A is able to provide communication service to Eva with 40% of ratio of renewable energy since solar power is plentiful and most of users don't use services.
  5. During the busy evening, many users request communication services at the same time, so the operator A is only able to provide communication service to Eva with 20% of ratio of renewable energy since the required energy consumption for network operation becomes more and the solar energy supply is decreasing.
  6. Periodically, the operator reports to Eva the ratio of renewable energy for providing her communication service.
  7. By \"green communication service option" provided by operator A, the service requested by Eva use renewables as much as possible and Eva is still satisfied with the quality of video calls.
### 5.12.4 Post-conditions
Eva can enjoy video calls with the satisfied quality of service while reducing
her carbon footprint.
### 5.12.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.12.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.12.6-1] Subject to user consent and operator's policy, the 5G system
shall be able to expose to a subscriber the ratio of renewable energy used for
the subscriber's dedicated communication service on periodic basis.
[PR.5.12.6-2] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information
associated with a subscribed service based on the ratio of renewable energy
used for providing the service.
NOTE: Calculation of ratio of renewable energy as described in the preceding
requirements is done by means of averaging or applying a statistical model.
The requirements do not imply that some form of \'real time\' monitoring is
required.
## 5.13 Use case on energy as service criteria for 5G environment adaptation
### 5.13.1 Description
It is becoming more important and challenging for operators and cloud/data
service providers to reduce carbon emissions while providing for the best-in-
class with optimal service plans to end-users. Many operators including
cloud/data service providers run their services on top of multiple virtualized
infrastructure environments with different hardware/software having various
energy consumptions.
Often, operators are unaware of their own individual network functions' power
consumption or requirements, and how they behave with 5GS procedures for end-
to-end service quality. Thus, operators should be able to measure and control
their network functions with energy-based requirements.
In addition, individual network functions should be able to process, register,
discover, select, load (re)balance and overload-control based on their current
or predicted energy consumption. This would allow operators to fully control
and optimize energy consumption internally, and/or based on various service
plans for verticals and end-users. For example, using a 'dynamic energy saving
plan' in mind, during a non-busy hour, the operator should be able to provide
a service with a limited number of features, smaller capacity and/or relaxed
SLA.
{width="5.90625in" height="2.3465277777777778in"}
Figure 5.13-1: energy as service criteria for 5G environment adaptation
### 5.13.2 Pre-conditions
5G system supports individual network functions monitoring of energy
consumption.
It also supports for registration, discovery, selection, load-(re)balance and
overload-control of individual network functions based on their energy
consumption.
### 5.13.3 Service flows
1\. David and John are subscribed to operator A with different service plans.
2\. During operator's A 5G service time over the 24 hours, depending on the
number of subscribers and various service plans, the individual or groups of
network functions are adapted, migrated and/or scaled based on their energy-
efficiency requirements and plans.
3\. Operator A has the ability to set their individual network functions to
operate (e.g., for UE registration, NF selection, etc.) based on their current
or predicted energy consumption.
4\. By regularly measuring energy consumption of the individual network
functions, operator A has the ability to fully optimize their energy savings
whilst also maintaining a high service quality along with the time-of-the day.
Based on how their network functions behave with energy-saving characteristics
and controls, they can provide means to coordinate the operation of individual
network functions to target global optimization of energy consumption within
the 5G network.
### 5.13.4 Post-conditions
David is satisfied and enjoys his lower pricing plan with the awareness of
carbon emission.
Operator A is also satisfied because it has the ability to manage (e.g., load
balance) its network functions and adapt their procedures based on energy-
saving characteristics.
### 5.13.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.13.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.13.6.1] Subject to operator policy and regulatory requirements, the 5G
system shall be able to provide a mechanism for one or more network functions
to operate based on energy consumption to meet various end-user's service
requirements.
[PR.5.13.6.2] Subject to operator policy and regulatory requirements, the 5G
system shall be able to provide means to coordinate the operation of
individual network functions to target optimization of energy consumption
within the 5G network.
## 5.14 Use case on reducing GHG footprint of Application Services
### 5.14.1 Description
Global warming caused by excessive emissions of GHG (e.g., carbon dioxide) due
to human activity (e.g., burning fossil fuels for electricity generation) is
the main driver to climate change, which poses a significant threat to society
and the environment. To achieve carbon neutrality, it is important to reduce
the GHG incl. carbon emissions in the first place rather than offset them
later. Recent advancements in communication and computing capabilities of
networks (e.g., 5GS, cloud services) enables offloading tasks to networked and
distributed computing nodes (e.g., edge computing, cloud computing) for a wide
range of services. However, the rising demand for such services in turn
triggers a rising demand for energy and a greater risk of an even higher
resulting GHG footprint. 3GPP plays a crucial role in the ICT sector to enable
the deployment of these technologies on a global scale and therefore must also
play a central role in enabling a sustainable future.
The adoption of alternative sustainable sources of energy incl. renewable
energy (e.g., solar, wind, hydropower, geothermy) could help offset the GHG
footprint of energy generation based on fossil fuels, even though their
corresponding environmental impact also need to be considered. From an ICT
standpoint and, 3GPP system in particular, the energy used by computing nodes
in networks can be from varied energy with different related levels of
environmental impact incl. GHG emissions. Due to the highly variable and
unpredictable nature of renewable energy sources, the supply of renewable
energy varies substantially by time and location. Hence, it is critical to
take temporal and spatial dimensions of energy sources into account to
accomplish compute tasks not only for a better traceability of the energy
sources used but in turn for enabling a more sustainable energy use to achieve
those tasks.
Up until now usually a system is designed to finish compute tasks as soon as
possible (high throughput) and indicate results to the requester as soon as
possible (low latency). However, some compute tasks have flexibility in both
when and where they are executed, i.e., such type of workload could be
executed in any computing node and tolerate some delays if the workload gets
completed within certain given deadline. For example, some of AI/ML training,
simulation, and video processing tasks might not require a quick response,
which would allow flexibility to delay the execution of the related workloads
in a computing node until, e.g., the utilized energy is deemed satisfactory in
terms of GHG emissions. Such flexibility further allows to route workloads to
a computing node using the (most) sustainable energy sources at that moment.
As part of service, 3GPP system is able to execute compute tasks in a
sustainable way by leveraging such flexibility.
In addition, consuming the renewable energy immediately when they are
available, instead of storing them for the future use (e.g., in a big battery
system), can also bring some economic benefits to operators or service
providers, because this can reduce the cost and investment for scaling the
energy storage system needed by the overall system.
In the following use case, by considering the temporal and spatial information
of sustainable energy source and availability, the possibility of reduction of
the GHG footprint for application services is explored.
### 5.14.2 Pre-conditions
The operator A provides the computing services through the computing nodes
owned by itself or other third-party companies via certain Service Level
Agreement (SLA), which execute the compute tasks (e.g., offloaded by users).
Each computing node is powered by renewable energy (e.g., solar energy), non-
renewable energy (e.g., coal) or both. The highly variable nature of renewable
energy sources makes the resulting GHG emissions by each computing node varies
considerably by time and location. The high cost of large-scale energy storage
system (e.g., battery system) also brings the incentive to the operator to
consume the renewable energy immediately when it is produced (e.g., to reduce
the cost for building the needed battery system). The ratio of renewable
energy measures the ratio of the power that is used from renewable energy
sources as a percentage of total power usage in a given time unit.
NOTE: Computing node is the resource to execute compute tasks belong to
service provider, e.g., computing node can be a Server node hosted by an Edge
Computing Service Provider (ECSP) based on PLMN operator service agreement.
Alternatively, ECSP and the PLMN operator can be part of the same
organization.
Eva is an AI engineer who needs to train some AI/ML models for her research
work. Eva has collected all the needed data (e.g., the images of cats and
dogs) during the weekdays. To train this model, the required dataset must be
sent to a computing node, and the node will train the specified model (e.g., a
dog/cat classifier) over this dataset. Eva needs to get the training result at
the beginning of workday next week. Her compute tasks for AI/ML model training
are offloaded to the system owned by the operator A for execution.
The operator A offers a "green compute and communication service" which can
decide when and where the offloaded tasks are computed to reduce the overall
GHG footprint of the system. This green compute and communication service
requires tolerated deadline of compute task specified by the user, i.e., the
quality of experience is not degraded as long as the compute task is finished
within the given deadline. Eva loves our planet, so she is using this service
for reducing the GHG footprint of her research work.
### 5.14.3 Service flows
  1. Eva subscribes the green compute and communication service to save our planet.
  2. Eva indicates to the operator A that the compute task needs to be finished before the next workday (8:00 AM on Monday).
  3. Eva offloads the compute task of AI/ML model training to the system owned by the operator A before she left the office (7:00 PM on Friday) in New York.
  4. In the operator A's system, the \"computing node NY\" (i.e., the computing farm located in New York) is the closest computing resource to the Eva's workplace. Traditionally the \"computing node NY\" is selected to execute Eva's task immediately; however, there is no solar power in New York at this moment (i.e., the ratio of renewable energy is low).
  5. If Eva's AI/ML model is trained by the \"computing node NY\", it will result in some GHG emissions to the air which is not friendly to the environment.
  6. Fortunately, the \"green compute and communication service\" has two alternative options for the execution of Eva's compute task based on the ratio of renewable energy reported by the \"computing node NY\" and another node \"computing node LA\" located in Los Angeles:
     * [Option 1: Greener Location] The \"computing node LA\" located in Los Angeles (is on 4:00 PM) having abundant solar energy at that moment (i.e., the ratio of renewable energy is high). The dataset can be sent to \"computing node LA\" and the results are sent back to Eva after the completion. Since the execution will not last over one day, the system can adopt this option even if it requires more time for the communications.
     * [Option 2: Greener Time] The \"computing node NY\" will have plentiful solar energy during the period of 9:00 AM -- 4:00 PM every day. The training executed during the daytime of the weekend will not generate any GHG emissions. Since the task can be finished before the next workday, the system can adopt this option to schedule the training to be executed during the weekend.
> In addition, by consuming the renewable energy immediately when it is
> produced, the operator can reduce the scale of its renewable energy storage
> system and reduce the overall cost.
  1. By adopting the either option provided by \"green compute and communication\" service, the execution of AI model training requested by Eva can be nearly carbon-free and Eva still obtains the desired training result before the deadline.
### 5.14.4 Post-conditions
Eva's AI/ML model training is finished before the targeted deadline while
protecting our beautiful planet.
Operator A reduces the scale of its renewable energy storage system and reduce
the overall cost.
### 5.14.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.14.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.14.6-1] Subject to operator's policy and agreement between an
application service provider and operator, the 5G system shall support a
mechanism for the application service provider (including edge computing
service provider) to provide to the 5G system the current or predicted ratio
of renewable energy used for providing application services on periodic basis.
[PR.5.14.6-2] Subject to user consent and operator policy, the 5G system shall
provide a mechanism to support the selection of an application server
(including edge application server) based on the ratio of renewable energy for
providing application services.
NOTE: An application server (including edge application server) can be a
server node hosted by an Edge Computing Service Provider (ECSP) based on PLMN
operator service agreement. Alternatively, ECSP and the PLMN operator can be
part of the same organization.
## 5.15 Use case on supporting communication service with carbon-aware service
requirements
### 5.15.1 Description
Climate change caused by excessive emissions of GHG (Green House Gas, e.g.,
carbon dioxide) due to human activity (e.g., burning fossil fuels for
electricity generation) is the main driver to climate change, which poses a
significant threat to society and the environment. Toward the goal of carbon
neutrality, it is important to reduce the GHG incl. carbon emissions in the
first place rather than offset them later. Recent advancements in cellular
technologies (e.g., 5GS) that enable a wide range of applications has led to
an explosive growth of service demands in networks. ICT sector is expected to
account for 20% of the global energy consumption by 2040. 3GPP plays a crucial
role in the ICT sector to enable the deployment of these technologies on a
global scale and therefore must also play a central role in enabling a
sustainable future.
One key approach for telecom operators to reduce their carbon footprint is
utilizing more renewable energy (e.g., solar, wind) that does not release
carbon dioxide when producing electricity. The energy used by network can be
from varied energy with different related levels of environmental impact incl.
GHG emissions. Due to the highly variable and unpredictable nature of
renewable energy sources, the supply of renewable energy varies substantially
by time and location.
In the following use case, telecom operator provides communication service
with carbon-aware requirements considering the ratio of renewable energy and
the subscriber's preferences.
### 5.15.2 Pre-conditions
Eva watches videos during the commute. She receives 5G service from the mobile
network operator A.
The 5G system operated by operator A is powered by both of renewable energy
(e.g., solar energy) and non-renewable energy (e.g., coal). The ratio of
renewable energy measures the ratio of the power that is used from renewable
energy sources as a percentage of total power usage in a given time unit.
Calculation of ratio of renewable energy is done by means of averaging or
applying a statistical model.
The operator A offers a "green communication service option", in which the
service has adaptable QoS levels considering the ratio of renewable energy and
the subscriber's preferences, e.g., the operator A can provide a communication
service with bit rate of 30Mbps and low ratio of renewable energy, which can
be adapted to the service with bit rate is 10Mbps when high ratio of renewable
energy is more desirable to the subscriber.
The operator A monitors the supply of renewables for its 5G system and adjust
the operation of communication services. Following the pre-agreed QoS
requirements with a subscriber, the operator A adjusts the communication
services based on the supply of renewable energy.
Eva loves our planet, so she subscribes the optional green communication
service. Therefore, the operator can determine to use a higher latency but
greener network function entities (e.g., located in a faraway but powered by
80%+ renewable energy large scale computing/communication center) to provide
services to Eva.
> NOTE: This green service ensures that QoS level criteria continues to be met
> (i.e., there is no trade-off between energy efficiency and service quality)
> since all the adapted QoS levels are satisfied by the subscriber based on
> the pre-agreement.
### 5.15.3 Service flows
  1. During the commute between the home and the workplace, Eva watches videos via 5GS operated by operator A.
  2. Eva subscribes the green communication service option provided by operator A. Following the pre-agreed QoS requirements with Eva, the operator A adjusts the communication services based on the supply of renewable energy. That is, Eva is satisfied with all the adapted QoS levels based on this agreement when watching videos.
  3. The operator A monitors the supply of renewables for its 5GS, i.e., the ratio of renewable energy (i.e., the ratio of the power that is used from renewable energy sources as a percentage of total power usage).
  4. During the daytime, since solar power of a remote computing/communication center is plentiful, Eva gets video streaming with bit rate of 10Mbps, and the service provided by operator A has 40% for the ratio of renewable energy.
  5. During the busy evening time, since the supply of solar power is decreasing, Eva gets video streaming with bit rate of 25Mbps, and the service provided by operator A has 10% for the ratio of renewable energy.
  6. By \"green communication service option" provided by operator A, the service requested by Eva use renewable as much as possible and Eva is still satisfied with the video content.
### 5.15.4 Post-conditions
Eva can enjoy communication service with the satisfied quality of service
while protecting our beautiful planet.
### 5.15.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.15.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.15.6-1] Subject to user consent and operator policy, the 5G system shall
be able to provide means to adapt a communication service to fulfil the
subscriber's preference concerning the ratio of renewable energy used for
providing the service.
NOTE: Calculation of ratio of renewable energy as described in the preceding
requirement is done by means of averaging or applying a statistical model. The
requirement does not imply that some form of \'real time\' monitoring is
required.
# 6 Consolidated potential requirements
## 6.1 Energy consumption as service criteria
This subclause contains the requirements related to energy consumption as
service criteria and supporting energy credit limit for specific service.
Table 6.1-1 -- Consolidated requirements on energy consumption as service
criteria
+-----------+-----------------+----------------+-----------------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===========+=================+================+=================+ | CPR 6.1-1 | Subject to | P.R 5.5.6-1 | Definition of | | | operator's | | subscription is | | | policy, the 5G | | in TS 21905 | | | system shall | | | | | support | | **maximum | | | subscription | | energy credit | | | policies that | | limit:** a | | | define a | | policy | | | maximum energy | | establishing an | | | credit limit | | upper bound on | | | for services | | the quantity of | | | for services | | energy used by | | | without QoS | | the 5G system | | | criteria. | | to provide | | | | | services | | | NOTE 1: The | | provided to a | | | definition of | | specific | | | subscription is | | sub | | | in TS 21.905. | | scriber.(clause | | | | | 3.1) | +-----------+-----------------+----------------+-----------------+ | CPR 6.1-2 | Subject to | P.R 5.5.6-2 | Charging aspect | | | operator's | | | | | policy, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | support a means | | | | | to associate | | | | | energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | with charging | | | | | information | | | | | based on | | | | | subscription | | | | | policies for | | | | | services | | | | | without QoS | | | | | criteria. | | | +-----------+-----------------+----------------+-----------------+ | CPR 6.1-3 | Subject to | P.R 5.5.6-4 | | | | operator's | | | | | policy, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | support a | | | | | mechanism to | | | | | perform energy | | | | | credit limit | | | | | control for | | | | | services | | | | | without QoS | | | | | criteria. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | result of the | | | | | credit control | | | | | is not | | | | | specified by | | | | | this | | | | | requirement. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Credit | | | | | control [18] | | | | | compares | | | | | against a | | | | | credit control | | | | | limit. It is | | | | | assumed | | | | | charging events | | | | | are assigned a | | | | | corresponding | | | | | energy | | | | | consumption and | | | | | this is | | | | | compared | | | | | against a | | | | | policy of | | | | | energy credit | | | | | limit. It is | | | | | assumed there | | | | | can be a new | | | | | policy to limit | | | | | energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | allowed. | | | +-----------+-----------------+----------------+-----------------+ | CPR 6.1-4 | Subject to | PR 5.1.6-1, | | | | operator's | | | | | policy, the 5G | PR 5.1.6-2 | | | | system shall | | | | | support a means | | | | | to define and | | | | | enforce | | | | | subscription | | | | | policies that | | | | | define a | | | | | maximum energy | | | | | consumption for | | | | | services | | | | | without QoS | | | | | criteria. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | granularity of | | | | | the | | | | | subscription | | | | | policies can | | | | | either apply to | | | | | the subscriber | | | | | (all services), | | | | | or to | | | | | particular | | | | | services. | | | +-----------+-----------------+----------------+-----------------+ | CPR 6.1-6 | The 5G system | PR.5.12.6-1 | | | | shall provide a | | | | | mechanism to | PR.5.12.6-2 | | | | include the | | | | | ratio of | | | | | renewable | | | | | energy as part | | | | | of charging | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | Calculation of | | | | | ratio of | | | | | renewable | | | | | energy as | | | | | described in | | | | | the preceding | | | | | requirement is | | | | | done by means | | | | | of averaging or | | | | | applying a | | | | | statistical | | | | | model. The | | | | | requirements do | | | | | not imply that | | | | | some form of | | | | | \'real time\' | | | | | monitoring is | | | | | required. | | | +-----------+-----------------+----------------+-----------------+ | CPR 6.1-7 | Subject to | PR.5.14.6-2 | | | | operator policy | | | | | and agreement | | | | | with 3rd party, | | | | | the 5G system | | | | | shall provide a | | | | | mechanism to | | | | | support the | | | | | selection of an | | | | | application | | | | | server based on | | | | | energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | information | | | | | associated with | | | | | a set of | | | | | application | | | | | servers. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: Energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | information | | | | | can include | | | | | ratio of | | | | | renewable | | | | | energy and | | | | | carbon emission | | | | | information | | | | | when available. | | | | | Calculation of | | | | | ratio of | | | | | renewable | | | | | energy as | | | | | described in | | | | | the preceding | | | | | requirement is | | | | | done by means | | | | | of averaging or | | | | | applying a | | | | | statistical | | | | | model. The | | | | | requirements do | | | | | not imply that | | | | | some form of | | | | | \'real time\' | | | | | monitoring is | | | | | required. | | | +-----------+-----------------+----------------+-----------------+
## 6.2 Different energy states of network elements and network functions
This subclause contains the requirements related to different energy states of
network elements and network functions and dynamic changes.
Table 6.2-1 -- Consolidated Requirements on different energy states of network
elements and network functions
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +================+================+================+================+ | CPR 6.2-1 | The 5G system | PR 5.2.6-1 | | | | shall support | | | | | different | | | | | energy states | | | | | of network | | | | | elements and | | | | | network | | | | | functions. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR 6.2-2 | 5G system | PR 5.2.6-2 | | | | shall support | | | | | dynamic | | | | | changes of | | | | | energy states | | | | | of network | | | | | elements and | | | | | network | | | | | functions. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: This | | | | | requirement | | | | | also include | | | | | the condition | | | | | when providing | | | | | network | | | | | elements or | | | | | functions to | | | | | an authorised | | | | | 3^rd^ party, | | | | | the dynamic | | | | | changes can be | | | | | based on | | | | | pre-configured | | | | | policy (the | | | | | time of | | | | | changing | | | | | energy states, | | | | | which energy | | | | | state map to | | | | | which level of | | | | | load, etc.) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CPR 6.2-3 | The 5G system | PR 5.2.6-3 | Charging | | | shall support | | aspect | | | different | | | | | charging | | | | | mechanisms | | | | | based on the | | | | | different | | | | | energy states | | | | | of network | | | | | elements and | | | | | network | | | | | functions. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 2: These | | | | | requirements | | | | | assume it is | | | | | possible that | | | | | there is new | | | | | energy states | | | | | of network | | | | | elements and | | | | | network | | | | | functions. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.3 Monitoring and measurement related to energy consumption and efficiency
This subclause contains the requirements of monitoring and measurement related
to energy consumption and efficiency.
Table 6.3-1 --Consolidated Requirements on monitoring and measurement related
to energy efficiency
+-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===========+======================+================+=========+ | CPR 6.3-1 | Subject to | PR 5.1.6-4 | | | | operator\'s policy, | | | | | the 5G network shall | | | | | support energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | monitoring at per | | | | | network slice and | | | | | per subscriber | | | | | granularity. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: Energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | monitoring as | | | | | described in the | | | | | preceding | | | | | requirement is done | | | | | by means of | | | | | averaging or | | | | | applying a | | | | | statistical model. | | | | | The requirement does | | | | | not imply that some | | | | | form of \'real | | | | | time\' monitoring is | | | | | required. The | | | | | granularity of the | | | | | subscription | | | | | policies can either | | | | | apply to the | | | | | subscriber (all | | | | | services), or to | | | | | particular services. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-2 | Subject to | PR.5.3.6-1 | | | | operator's policy | | | | | and agreement with | PR.5.4.6-1 | | | | 3^rd^ party, the 5G | | | | | system shall be able | PR.5.6.6-1 | | | | to monitor energy | | | | | consumption for | | | | | serving this 3^rd^ | | | | | party, independently | | | | | from NG-RAN | | | | | deployment | | | | | scenarios. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2: The | | | | | granularity of | | | | | energy consumption | | | | | measurement could | | | | | vary according to | | | | | different | | | | | situations, for | | | | | example, when | | | | | several services | | | | | share a same network | | | | | slice, etc. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | information can be | | | | | related to the | | | | | network resources of | | | | | network slice, NPNs, | | | | | etc. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-4 | Subject to operator | PR.5.7.6-1 | | | | policy and | | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements, the 5G | | | | | system shall be able | | | | | to monitor the | | | | | energy consumption | | | | | for serving the 3rd | | | | | party, together with | | | | | the network | | | | | performance | | | | | statistic | | | | | information for the | | | | | services provided by | | | | | that network, | | | | | through same update | | | | | rate e.g. hourly or | | | | | daily, | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The network | | | | | performance | | | | | statistic | | | | | information could be | | | | | the data rate, | | | | | packet delay and | | | | | packet loss, etc. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+
## 6.4 Information exposure related to energy consumption and efficiency
This subclause contains the requirements related to information exposure
related to energy consumption and efficiency.
Table 6.4-1 -- Consolidated Requirements on information exposure related to
Energy Consumption
+-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===========+======================+================+=========+ | CPR 6.4-1 | Subject to | PR.5.3.6-1 | | | | operator's policy | | | | | and agreement with | PR.5.4.6-1 | | | | 3^rd^ party, the 5G | | | | | system shall be able | PR.5.9.6-2 | | | | to expose | | | | | information on | PR 5.10.6-1 | | | | energy consumption | | | | | forserving this | | | | | 3^rd^ party. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: Energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | information | | | | | can include ratio of | | | | | renewable energy and | | | | | carbon emission | | | | | information when | | | | | available. The | | | | | reporting period | | | | | could be set, e.g., | | | | | on monthly or yearly | | | | | basis and can vary | | | | | based on location. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | information can be | | | | | related to the | | | | | network resources of | | | | | network slice, NPNs, | | | | | etc. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.4-2 | Subject to | P.R 5.5.6-3 | | | | operator's policy, | | | | | the 5G system shall | | | | | support a means to | | | | | expose energy | | | | | consumption to | | | | | authorized third | | | | | parties for | | | | | services, including | | | | | energy consumption | | | | | information related | | | | | to the condition of | | | | | energy credit limit | | | | | (e.g. when the | | | | | energy consumption | | | | | is reaching the | | | | | energy credit | | | | | limit). | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.4-3 | Subject to operator | PR.5.7.6-2 | | | | policy, the 5G | | | | | system shall provide | | | | | means for the | | | | | trusted 3rd party, | | | | | to configure which | | | | | network performance | | | | | statistic | | | | | information (e.g. | | | | | the data rate, | | | | | packet delay and | | | | | packet loss) for the | | | | | communication | | | | | service provided to | | | | | the 3rd party, needs | | | | | to be exposed along | | | | | with the information | | | | | on energy | | | | | consumption for | | | | | serving this 3rd | | | | | party. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.4-4 | Based on operator | PR.5.8.6-1 | | | | policy and agreement | | | | | with 3rd party, the | PR.5.8.6-2 | | | | 5G system shall be | | | | | able to expose | | | | | energy consumption | | | | | information and | | | | | prediction on energy | | | | | consumption of the | | | | | 5G network per | | | | | application service | | | | | to the 3rd party. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.4-5 | Subject to | PR.5.14.6-1 | | | | operator's policy | | | | | and agreement with | | | | | 3rd party, the 5G | | | | | system shall support | | | | | a mechanism for the | | | | | 3rd party to provide | | | | | current or predicted | | | | | energy consumption | | | | | information over a | | | | | specific period of | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: Energy | | | | | consumption | | | | | information | | | | | can include ratio of | | | | | renewable energy | | | | | used for providing | | | | | application services | | | | | on periodic basis. | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------+---------+
## 6.6 Temporary communication service pooling over a geographical area for
energy saving
This subclause contains the requirements related to the temporary
communication service pooling over a geographical area for energy saving.
Table 6.6-1 -- Consolidated requirements on temporary communication service
pooling over a geographical area for energy saving
+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +===========+======================+======================+=========+ | CPR 6.6-1 | Subject to | PR.5.11.6-1, | | | | regulatory | PR.5.11.6-2, | | | | requirements and | | | | | operators' policies, | PR.5.11.6-4 | | | | the 5G system shall | | | | | enable an operator | | | | | to temporarily serve | | | | | UEs of other | | | | | operators within a | | | | | geographical area | | | | | for the purpose of | | | | | saving energy of the | | | | | other operators. | | | | | | | | | | > NOTE 1: the other | | | | | > operators are | | | | | > assumed to stop | | | | | > providing | | | | | > communication | | | | | > service over their | | | | | > own network | | | | | > infrastructure | | | | | > within the same | | | | | > geographical area | | | | | > to save energy | | | | | > during that time. | | | | | > | | | | | > NOTE 2: policies | | | | | > may include | | | | | > predefined | | | | | > times/locations, | | | | | > energy | | | | | > co | | | | | nsumption/efficiency | | | | | > thresholds, etc. | | | | | > | | | | | > NOTE 3: it is | | | | | > assumed that the | | | | | > 5G system can | | | | | > collect charging | | | | | > information | | | | | > associated with | | | | | > serving UEs of | | | | | > other operators | | | +-----------+----------------------+----------------------+---------+
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
This document analyzes a number of use cases to support energy efficiency as
service criteria. The resulting potential consolidated requirements have been
captured in clauses 6.
It is recommended to proceed with normative work based on the identified
consolidated requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Existing energy efficiency standardisation
## A.1 Overview of existing energy efficiency standardisation
In ETSI, GSMA and 3GPP, there were many reports, studies, specifications
related to energy efficiency. And now there are also ongoing 3GPP R18 studies
on energy efficiency in both SA5 and RAN.
In ETSI, existing specifications cover several aspects of energy efficiency,
which include energy efficiency metrics and measurement methods for mobile
core equipment, metrics and methods to measure energy performance of Mobile
Radio Access Networks, measurement and monitoring of power, energy and
environmental parameters for ICT equipment in telecommunications. [2] [3]
GSMA has done lots of work in assessing energy consumption in different fields
within a communication system. In \"Going green: benchmarking the energy
efficiency of mobile\", GSMA states that 73% of the energy of the
participating operators is consumed in the radio access network (RAN). The
network core (13%), owned data centres (9%) and other operations (5%) account
for the rest. [4] The statistics show that energy efficiency is an end-to-end
issue.
In 3GPP, energy efficiency has been studied in SA, SA5 and RAN. SA have
studied system requirements and principles and provided an Energy Efficiency
Control Framework. [5] SA5 has specified concepts, use cases, requirements and
solutions for energy efficiency assessment and optimization for energy saving,
as well as Energy Efficiency (EE) KPIs. [6] [7] RAN EE study has concentrated
on the definition of network energy consumption models, evaluation methodology
and KPIs, also studied and identified techniques on the gNB and UE sides to
improve network energy savings in terms of both BS transmission and reception.
[8]
## A.2 Energy efficiency KPIs
3GPP Energy Efficiency KPI definitions are under SA5 (Telecom Management)
responsibility. They are based on measurements collected on RAN or CN network
elements / network functions via OA&M. The KPI calculation is a generalisation
of the work in ETSI TC EE. Figure A.2-1 below shows the KPI derivation with
notes to the source specifications.
{width="1.5756944444444445in" height="0.6722222222222223in"}
Figure A.2-1: KPI derivation and sources
## A.3 Summary of existing energy efficiency standards
Table A.2-1 below shows the standards relevant to the present document with a
synopsis taken from the Scope clause of the standard.
Table A.3-2: List of EE specifications
+---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **SDO** | **Group** | **Standard** | **Summary** | +=========+===========+======================+======================+ | 3GPP | SA | TR 21.866: \"Study | Identifies and | | | | on Energy Efficiency | studies the key | | | | Aspects of 3GPP | issues and the | | | | Standards\" [5] | potential solutions | | | | | in defining Energy | | | | | Efficiency Key | | | | | Performance | | | | | Indicators and the | | | | | Energy Efficiency | | | | | optimization | | | | | operations in | | | | | existing and future | | | | | 3GPP networks. | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP | SA5 | TS28.310: | Specifies concepts, | | | | \"Management and | use cases, | | | | orchestration; | requirements and | | | | Energy efficiency of | solutions for the | | | | 5G\" [6] | energy efficiency | | | | | assessment and | | | | | optimization for | | | | | energy saving of 5G | | | | | networks. | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP | SA5 | TS28.552: | Specifies the | | | | \"Management and | performance | | | | orchestration; 5G | measurements for 5G | | | | performance | networks including | | | | measurements\" | network slicing. | | | | [11] | | | | | | Performance | | | | | measurements for | | | | | NG-RAN are defined | | | | | in this document, | | | | | and some L2 | | | | | measurement | | | | | definitions are | | | | | inherited from TS | | | | | 38.314. | | | | | | | | | | The performance | | | | | measurements for 5GC | | | | | are all defined in | | | | | this document. | | | | | Related KPIs | | | | | associated with | | | | | those measurements | | | | | are defined in TS | | | | | 28.554 [12]. | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP | SA5 | TS28.554: | Specifies end-to-end | | | | \"Management and | Key Performance | | | | orchestration; 5G | Indicators (KPIs) | | | | end to end Key | for the 5G network | | | | Performance | and network slicing | | | | Indicators (KPI)\" | | | | | [12] | | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP | SA5 | TS28.622: | Specifies the | | | | \"Telecommunication | Generic network | | | | management; Generic | resource information | | | | Network Resource | that can be | | | | Model (NRM) | communicated for | | | | Integration | telecommunication | | | | Reference Point | network management | | | | (IRP); Information | purposes, including | | | | Service (IS)\" | management data | | | | [13] | about energy | | | | | efficiency | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP | SA5 | TR28.813: | Investigates the | | | | \"Management and | opportunities for | | | | orchestration; Study | defining new Energy | | | | on new aspects of | Efficiency (EE) KPIs | | | | Energy Efficiency | and new Energy | | | | (EE) for 5G\" [7] | Saving (ES) | | | | | solutions. | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP | RAN1 | TR 38.864: \"Study | Investigates network | | | | on network energy | energy consumption | | | | savings for NR\" | modelling, | | | | [8] | techniques for | | | | | network energy | | | | | saving, evaluation | | | | | of gains and impact. | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ETSI | TC EE | ETSI ES 203 228: | Defines the topology | | | | \"Environmental | and level of | | | | Engineering (EE); | analysis to assess | | | | Assessment of mobile | the energy | | | | network energy | efficiency of mobile | | | | efficiency\" [3] | networks (excluding | | | | | terminal) | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ETSI | TC EE | ETSI ES 202 336-1: | Defines monitoring | | | | \"Environmental | and control of | | | | Engineering (EE); | Infrastructure | | | | Monitoring and | Environment i.e. | | | | Control Interface | power, cooling and | | | | for Infrastructure | building environment | | | | Equipment (Power, | systems for | | | | Cooling and Building | telecommunication | | | | Environment Systems | centres and access | | | | used in | network locations. | | | | Telecommunication | | | | | Networks) Part 1: | | | | | Generic Interface\" | | | | | [9] | | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ETSI | TC EE | ETSI ES 202 336-12: | Defines measurement | | | | \"Environmental | and monitoring of | | | | Engineering (EE); | power, energy and | | | | Monitoring and | environmental | | | | control interface | parameters for ICT | | | | for infrastructure | equipment in | | | | equipment (power, | telecommunications | | | | cooling and building | or datacenter or | | | | environment systems | customer premises | | | | used in | | | | | telecommunication | | | | | networks); Part 12: | | | | | ICT equipment power, | | | | | energy and | | | | | environmental | | | | | parameters | | | | | monitoring | | | | | information model\" | | | | | [10] | | +---------+-----------+----------------------+----------------------+
#