# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP TSG SA to allow for
the standardisation in the area of lawful interception of telecommunications.
This document describes in general the requirements for lawful interception.
Laws of individual nations and regional institutions (e.g. European Union),
and sometimes licensing and operating conditions define a need to intercept
telecommunications traffic and related information in modern
telecommunications systems. It has to be noted that lawful interception shall
always be done in accordance with the applicable national or regional laws and
technical regulations.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides basic interception requirements within a Third
Generation Mobile Communication System (3GMS) based on ETSI TS 101 331 [2] and
other national regulatory requirements and GSM specifications GSM TS 01.33
[5], GSM TS 02.33 [6] and GSM TS 03.33 [7].
The specification describes the service requirements from a Law Enforcement
point of view only. The aim of this document is to define a 3GMS interception
system that supports a number of regional interception regulations, but these
regulations are not repeated here as they vary. Regional interception
requirements shall rely on this specification to derive such information as
they require.
These interception requirements shall be used to derive specific network
requirements.
For details see:
Stage 2: 3GPP TS 33.107 [9];
Stage 3: 3GPP TS 33.108 [10].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] European Union Council Resolution on the Lawful Interception of
Telecommunications (17. January 1995)
[2] ETSI TS 101 331: \"Telecommunications security; Lawful Interception (LI);
Requirements of Law Enforcement Agencies\".
[3] ETSI ES 201 158: \"Lawful Interception; Requirements for network
functions\".
[4] ETSI ES 201 671: \"Handover Interface for the lawful interception of
telecommunications traffic\".
[5] GSM 01.33: \"Lawful Interception requirements for GSM\".
[6] GSM 02.33:\" Lawful Interception - stage 1\".
[7] GSM 03.33: \"Lawful Interception - stage 2\".
[8] J-STD-025‑A: \"Lawfully Authorized Electronic Surveillance\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.107: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Lawful
interception architecture and functions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.108: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Handover
interface for Lawful Interception\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Interception Area:** is a subset of the Public Lands Mobile Network (PLMN)
service area comprised of a set of cells which define a geographical zone.
**Location Dependent Interception:** is interception within a PLMN service
area that is restricted to one or several Interception Areas (IA).
**Network Based Interception:** Interception that is invoked at a network
access point regardless of Target Identity.
**Subject Based Interception:** Interception that is invoked using a specific
Target Identity
**Target Identity:** A technical identity that uniquely identifies a target of
interception. One target may have one or several identities.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CC Content of Communication
IA Interception Area
IP Internet Protocol
IRI Intercept Related Information
LDI Location Dependent Interception
LEA Law Enforcement Agency
LEMF Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
3GMS Third Generation Mobile Communications System
VHE Virtual Home Environment
# 4 Relationship to Regional Requirements
Interception requirements are subject to national law and international
treaties and should be interpreted in accordance with applicable national
policies.
Requirements universally called out in regional interception regulatory
requirements are supported by the system defined in this document.
Requirements unique to a specific region are not addressed (some examples are
given in Section 2 as references).
The intercept system defined here provides subject based interception. Network
based interception is not included.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Description of requirements
This section gives the general description of lawful interception
requirements.
### 5.1.1 General technical requirements
Figure 1 shows the general system for interception. Technical interception is
implemented within a 3GMS by special functionality on network elements shown
in the figure.
Figure 1: General specification for interception
### 5.1.2 General principles
3GMS shall provide access to the intercepted Content of Communications (CC)
and the Intercept Related Information (IRI) of the mobile target and services
related to the target (e.g. Call Forwarding) on behalf of Law Enforcement
Agencies (LEAs).
A mobile target in a given 3GMS can be a subscriber of that 3GMS, or a user
roaming from another 3GMS or from any other network capable of using that 3GMS
(such as a GSM or mobile satellite). The intercepted CC and the IRI can only
be delivered for activities on that given 3GMS.
For interception, there needs to be a means of identifying the target,
correspondent and initiator of the communication. Target Identities used for
interception of CS and GPRS service shall be MSISDN, IMEI and IMSI. Target
Identities for multi-media shall be SIP URL. Other target identities for
multi-media are for further study. When encryption is provided and managed by
the network, it shall be a national option as to whether the network provides
the CC to the LEA decrypted, or encrypted with keys and additional information
to make decryption possible. Encryption not provided or managed by the
network, e.g. user provided end-to-end encryption, cannot be removed by the
network. In the case that the NWOs/ APs/SvPs provides encryption keys to the
subscriber or customer but does not provide the encryption itself, the NWOs/
APs/SvPs shall provide the keys to the LEA if required by national
regulations.
Location Dependent Interception, (LDI) allows a 3GMS to service multiple
interception jurisdictions within its service area. Multiple law agencies with
their own interception areas can be served by the 3GMS. All the information or
rules given for interception within a 3GMS apply to interception within an IA
when Location Dependent Interception is invoked. A target may be marked in one
or more different IAs within the same 3GMS. Interception is not required nor
prohibited by this standard when Location Dependent Interception is active and
the location of the target subscriber is not known or available.
### 5.1.3 Applicability to telecommunication services
The requirement for lawful interception is that all telecommunications
services for the 3GMS standards should be capable of meeting the requirements
within this document.
### 5.1.4 Interception within the Home and Visited Network
The introduction of the Virtual Home Environment, VHE, means that significant
portions of subscriber services can be executed in the home or visited
network, regardless of where the target is physically located.
The visited network shall intercept only those UMTS services that the visited
network provides to the target subscriber. Furthermore, the visited network
shall not be required to intercept services executed by the home network.
Based upon national regulations, UMTS services executed in the home network
may be intercepted in the home network.
## 5.2 Normal operation
This section gives the expected operation for lawful interception.
### 5.2.1 Intercept administration requirements
A secure means of administrating the service by the 3GMS operator and
intercept requesting entity is necessary. This mechanism shall provide means
to activate, deactivate, show, or list targets in the 3GMS as quickly as
possible. The function shall be policed by appropriate authentication and
audit procedures. The administration function shall allow specific IAs to be
associated with target subscribers when Location Dependent Interception is
being used.
#### 5.2.1.1 Activation of LI
As a result of the activation (of a warrant) it shall be possible to request
for the specified target, either IRI, or both the IRI and the CC and designate
the LEA destination addresses for the delivery of the IRI and if required CC.
These shall be selectable on a 3GMS basis according to national options.
#### 5.2.1.2 Deactivation of LI
As a result of deactivation it shall be possible to stop all, or a part of,
interception activities for the specified target.
#### 5.2.1.3 Security of processes
The intercept function shall only be accessible by authorised personnel.
To be effective, interception must take place without the knowledge of either
party to the communication. Therefore, decryption must also take place without
either party being aware that it is happening.
No indication shall be given to any person except authorised personnel that
the intercept function has been activated on a target. Authentication,
encryption, audits, log files and other mechanisms may be used to maintain
security in the system. Audit procedures should be capable of keeping accurate
logs of administration commands.
NWOs/APs/SvPs shall ensure that its equipment, facilities, or services that
provide a customer or subscriber with the ability to originate, terminate, or
direct communications are capable of facilitating authorized communications
interceptions and access to intercept related information unobtrusively and
with a minimum of interference with any subscriber\'s telecommunications
service and in a manner that protects:
(A) the privacy and security of communications and intercept related
information not authorized to be intercepted; and
(B) information regarding the LEA's interception of communications and access
to intercept related information.
### 5.2.2 Intercept invocation
#### 5.2.2.1 Invocation events for lawful interception
In general, Lawful interception should be invoked when the transmission of
information or an event takes place that involves the target. Examples of when
Lawful interception could be invoked are when:
\- A circuit switched call is requested originated from, terminated to, or
redirected by the target,
\- Location information related to the target facility is modified by the
subscriber attaching or detaching from the network, or if there is a change in
location,
\- An SMS transfer is requested - either originated from or terminated to the
target,
\- A data packet is transmitted to or from a target,
\- A Conference Call is targeted.
#### 5.2.2.2 Invocation and removal of interception regarding services
The invocation of lawful interception shall not alter the operation of a
target\'s services or provide indication to any party involved in
communication with the target. Lawful interception shall not alter the
standard function of 3GMS network elements.
If lawful interception is activated during a circuit switched service, the
currently active circuit switched service is not required to be intercepted.
If lawful interception is deactivated during a circuit switched service, all
ongoing intercepted activities may continue until they are completed.
If lawful interception is activated when a packet data service is already in
use, the next packets transmitted shall be intercepted. If lawful interception
is deactivated during a packet data service, the next packets shall not be
transmitted.
#### 5.2.2.3 Correlation of information and product
When both IRI and CC are invoked, an unambiguous correlation shall be
established between associated IRI, IRI and CC, and associated CC within the
single domain (for example different legs in CS or different packets in PS).
The IRI and CC shall be delivered in as near real time as possible.
NOTE: Clarification about correlation limitations during inter-PLMN call or
session handovers is for further study.
## 5.3 Exceptional procedures
When a failure occurs while establishing the connection towards the LEA to
transfer the CC this shall not result in any interruption of the ongoing
telecommunications service. No further specific requirements apply for the CC
in the 3GMS.
A national option may be that when failure occurs while trying to provide the
IRI it shall be temporarily stored in the 3GMS and some further attempts shall
be made to deliver it if available.
## 5.4 Interworking considerations
For 3GMS, the network, homed or visited, shall not be responsible to interpret
the protocol used by the target, or to remove user level compression or
encryption.
## 5.5 Charging aspects
The 3GMS may charge for intercept service subject to national laws and
regulations. Charging mechanisms include the following:
\- Use of network resources,
\- Activation and deactivation of the target,
\- Every intercept invocation,
\- Flat rate.
The 3GMS shall be capable of producing intercept-charging data. It shall be
possible to produce this data in such a way that access by non-authorised
personnel or the target is precluded.
## 5.6 Minimum service requirements
Quality of service, capacity, integrity and reliability are the subject of
bilateral agreement between the relevant authorities and the 3GMS operator.
The QoS towards the delivery function provided by the network must be at least
that the network provides to the target.
# 6 Handover Interface Requirements
Handover interface requirements are defined in 3GPP TS 33.108 [10]. For
national or regional specifications, see ETSI ES 201 671 [4] and J‑STD‑025‑A
[8].
#