# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The smart card, tamper resistant device, has a primary role of storing
credentials and performing sensitive cryptographic computations, it also
provides portability of the user credentials. The smart card is rarely a
stand-alone device; it usually interacts with a terminal. Sensitive
applications are often split between a smart card and a terminal with
sensitive data exchanged between the two. Therefore, the need to establish a
secure channel between a UICC and a terminal that may host the UICC or be
connected to the device hosting the UICC via a local interface has been
identified by different standardization groups in order to protect the
communication between the UICC and the terminal.
This document describes key establishment between a UICC and a terminal.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the security features and mechanisms to
provision a shared key between a UICC and a terminal that may host the UICC or
be connected to the device hosting the UICC via a local interface. Candidate
applications to use this key establishment mechanism include but are not
restricted to secure channel between a UICC and a terminal ETSI TS 102 484
[8].
The scope of this specification includes an architecture overview and the
detailed procedure how to establish the shared key between the UICC and the
terminal.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"UICC-terminal interface; Physical and logical
characteristics\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
bootstrapping architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.259: \"Service requirements for Personal Network Management
(PNM); Stage 1\".
[5] IETF RFC 2246 (1999): \"The TLS Protocol Version 1\".
[6] IETF RFC 3546 (2003): \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
[8] ETSI TS 102 484: \"Smart Cards; Secure Channel between a UICC and an end-
point Terminal\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[10] NIST, FIPS PUB 180‑2: \"Secure Hash Standard (SHS)\".
[11] IETF RFC 4634 (2006): US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and HMAC-SHA).
[12] IETF RFC 2104 (1997): \"HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication\".
[13] 3GPP TR 33.905: \"Recommendations for Trusted Open Platforms\".
[14] TCG Mobile Phone Specifications,
https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/mobilephone.
[15] TCG Trusted Network Connect (TNC) Specifications,
https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/TNC.
[16] 3GPP TS 29.109: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Zh and Zn
Interfaces based on the Diameter protocol; Stage 3\".
[17] IETF RFC 2616 (1999): \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\".
[18] IETF RFC 3268 (1999): \" Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Ciphersuites
for Transport LayerSecurity (TLS)"
[19] IETF RFC 4279 (2005) \"Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer
Security (TLS)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**NAF Key Center** : Dedicated NAF in charge of performing the key
establishment between a UICC and a Terminal.
**UICC Hosting Device: The entity, which is physically connected to the UICC.
The UICC Hosting Device may be the MT or the ME.**
**Terminal** : For the purposes of the present document, the term Terminal
denotes a trusted device that can establish a shared key with a UICC. The
Terminal is a generic term aiming to address either the scenario where it is
part of the UICC Hosting Device or the scenario where it is a physically
separated component (e.g. PNE as defined in TS 22.259 [4]).
**Remote Terminal** : A Terminal that is physically separated from the UICC
Hosting Device.
NOTE: The definition of trusted devices is out of the scope of the
specification. It is assumed that the home network can decide whether a
terminal is trusted or not.
**ICCID** : ICCID is the identifier of the smart card. ICCID is defined in ITU
standard and is encoded as a 10 octet string.
**Terminal_appli_ID** : It identifies an application in a Terminal.
Terminal_appli_ID is an octet string of maximum 32 octets. If an application
has an identifier of longer than 32 octets, this should be hashed using SHA
256 [10] into a string of length 32 octets which will be used as
Terminal_appli_ID.
**Terminal_ID:** It identifies uniquely the Terminal and is 10 octets. The
Terminal_ID of a ME is the IMEI and shall be encoded using BCD coding as
defined in clause 10.5.1.4 of TS 24.008 [9].
NOTE: In case that the Terminal is not a ME the definition of the type of
Terminal_IDs is out of the scope of the specification.
**UICC_appli_ID:** It uniquely identifies an application in the UICC. The
UICC_appli_ID is an octet string of maximum 16 octets.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\|\| Concatenation
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> B-TID Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
>
> BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GBA_ME ME-based GBA
GBA_U GBA with UICC-based enhancements
ICCID Integrated Circuit Card Identification
KDF Key Derivation Function
Ks_ext_NAF Derived key in GBA_U
Ks_int_NAF Derived key in GBA_U, which remains on UICC
Ks_local Derived key, which is shared between a Terminal and a UICC
NAF Network Application Function
MAC Message Authentication Code
PNE Personal Network Element
SLF Subscriber Locator Function
USS User Security Setting
# 4 Key Establishment between a UICC and a terminal
## 4.1 Reference model
GBA_U (TS 33.220 [3]) is used to provision a shared key between a UICC and a
Terminal (i.e. Ks_local). The GBA_U key Ks_int_NAF is used by the UICC and the
NAF to derive Ks_local. The NAF securely delivers Ks_local to the Terminal
through a TLS tunnel, which is established between the NAF and the Terminal.
Figure 4.1 and figure 4.2 show a network model of the entities that utilize
the bootstrapped secrets, and the reference points used between them. In
figure 4.1 the Terminal is part of the UICC Hosting Device whereas in figure
4.2 the Terminal is connected to the UICC Hosting Device via a local
interface.
Figure 4.1: High level reference mode (the Terminal is part of the UICC
Hosting Device)
Figure 4.2: High level reference mode (the Remote Terminal is connected to the
UICC Hosting Device)
## 4.2 Network elements
### 4.2.1 NAF Key Center
The NAF Key Center is the NAF in charge of performing the Key Establishment
between a UICC and a Terminal.
## 4.3 Key establishment architecture and reference points
### 4.3.1 Reference points
This document is based on the architecture specified in TS 33.220 [3]. The
Reference Points that are not explained in this section can be found in TS
33.220 [3] and TS 29.109 [16] (including GAA Service Type Code for this
specification).
### 4.3.2 Reference point Ub
The reference point Ub is implemented between the UICC Hosting Device and the
BSF as described in TS 33.220 [3]. The UICC Hosting Device runs the HTTP
Digest AKA protocol with BSF. This allows the UICC and the BSF to generate the
bootstrapping key Ks.
### 4.3.3 Reference point Ua
The reference point Ua is used to deliver Ks_local and the associated
parameters to the Terminal.
## 4.4 General requirements and principles for key establishment between a
UICC and a Terminal
### 4.4.1 General requirements
The following requirements and principles are applicable to the procedure for
key establishment between a UICC and a Terminal:
  * The Terminal and the UICC shall be able to establish a shared key;
  * The Terminal shall be trusted;
> NOTE: The definition of trusted terminal is out of scope of the
> specification. The terminal may be compliant to requirements defined in TCG
> Mobile Phone specifications [14] or TR 33.905 [13] \"Recommendations for
> Trusted Open Platforms\".
  * The shared key to establish between the UICC and the Terminal (i.e. Ks_local) shall not be exchanged unencrypted on the interface between the UICC and the Terminal;
  * The Terminal and the network shall be able to authenticate each other;
  * The server implementing the key establishment function (i.e. the NAF Key Center) needs to be trusted by the home operator to handle the authentication parameters and the shared key;
  * The home network shall be able to control whether this Terminal is authorized to establish a shared key with the UICC;
  * The procedure for the key establishment between a UICC and a Terminal shall be access independent;
  * To the extent possible, existing protocols and infrastructure should be reused;
### 4.4.2 Requirements on the terminal
The Terminal shall support certificate-based mutual authentication as defined
in clause 5.5 of _TS 33.222 [7] and IETF RFC 2246 [5] and IETF RFC 3546 [6]_
in which case the Terminal shall be equipped with a valid Client Certificate
or the Terminal shall support shared key based mutual authentication as
defined in RFC 4279 [19] in which case the Terminal shall be equipped with a
valid pre-shared key.
NOTE: Configuration of certificates and shared secrets is out of scope of the
present specification.
### 4.4.3 Requirements on the UICC hosting device
The UICC Hosting Device shall implement GBA_U as defined in TS 33.220 [3].
### 4.4.4 Requirements on the UICC
The UICC shall implement GBA_U as defined in TS 33.220 [3].
The UICC shall be capable of deriving Ks_local from Ks_int_NAF.
The NAF_ID of the NAF Key Center shall be stored on the UICC.
NOTE: The home operator can update the NAF_ID of the NAF Key Center by means
of OTA commands.
It shall be possible that the UICC implements local policies to restrict the
key establishment based on targeted UICC and Terminal applications (i.e. based
on Terminal_appli_ID / UICC_appli_ID pair value), or based on Terminal_ID, or
based on both targeted applications and Terminal_ID.
### 4.4.5 Requirements on the NAF Key Center
The NAF Key Center shall support certificate-based mutual authentication as
defined in clause 5.5 of TS 33.222 [7] and IETF RFC 2246 [5] and IETF RFC 3546
[6] and shared key based mutual authentication as defined in RFC 4279 [19].
NOTE: Configuration of certificates and shared secrets is out of scope of the
present specification.
The NAF Key Center shall be capable of determining whether a Terminal is
trusted or not.
The NAF Key Center shall implement GBA_U as defined in TS 33.220 [3].
The NAF Key Center dedicated to the Key Establishment Mechanism shall be
located in the operator's Home Network.
The NAF Key Center shall be capable of deriving Ks_local from Ks_int_NAF.It
shall be possible to configure the NAF Key Center to restrict the key
establishment based on the targeted UICC and Terminal applications (i.e. based
on Terminal_appli_ID / UICC_appli_ID pair value), or based on Terminal_ID
and/or ICCID, or based on both targeted applications and device identifiers
(Terminal_ID and/or ICCID).
### 4.4.6 Requirements on Ks_local key and associated parameters handling
The established key Ks_local may be either a key shared between the UICC and
the Terminal as monolithic devices or between a specific application on the
UICC and a corresponding specific application on the Terminal. Ks_local \"per
p _latform_ \" refers to Ks_local shared between the UICC and the Terminal as
monolithic devices, whereas Ks_local \"per application\" refers to Ks_local
shared between a specific application on the UICC and a specific application
on the Terminal.
Each Ks_local is associated with a Key Lifetime for use in the terminal and a
16 octet Counter Limit value for use in the UICC. The NAF Key Center shall
generate these values and deliver them to the terminal. The terminal shall
forward the Counter Limit to the UICC when requesting the Ks_local derivation.
The Ks_local derivation shall include the Counter Limit value from the NAF Key
Center so that the UICC can be sure that the Counter Limit value was generated
by the NAF Key Center and was not modified by the terminal. Details of how the
UICC shall interpret the Counter Limit can be found in ETSI TS 102 484 [8].
The home operator may update the Ks_local Counter Limit value by means of OTA
commands. The description of the OTA mechanism is out of the scope of this TS.
The Terminal shall delete Ks_local and the corresponding parameters
(e.g.ICCID, Terminal_appli_ID, UICC_appli_ID) when at least one of the
conditions below is met:
1- The key lifetime of Ks_local expires;
2- The Terminal detects that another UICC has been inserted. In order to make
this condition possible, the Terminal needs to store in non-volatile memory
the last inserted UICC-identity to be able to compare that with the used UICC-
identity during the initialisation procedures;
Ks_local should not be deleted from the Terminal when the Terminal is powered
down. If the Terminal does not delete Ks_local at power down then Ks_local
together with the associated parameters (e.g. key lifetime and B-TID) shall be
stored in trusted non-volatile memory.
## 4.5 Procedures
### 4.5.1 Initiation of key establishment between a UICC and a Terminal
Before a Ks_local-based application can start, the UICC and the Terminal first
have to share the same key Ks_local associated to the selected application.
The Terminal shall check if it stores the key Ks_local associated to the
targeted application and if this key Ks_local is also available on the UICC.
> _1- The Terminal checks if it already stores a valid key Ks_local required
> for the application communicating with the UICC. If a valid key Ks_local is
> not available on the Terminal then the Terminal initiates a Key
> Establishment procedure, else step 2 applies._
>
> _2- The Terminal sends a request to the UICC to check that the required key
> Ks_local is available on the UICC. The UICC reply indicates the Terminal if
> the required key Ks_local is available on the UICC. If the required key
> Ks_local is not available on the UICC, the Terminal initiates a key
> establishment procedure, else a valid Ks_local key is shared between the
> UICC and the Terminal._
### 4.5.2 Key establishment procedure
If a key establishment procedure is needed, it has to be performed as follows:
> _1- The Terminal checks whether there is a valid Ks key in the UICC, by
> fetching the current B-TID and its corresponding lifetime from the UICC. If
> no valid key Ks is available in the UICC, the Terminal requests a GBA
> bootstrapping procedure run to derive a new Ks key in the UICC and the BSF._
>
> _2- In order to check whether there is a valid Ks_int_NAF, the Terminal
> sends a request to the UICC to retrieve B-TID value associated to the NAF_ID
> of the NAF Key Center. In case that the Terminal does not know the NAF_ID of
> the NAF Key Center, the Terminal sends a request to the UICC to retrieve the
> NAF_ID of the NAF Key Center._
>
> _3- The UICC returns the NAF_ID and associated B-TID to the Terminal. If
> there is no Ks_int_NAF available in the UICC, a GBA_U NAF Derivation
> procedure associated to the NAF Key Center is performed and then the UICC
> returns the NAF_ID and associated B-TID to the Terminal._
>
> _4- The Terminal and the NAF Key Center establish a secure tunnel. The
> secure tunnel may be a HTTPS tunnel with certificate based mutual
> authentication between the Terminal and NAF Key Center as defined in clause
> 5.5 of TS 33.222 [7], or based on a shared key based mutual authentication
> between the Terminal and the NAF Key Center as defined in_ RFC 4279 [19]_._
NOTE 1: One potential way to reach a trusted state is if the Terminal is
compliant with the requirements defined in TCG (Trusted Computing Group) MPWG
(Mobile Phone Working Group) Mobile Phone Specifications [14]. In PC-based TCG
technology [15], HTTPS tunnel establishment can be bound to the trust status
of the Terminal, through the attestations of relevant trusted engine of the
Terminal. Thus, HTTPS tunnel establishment may in future be possible only if
the Terminal is in a trusted state.
> The psk_identity_hint shall be used by the server to indicate to the PSK TLS
> client which PSK to use. The pre-shared key is pre-administrated to the
> Terminal and NAF Key Center.
NOTE 2: If other PSKs are allowed, then the psk_identity_hint needs to be
specified in the relevant key specifications.
> If several PSKs are allowed, then the different hints are separated by semi-
> colon. The usage of the psk_identity_hint in PSK TLS handshake is out of
> scope of this specification.
>
> _5- In order to retrieve Ks_local from the NAF Key Center, the Terminal
> sends a_ \"_service request_ \" _message to the NAF Key Center node in the
> mobile operator network. The message is sent within HTTPS tunnel._
>
> _The request shall contain the following payload: the identity (B-TID), the
> Terminal identifier (Terminal_ID), the smart card identifier (ICCID), the
> application identifier of UICC application (UICC_appli_ID) and the
> application identifier of the Terminal application (Terminal_appli_ID)
> requiring the establishment of key Ks_local, and a variable value RANDx._
>
> _In case that Ks_local has to be established per platform, the UICC_appli_ID
> and the Terminal_appli_ID octet strings equal to static ASCII-encoded
> string_ \"p _latform_ \"_._
NOTE 2: The variable value RANDx can be a random value or timestamp produced
by the Terminal.
> _6- The NAF Key Center shall behave as follows:_
a) If the Terminal_ID is IMEI, then the NAF Key Center shall check if the
Terminal_ID is blocked (blacklisted) and if so, it shall not proceed with the
key establishment procedure but respond with an appropriate error code and
terminate the secure connection with the Terminal. If the Terminal_ID is not
IMEI, then the NAF Key Center should, if applicable, check if the Terminal_ID
is blocked (blacklisted) and if so, it shall not proceed with the key
establishment procedure but respond with an appropriate error code and
terminate the secure connection with the Terminal. If the key establishment
procedure is not allowed for the targeted applications , then the NAF Key
Center shall not proceed with the key establishment procedure but respond with
appropriate error code and terminate the TLS connection with the Terminal.
NOTE 3: Details of how blacklisting is implemented are out of scope of the
present specification.
b) The NAF Key Center contacts the BSF and sends the identity (B-TID) and its
own NAF_ID in a credential request.
> _7- The BSF derives Ks_int_NAF, Ks_ext_NAF and supplies to the NAF Key
> Center the requested keys Ks_int/ext_NAF keys, as well as the bootstrapping
> time and the key lifetime of Ks_int/ext_NAF keys._
>
> _The BSF may also send requested USSs to NAF Key Center according to the
> BSF's policy_
>
> _8- The NAF Key Center shall behave as follows_
a) If the NAF Key Center has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the NAF
Key Center that the key establishment procedure is not allowed for the user,
then the NAF Key Center shall respond with appropriate error code and
terminate the TLS connection with the Terminal.
b) The NAF Key Center generates a suitable 16 octet Counter Limit for use in
the UICC. The NAF Key Center associates a key lifetime to the derived key
Ks_local for use in the Terminal.
c) The NAF Key Center derives Ks_local from Ks_int_NAF. Ks_local is computed
as Ks_local = KDF (Ks_int_NAF, B-TID, Terminal_ID, ICCID, Terminal_appli_ID,
UICC_appli_ID, RANDx, Counter Limit), where KDF is the key derivation function
as specified in Annex A.
NOTE 4: If two applications on the UICC or on the Terminal have the same
application identifier and RANDx is not renewed for each Ks_local derivation,
then Ks_local will be the same for the two applications.
> _9- The NAF Key Center sends within HTTPS tunnel a response message to the
> Terminal with the following payload: B-TID, Ks_local, Key Lifetime, and
> Counter Limit._
>
> _10- The Terminal stores Ks_local and associated parameters Key Lifetime,
> ICCID, Terminal_appli_ID, UICC_appli_ID_
>
> _11- The Terminal sends a command to perform Ks_local derivation on the
> UICC. The Terminal sends the NAF_ID corresponding to the NAF Key Center, the
> Terminal_ID, the Terminal_appli_ID, the UICC_appli_ID, RANDx and the Counter
> Limit value. The terminal also includes a MAC which is computed as MAC =
> HMAC-SHA-256(Ks_local, NAF_ID \|\| Terminal_ID \|\| ICCID \|\| Term_appli_ID
> \|\| UICC_appli_ID \|\| RANDx \|\| Counter Limit) truncated to 16 octets,
> where HMAC-SHA-256 with truncation is defined in NIST, FIPS PUB 180‑2 [10],
> IETF RFC 4634 [11] and IETF RFC 2104 [12]._
>
> _Terminal_appli_ID and UICC_appli_ID correspond to identifiers of
> applications that aim at sharing a key Ks_local. In case that Ks_local has
> to be established per platform, the UICC_appli_ID and the Terminal_appli_ID
> octet strings are set equal to the static ASCII-encoded string
> \"platform\"._
>
> _12- The UICC retrieves the Ks_int_NAF and B-TID associated with the
> received NAF_ID. The UICC may store a local policy to determine the
> associations between a Terminal_appli_ID and a UICC_appli_ID which are
> authorized. If the Terminal requested a Terminal_appli_ID/UICC_appli_ID
> association not authorized by the UICC policy, then the UICC stops the key
> establishment procedure and returns a \"not authorized\" error message. The
> local policy may also not authorize the key establishment procedure based on
> the Terminal_ID value._
>
> _If the requested association is authorised, then the UICC derives Ks_local.
> Ks_local is computed in the UICC as Ks_local = KDF (Ks_int_NAF, B-TID,
> Terminal_ID, ICCID, Terminal_appli_ID, UICC_appli_ID, RANDx, Counter Limit),
> where KDF is the key derivation function specified in Annex A._
>
> _The UICC verifies the MAC value received from the Terminal by computing
> MAC\' = HMAC-SHA-256(Ks_local, NAF_ID \|\| Terminal_ID \|\| ICCID \|\|
> Term_appli_ID \|\| UICC_appli_ID \|\| RANDx \|\| Counter Limit) truncated to
> 16 octets. If the MAC\' does not equal MAC, then the UICC terminates the key
> agreement procedure and returns a MAC verification failure message in
> response to the Ks_local derivation request._
>
> _13-If MAC\'=MAC then the UICC stores Ks_local and associated parameters
> Terminal_ID, Terminal_appli_ID, UICC_appli_ID and the Ks_local Counter
> Limit. The UICC then sends a Ks_local derivation response containing a MAC
> of the ASCII-encoded string \"verification successful\" using the key
> Ks_local and the MAC algorithm HMAC‑SHA‑256 [11] truncated to 16 octets IETF
> RFC 2104 [12]._
Figure 4-3: Key establishment procedure
###### ## Annex A (normative): Key Derivation Function definition
# A.1 Ks_local key derivation in key establishment
The description of key derivation function KDF can be found in TS 33.220 [3].
The generic key derivation function and input parameter encoding in this
document shall be implemented as defined in TS 33.220 [3].
# A.2 Input parameters for Ks_local key derivation
In the key establishment between a UICC and a terminal, the input parameters
for the key derivation function shall be the following:
  * FC = 0x01,
  * P0 = B-TID,
  * L0 = length of B-TID is variable (not greater than 65535),
  * P1 = Terminal_ID,
  * L1 = length of Terminal ID is variable (not greater than 10 octets),
\- P2 = ICCID,
\- L2 = length of ICCID is variable (not greater than 10 octets),
\- P3 = Terminal_appli_ID,
\- L3 = length of Terminal_appli_ID is variable (not greater than 32 octets),
\- P4 = UICC_appli_ID,
\- L4 = length of UICC_appli_ID is variable (not greater than 16 octets),
\- P5 = RANDx,
\- L5 = length of RANDx is variable (not greater than 16 octets).
\- P6 = Counter Limit.
\- L6 = length of Counter Limit is 16 octets.
> In case that derived key Ks_local has to be established per platform, the
> UICC_appli_ID and the Terminal_appli_ID octet strings equal to static ASCII-
> encoded string \"p _latform_ \"_._
###### ## Annex B (normative): Key establishment UICC-Terminal interface
This annex describes the UICC-Terminal interface to be used to derive Ks_local
key in the UICC when there is the establishement of a shared key Ks_local
between a UICC and a Terminal.
# B.1 Local Key Establishment: Key Derivation procedure
This procedure is part of the key establishment to share Ks_local key between
a UICC and a Terminal.
The Terminal has previously performed a GBA_U bootstrapping procedure and
subsequent GBA_U NAF Derivation procedure, as described in TS 33.220 [3], with
the NAF Key Center. The UICC stores the corresponding Ks_int_NAF and
associated B-TID together with the NAF_ID of the NAF Key Center.
The NAF_ID of the NAF Key Center is stored on the UICC. This value shall be
accessible by the Terminal.
The Terminal sends to the UICC the list of parameters described in the
Terminal request for Ks_local generation in clause 4.5.2.
The UICC uses the NAF_ID to retrieve Ks_int_NAF associated to the NAF Key
Center. The UICC derives Ks_local from Ks_int_NAF as described in clause
4.5.2.
After successful Ks_local key derivation, the UICC stores Ks_local and
associated parameters as described in clause 4.5.2.
Ks_local identifier consists of the concatenation of NAF_ID, Terminal_ID,
UICC_ID, Term_appli_ID, UICC_appli_ID and RANDx.
In case that the UICC does not have enough storage available for the generated
Ks_local and associated parameters, the UICC shall overwrite an existing
Ks_local and associated parameters. To determine the Ks_local to overwrite,
the UICC shall construct a list of Ks_local identifiers by storing in the list
first position the Ks_local identifier of the last used or derived Ks_local
and by shifting down the remaining list elements. The last Ks_local identifier
in this list corresponds to the Ks_local to overwrite when the UICC runs out
of free memofy. If an existing Ks_local in use is overwritten, the application
using Ks_local shall not be affected.
Figure B.1
# B.2 Local Key Establishment: Key Availability Check procedure
This procedure takes place during the initiation of the key establishment
procedure where the Terminal checks if the UICC already stores a valid key
Ks_local required for the application communicating with the UICC.
The UICC has previously performed a Key Derivation procedure for the local key
establishment.
The Terminal sends either a Key Identifier of Ks_local or no parameter.
The UICC checks if a corresponding valid Ks_local is available. If a valid
Ks_local key is available a \"key availability status operation\" is returned.
In case no valid Ks_local key is available the command fails and a failure
message is returned.
Figure B.2
###### ## Annex C (normative): HTTP based key request procedure
# C.1 Introduction
Clause 4.5 specifies the HTTP based Key request procedure between the NAF Key
Center and the Terminal. It specifies how the Terminal retrieves the Ks_local
key from the NAF Key Center together with some associated parameters.
# C.2 Key request procedure
This clause contains the following HTTP based procedures:
\- Key request;
## C.2.1 Key request
The Terminal shall generate a request for Key Request according to clause
4.5.2. The Terminal shall send the Key Request to the NAF Key Center in the
HTTP payload in a HTTP POST request. The Request-URI shall indicate the type
of the message, i.e. Key Request. Upon successful request, NAF Key Center
shall return indication of success together with the Ks_local key.
The Terminal populates the HTTP POST request as follows:
\- the HTTP version shall be 1.1 which is specified in RFC 2616 [17];
\- the base of the Request-URI shall contain the full NAF Key Center key
establishmentURI (e.g. http://nafkeyCenter.home1.net:1234);
\- the Request-URI shall contain an URI parameter \"requesttype\" that shall
be set to \"key-request-UICCkey\", i.e. Request-URI takes the form of
\"/keyestablishment?requesttype=key-request-UICCkey\";
\- the Terminal may add additional URI parameters to the Request-URI;
\- the HTTP header Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload, i.e.
\"application/keyest-UICCkeyrequest+xml\". The XML schema of the payload is
specified in Annex E.1 in this specification;
\- the Terminal may add additional HTTP headers to the HTTP POST request.
The Terminal sends the HTTP POST to the NAF Key Center. The NAF Key Center
checks that the HTTP POST is valid, and extracts the Key request for further
processing. The NAF Key Center shall verify that the Terminal is authorized to
use this service according to clause 4.5.2.
Upon successful authorization verification, the NAF Key Center shall return
the HTTP 200 OK to the Terminal.
The NAF Key Center shall populate HTTP response as follows:
\- the HTTP status code in the HTTP status line shall be 200;
\- the HTTP header Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload, i.e.
\"application/keyest-keyresponse+xml\". The XML schema of the payload is
specified in Annex E.2 in this specification;
The NAF Key Center shall send the HTTP response to the Terminal. The Terminal
shall check that the HTTP response is valid.
## C.2.2 Error situations
The key request procedure may not be successful for multiple reasons. The
error cases are indicated by using 4xx and 5xx HTTP Status Codes as defined in
RFC 2616 [17]. The 4xx status code indicates that the Terminal seems to have
erred, and the 5xx status code indicates that the NAF Key Center is aware that
it has erred. Possible error situations during key establishment and their
mappings to HTTP Status Codes are described in table C.2.2.1.
NOTE: In table C.2.2.1, the \"Description\" column describes the error
situation in NAF Key Center. The \"NAF Key Center error\" column describes the
typical reason for the error.
The NAF Key Center shall send the HTTP response to the Terminal. The Terminal
shall check that the HTTP response is valid.
Table C.2.2-1: HTTP Status Codes used for key request errors
* * *
HTTP Status Code HTTP Error Terminal should repeat the request Description NAF
Key Center error 400 Bad Request No Request could not be understood Request
was missing, or malformed 401 Unauthorized Yes Not used by NAF Key Center -
402 Payment Required No Not used by NAF Key Center - 403 Forbidden No NAF Key
Center understood the request, but is refusing to fulfil it The request was
valid, but Terminal is not allowed to use this service 404 Not Found No NAF
Key Center has not found anything matching the Request‑URI The Request-URI was
malformed and NAF Key Center cannot fulfil the request 405 Method not allowed
No The method specified in the Request-Line is not allowed for the resource
identified by the Request-URI.  
406 to 417 * No Not used by NAF Key Center - 500 Internal Server Error No Not
used by NAF Key Center - 501 Not Implemented No NAF Key Center does not
support the requested functionality The server does not contain particular NAF
Key Center service requested 502 Bad Gateway No Not used by NAF Key Center -
503 Service Unavailable Yes NAF Key Center service is currently unavailable
NAF Key Center is temporarily unavailable, Terminal may repeat the request
after delay indicated by \"Retry-After\" header 504 Gateway Timeout No The
server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, did not receive a timely response
from the upstream server The NAF Key Center did not get response over Zn
interface. 505 HTTP Version Not Supported No NAF Key Center does not support
the HTTP protocol version that was used in the request line Terminal should
use HTTP/1.1 version with NAF Key Center
* * *
###### ## Annex D (informative): Signalling flows for key request procedure
# D.1 Introduction
This annex gives examples of signalling flows for using HTTP. It is assumed
that TLS with certificate based mutual-authentication has been established
before the HTTP signalling flow described in this section takes place.
The Terminal requests a Ks_local key from the NAF Key Center and an example of
the signalling flow of the key request procedure between the Terminal and the
NAF Key Center is given in clause D.2.
# D.2 Signalling flow demonstrating a successful key request procedure
The signalling flow in figure D.2-1 describes the generic message exchange
between a Terminal and an NAF Key Center using HTTP. The HTTP client
application resides in the Terminal.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="4.397222222222222in"}
Figure D.2-1: Successful key request procedure between Terminal and NAF Key
Center
**1\. Key request (Terminal to NAF Key Center)** \- see example in table D.2-1
The Terminal sends an HTTP request to the NAF Key Center containing a Key
request.
Table D.2‑1: Key request (Terminal to NAF Key Center)
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | POST /keyestablishment?requesttype=key-request-UICCkey HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: nafkeyCenter.home1.net:1234 | | | | Content-Type: application/keyest-UICCkeyrequest+xml | | | | Content-Length: (...) | | | | User-Agent: KeyestAgent; Release-7 | | | | Date: Thu, 27 June 2007 10:50:35 GMT | | | | Accept: */* | | | | Referrer: http://nafkeyCenter.home1.net:1234/service | | | | \ | +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
**Request-URI:** The Request-URI (the URI that follows the method name,
\"POST\", in the first line) indicates the resource of this POST request. The
Request-URI contains the parameter \"requesttype\" which is set to \"key-
request-UICCkey\" to indicate to the NAFKey Center the desired request type,
i.e. Terminal requests for a Ks_local key.
**Host:** Specifies the Internet host and port number of the NAF Key Center,
obtained from the original URI given by referring resource.
**Content-Type:** Contains the media type \"application/keyest-
UICCkeyrequest+xml\", i.e.Key request.
**Content-Length:** Indicates the size of the entity-body, in decimal number
of OCTETs, sent to the recipient.
**User-Agent:** Contains information about the user agent originating the
request and the release of it.
**Date:** Represents the date and time at which the message was originated.
**Accept:** Media types which are acceptable for the response.
**Referrer:** Allows the user agent to specify the address (URI) of the
resource from which the URI for the NAF Key Center was obtained.
2\. **Validation and blacklisting check**
The NAF Key Center will also verify that the DNS name in the realm attribute
matches the NAF Key Center hostname. If the conversation is taking place
inside a server-authenticated TLS tunnel, the NAF Key Center will also verify
that this DNS name is the same as that of the TLS server.
The NAF Key Center verifies that the Terminal is authorized to use this
service as described in clause 4.5.2. If the authorization succeeds, the
incoming client-payload request is taken in for further processing.
If the NAF Key Center does not have the NAF specific key material
(Ks_int_NAF), then the NAF Key Center retrieves that and one or more user
security setting (USS) from the BSF. For detailed signalling flows see 3GPP TS
29.109 [16].
3\. **Zn: NAF Key Center specific key procedure**
NAF Key Center retrieves the NAF specific key material and IMPI of the user.
For detailed signalling flows see TS 29.109 [16].
4\. **Key** **processing in the NAF Key Center**
NAF Key Center further derives the key establishment specific key material
Ks_local as specified in Annex A.
5\. **Response indicating success (NAF Key Center to Terminal)** \- see
example in table D.2-2
The NAF Key Center sends 200 OK response to the Terminal to indicate the
success of the Key request.
Table D.2-2: Key response (NAF Key Center to Terminal)
+------------------------------------------------------------------+ | POST /keyestablishment?requesttype=key-response-UICCkey HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: nafkeyCenter.home1.net:1234 | | | | Content-Type: application/keyest-UICCkeyresponse+xml | | | | Content-Length: (...) | | | | Date: Thu, 27 June 2007 10:50:35 GMT | | | | Accept: */* | | | | Referrer: http://nafkeyCenter.home1.net:1234/service | | | | \ | +------------------------------------------------------------------+
**Request-URI:** The Request-URI (the URI that follows the method name,
\"POST\", in the first line) indicates the resource of this POST request. The
Request-URI contains the parameter \"requesttype\" which is set to \"key-
response-UICCkey\" to indicate to the Terminal the desired response type, i.e.
responses with a Ks_local key.
**Host:** Specifies the Internet host and port number of the NAF Key Center,
obtained from the original URI given by referring resource.
**Content-Type:** Contains the media type \"application/keyest-
UICCkeyresponse+xml\", i.e.Key response.
**Content-Length:** Indicates the size of the entity-body, in decimal number
of OCTETs, sent to the recipient.
**Date:** Represents the date and time at which the message was originated.
**Accept:** Media types which are acceptable for the response.
**Referrer:** Allows the user agent to specify the address (URI) of the
resource from which the URI for the NAF Key Center was obtained.
6\. **Process response at Terminal**
The Terminal receives the response and accepts the server-payload for further
processing. The Terminal stores the Ks_local key, the Key Lifetime and B-TID
locally.
###### ## Annex E (normative): XML schema for Key Request and Key Response
# E.1 Introduction
This annex contains the XML schema which defines a format for the key request
sent from the Terminal to the NAF Key Center requesting a Ks_local key and for
the key response sent from the NAF Key Center to the Terminal containing the
Ks_local key, according to the procedures in section 4.5.2.
# E.2 Key Request Format
## E.2.1 Data Format
The below XML schema defines a format used to request a Ks_local key from the
NAF Key Center.
\
\
\
\
\
Keyest Key Request as defined by 3GPP TS 33.110
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## E.2.2 Example
The below example is used to request a new Ks_local key derived from a GBA key
with identity BTID \"jhg876jhg\", a TERMINAL ID \"64783934857\",
TERMINALAPPLIID \"7864934848\", UICCAPPLIID \"7864934849\" and RANDX
\"12259673\".
\
\
\jhg876jhg\
\64783934857\
\7864934848\
\7864934849\
\12259673\
\
# E.3 Key Response Format
## E.3.1 Data Format
The below XML schema defines a format used in the response to a Key request
from the Terminal according to the procedure in section 4.5.2.
\
\
\
\
\
Keyest Key Response as defined by 3GPP TS 33.110
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## E.3.2 Example
The below example is used in the key response from the NAF Key Center with
identity BTID \"jhg876jhg\", KSLOCAL \"64783934857\", KEYLIFETIME \"5675\" and
COUNTERLIMIT \"3443\".
\
\
\jhg876jhg\
\64783934857\
\5675\
\3443\
\
###### ## Annex F (normative): TLS profiles
This annex provides the TLS profiles.
# F.1 TLS profile for certificate based mutual authentication between Terminal
and NAF Key Center
## F.1.1 Introduction
The Terminal and the NAF Key Center shall support the TLS version as specified
in RFC 2246 [5] or higher. Earlier versions are not allowed.
NOTE 1: The management of Root Certificates is out of scope of this Technical
Specification.
The Terminal and the NAF Key Center shall support the server_name TLS
extension. All other TLS extensions as specified in RFC 3546 [6] are optional
for implementation.
### F.1.2 Protection mechanisms
The Terminal shall support the CipherSuite TLS_RSA_ WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA and
the CipherSuite TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA. All other Cipher Suites as
defined in RFC 2246 [5] and RFC 3268 [18] are optional for implementation for
the Terminal.
The NAF Key Center shall support the CipherSuite TLS_RSA_
WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA the CipherSuite and the CipherSuite
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA. All other Cipher Suites as defined in RFC 2246
[5] and RFC 3268 [18] are optional for implementation for the NAF Key Center.
Cipher Suites with NULL encryption are not allowed for use.
Cipher Suites with NULL integrity protection (or HASH) are not allowed for
use.
# F.2 TLS profile for Shared key-based mutual authentication between Terminal
and NAF Key Center
### F.2.1 Introduction
If the PSK TLS based authentication mechanism is supported, the HTTPS client
in the Terminal or the NAF Key Center shall support the TLS version as
specified in RFC 2246 [5], PSK TLS [19], or higher. Earlier versions are not
allowed.
The HTTPS client in the Terminal and the NAF Key Center shall support the
server_name TLS extension. All other TLS extensions as specified in RFC 3546
[6] are optional for implementation.
### F.2.2 Protection mechanisms
The Terminal shall support the CipherSuite TLS_PSK_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA and
the CipherSuite TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA. All other Cipher Suites as
defined in PSK TLS [19] are optional for implementation for the Terminal.
The NAF Key Centre shall support the CipherSuite
TLS_PSK_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHAand the CipherSuite TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA.
All other Cipher Suites as defined in PSK TLS [19] are optional for
implementation for the NAF Key Center.
Cipher Suites with NULL encryption are not allowed for use.
Cipher Suites with NULL integrity protection (or HASH) are not allowed for
use.
#