# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The need to establish a secure channel between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device connected via a local interface has been identified by the
Personal Network Management work (see TS 22.259 [4]), in order to protect the
communication between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device.
This document describes key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the security features and mechanisms to
provision a shared key between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device
connected via a local interface. The shared secret is then intended to be used
to secure the interface between the Remote Device and the UICC hosting device.
Candidate applications to use this key establishment mechanism include but are
not restricted to Personal Network Management (see TS 22.259 [4]).
The scope of this specification includes an architecture overview and the
detailed procedure how to establish the shared key between the UICC Hosting
Device and the Remote Device. This is different from the Technical
Specification TS 33.110 [6] that describes an architecture overview and the
detailed procedure how to establish the shared key between the UICC itself and
the terminal hosting the UICC. The use cases utilizing the mechanisms
described in this specification are seen to be different to the use cases
where \"Key establishment between a UICC and a terminal\", IETF RFC 4279 [6]
is utilized.
The solution described in this document is built on the existing
infrastructure defined in \"GBA\", TS 33.220 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Terminals; UICC-terminal interface; Physical and logical
characteristics\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.259: \"Service Requirements for Personal Network Management;
Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.110: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Key establishment between a UICC and a terminal\".
[6] IETF RFC 4279 (2005) \"Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer
Security (TLS)\".
[7] IETF RFC 2246 (1999): \"The TLS Protocol Version 1\".
[8] IETF RFC 3546 (2003): \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.109: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Zh and Zn
Interfaces based on the Diameter protocol; Stage 3\".
[10] 3GPP TR 33.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Recommendations for trusted
open platforms\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[12] NIST, FIPS PUB 180-2: \"Secure Hash Standard (SHS)\".
[13] IETF RFC 4634 (2006): US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and HMAC-SHA).
[14] IETF RFC 2104 (1997): \"HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication\".
[15] TCG Mobile Phone Specifications,
https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/mobilephone.
[16] TCG Trusted Network Connect (TNC) Specifications,
https://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specs/TNC.
[17] IETF RFC 2616 (1999): \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\".
[18] IETF RFC 3268 (1999): \" Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Ciphersuites
for Transport LayerSecurity (TLS)".
[19] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network domain security; Authentication framework
(NDS/AF)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**NAF Key Centre: Dedicated** NAF in charge of performing the key
establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device.
**UICC Hosting Device: The entity, which is physically connected to the UICC
used for key establishment between UICC Hosting Device and Remote Device. The
UICC Hosting Device may be the MT or the ME.**
**Remote Device** : A Remote Device is physically separated from the UICC
Hosting Device (e.g. PNE as defined in TS 22.259 [4]). The Remote Device may
host a UICC by itself but this UICC is not involved in the key establishment
between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device. For the purposes of the
present document, the term Remote Device denotes a trusted device that can
establish a shared key with a UICC Hosting Device.
NOTE 1: The definition of trusted devices is out of the scope of the
specification. It is assumed that the home network can decide whether a Remote
Device is trusted or not.
**Device_ID:** It identifies uniquely the Remote Device. The Device_ID of a ME
or MT is the IMEI and shall be encoded using BCD coding as defined in section
10.5.1.4 of [11].
NOTE 2: In case that the Remote Device is not a ME or MT the definition of the
type of Device_IDs is out of the scope of this specification.
**Local interface** : The interface between the Remote Device and the UICC
Hosting Device is named the local interface.
**Appl_ID** : It uniquely identifies an application in the UICC Hosting Device
and Remote Device. The Appl_ID is an octet string.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> B-TID Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
>
> BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GBA_ME ME-based GBA
GBA_U GBA with UICC-based enhancements
HSS Home Subscriber System
KDF Key Derivation Function
Ks_ext_NAF Derived key in GBA_U
Ks_NAF Derived key in GBA_ME
Ks_(ext)_NAF Combined abbreviation denoting Ks_NAF in case of GBA_ME and
Ks_ext_NAF in case of GBA_U
Ks_local_device Derived key, which is shared between a UICC hosting device and
a Remote Device
Ks_local_device_appl Derived key, which is shared between an application
residing in the UICC hosting device and the Remote Device
MAC Message Authentication Code
NAF Network Application Function
PNE Personal Network Element
SLF Subscriber Locator Function
USS User Security Setting
# 4 Key Establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device
## 4.1 Reference model
A Remote Device, which for example could be a PNE as defined in TS 22.259 [4]
or any other Remote Device containing a Ua application according to this
specification, is connected to a UICC Hosting Device, via a local interface.
The communication over the local interface could take place via for example
Bluetooth, USB, IR or a serial cable.
GBA_ME or GBA_U is used to provision a shared key (i.e. Ks_local_device)
between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device. The shared key (i.e.
Ks_local_device) is derived by the UICC Hosting Device and the NAF Key Centre
from the Ks_ext_NAF or Ks_NAF residing in the UICC Hosting Device and NAF Key
Centre after a complete GBA run according to TS 33.220 [3].The NAF Key Centre
securely delivers Ks_local_device to the Remote Device through a TLS tunnel,
which is established between the NAF Key Centre and the Remote Device. The
Ks_local_device can then be used to secure the local interface between the
UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device.
Figure 4.1 shows a network model of the entities that utilize the bootstrapped
secrets, and the reference points used between them.
NOTE: The Remote Device might not have a direct connection to the NAF. In this
case the Remote Device can connect to the NAF Key Centre via the UICC hosting
device.
Figure 4.1: High level reference model
## 4.2 Network elements
### 4.2.1 General
This document is based on the architecture specified in TS 33.220 [3]. The
Network elements that are not explained in this section can be found in TS
33.220 [3].
### 4.2.2 NAF Key Centre
The NAF Key Centre is the NAF in charge of performing the Key Establishment
between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device.
## 4.3 Key establishment architecture and reference points
### 4.3.1 General
This document is based on the architecture specified in TS 33.220 [3]. The
Reference Points that are not explained in this section can be found in TS
33.220 [3] and TS 29.109 [9] (including GAA Service Type Code for this
specification).
### 4.3.2 Reference point Ub
The reference point Ub is implemented between the UICC Hosting Device and the
BSF as described in TS 33.220 [3]. The UICC Hosting Device runs the HTTP
Digest AKA protocol. This allows the UICC/UICC Hosting Device and the BSF to
generate the bootstrapping key Ks.
### 4.3.3 Reference point Ua
The reference point Ua is used to deliver Ks_local_device and the associated
parameters to the Remote Device.
### 4.3.4 Reference point Local interface
The reference point Local interface is used to initiate the Key establishment
procedure between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device. The UICC
Hosting Device sends a B-TID together with associated parameters on this
interface to allow the Remote Device to receive a Ks_local_device key from the
NAF Key Centre.
## 4.4 Requirements and principles for key establishment between a UICC
Hosting Device and a Remote Device
### 4.4.1 General requirements
The following requirements and principles are applicable to the procedure for
key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device:
\- The UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device shall be able to establish a
shared key (i.e. Ks_local_device);
\- The UICC Hosting Device shall be trusted;
NOTE 1: The definition of trusted UICC Hosting Device is out of scope of the
specification. The UICC Hosting Device could be compliant to requirements
defined in TCG Mobile Phone specifications [15] or 3GPP TR 33.905
"Recommendations for Trusted Open Platforms" [10].
\- The Remote Device shall be trusted;
NOTE 2: The definition of trusted Remote Device is out of scope of the
specification. The Remote Device could be compliant to requirements defined in
TCG specifications or TR 33.905 [10].
\- The shared key to establish between the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote
Device (i.e. Ks_local_device) shall not be exchanged on the interface between
the UICC Hosting Device and the Remote Device;
\- The Remote Device and the network shall be able to authenticate each other;
\- The server implementing the key establishment function (i.e. the NAF Key
Centre) needs to be trusted by the home operator to handle the authentication
parameters and the shared key;
\- The home network shall be able to control whether this Remote Device is
authorized to establish a shared key with the UICC Hosting Device;
\- The procedure for the key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device shall be access independent;
\- To the extent possible, existing protocols and infrastructure should be
reused.
### 4.4.2 Requirements on the Remote Device
The Remote Device shall support certificate-based mutual authentication as
defined in RFC 2246 [7] and RFC 3546 [8] in which case the Remote Device shall
be equipped with a valid Client Certificate or the Remote Device shall support
shared key based mutual authentication as defined in RFC 4279 [6] in which
case the Remote Device shall be equipped with a valid pre-shared key.
NOTE: Configuration of certificates and shared secrets is out of scope of the
present specification.
It may be possible to configure the NAF_ID of the NAF Key Centre in the Remote
Device.
### 4.4.3 Requirements on the UICC Hosting Device
The UICC Hosting Device shall implement GBA_ME and GBA_U as defined in TS
33.220 [3].
The UICC Hosting Device shall be capable of deriving the Ks_local_device key
from the Ks_(ext)_NAF key.
It shall be possible to configure the NAF_ID of the NAF Key Centre in the UICC
Hosting Device.
NOTE: The home operator could configure the NAF_ID of the NAF Key Centre by
utilising e.g. OMA Device Management.
### 4.4.4 Requirements on the UICC
The UICC may implement GBA_U as defined in TS 33.220 [3].
It shall be possible to configure the NAF_ID of the NAF Key Centre on the
UICC.
NOTE: The home operator could configure the NAF_ID of the NAF Key Centre by
utilising e.g. OTA commands.
### 4.4.5 Requirements on the NAF Key Centre
The NAF Key Centre shall support certificate-based mutual authentication as
defined in RFC 2246 [7] and RFC 3546 [8] and shared key based mutual
authentication as defined in RFC 4279 [6].
NOTE 1: Configuration of certificates and shared secrets is out of scope of
the present specification.
The NAF Key Centre shall be capable of determining whether a Remote Device is
trusted or not.
The NAF Key Centre shall be capable of determining whether the Remote Device
is authorized to establish a shared key.
The NAF Key Centre shall implement GBA_ME and GBA_U as defined in TS 33.220
[3].
The NAF Key Centre dedicated to the Key Establishment Mechanism may be located
in the Home Network.
NOTE2: If the NAF Key Centre is not located in the home network, then the
mobile network operator can not control directly the handing out of
credentials from the NAF Key Centre. Therefore, the network hosting the NAF
Key Centre and the home network need to have a strong trust relationship with
the NAF Key Centre provider. The operator can use USS for control information
for the NAF Key Centre.
If the NAF Key Centre is also offering his services to subscribers that are
not subscribed to the same operator that hosts the NAF Key Centre, then the
NAF Key Centre shall support USS.
If a network operator intends to support NAF Key Centre in a visited network
for his subscribers, then the UE or the Remote Device shall be equipped with a
TLS certificate of the NAF Key Centre in the visited network signed by the
home operator or cross certification as outlined in [19] may be used. The NAF
Key Centre in a visited network shall be able to validate the TLS certificate
presented by the Remote Device.
Editor's Note: The usage of PSK TLS for the visited network case is for
further study and evaluation.
The NAF Key Centre shall be capable of deriving the Ks_local_device key from
the Ks_(ext)_NAF key.
### 4.4.6 Requirements on Ks_local_device key and associated parameters
handling in Remote Device
One key (i.e. Ks_local_device) shall be established per UICC Hosting Device
and Remote Device pair. One established Ks_local_device key shall only be
shared between one specific UICC Hosting Device and one specific Remote
Device.
NOTE: Further key derivations from the Ks_local_device are allowed to be used
at e.g. application layer, to be able to differentiate the keys to be used by
different applications (see example in Annex F).
The Remote Device receives the Ks_local_device key and the lifetime of the
Ks_local_device key from the NAF Key Centre on a secured interface.
The Remote Device shall delete the Ks_local_device key and the corresponding
key lifetime when at least one of the conditions below is met:
1 the key lifetime of the Ks_local_device key expires;
2 the Remote Device discovers that the UICC Hosting Device does not share the
same Ks_local_device key any more due to e.g. deletion.
### 4.4.7 Requirements on Ks_local_device key and associated parameters
handling in UICC Hosting Device
One key (i.e. Ks_local_device) shall be established per UICC Hosting Device
and Remote Device pair. One established Ks_local_device key shall only be
shared between one specific UICC Hosting Device and one specific Remote
Device.
NOTE: Further key derivations from the Ks_local_device are allowed to be used
at e.g. application layer, to be able to differentiate the keys to be used by
different applications. However, this is out of the scope in this
specification.
The lifetime of Ks_local_device key in the UICC Hosting Device shall not
exceed the lifetime of the Ks_(ext)_NAF key.
The UICC Hosting Device shall delete the Ks_local_device key and the
corresponding parameters when the key lifetime of the Ks_local_device expires.
The UICC Hosting Device shall handle the Ks key and the NAF specific keys
(i.e. Ks_NAF, Ks_ext_NAF and Ks_local_device) and related parameters as
described in clause 4.4.11 of TS 33.220 [3]. This means that the
Ks_local_device key shall be handled in the same way as the Ks_(ext)_NAF key
is handled in clause 4.4.11 of TS 33.220 [3], i.e. as a NAF specific key.
## 4.5 Procedures
### 4.5.1 Initiation of key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a
Remote Device
If the Remote Device has a Ks_local_device key stored for a particular UICC
Hosting Device, then the Remote Device should attempt to use the
Ks_local_device key or the derived key material from it, with the UICC Hosting
Device. If this fails due to the UICC Hosting Device not sharing the same
Ks_local_device key, then the Remote Device shall initiate a new request to
the UICC Hosting Device to initiate a new key establishment procedure as
described in clause 4.5.2 in order to establish a new Ks_local_device key.
If the UICC Hosting Device has a Ks_local_device stored for a particular
Remote Device then the UICC Hosting Device should attempt to use the
Ks_local_device key or the derived key material from it, with the Remote
Device. The UICC Hosting Device does not know whether the Remote Device has
deleted the Ks_local_device key or not. If the UICC Hosting Device receives an
error due to the Remote Device not sharing the same Ks_local device key, then
the UICC Hosting Device should trigger the Remote Device to send a new request
to the UICC Hosting Device to establish a new Ks_local device key.
NOTE: The UICC Hosting Device needs a unique way to distinguish or map
different Ks_local_device keys to different Remote Devices and vice versa.
This is out of the scope of this specification.
### 4.5.2 Key establishment procedure
Figure 4-2: Key establishment procedure
1\. The Remote Device has no valid Ks_local_device key stored.
2\. If the Remote Device has no list of NAF_ID\'s with NAF Key Centre
functionality, then the Remote Device sends a request to the UICC Hosting
Device to send a list of available NAF_ID\'s with NAF Key Centre functionality
stored in the UICC Hosting Device. If the Remote Device has such a list and
knows which NAF-ID to take, it immediately proceeds with step 5.
3\. The UICC Hosting Device sends its list of available NAF-ID\'s with NAF Key
Centre functionality to the Remote Device.
4\. The Remote Device selects a NAF-ID with NAF Key Centre functionality from
the list provided by the UICC Hosting Device or proposes a NAF-ID stored in
it\'s own memory.
5\. The Remote Device sends a request to the UICC Hosting Device for a B-TID.
The Remote Device includes parameters NAF_ID in order for the UICC Hosting
Device to be able to calculate a new Ks_(ext)_NAF.
_6\. If the UICC Hosting Device does not have a valid B-TID, then_ the UICC
Hosting Device performs a new bootstrapping procedure. _The UICC Hosting
Device asks for a complete GBA run: a GBA bootstrapping procedure and a GBA_ME
-- or a GBA_U - NAF Derivation procedure_.
7\. When the GBA run has been completed then the UICC provides a Ks_ext_NAF
key to the UICC Hosting Device if GBA_U has been used; or the CK and IK to the
UICC Hosting Device if GBA_ME has been used. If GBA_ME has been used, then the
UICC Hosting Device further derives Ks and Ks_NAF.
8\. The UICC Hosting Device sends a response including the B-TID and NAF_ID to
the Remote Device.
9\. The Remote Device and the NAF Key Centre establish a secure tunnel. The
secure tunnel may be a HTTPS tunnel with certificate based mutual
authentication (cf. RFC 2246 [7] and RFC 3546 [8]) or based on a shared key
based mutual authentication between the Remote Device and the NAF Key Centre
(cf. RFC 4279 [6]).
NOTE 1: One potential way to reach a trusted state is if the Remote Device is
compliant with the requirements defined in TCG (Trusted Computing Group) MPWG
(Mobile Phone Working Group) Mobile Phone Specifications [15]. In PC-based TCG
technology [16], HTTPS tunnel establishment can be bound to the trust status
of the Remote Device, through the attestations of relevant trusted engine of
the Remote Device. Thus, HTTPS tunnel establishment may in the future be
possible only if the Remote Device is in a trusted state.
The psk_identity_hint shall be used by the server to indicate to the PSK TLS
client which PSK to use. The pre-shared key is pre-administrated to the Remote
Device and NAF Key Centre.
NOTE 2: If other PSKs are allowed, then the psk_identity_hint needs to be
specified in the relevant key specifications.
If several PSKs are allowed, then the different hints are separated by semi-
colon The usage of the psk_identity_hint in PSK TLS handshake is out of scope
of this specification.
10\. The Remote Device sends a \"service request\" message to the NAF Key
Centre node in the mobile operator network. The message is sent within the
secure tunnel.
The request contains the following payload: the identity (B_TID) and the
Remote Device identifier (Device_ID) requiring the establishment of key
Ks_local_device.
_11\. If the_ Device_ID is IMEI _, then_ the NAF Key Centre shall check if the
Device_ID is blocked (blacklisted) and if so, it shall not proceed with the
key establishment procedure but responds with an appropriate error code and
terminates the secure connection with the remote device. _If the Device_ID is
not IMEI, then_ the NAF Key Centre should, if applicable, check if the
Device_ID is blocked (blacklisted) and if so, it shall not proceed with the
key establishment procedure but responds with an appropriate error code and
terminates the secure connection with the remote device.
NOTE 3: Details of how blacklisting is implemented are out of scope of the
present specification.
12\. The NAF Key Centre contacts the BSF and sends the identity B_TID in a
credential request.
13\. The BSF returns the shared secret Ks_(ext)_NAF to the NAF Key Centre.
14\. The NAF Key Centre shall behave as follows:
a) If the NAF Key _Centre_ has requested a USS, and if the USS indicates to
the NAF Key _Centre_ that the key establishment procedure is not allowed for
the targeted user, then the NAF Key _Centre_ shall respond with appropriate
error code and terminate the secure connection with the Remote Device.
b) The NAF Key Centre calculates the Ks_local_device key from the
Ks_(ext)_NAF, B-TID, NAF_ID and Device_ID and stores it locally. The NAF Key
_Centre_ associates a key lifetime to the derived key Ks_local_device.
15\. The NAF Key Centre sends within HTTPS tunnel a request response message
to the Remote Device with the following payload: B-TID, Ks_local_device, Key
Lifetime.
16\. The Remote Device stores Ks_local_device and associated Key Lifetime.
17\. The Remote Device sends a response to the UICC Hosting Device to indicate
that the key establishment procedure with NAF Key Centre is now completed. The
Remote Device sends the NAF_ID corresponding to the NAF Key Centre, Device-ID,
B-TID and the Key lifetime to the UICC Hosting Device. The Remote Device also
includes a MAC which is computed as MAC = HMAC-SHA-256(Ks_local_device, NAF-ID
\|\| Device-ID \|\| B-TID) truncated to 16 octets, where HMAC-SHA-256 with
truncation is defined in [12], [13], [14].
18\. The UICC Hosting Device retrieves the Ks_(ext)_NAF associated with the
received NAF_ID and B-TID. If the requested association is authorised, then
the UICC Hosting Device derives Ks_local_device key. The UICC Hosting Device
calculates the Ks_local_device key from the Ks_(ext)_NAF, B-TID, NAF_ID and
Device_ID and stores it locally (see Annex A).
The UICC Hosting Device verifies the MAC value received from the Remote Device
by computing MAC\' = HMAC-SHA-256(Ks_local_device, NAF_ID \|\| Device_ID \|\|
B-TID) truncated to 16 octets. If the MAC\' does not equal MAC, then the UICC
Hosting Device terminates the key agreement procedure and returns a MAC
verification failure message in response to the Ks_local_device derivation
request.
19\. If MAC\'=MAC then the UICC Hosting Device stores Ks_local_device and
associated parameters as Device_ID. The UICC Hosting Device then sends to the
Remote Device a Ks_local_device derivation response containing a MAC of the
ASCII-encoded string \"verification successful\" using the key Ks_local_device
and the MAC algorithm HMAC-SHA-256 [13] truncated to 16 octets [14].
###### ## Annex A (normative): Key Derivation Function definition
# A.1 Platform specific key (Ks_local_device): Ks_local_device key derivation
in key establishment
The description of this key derivation function KDF and input parameter
encoding can be found in TS 33.220 [3]. The key derivation function KDF in
this document shall be implemented as defined in TS 33.220 [3].
# A.2 Input parameters for Ks_local_device key derivation
In the key establishment between a UICC Hosting Device and a Remote Device,
the input parameters for the key derivation function shall be the following:
\- FC = 0x01,
\- P0 = Device_ID,
\- L0 = length of Device ID is variable (not greater than 10 octets),
\- P1 = B-TID,
\- L1 = length of B-TID is variable (not greater than 65535),
\- P2 = NAF_ID,
\- L2 = length of NAF_ID is variable (not greater than 65535).
The input parameter Key to the key derivation function defined in TS 33.220
[3] shall be the Ks_ext_NAF or the Ks_NAF key.
###### ## Annex B (normative): HTTP based key request procedure
# B.1 Introduction
Clause 4.5 specifies the HTTP based Key request procedure between the NAF Key
Centre and the Remote Device. It specifies how the Remote Device retrievs the
Ks_local_device key from the NAF Key Centre together with some associated
parameters.
# B.2 Key request procedure
This clause contains the following HTTP based procedures:
\- Key request;
## B.2.1 Key request
The Remote Device shall generate a request for Key Request according to clause
4.5.2. The Remote Device shall send the Key Request to the NAF Key Centre in
the HTTP payload in a HTTP POST request. The Request-URI shall indicate the
type of the message, i.e. Key Request. Upon successful request, NAF Key Centre
shall return indication of success together with the Ks_local_device key.
The Remote Device populates the HTTP POST request as follows:
\- the HTTP version shall be 1.1 which is specified in RFC 2616 [17];
\- the base of the Request-URI shall contain the full NAF Key Centre key
establishmentURI (e.g. http://nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234);
\- the Request-URI shall contain an URI parameter \"requesttype\" that shall
be set to \"key-request-devicekey\", i.e. Request-URI takes the form of
\"/keyestablishment?requesttype=key-request-devicekey\";
\- the Remote Device may add additional URI parameters to the Request-URI;
\- the HTTP header Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload, i.e.
\"application/keyest-devicekeyrequest+xml\". The XML schema of the payload is
specified in Annex D.1 in this specification;
\- the Remote Device may add additional HTTP headers to the HTTP POST request.
The Remote Device sends the HTTP POST to the NAF Key Centre. The NAF Key
Centre checks that the HTTP POST is valid, and extracts the Key request for
further processing. The NAF Key Centre shall verify that the Remote Device is
authorized to use this service according to clause 4.5.2.
Upon successful authorization verification, the NAF Key Centre shall return
the HTTP 200 OK to the Remote Device.
The NAF Key Centre shall populate HTTP response as follows:
\- the HTTP status code in the HTTP status line shall be 200;
\- the HTTP header Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload, i.e.
\"application/keyest-keyresponse+xml\". The XML schema of the payload is
specified in Annex D.2 in this specification;
The NAF Key Centre shall send the HTTP response to the Remote Device. The
Remote Device shall check that the HTTP response is valid.
## B.2.2 Error situations
The key request procedure may not be successful for multiple reasons. The
error cases are indicated by using 4xx and 5xx HTTP Status Codes as defined in
RFC 2616 [17]. The 4xx status code indicates that the Remote Device seems to
have erred, and the 5xx status code indicates that the NAF Key Centre is aware
that it has erred. Possible error situations during key establishment and
their mappings to HTTP Status Codes are described in table B.2.2.1.
NOTE: In table B.2.2.1, the \"Description\" column describes the error
situation in NAF Key Centre. The \"NAF Key Centre error\" column describes the
typical reason for the error.
The NAF Key Centre shall send the HTTP response to the Remote Device. The
Remote Device shall check that the HTTP response is valid.
Table B.2.2-1: HTTP Status Codes used for key request errors
* * *
HTTP Status Code HTTP Error Remote Device should repeat the request
Description NAF Key Centre error 400 Bad Request No Request could not be
understood Request was missing, or malformed 401 Unauthorized Yes Not used by
NAF Key Centre - 402 Payment Required No Not used by NAF Key Centre - 403
Forbidden No NAF Key Centre understood the request, but is refusing to fulfil
it The request was valid, but Remote Device is not allowed to use this service
404 Not Found No NAF Key Centre has not found anything matching the
Request‑URI The Request-URI was malformed and NAF Key Centre cannot fulfil the
request 405 Method not allowed No The method specified in the Request-Line is
not allowed for the resource identified by the Request-URI.  
406 to 417 * No Not used by NAF Key Centre - 500 Internal Server Error No Not
used by NAF Key Centre - 501 Not Implemented No NAF Key Centre does not
support the requested functionality The server does not contain particular NAF
Key Centre service requested 502 Bad Gateway No Not used by NAF Key Centre -
503 Service Unavailable Yes NAF Key Centre service is currently unavailable
NAF Key Centre is temporarily unavailable, Remote Device may repeat the
request after delay indicated by \"Retry-After\" header 504 Gateway Timeout No
The server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, did not receive a timely
response from the upstream server The NAF Key Centre did not get response over
Zn interface. 505 HTTP Version Not Supported No NAF Key Centre does not
support the HTTP protocol version that was used in the request line Remote
Device should use HTTP/1.1 version with NAF Key Centre
* * *
###### ## Annex C (informative): Signalling flows for key request procedure
# C.1 Introduction
This annex gives examples of signalling flows for using HTTP. It is assumed
that TLS with certificate based mutual-authentication or PSK-TLS has been
established before the HTTP signalling flow described in this section takes
place.
The Remote Device requests a Ks_local_device key from the NAF Key Centre and
an example of the signalling flow of the key request procedure between the
Remote Device and the NAF Key Centre is given in clause C.2.
# C.2 Signalling flow demonstrating a successful key request procedure
The signalling flow in figure C.2-1 describes the generic message exchange
between a Remote Device and an NAF Key Centre using HTTP. The HTTP client
application resides in the Remote Device.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="4.397222222222222in"}
Figure C.2-1: Successful key request procedure between Remote Device and NAF
Key Centre
**1\. Key request (Remote Device to NAF Key Centre)** \- see example in table
C.2-1
The Remote Device sends an HTTP request to the NAF Key Centre containing a Key
request.
Table C.2‑1: Key request (Remote Device to NAF Key Centre)
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | POST /keyestablishment?requesttype=key-request-devicekey HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234 | | | | Content-Type: application/keyest-devicekeyrequest+xml | | | | Content-Length: (...) | | | | User-Agent: KeyestAgent; Release-7 | | | | Date: Thu, 27 June 2007 10:50:35 GMT | | | | Accept: */* | | | | Referrer: http://nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234/service | | | | \ | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
**Request-URI:** The Request-URI (the URI that follows the method name,
\"POST\", in the first line) indicates the resource of this POST request. The
Request-URI contains the parameter \"requesttype\" which is set to \"key-
request-devicekey\" to indicate to the NAFKey Centre the desired request type,
i.e. Remote Device requests for a Ks_local_device key.
**Host:** Specifies the Internet host and port number of the NAF Key Centre,
obtained from the original URI given by referring resource.
**Content-Type:** Contains the media type \"application/keyest-
devicekeyrequest+xml\", i.e.Key request.
**Content-Length:** Indicates the size of the entity-body, in decimal number
of OCTETs, sent to the recipient.
**User-Agent:** Contains information about the user agent originating the
request and the release of it.
**Date:** Represents the date and time at which the message was originated.
**Accept:** Media types which are acceptable for the response.
**Referrer:** Allows the user agent to specify the address (URI) of the
resource from which the URI for the NAF Key Centre was obtained.
2\. **Validation and blacklisting check**
The NAF Key Centre will also verify that the DNS name in the realm attribute
matches the NAF Key Centre hostname. If the conversation is taking place
inside a server-authenticated TLS tunnel, the NAF Key Centre will also verify
that this DNS name is the same as that of the TLS server.
The NAF Key Centre verifies that the Remote Device is authorized to use this
service as described in clause 4.5.2. If the authorization succeeds, the
incoming client-payload request is taken in for further processing.
If the NAF Key Centre does not have the NAF specific key material (Ks_NAF or
Ks_ext_NAF), then the NAF Key Centre retrieves that and one or more user
security setting (USS) from the BSF. For detailed signalling flows see 3GPP TS
29.109 [9].
3\. **Zn: NAF Key Centre specific key procedure**
NAF Key Centre retrieves the NAF specific key material and IMPI of the user.
For detailed signalling flows see TS 29.109 [9].
4\. Key **processing in the NAF Key Centre**
NAF Key Centre further derives the key establishment specific key material
Ks_local_device as specified in Annex A.
5\. **Response indicating success (NAF Key Centre to Remote Device)** \- see
example in table C.2-2
The NAF Key Centre sends 200 OK response to the Remote Device to indicate the
success of the Key request.
Table C.2-2: Key response (NAF Key Centre to Remote Device)
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | POST /keyestablishment?requesttype=key-response-devicekey HTTP/1.1 | | | | Host: nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234 | | | | Content-Type: application/keyest-devicekeyresponse+xml | | | | Content-Length: (...) | | | | Date: Thu, 27 June 2007 10:50:35 GMT | | | | Accept: */* | | | | Referrer: http://nafkeycentre.home1.net:1234/service | | | | \ | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
**Request-URI:** The Request-URI (the URI that follows the method name,
\"POST\", in the first line) indicates the resource of this POST request. The
Request-URI contains the parameter \"requesttype\" which is set to \"key-
response-devicekey\" to indicate to the Remote Device the desired response
type, i.e. UICC Hosting Device responses with a Ks_local_device key.
**Host:** Specifies the Internet host and port number of the NAF Key Centre,
obtained from the original URI given by referring resource.
**Content-Type:** Contains the media type \"application/keyest-
devicekeyresponse+xml\", i.e.Key response.
**Content-Length:** Indicates the size of the entity-body, in decimal number
of OCTETs, sent to the recipient.
**Date:** Represents the date and time at which the message was originated.
**Accept:** Media types which are acceptable for the response.
**Referrer:** Allows the user agent to specify the address (URI) of the
resource from which the URI for the NAF Key Centre was obtained.
6\. **Process response at Remote Device**
The Remote Device receives the response and accepts the server-payload for
further processing. The Remote Device stores the Ks_local_device key, the Key
Lifetime and B-TID locally.
###### ## Annex D (normative): XML schema for Key Request and Key Response
# D.1 Introduction
This annex contains the XML schema which defines a format for the key request
sent from the Remote Device to the NAF Key Centre requesting a Ks_local_device
key and for the key response sent from the NAF Key Centre to the Remote Device
containing the Ks_local_device key, according to the procedures in section
4.5.2.
# D.2 Key Request Format
## D.2.1 Data Format
The below XML schema defines a format used to request a Ks_local_device key
from the NAF Key Centre.
\
\
\
\
\
Keyest Key Request as defined by 3GPP TS 33.259
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## D.2.2 Example
The below example is used to request a new Ks_local_device key derived from a
GBA key with identity BTID \"jhg876jhg\"and a DEVICE ID \"64783934857\".
\
\
\jhg876jhg\
\64783934857\
\
# D.3 Key Response Format
## D.3.1 Data Format
The below XML schema defines a format used in the response to a Key request
from the Remote Device according to the procedure in section 4.5.2.
\
\
\
\
\
Keyest Key Response as defined by 3GPP TS 33.259
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## D.3.2 Example
The below example is used in the key response from the NAF Key Centre with
identity BTID \"jhg876jhg\", KSLOCALDEVICE \"64783934857\" and a KEYLIFETIME
\"5675\".
\
\
\jhg876jhg\
\64783934857\
\5675\
\
###### ## Annex E (normative): TLS profiles
The Remote Device and NAF Key Centre shall use the TLS profiles defined in TS
33.110 [5] for TLS with certificate based mutual authentication and PSK-TLS.
###### ## Annex F (informative): Application specific key
(Ks_local_device_appl)
This Annex gives an example on how the applications in the UICC Hosting Device
and Remote Device could derive further key material (Ks_local_device_appl)
from the Ks_local_device key.
# F.1 Example of Ks_local_device_appl key derivation in key establishment
The applications in the UICC Hosting Device and Remote Device could use the
Ks_local_device key to derive further key material, which is application
specific, to ensure that different applications in the UICC Hosting Device and
Remote Device use different keys.
Application specific key material could be computed in the UICC Hosting Device
and the Remote Device as:\ Ks_local_device_appl = KDF (Ks_local_device, B-TID,
Appli_ID), where KDF is the key derivation function as specified in Annex G,
and the key derivation parameters consist of the Appli_ID and the B-TID.
NOTE: The definition of the Appli_ID is out of the scope of this
specification. The Appli_ID could be defined in an application specification
utilising the key establishment procedure. The Appli_ID could also be
exchanged on the Local Interface between the applications to initiate the key
derivation of the application specific key material.
###### ## Annex G (informative): Application specific key
(Ks_local_device_appl): Key Derivation Function definition
# G.1 Ks_local_device_appl key derivation in key establishment
The description of this key derivation function KDF and input parameter
encoding can be found in TS 33.220 [3]. The key derivation function KDF in
this annex is implemented as defined in TS 33.220 [3].
# G.2 Input parameters for Ks_local_device_appl key derivation
When the application specific key (i.e. Ks_local_device_appl) is computed, the
input parameters for the key derivation function could be the following:
\- FC = 0x01,
\- P0 = Appl_ID,
\- L0 = length of Appl_ID is variable (not greater than 65535),
\- P1 = B-TID,
\- L1 = length of B-TID is variable (not greater than 65535),
The input parameter Key to the key derivation function defined in TS 33.220
[3] shall be the Ks_local_device key.
#