# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
3GPP IMS provides an IP-based session control capability based on the SIP
protocol. IMS can be used to enable services such as push-to-talk, instant
messaging, presence and conferencing. It is understood that \"early\"
implementations of these services will exist that are not fully compliant with
3GPP IMS. For example, it has been recognized that although 3GPP IMS uses
exclusively IPv6, as specified in clause 5.1 of TS 23.221 [13], there will
exist IMS implementations based on IPv4 (TR 23.981 [1]).
Non-compliance with IPv6 is not the only difference between early IMS
implementations and fully 3GPP compliant implementations. In particular, it is
expected that there will be a need to deploy some IMS-based services before
products are available which fully support the 3GPP IMS security features
defined in TS 33.203 [2]. Non-compliance with TS 33.203 security features is
expected to be a problem mainly at the UE side, because of the potential lack
of support of the USIM/ISIM interface (especially in 2G-only devices) and
because of the potential inability to support IPsec on some UE platforms.
Although full support of 3GPP TS 33.203 security features is preferred from a
security perspective, it is acknowledged that early IMS implementations will
exist which do not support these features. Therefore, there is a need to
ensure that simple, yet adequately secure, mechanisms are in place to protect
against the most significant security threats that will exist in early IMS
implementations.
# 1 Scope
The present document documents an interim security solution for early IMS
implementations that are not fully compliant with the IMS security
architecture specified in TS 33.203 [2]. For security reasons, the provisions
in this TR only apply to IMS procedures used over the 3GPP PS domain.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 23.981: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Interworking aspects and
migration scenarios for IPv4 based IMS Implementations\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G security; Access security
for IP-based services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS); Stage \".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Interworking between the Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks
(PDN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; General Packet Radio Service
(GPRS); Service description; Stage 2\".
[6] IETF RFC 3261: \"Session Initiation Protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP);
Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx
interfaces; Signalling flows and message contents\".
[11] IETF RFC 4005 \"Diameter Network Access Server Application\",.
[12] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter
protocol; Protocol details\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.221: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Architectural requirements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.141: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Presence service; security
\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.328 \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network;IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Sh interface;
signalling flows and message contents\"
[16] 3GPP TS 29.329 \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network;IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Sh interface;
Protocol details \"
[17] 3GPP TS 24.109 \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Bootstrapping interface (Ub)
and network application function interface (Ua); Protocol details \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 21.905 [9] and the following apply.
**Early IMS:** a UE or network element implementing the early IMS security
solution specified in the present document.
**Fully compliant IMS** : a UE or network element implementing the IMS
security solution specified in TS 33.203 [2].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Cx Reference Point between a CSCF and an HSS.
Gi Reference point between GPRS and an external packet data network
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAA Authentication Authorisation Accounting
> ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur Form
APN Access Point Name
AVP Attribute-Value Pair
CSCF Call/Session Control Function
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
HSS Home Subscriber Server
I-CSCF Interrogating CSCF
ICID IM CN subsystem Charging Identifier
IM IP Multimedia
IMPI IM Private Identity
IMPU IM Public Identity
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
IPSec IP Security protocol
ISIM IMS Subscriber Identity Module
NAT Network Address Translation
P-CSCF Proxy-CSCF
PDP Packet Data Protocol
RFC Request For Comments
S-CSCF Serving-CSCF
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SLF Server Locator Function
UE User Equipment
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Requirements
**Low impact on existing entities:** Any early IMS security mechanisms should
be such that impacts on existing entities, especially on the UE, are minimised
and would be quick to implement. It is especially important to minimise impact
on the UE to maximise interoperability with early IMS UEs. The mechanisms
should be quick to implement so that the window of opportunity for the early
IMS security solution is not missed.
**Adequate level of security** : Although it is recognised that the early IMS
security solution will be simpler than the fully compliant IMS security
solution, it should still provide an adequate level of security to protect
against the most significant security threats that will exist in early IMS
implementations. As a guide, the strength of subscriber authentication should
be comparable to the level of authentication provided for existing chargeable
services in mobile networks.
**Smooth and cost effective migration path to fully compliant solution:**
Clearly, any security mechanisms developed for early IMS systems will provide
a lower level of protection compared with that offered by the fully compliant
IMS security solution. The security mechanisms developed for early IMS systems
should therefore be considered as an interim solution and migration to the
fully compliant IMS security solution should take place as soon as suitable
products become available at an acceptable cost. In particular, the early IMS
security solution should not be used as a long-term replacement for the fully
compliant IMS security solution. It is important that the early IMS security
solution allows a smooth and cost-effective migration path to the fully
compliant IMS security solution.
**Co-existence with fully compliant solution:** It is clear that UEs
supporting the early IMS security solution will need to be supported even
after fully compliant IMS UEs are deployed. The early IMS security solution
should therefore be able to co-exist with the fully compliant IMS security
solution. In particular, it shall be possible for the SIP/IP core to
differentiate between a subscription using early IMS security mechanisms and a
subscription using the fully compliant IMS security solution.
**Protection against bidding down:** It should not be possible for an attacker
to force the use of the early IMS security solution when both the UE and the
network support the fully compliant IMS security solution.
**No restrictions on the type of charging model:** Compared with fully
compliant IMS security solution, the early IMS security solution should not
impose any restrictions on the type of charging model that can be adopted.
**A single early IMS security solution:** Interfaces that are impacted by the
early IMS security solution should be adequately documented to ensure
interoperability between vendors.
**Support access over 3GPP PS domain:** It is a requirement is to support
secure access over the 3GPP PS domain (including GSM/GPRS and UMTS access).
**Low impact on provisioning:** The impact on provisioning should be low
compared with the fully compliant IMS security solution.
# 5 Threat scenarios
To understand what controls are needed to address the security requirements,
it is useful to describe some of the threat scenarios.
NOTE: There are many other threats, which are outside the scope of this TR.
## 5.1 Impersonation on IMS level using the identity of an innocent user
The scenario proceeds as follows:
\- Attacker A attaches to GPRS, GGSN allocates IP address, IP~A~
\- Attacker A registers in the IMS using his IMS identity, ID~A~
\- Attacker A sends SIP invite using his own source IP address (IP~A~) but
with the IMS identity of B (ID~B~).
If the binding between the IP address on the bearer level, and the public and
private user identities is not checked then the attacker will succeed, i.e. A
pays for IP connectivity but IMS service is fraudulently charged to B. The
fraud situation is made worse if IP flow based charging is used to \'zero
rate\' the IP connectivity.
The major problem is however that without this binding multiple users within a
group \"of friends\" could sequentially (or possibly simultaneously) share
B\'s private/public user identities, and thus all get (say) the push-to-talk
service by just one of the group paying a monthly subscription. Without
protection against this attack, operators could be restricted to IP
connectivity based tariffs and, in particular, would be unable to offer
bundled tariffs. This is unlikely to provide sufficiently flexibility in
today\'s market place.
## 5.2 IP spoofing
The scenario proceeds as follows:
\- User B attaches to GPRS, GGSN allocates IP address, IP~B~
\- User B registers in the IMS using his IMS identity, ID~B~
\- Attacker A sends SIP messages using his own IMS identity (ID~A~) but with
the source IP address of B (IP~B~)
If the binding between the IP address that the GGSN allocated the UE in the
PDP context activation and the source IP address in subsequent packets is not
checked then the attacker will succeed, i.e. A pays for IMS service but IP
connectivity is fraudulently charged to B. Note that this attack only makes
sense for IMS services with outgoing traffic only because the attacker will
not receive any incoming packets addressed to the IMS identity that he is
impersonating.
## 5.3 Combined threat scenario
The scenario proceeds as follows:
\- User B attaches to GPRS, GGSN allocates IP address, IP~B~
\- User B registers in the IMS using his IMS identity, ID~B~
\- Attacker A sends SIP messages using IMS identity (ID~B~) and source IP
address (IP~B~)
If the bindings mentioned in the scenarios in clause 5.1 and 5.2 are not
checked then the attacker will succeed, i.e. A fraudulently charges both IP
connectivity and the IMS service to B. Note this attack only makes sense for
IMS services with outgoing traffic only because the attacker will not receive
any incoming packets addressed to the IMS identity that he is impersonating.
# 6 Specification
## 6.1 Overview
### 6.1.1 Security mechanism
The early IMS security solution works by creating a secure binding in the HSS
between the public/private user identity (SIP-level identity) and the IP
address currently allocated to the user at the GPRS level (bearer/network
level identity). Therefore, IMS level signaling, and especially the IMS
identities claimed by a user, can be connected securely to the PS domain
bearer level security context.
When using IPv6, stateless autoconfiguration is the only IP address allocation
method mandatorily supported by the terminal in GPRS. With this method, a
primary PDP context is bound only to the 64-bit prefix of the 128-bit IPv6
address, not the full address. This needs to be taken into account in Early
IMS procedures.
The GGSN terminates each user\'s PDP context and has assurance that the IMSI
used within this PDP context is authenticated. The GGSN shall provide the
user\'s IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration), IMSI and MSISDN to a RADIUS server in the HSS over the Gi
interface when a PDP context is activated towards the IMS system. The HSS has
a binding between the IMSI and/or MSISDN and the IMPI and IMPU(s), and is
therefore able to store the currently assigned IP address (or the prefix in
the case of IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration) from the GGSN against the
user\'s IMPI and/or IMPU(s). The precise way of the handling of these
identities in the HSS is outside the scope of standardization. The GGSN
informs the HSS when the PDP context is deactivated/modified so that the
stored IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration) can be updated in the HSS. When the S-CSCF receives a SIP
registration request or any subsequent requests for a given IMPU, it checks
that the IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration) in the SIP header (verified by the network) matches the IP
address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration) that
was stored against that subscriber\'s IMPU in the HSS.
The mechanism assumes that the GGSN does not allow a UE to successfully
transmit an IP packet with a source IP address (or the prefix in the case of
IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration) that is different to the one assigned during
PDP context activation. In other words, the GGSN must prevent \"source IP
spoofing\". The mechanism also assumes that the P-CSCF checks that the source
IP address in the SIP header is the same as the source IP address in the IP
header received from the UE (the assumption here, as well as for the full
security solution, is that no NAT is present between the GGSN and the P-CSCF).
The mechanism prevents an attacker from using his own IP address in the IP
header but spoofing someone else\'s IMS identity or IP address in the SIP
header, so that he pays for GPRS level charges, but not for IMS level charges.
The mechanism also prevents an attacker spoofing the address in the IP header
so that he does not pay for GPRS charges. It therefore counters the threat
scenarios given in clause 5 above.
The early IMS security solution may also be re-used to protect HTTP traffic in
order to provide user access to various potential self-customization services,
e.g. to Presence Server.
### 6.1.2 Restrictions imposed by early IMS security
The mechanism assumes that only one contact IP address is associated with one
IMPI. Furthermore, the mechanism supports the case that there may be several
IMPUs associated with one IMPI, but one IMPU is associated with only one IMPI.
In early IMS security the IMS user authentication is performed by linking the
IMS registration (based on an IMPI) to a PDP context (based on an
authenticated IMSI). The mechanism here assumes that there is a one-to-one
relationship between the IMSI for bearer access and the IMPI for IMS access.
For the purposes of this present document, an APN, which is used for IMS
services, is called an IMS APN. An IMS APN may be also used for non-IMS
services. The mechanism described in this present document further adds the
requirement on the UE that it allows only one APN for accessing IMS for a PLMN
and that all active PDP contexts, for a single UE, associated with that IMS
APN use the same IP address at any given time.
The early IMS security mechanism relies on the Via header remaining unchanged
between the UE and the S-CSCF for requests and responses sent in the direction
from the UE to the S-CSCF.
Due to the fact that the Authorisation header is not included in REGISTER
requests in early IMS security, the I-CSCF is unable to use the presence or
absence of the \"integrity-protected\" parameter to distinguish initial and
non-initial REGISTER messages. Therefore the S-CSCF reselection procedure
described in clause 5.3.1.3 of TS 24.229 [7] cannot be used.
Early IMS security requires the GGSN to be in the home network.
The interim solution works with UEs that contain a SIM or a USIM, whereas full
IMS security requires a USIM or ISIM. The interim solution does not
authenticate at the IMS level. Instead, it relies on bearer level security at
the GPRS or UMTS PS level. Because there is no key agreement, IPsec security
associations are not set up between UE and P-CSCF, as they are in the full IMS
security solution.
The solution works by binding the IMS level transactions to the GPRS or UMTS
PS domain security association established at a GPRS or UMTS PS domain level.
In doing so, it creates a dependency between SIP and the PS bearer, which does
not exist with the full IMS security solution. This means that the interim
solution does not provide as high a degree of access network independency as
the full solution. In particular, the solution does not currently support
scenarios where IMS services are offered over WLAN. If support for WLAN access
is required then the full solution must be used or the interim solution must
be extended to cover WLAN access.
Early IMS security derives the public user identity used in the REGISTER
request from the IMSI. Consequently, the same public user identity cannot be
simultaneously registered from multiple terminals, using only early IMS
security registration procedures. However, simultaneous registration of a
public user identity from one terminal using early IMS security, and from
other terminals using fully compliant IMS security is not precluded.
Unlike in full IMS security, the private user identity is not included in the
REGISTER requests when early IMS security is used for registration, re-
registration and mobile-initiated de-registration procedures. Subsequently,
all REGISTER requests from the UE shall use the IMSI-derived IMPU as the
public user identity even when the implicitly registered IMPUs are available
at the UE. Otherwise, the I-CSCF would be unable to derive the private user
identity that is needed to query the HSS in certain Cx messages.
NOTE: The early IMS mechanism for security is completely independent of early
IMS implementations based on IPv4. For example, an IPv4 based implementation
may use the full IMS security solution in TS 33.203 [2].
### 6.1.3 Early IMS security and logical entities
In the following we use the terms P-CSCF and S-CSCF in a general sense to
refer to components of an early IMS system. We note however that early IMS
solutions may not have the same functionality split between SIP entities as
defined in TS 23.228 [3]. Therefore, the requirements imposed on the SIP/IP
core are specified in such a way that they are independent of the
functionality split between SIP entities as far as possible. While the exact
functionality split of the SIP/IP core may be left open, it is important that
any changes to the Cx interface towards the HSS and changes to the interface
towards the UE are standardised for vendor interoperability reasons.
## 6.2 Detailed specification
### 6.2.1 GGSN-HSS interaction
When receiving an Activate PDP Context Request message, based on operator
policy, a GGSN supporting early IMS security shall send a RADIUS \"Accounting-
Request START\" message to a AAA server attached to the HSS. The message shall
include the mandatory fields defined in clause 16.4.3 of TS 29.061 [4] and the
UE\'s IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration), MSISDN and IMSI. On receipt of the message, the HSS shall
use the IMSI and/or the MSISDN to find the subscriber\'s IMPI (derived from
IMSI) and then store the IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6
stateless autoconfiguration) against a suitable identity, e.g. the IMPI.
NOTE 1: It is assumed here that the RADIUS server attached to the HSS is
different to the RADIUS server that the GGSN may use for access control and IP
address assignment. However, according to TS 23.060 [5] there is no limitation
on whether RADIUS servers for Accounting and Access control have to be
separate or combined.
NOTE 2: It is also possible to utilize RADIUS to DIAMETER conversion in the
interface between GGSN and HSS. This makes it possible to utilize the existing
support for DIAMETER in the HSS. One possibility to implement the conversion
is to re-use the AAA architecture of I-WLAN i.e. the 3GPP AAA Proxy or Server
and its capability to perform RADIUS to DIAMETER conversion. It should be
noted that the GGSN shall always uses RADIUS for this communication.
Furthermore, it should be noted that DIAMETER is not mandatory to support in
the HSS for communication with the GGSN.
GGSN shall not accept the activation of the PDP context if the accounting
start request is not successfully handled by the HSS (e.g. a positive Create
PDP Context Response should not be sent by the GGSN until the \"Accounting-
Request START\" message is received or a negative Create PDP Context Response
is sent after some RADIUS response timeout occurs). In particular, it shall
not be possible to have an active PDP context associated with the IMS APN if
the corresponding IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration) is not stored in the HSS.
When the UE establishes a PDP context for an IMS APN, which is not a secondary
PDP context, a new IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration) is obtained, and the GGSN shall send an \"Accounting-
Request START\" to the HSS with the assigned IP address (or the prefix in the
case of IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration). Depending on the status of the HSS
the following steps have to be executed:
1) If an IP address (or prefix) is stored in the HSS and this IP address (or
prefix) is different from the IP address (or prefix) received from the GGSN,
the HSS shall (i) start the 3GPP IMS HSS-initiated de-registration procedure,
if the UE is IMS registered, using a Cx-RTR/Cx-RTA exchange, and (ii) delete
the old IP address (or prefix).
2) The HSS stores the new IP address (or prefix) and confirms the
\"Accounting-Request START\" to the GGSN. In case step 1 was executed,
confirmation is sent either when the de-registration procedure is successfully
completed or after a suitable time-out.
3) The UE starts the IMS initial registration procedure.
4) In case step 1 was executed, the HSS shall abandon the de-registration
procedure when a new successful authentication for this user is signalled by
the S-CSCF in a Cx-SAR message.
When all the PDP contexts are de-activated at the IMS APN of the GGSN, the
GGSN sends an \"Accounting-Request STOP\" request to the HSS. The HSS checks
the IP address (or prefix) indicated by the \"Accounting-Request STOP\"
message against the IP address (or prefix) stored in the HSS. If they are the
same, the HSS shall delete the IP address (or prefix) and an HSS-initiated de-
registration procedure shall be started, if the UE is registered, using a Cx-
RTR/Cx-RTA exchange. In the case they are different, the HSS shall ignore the
message.
### 6.2.2 Protection against IP address spoofing in GGSN
All GGSNs that offer connection to IMS shall implement measures to prevent
source IP address spoofing. Specifically, a UE attached to the GGSN shall not
be able to successfully transmit an IP packet with a source IP address (or the
prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration) that is different to
the one assigned by the GGSN during PDP context activation. If IP address
spoofing is detected the GGSN shall drop the packet. It shall be possible for
the GGSN to log the event in its security log against the subscriber
information (IMSI/MSISDN), e.g. based on operator configuration.
### 6.2.3 Impact on IMS registration and authentication procedures
A UE shall not be able to spoof its assigned IP address (or prefix) and
successfully receive service from the IMS. The mechanisms in the following
clauses shall be supported to prevent IP address spoofing in the IMS domain.
The changes to the IMS registration and authentication procedures are detailed
in the following clauses.
#### 6.2.3.1 Procedures at the UE
On sending a REGISTER request in order to indicate support for early IMS
security procedures, the UE shall not include an Authorization header field
and not include header fields or header field values as required by RFC3329.
The From header, To header, Contact header, Expires header, Request URI and
Supported header shall be set according clause 5.1.1.2 of TS 24.229 [7].
On receiving the 200 (OK) response to the REGISTER request, the UE shall
handle the expiration time, the P-Associated-URI header field, and the
Service-Route header field according clause 5.1.1.2 of TS 24.229 [7].
The UE shall support SIP compression as described in TS 24.229 [7] subclause
8.1.1 with the exception that no security association exists between the UE
and the P-CSCF. Therefore, when the UE creates the compartment is
implementation specific.
The UE shall use the temporary public user identity (IMSI-derived IMPU, cf.
section 6.1.2) only in registration messages (i.e. initial registration, re-
registration or de-registration), but not in any other type of SIP requests.
NOTE 1: Early IMS security does not allow SIP requests to be protected using
an IPsec security association because it does not perform a key agreement
procedure.
#### 6.2.3.2 Procedures at the P-CSCF
NOTE: As specified in RFC 3261 [6], when the P-CSCF receives a SIP request
from an early IMS UE, the P-CSCF checks the IP address in the \"sent-by\"
parameter of the Via header field provided by the UE. If the \"sent-by\"
parameter contains a domain name, or if it contains an IP address that differs
from the packet source IP address, the P-CSCF adds a \"received\" parameter to
that Via header field value. This parameter contains the source IP address
from which the packet was received.
##### 6.2.3.2.1 Registration
When the P-CSCF receives a REGISTER request from the UE that does not contain
an Authorization header and does not contain a Security-Client header, the
P-CSCF shall handle the Path header, the Require header, the P-Charging-Vector
header and the P-Visited-Network-ID header as described in clause 5.2.12 of TS
24.229 [7]. Afterwards the P-CSCF shall determine the I-CSCF of the home
network and forward the request to that I-CSCF.
When the P-CSCF receives a 200 (OK) response to a REGISTER request, the P-CSCF
shall check the value of the Expires header field and/or Expires parameter in
the Contact header. When the value of the Expires header field and/or expires
parameter in the Contact header is different than zero, then the P-CSCF shall:
1) handle the Service-Route header, the public user identities, the
P-Associated-URI header, the P-Charging-Function-Address header as described
in clause 5.2.2 of TS 24.229 [7] for the reception of a 200 (OK) response; and
2) forward the 200 (OK) response to the UE.
The P-CSCF shall support SIP compression as described in TS 24.229[7]
subclause 8.2.1 with the exception that no security association exists between
the UE and the P-CSCF. Therefore, when the P-CSCF creates the compartment is
implementation specific.
##### 6.2.3.2.2 General treatment for all dialogs and standalone transactions
excluding REGISTER requests
As the early IMS security solution does not offer IPsec, the P-CSCF shall
implement the procedures as described in clause 5.2.6 of TS 24.229 [7] with
the following deviations.
For requests initiated by the UE, when the P-CSCF receives a 1xx or 2xx
response, the P-CSCF shall not use a protected server port number to rewrite
its own Record Route entry. Instead, it shall use the number of an unprotected
port where it awaits subsequent requests from the UE.
For requests terminated by the UE, when the P-CSCF receives a request, prior
to forwarding the request, the P-CSCF shall not include a protected server
port in the Record-Route header and in the Via header. Instead, it shall
include the number of an unprotected port where it expects subsequent requests
from the UE, and the number of an unprotected port where it expects responses
to the current request, respectively.
#### 6.2.3.3 Procedures at the I-CSCF
If the I-CSCF receives an initial REGISTER request with no Authorization
header included, the I-CSCF shall not reject the message. Instead, it shall
behave as described in section 6.2.5.1.
Early IMS security requires that the I-CSCF between a P-CSCF and S-CSCF does
not alter the Via header for requests and responses sent in the direction from
the UE to the S-CSCF. An I-CSCF between an S-CSCF and another S-CSCF is
unaffected by early IMS security.
The S-CSCF reselection procedure described in clause 5.3.1.3 of TS 24.229 [7]
shall not be applied.
#### 6.2.3.4 Procedures at the S-CSCF
##### 6.2.3.4.1 Registration
Upon receipt of a REGISTER request without an Authorization header, the S-CSCF
shall:
1) identify the user by the public user identity as received in the To header
of the REGISTER request;
2) check if the P-Visited-Network header is included in the REGISTER request,
and if it is included identify the visited network by the value of this
header;
3) if no IP address (or prefix) is stored for the UE, query the HSS, as
described in clause 6.2.5 with the public user ID as input and store the
received IP address (or prefix) of the UE; if the S-CSCF receives a prefix
from the HSS, it will check only against prefixes in the sequel, otherwise
against the full IP address.
NOTE: At this point the S-CSCF informs the HSS, that the user currently
registering will be served by the S-CSCF by passing its SIP URI to the HSS.
This will be indicated by the HSS for all further incoming requests to this
user, in order to direct all these requests directly to this S-CSCF.
4) check whether a \"received\" parameter exists in the Via header field
provided by the UE. If a \"received\" parameter exists, S-CSCF shall compare
the IP address recorded in the \"received\" parameter against the UE\'s IP
address stored during registration. In case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration, S-CSCF shall compare the prefix of the IP address recorded
in the \"received\" parameter against the UE\'s IP address prefix stored
during registration. If no \"received\" parameter exists in the Via header
field provided by the UE, then S-CSCF shall compare IP address recorded in the
\"sent-by\" parameter against the stored UE IP address. In case of IPv6
stateless autoconfiguration, S-CSCF shall compare the prefix of the IP address
recorded in the \"sent-by\" parameter against the UE\'s IP address prefix
stored during registration. In any case, if stored IP address (or prefix) and
the (prefix of the) IP address recorded in the Via header provided by the UE
do not match, the S-CSCF shall query the HSS, as described in clause 6.2.5
with the public user ID as input and store the received IP address (or prefix)
of the UE. If the stored IP address (or prefix) and the (prefix of the) IP
address recorded in the Via header provided by the UE still do not match the
S-CSCF shall reject the registration with a 403 (Forbidden) response and skip
the following steps.
5) handle the Cx Server Assignment procedure, the ICID, each non-barred
registered public user identity, the Path header, the registration duration as
described in clause 5.4.1.2.2 of TS 24.229 [7]; and send a 200 (OK) response
to the UE as described in clause 5.4.1.2.2 of TS 24.229 [7].
When a user de-registers, or is de-registered by the HSS (cf. section 6.2.1),
the S-CSCF shall delete the IP address stored for the UE.
##### 6.2.3.4.2 General treatment for all dialogs and standalone transactions
excluding REGISTER requests
On the reception of any request other than a REGISTER request, the S-CSCF
shall check whether a \"received\" parameter exists in the Via header field
provided by the UE. If a \"received\" parameter exists, S-CSCF shall compare
the (prefix of the) IP address received in the \"received\" parameter against
the UE\'s IP address (or prefix) stored during registration. If no
\"received\" parameter exists in the Via header field provided by the UE, then
S-CSCF shall compare the (prefix of the) IP address received in the \"sent-
by\" parameter against the IP address (or prefix) stored during registration.
If the stored IP address (or prefix) and the (prefix of the) IP address
received in the Via header field provided by the UE do not match, the S-CSCF
shall reject the request with a 403 (Forbidden) response.
In case the stored IP address (or prefix) and the (prefix of the) IP address
received in the Via header field provided by the UE do match, the S-CSCF shall
proceed as described in clause 5.4.3 of TS 24.229 [7].
### 6.2.4 Identities and subscriptions
When early IMS security is supported, the HSS shall include for each
subscription an IMPI and IMPU derived from the IMSI of the subscription
according to the rules in TS 23.003 [8]. If the network supports both early
IMS security and fully compliant IMS security, the IMSI-derived IMPI and IMPU
shall be stored in addition to other IMPIs and IMPUs that may have been
allocated to the subscription.
If a UE attempts a registration using early IMS security, the REGISTER shall
include an IMPU that is derived from the IMSI that is used for bearer network
access according to the rules in TS 23.003 [8]. The UE shall apply this rule
even if a UICC containing an ISIM is present in the UE.
In the case that a UE is registering using early IMS security with an IMSI-
derived IMPU, implicit registration shall be used as a mandatory function to
register the subscriber\'s public user identity(s) using the rules defined in
clause 5.2.1a.1 of TS 23.228 [3]. By applying these rules the IMSI-derived
IMPU shall be barred for all procedures other than SIP registration.
When early IMS security is used for registering an UE, the IMSI-derived IMPU
shall be used for all registration procedures initiated by the UE (i.e.,
initial registration, re-registration and mobile-initiated de-registration).
### 6.2.5 Impact on Cx Interface
Early IMS Security mechanism affects the use of the protocol defined for the
Cx interface. In particular, the User-Authorisation-Request/Answer (Cx-
UAR/UAA), the Multimedia-Auth-Request/Answer (Cx-MAR/MAA) and the Server-
Assignment-Request/Answer (Cx-SAR/SAA) messages are impacted.
Because in Early IMS Security the Private User Identity of the subscriber is
not made available to the IMS domain in SIP messages, it is necessary to
derive a Private User Identity from the Temporary Public User Identity to use
as the content of the User-Name AVP in certain Cx messages (most notable UAR
and MAR).
#### 6.2.5.1 User registration status query
The UAR command, when implemented to support Early IMS Security follow the
description in clause 6.1.1 of TS 29.228 [10], with the following exception:
\- the Private User Identity (User-Name AVP) in the UAR command shall be
derived from the temporary Public User Identity URI being registered by
removing URI scheme and the following parts of the URI if present port number,
URI parameters, and headers.
#### 6.2.5.2 S-CSCF registration/deregistration notification
The SAR command, when implemented to support early IMS Security follows the
description in clause 6.1.2 of TS 29.228 [10], with the following exception:
\- the Private User Identity (User-Name AVP) in the SAR command shall be
derived from the temporary Public User Identity URI being registered by
removing URI scheme and the following parts of the URI if present port number,
URI parameters, and headers.
#### 6.2.5.3 Authentication procedure
The MAR and MAA commands, when implemented to support Early IMS Security
follow the description in clause 6.3 of TS 29.228 [10], with the following
exceptions:
\- the Private User Identity (User-Name AVP) in the MAR command shall be
derived from the temporary Public User Identity URI being registered by
removing URI scheme and the following parts of the URI if present: port
number, URI parameters, and headers.
\- In the MAR and MAA commands, the Authentication Scheme (Authentication-
Scheme AVP described in clause 7.9.2 of TS 29.228 [10]) within the SIP-Auth-
Data-Item grouped AVP shall contain \"Early‑IMS‑Security\".
\- In the MAA command, the SIP-Auth-Data-Item grouped AVP shall contain the
user IP address. If the address is IPv4 it shall be included within the
Framed-IP-Address AVP as defined in draft‑ietf‑aaa‑diameter‑nasreq‑17.txt
[11]. If the address is IPv6 it shall be included within the
Framed‑IPv6‑Prefix AVP and, if the Framed‑IPv6‑Prefix AVP alone is not unique
for the user it shall also contain Framed‑Interface‑Id AVP.
This results in SIP-Auth-Data-Item as depicted in table 6.3.4 of TS 29.228
[10], being replaced when Early IMS Security is employed by a structure as
shown in table 2.
Table 2: Authentication Data content for Early IMS Security
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | **Cat.** | **Description** | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Authentication | SIP-Authe | M | Authentication | | Scheme | ntication-Scheme | | scheme. For | | | | | Early IMS | | (See 7.9.2) | | | Security it will | | | | | indicate | | | | | \"Earl | | | | | y-IMS-Security\" | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | User IPv4 | F | C | If the IP | | Address | ramed-IP-Address | | Address of the | | | | | User is an IPv4 | | | | | address, this | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | description of | | | | | the AVP see | | | | | draft | | | | | -ietf-aaa-diamet | | | | | er-nasreq-17.txt | | | | | [11]. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | User IPv6 Prefix | Fr | C | If the IP | | | amed-IPv6-Prefix | | Address of the | | | | | User is an IPv6 | | | | | address, this | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | description of | | | | | the AVP see | | | | | draft | | | | | -ietf-aaa-diamet | | | | | er-nasreq-17.txt | | | | | [11]. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Framed Interface | Fra | C | If and only if | | Id | med-Interface-Id | | the IP Address | | | | | of the User is | | | | | an IPv6 address | | | | | and the | | | | | Fr | | | | | amed-IPv6-Prefix | | | | | AVP alone is not | | | | | unique for the | | | | | user this AVP | | | | | shall be | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | description of | | | | | the AVP see | | | | | draft | | | | | -ietf-aaa-diamet | | | | | er-nasreq-17.txt | | | | | [11]. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
The ABNF description of the AVP as given in clause 6.3.13 of TS 29.229 [12] is
replaced with that given below.
SIP-Auth-Data-Item :: = \
[ SIP-Authentication-Scheme ]
[ Framed-IP-Address ]
[ Framed-IPv6-Prefix ]
[ Framed-Interface-Id ]
* [AVP]
\- Step 5 of clause 6.3.1 of TS 29.228 [10] shall apply with the following
exception:
\- HSS shall return only one SIP-Auth-Data-Item
### 6.2.6 Interworking cases
For the purposes of the interworking considerations in this clause, it is
assumed that the IMS entities P‑CSCF, I‑CSCF, S‑CSCF and HSS reside in the
home network and all support the same variants of IMS, i.e. all support either
only early IMS security, or only fully compliant IMS security, or both.
NOTE 1: It is compatible with the considerations in this document that the UE
uses different APNs to indicate the IMS variant currently used by the UE, in
case the P-CSCF functionality is split over several physical entities.
It is expected that both fully compliant UEs implementing the security
mechanisms in TS 33.203 [2] (denoted \"fully compliant IMS security\" in the
following) and UEs implementing the early IMS security solution specified in
the present document (denoted \"early IMS security\" in the following) will
access the same IMS. In addition, IMS networks will support only fully
compliant IMS UEs, early IMS UEs, or both. Both UEs and IMS networks must
therefore be able to properly handle the different possible interworking
cases.
Since early IMS security does not require the security headers specified for
fully compliant IMS UEs, these headers shall not be used for early IMS
security. The REGISTER request sent by an early IMS UE security to the IMS
network shall not contain the security headers specified by TS 33.203 [2]
(Authorization and Security-Client).
As a result, early IMS security UEs shall not add an explicit indication for
the security used to the IMS signaling. An IMS network supporting both early
IMS security and fully 3GPP compliant IMS security UEs shall use early IMS
security for authenticating the UE during registrations that do not contain
the security headers specified by TS 33.203 (Authorization and Security-
Client).
Without sending an Authorization Header in the initial REGISTER request, early
IMS UEs only provide the IMS public identity (IMPU), but not the IMS private
identity (IMPI) to the network (this is only present in the Authorization
header for fully compliant IMS security UEs).
During the process of user registration for early IMS security, the Cx
interface carries the public user identity in Cx-UAR requests (sent by I-CSCF)
and Cx-MAR as well as Cx-SAR requests (sent by S-CSCF). The private user
identity within these requests shall be generated according to section
6.2.5.1. This avoids changes to the message format on the Cx interface.
If the S-CSCF receives an indication that the UE is an early IMS UE, then it
shall be able to select the \"Early-IMS-Security\" authentication scheme in
the Cx-MAR request.
For interworking between early IMS security and fully compliant IMS security
implementations during IMS registration, an ME that implements the full IMS
security solution from TS 33.203 [2] (or both Early IMS and full IMS security)
shall not attempt to register using the full IMS security solution if neither
a USIM nor a ISIM is present. The following cases shall be supported:
1\. Both ME and IMS network support early IMS security only.
IMS registration shall take place as described by the present document. This
applies regardless of whether SIM or USIM/ISIM is in use.
2\. ME supports early IMS security only, IMS network supports both early IMS
security and fully compliant IMS security.
IMS registration shall take place as described by the present document. This
applies regardless of whether SIM or USIM/ISIM is in use.
3\. ME supports both, IMS network supports early IMS security only.
The ME shall check the smartcard application in use.
> If a SIM is in use, then it shall start with an Early IMS security
> procedure, else it shall start with the fully compliant IMS Registration
> procedure.
>
> In the second case, the early IMS P-CSCF shall answer with a 420 (Bad
> Extension) failure, since it does not recognize the method mandated by the
> Proxy-Require header that is sent by the UE in the initial REGISTER request.
NOTE 2: The Proxy-Require header cannot be ignored by the P-CSCF.
The UE shall, after receiving the error response, send an early IMS
registration, i.e., shall send a new REGISTER request without the fully
compliant IMS security headers.
NOTE 3: If the UE already has knowledge about the IMS network capabilities
(which could for example be preconfigured in the UE), the appropriate
authentication method can be chosen. The UE can use fully compliant IMS
security, if the network supports this, otherwise the UE can use early IMS
security.
4\. ME and IMS network support both.
> The ME shall check the smartcard application in use.
>
> If a USIM/ISIM application is in use, then the ME shall start with the fully
> compliant IMS security registration procedure. The network, with receiving
> the initial REGISTER request, receives indication that the IMS UE is fully
> compliant and shall continue as specified by TS 33.203 [2].
>
> If a SIM is in use, then the ME shall start with the Early IMS security
> registration procedure. If the ME starts with the fully compliant IMS
> security registration procedure when a SIM is in use, this is an error case
> to be handled as follows: when the S-CSCF requests authentication vectors
> from the HSS, the HSS will discover that a SIM is in use and returns an
> error. The S-CSCF shall answer with a 403 (Forbidden). After receiving the
> 403 response, the UE shall stop the attempt to register with this network.
5\. ME supports early IMS security only, IMS network supports fully compliant
IMS security only.
The UE sends a REGISTER request to the IMS network that does not contain the
security headers required by fully compliant IMS security. The fully compliant
IMS security P-CSCF will detect that the Security-Client header is missing and
return a 4xx response, as described in clause 5.2.2 of TS 24.229 [7]. This
applies regardless of whether SIM or USIM/ISIM is in use.
6\. ME supports fully compliant IMS security only, IMS network supports early
IMS security only.
> A ME supporting Full IMS security only is not aware of Early IMS security,
> so its behaviour is expected to be compliant with TS 33.203 [2]. Based on
> this, if a SIM is in use, the ME should not attempt to register using the
> full IMS security solution. Whatever attempt would fail anyway, as Full IMS
> security requires ISIM/USIM.
>
> If a USIM/ISIM application is in use, then the ME shall start with the fully
> compliant IMS security registration procedure. The early IMS P-CSCF shall
> answer with a 420 (Bad Extension) failure, since it does not recognize the
> method mandated by the Proxy-Require header that is sent by the UE in the
> initial REGISTER request. After receiving the error response, the UE shall
> stop the attempt to register with this network, since the fully compliant
> IMS security according to TS 33.203 [2] is not supported.
>
> 7\. ME supports fully compliant IMS access security only, IMS network
> supports both.
>
> A ME supporting Full IMS security only is not aware of Early IMS security,
> so its behaviour is expected to be compliant with TS 33.203 [2]. Based on
> this, if a SIM is in use, the ME should not attempt to register using the
> full IMS security solution. Whatever attempt would fail anyway, as Full IMS
> security requires ISIM/USIM.
>
> If a USIM/ISIM application is in use, then the ME shall start with the fully
> compliant IMS registration procedure. The network, with receiving the
> initial REGISTER request, receives indication that the IMS UE is fully
> compliant and shall continue as specified by TS 33.203 [2].
8\. ME supports both, IMS network supports fully compliant IMS access security
only.
> The ME shall check the smartcard application in use.
>
> If a USIM/ISIM application is in use, then the ME shall start with the fully
> compliant IMS registration procedure. The network, with receiving the
> initial REGISTER request, receives indication that the IMS UE is fully
> compliant and shall continue as specified by TS 33.203 [2].
>
> If a SIM is in use, then the ME shall start with the Early IMS security
> registration procedure (in this case the IMS authentication procedure will
> fail). In this context, if the ME starts with the fully compliant IMS
> security registration procedure, this is an error case: when the S-CSCF
> requests authentication vectors from the HSS, the HSS will discover that the
> a SIM is in use and return an error. The S-CSCF shall answer with a 403
> (Forbidden). After receiving the 403 response, the UE shall stop the attempt
> to register with this network.
9\. Both ME and IMS network support fully compliant IMS access security only.
> A ME supporting Full IMS security only is not aware of Early IMS security,
> so its behaviour is expected to be compliant with TS 33.203 [2]. Based on
> this, if a SIM is in use, the UE should not attempt to register using the
> full IMS security solution. If the UE starts with the fully compliant IMS
> security registration procedure when a SIM is in use, this is an error case
> to be handled as follows: the HSS will discover that a SIM is in use and
> return an error to the S-CSCF. The S-CSCF shall answer with a 403
> (Forbidden). After receiving the 403 response, the UE shall stop the attempt
> to register with this network.
>
> If the USIM/ISIM application is in use, IMS registration shall take place as
> described by TS 33.203 [2].
### 6.2.7 Message flows
#### 6.2.7.1 Successful registration
Figure 1 below describes the message flow for successful registration to the
IMS that is specified by the early IMS security solution.
NOTE: The \"received\" parameter is only sent from P-CSCF to S-CSCF under the
conditions given in clause 6.2.3.2.
{width="6.674305555555556in" height="7.341666666666667in"}
Figure 1: Message sequence for early IMS security showing a successful
registration
#### 6.2.7.2 Unsuccessful registration
Figure 2 below gives an example message flow for the unsuccessful attempt of
an attacker trying to spoof the IMS identity of a valid IMS user.
Again, the \"received\" parameter is only present between P-CSCF to S-CSCF
under the conditions given in clause 6.2.3.2.
Figure 2: Message sequence for early IMS security showing an unsuccessful
identity theft
#### 6.2.7.3 Successful registration for a selected interworking case
Figure 3 below describes the message flow for successful registration to the
IMS in the case that the UE supports both fully compliant IMS and early IMS
access security and the network supports early IMS security only. This case is
denoted as case 3 in clause 6.2.6.
NOTE: The \"received\" parameter is only sent from P-CSCF to S-CSCF under the
conditions given in clause 6.2.3.2.
Figure 3: Message sequence for early IMS security showing interworking case
where UE supports both fully compliant IMS and early IMS access security and
network supports early IMS security only
## 6.3 Security mechanism for HTTP services
The early IMS security solution may be re-used to protect HTTP services based
on the secure IP address binding information stored in the HSS as an
alternative to the mechanism specified in TS 33.141 [14]. To achieve this, the
Sh interface shall be re-used by the Application Server (AS) to fetch secure
IP address binding information from the HSS.
This approach requires the HTTP services to use the same APN as the early IMS
service, and that all active PDP contexts, for a single UE, associated with
that APN use the same IP address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless
autoconfiguration) at any given time. This approach also requires the GGSN to
be in the home network. The mechanism assumes that the GGSN does not allow a
UE to successfully transmit an IP packet with a source IP address (or prefix)
that is different to the one assigned during PDP context activation.
Since the security of this approach relies on the security of the PS bearer, a
dependency is created between the HTTP service and the PS bearer, which does
not exist with the mechanism specified in TS 33.141 [14]. This means that the
solution described in this section does not provide as high a degree of access
network independency as the solution in TS 33.141 [14]. In particular, the
solution does not currently support scenarios where HTTP services are offered
over WLAN.
The following steps describe the procedure:
1) UE sends the HTTP GET request to the AS. The \"X-3GPP-Intended-Identity\"
header, as defined in TS 24.109 [17], shall be used by the UE to indicate the
user identity. The user is identified by the IMPU that is derived from the
IMSI of the subscription according to the rules in TS 23.003 [8].
2) AS decides to authenticate the UE based on the secure IP address binding
information from the HSS. This decision might be based on the fact that GBA is
not available. The AS checks whether secure IP address binding information is
available at the AS; if yes, it proceeds with step 7, if not then it proceeds
with step 3.
3) AS queries HSS using User-Data-Request (UDR) over the Sh interface, and the
IMPU is used for User-Identity.
4) HSS responses with User-Data-Answer (UDA) including the secure binding
information. If a securely bound IP address is not available in the HSS, then
any incoming HTTP requests at the AS shall be rejected.
5) AS stores the secure binding information.
6) AS uses the subscriber/notify feature on the Sh interface to ensure that it
is informed about any changes in the secure IP address binding information in
the HSS. If the AS is notified by the HSS about such a change it updates the
secure IP address binding information stored in the AS accordingly.
7) The AS shall check that the IP address (or prefix) from the UE in HTTP
requests matches the IP address (or prefix) provided by the HSS, otherwise the
HTTP request shall be rejected.
The mechanism does not preclude that the HTTP service may run inside a server-
authenticated TLS tunnel established between the UE and the AS. However,
support of TLS in the UE and in the AS is not mandated in this document.
The UDR and UDA commands, when implemented to support Early IMS Security,
follow the description in clause 6.1.1 of TS 29.328 [15], with the following
exceptions:
\- The User Identity in the UDR command shall be the IMS Public User Identity
of the user for whom the data is required.
\- In the UDR commands, the Data Reference AVP described in clause 7.6 of TS
29.328[15] shall contain \"IP address secure binding information\", see Table
4.
The necessary UDR contents, when Early IMS Security is employed, are shown in
Table 3.
Table 3: UDR content for Early IMS Security
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identity | M | IMS Public User | | | | | Identity of the | | (See 7.1) | | | user for whom the | | | | | data is required. | | | | | | | | | | See section 7.1 | | | | | for the content | | | | | of this AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requested data | Data-Reference | M | This information | | | | | element indicates | | (See 7.3) | | | the reference to | | | | | the requested | | | | | information. The | | | | | set of valid | | | | | reference values | | | | | are defined in | | | | | section 6.3 of | | | | | 3GPP TS 29.329 | | | | | [16]. | | | | | | | | | | When Early IMS | | | | | Security data is | | | | | required, the | | | | | Data Reference | | | | | Tag value shall | | | | | be xx. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Application | Origin-Host | M | IE that | | Server Identity | | | identifies the AS | | (See 7.9) | | | originator of the | | | | | request and that | | | | | is used to check | | | | | the AS permission | | | | | list. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
NOTE 1: The section references in Table 3 refer to sections in 3GPP TS 29.328
[15], except where otherwise indicated.
Data Ref : xx is reserved in Section 6.3.4 of 3GPP TS 29.329 [16] for Early
IMS security. The usage of Data Reference Tag xx is as shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Data accessible via Sh interface for Early IMS Security (Data Ref:
xx)
* * *
Data Ref. XML tag Defined in Access key Operations 0 RepositoryData 7.6.1 IMS
Public User Identity + Data-Reference + Service-Indication Sh-Pull, Sh-Update,
Sh-Subs-Notif 10 IMSPublicIdentity 7.6.2 IMS Public User Identity or MSISDN +
Data-Reference + Identity-Set Sh-Pull 11 IMSUserState 7.6.3 IMS Public User
Identity + Data-Reference Sh-Pull, Sh-Subs-Notif 12 S-CSCFName 7.6.4 Sh-Pull,
Sh-Subs-Notif 13 InitialFilterCriteria 7.6.5 IMS Public User Identity + Data-
Reference + Server-Name Sh-Pull, Sh-Subs-Notif 14 LocationInformation 7.6.6
MSISDN + Data-Reference+ Requested-Domain Sh-Pull 15 UserState 7.6.7  
16 Charging information 7.6.8 IMS Public User Identity or MSISDN + Data-
Reference Sh-Pull 17 MSISDN 7.6.9 Sh-Pull xx IP address secure binding
information (note that this data is not transported in XML) IMS Public User
Identity + Data-Reference Sh-Pull, Sh-Subs-Notif
* * *
NOTE 2: The section references in Table 4 refer to sections in 3GPP TS 29.328
[15].
When the AS uses the User-Data-Request (UDR) message and the Data-Reference
with Data Ref:xx for the Early IMS Security data, the message format is
described in clause 6.1.1 of TS 29.329 [16]. The User-Data-Answer (UDA)
message as described in table 6.1.1.2, section 6.1.1 of 3GPP TS 29.328 [15] is
modified as shown in Table 5.
Table 5: UDA message content for Early IMS Security applied to Ut interface
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Exp | | request. | | (See 7.5) | erimental_Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for Sh errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Data | User-Data | C | Requested data. | | | | | This element | | (See 7.6) | | | shall be present | | | | | if the requested | | | | | data exists in | | | | | the HSS and the | | | | | AS has | | | | | permissions to | | | | | read it. | | | | | | | | | | This element | | | | | shall not be | | | | | present if the | | | | | Data Reference | | | | | tag value in the | | | | | request message | | | | | is xx. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User IPv4 Address | Framed-IP-Address | C | If the Data | | | | | Reference tag | | | | | value in the | | | | | request is xx and | | | | | the IP Address of | | | | | the User is an | | | | | IPv4 address, | | | | | this AVP shall be | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | For a description | | | | | of the AVP see | | | | | [11]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User IPv6 Prefix | F | C | If the Data | | | ramed-IPv6-Prefix | | Reference tag | | | | | value in the | | | | | request is xx and | | | | | the IP Address of | | | | | the User is an | | | | | IPv6 address, | | | | | this AVP shall be | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | For a description | | | | | of the AVP see | | | | | [11]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Framed Interface | Fr | C | If the Data | | Id | amed-Interface-Id | | Reference tag | | | | | value in the | | | | | request is xx and | | | | | the IP Address of | | | | | the User is an | | | | | IPv6 address and | | | | | the | | | | | F | | | | | ramed-IPv6-Prefix | | | | | AVP alone is not | | | | | unique for the | | | | | user this AVP | | | | | shall be | | | | | included. | | | | | | | | | | For a description | | | | | of the AVP see | | | | | [11]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
NOTE 3: The references in Table 5 refer to section and document references in
3GPP TS 29.328 [15].
The corresponding ABNF in section 6.1.2 of 3GPP TS 29.329 [16] is replaced by
that below.
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> { Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> *[ Supported-Features ]
>
> [ User-Data ]
>
> [ Framed-IP-Address ]
>
> [ Framed-IPv6-Prefix ]
>
> [ Framed-Interface-Id ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
Sh interface is an intra-operator interface, so the AS that uses the security
mechanism described in this section should be in the home network.
The Subscribe-Notifications-Request (SNR) and Subscribe-Notifications-Answer
(SNA) commands, when implemented to support Early IMS Security, follow the
description in clause 6.1.3 of TS 29.328 [15], with the following exceptions:
\- In the SNR commands, the Data Reference AVP described in clause 7.6 of TS
29.328[15] shall contain \"IP address secure binding information\", see Table
4.
The Push-Notification-Request (PNR) and Push-Notification-Answer (PNA)
commands, when implemented to support Early IMS Security, follow the
description in clause 6.1.4 of TS 29.328 [15], with the following exceptions:
\- when the PNR command is sent to update the IP address of the subscriber,
the contents of the command shown in Table 6 shall replace those described in
Table 6.1.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.328 [15].
Table 6: PNR message content for Early IMS Security applied to Ut interface
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identity | M | IMS Public User | | | | | Identity or | | (See 7.1) | | | Public Service | | | | | Identity for | | | | | which data has | | | | | changed. | | | | | | | | | | See section 7.1 | | | | | for the content | | | | | of this AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User IPv4 Address | Framed-IP-Address | C | If the Sh-Notify | | | | | is being sent to | | | | | update the IP | | | | | address of the | | | | | subscriber for | | | | | Early IMS | | | | | Security on the | | | | | Ut interface and | | | | | the IP Address of | | | | | the User is an | | | | | IPv4 address, | | | | | then this AVP | | | | | shall be | | | | | included. If the | | | | | Sh-Notify is | | | | | being sent to | | | | | delete the IPv4 | | | | | address of the | | | | | subscriber for | | | | | Early IMS | | | | | Security on the | | | | | Ut interface, | | | | | then this AVP | | | | | shall contain no | | | | | contents. | | | | | | | | | | For a description | | | | | of the AVP see | | | | | [11]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User IPv6 Prefix | F | C | If the Sh-Notify | | | ramed-IPv6-Prefix | | is being sent to | | | | | update the IP | | | | | address of the | | | | | subscriber for | | | | | Early IMS | | | | | Security on the | | | | | Ut interface and | | | | | the IP Address of | | | | | the User is an | | | | | IPv6 address, | | | | | then this AVP | | | | | shall be included | | | | | If the Sh-Notify | | | | | is being sent to | | | | | delete the IPv6 | | | | | address of the | | | | | subscriber for | | | | | Early IMS | | | | | Security on the | | | | | Ut interface, | | | | | then this AVP | | | | | shall contain no | | | | | contents. | | | | | | | | | | For a description | | | | | of the AVP see | | | | | [11]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Framed Interface | Fr | C | If the Sh-Notify | | Id | amed-Interface-Id | | is being sent to | | | | | update the IP | | | | | address of the | | | | | subscriber for | | | | | Early IMS | | | | | Security on the | | | | | Ut interface and | | | | | the IP Address of | | | | | the User is an | | | | | IPv6 address and | | | | | the | | | | | F | | | | | ramed-IPv6-Prefix | | | | | AVP alone is not | | | | | unique for the | | | | | user, then this | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | included. If the | | | | | Sh-Notify is | | | | | being sent to | | | | | delete the IPv6 | | | | | address, then | | | | | this AVP shall | | | | | contain no | | | | | contents. | | | | | | | | | | For a description | | | | | of the AVP see | | | | | [11]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
NOTE 4: The references in Table 6 refer to section and document references in
3GPP TS 29.328 [15].
The corresponding ABNF in clause 6.1.7 of 3GPP TS 29.329 [16] is replaced by
that below.
> \ ::= \ 16777217 >
>
> \
>
> { Vendor-Specific-Application-Id }
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { User-Identity }
>
> [ Framed-IP-Address ]
>
> [ Framed-IPv6-Prefix ]
>
> [ Framed-Interface-Id ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
###### ### Annex A: Comparison with an alternative approach - HTTP Digest
An alternative approach would have been to use password-based authentication
for early IMS implementations. For example, HTTP Digest (IETF RFC 2617) could
have been used for authenticating the IMS subscriber. The HTTP Digest method
is a widely supported authentication mechanism. It is not dependent of the
GPRS network and it does not require new functional elements or interfaces in
IMS network. However, this method would have required a subscriber-specific
password to be provisioned on the IMS UE. This alternative is not adopted for
use in early IMS systems.
The HTTP Digest method has the following advantages and disadvantages:
Advantages:
\- Fully standardized and supported by RFC 3261 [6] compliant implementations
and therefore by TS 24.229 [7] compliant implementations (SIP protocol
mandates support of HTTP Digest).
\- HTTP Digest can support partial message integrity protection for those
parts of the message used in the calculation of the WWW-Authenticate and
Authorization header field response directive values (when qop=auth-int).
\- HTTP Digest implementations can employ methods to protect against replay
attacks (e.g. using server created nonce values based on user ID, time-stamp,
private server key, or using one-time nonce values).
Disadvantages:
\- HTTP Digest may impose restrictions on the type of charging schemes that
can be adopted by an operator. In particular, if a subscriber could find out
his or her own password from an insecure implementation on the UE, then he or
she could share the IMS subscription with friends. This could impact revenue
for the operator if bundled or partly subscription based tariffs are used
rather than purely usage based tariffs. For example, a subscriber could take
out a subscription for 100 instant messages and then share this with his or
her friends. Although contractual obligations could be imposed on customers to
prohibit this behaviour, in practice this would be difficult to enforce
without employing special protection mechanisms, e.g. disallow multiple
binding to a single IP address. If charging were purely usage based then there
would be no incentive for the subscriber to do this, therefore using HTTP
Digest may not impact on operator\'s revenue. The solution specified in clause
6 is flexible in allowing a range of different charging models including
bundled or partly subscription based tariffs.
\- HTTP Digest provides a weaker form of subscriber authentication when
compared with the levels of authentication used for other services offered
over 3GPP networks, where authentication is typically based directly or
indirectly on the (U)SIM. Subscription authentication depends, among other
things, on the strength of the password used as well as on the password
provisioning methods, such as bootstrapping passwords into the IMS capable UE.
A weak subscriber authentication, vulnerable to dictionary attacks, has
implications on the reliability of charging, and on the level of assurance
that can be given to the customer that their communications cannot be
masqueraded. In the solution specified in clause 6, authentication of the IMS
subscriber is indirectly based on (U)SIM authentication at the GPRS level. The
level of security is similar to that currently used for certain WAP services,
where the user\'s MSISDN is provided by the GGSN to the WAP gateway. Security
does not rely on the UE securely storing any long-term secret information
(e.g. passwords).
\- HTTP Digest provisioning is more complex since subscriber-specific
information (i.e. passwords) must be installed or bootstrapped into each IMS
UE.
#