# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical specification of the services provided by
the physical layer of E-UTRA to upper layers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[4] Void
[5] Void
[6] Void
[7] Void
[8] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[9] Void
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; Measurements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Proximity-based services (ProSe)\".
[15] Void
[16] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[3].
**Carrier frequency:** center frequency of the cell.
**Frequency layer:** set of cells with the same carrier frequency.
**NB-IoT:** NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a channel
bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.
**Sidelink: UE to UE interface for** sidelink communication, V2X sidelink
communication **and** sidelink discovery**. The sidelink corresponds to the
PC5 interface as defined in TS 23.303 [14].**
**Sidelink communication** : AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct
Communication as defined in TS 23.303 [14], between two or more nearby UEs,
using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node. In this version,
the terminology \"sidelink communication\" without \"V2X\" prefix only
concerns PS unless explicitly stated otherwise.
**Sidelink discovery** : AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct Discovery as
defined in TS 23.303 [14], using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any
network node.
**V2X Sidelink communication** : AS functionality enabling V2X Communication
as defined in TS 23.285 [16], between nearby UEs, using E-UTRA technology but
not traversing any network node.
**Timing Advance Group:** See the definition in [12].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[3] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [3].
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACK Acknowledgement
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
> BCH Broadcast Channel
BL Bandwidth reduced Low complexity
BLER Block Error Rate
CG Cell Group
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System
CP Cyclic Prefix
C-plane Control Plane
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CSI Channel State Information
DC Dual Connectivity
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DL Downlink
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DTCH Dedicated Traffic Channel
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
eNB E-UTRAN NodeB
eIMTA Enhanced Interference Management and Traffic Adaptation
EPDCCH Enhanced physical downlink control channel
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
> FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing
FS Frame Structure
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
HARQ Hybrid ARQ
LAA Licensed-Assisted Access
LTE Long Term Evolution
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MCH Multicast Channel
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
NACK Negative Acknowledgement
NB-IoT Narrow Band Internet of Things
NPBCH Narrow Band Physical Broadcast Channel
NPDCCH Narrow Band Physical Downlink Control Channel
NPDSCH Narrow Band Physical Downlink Shared Channel
NPRACH Narrow Band Physical Random Access Channel
NPUSCH Narrow Band Physical Uplink Shared Channel
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
PBCH Physical broadcast channel
PDCCH Physical downlink control channel
PDSCH Physical downlink shared channel
PHY Physical layer
PMCH Physical multicast channel
PRACH Physical random access channel
PRB Physical Resource Block
ProSe Proximity based Services
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast CHannel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control Channel
PSCell Primary SCell
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery Channel
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
PUCCH Physical uplink control channel
PUSCH Physical uplink shared channel
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
RACH Random Access Channel
RF Radio Frequency
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SBCCH Sidelink Broadcast Control CHannel
SC-FDMA Single Carrier -- Frequency Division Multiple Access
SCell Secondary Cell
SC-PTM Single Cell Point to Multipoint
SL-BCH Sidelink Broadcast Channel
SL-DCH Sidelink Discovery Channel
SL-SCH Sidelink Shared Channel
SRS Sounding Reference Symbol
STCH Sidelink Traffic Channel
TAG Timing Advance Group
TB Transport Block
TDD Time Division Duplex
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
U-plane User plane
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 Void
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Void
# 5 Services and functions of the physical layer
## 5.1 General
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers.
The access to these services is through the use of transport channels via the
MAC sub-layer.
A transport block is defined as the data delivered by MAC layer to the
physical layer and vice versa. Transport blocks are delivered once every TTI.
## 5.2 Overview of L1 functions
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers. The access
to these services is through the use of a transport channel via the MAC sub-
layer. The physical layer is expected to perform the following functions in
order to provide the data transport service:
\- Error detection on the transport channel and indication to higher layers
\- FEC encoding/decoding of the transport channel
\- Hybrid ARQ soft-combining
\- Rate matching of the coded transport channel to physical channels
\- Mapping of the coded transport channel onto physical channels
\- Power weighting of physical channels
\- Modulation and demodulation of physical channels
\- Frequency and time synchronisation
\- Radio characteristics measurements and indication to higher layers
\- Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antenna processing
\- Transmit Diversity (TX diversity)
\- Beamforming
\- RF processing.
L1 functions are modelled for each transport channel in clauses 6.1, 6.2 and
6.3.
## 5.3 Void
# 6 Model of physical layer of the UE
The E-UTRA physical-layer model captures those characteristics of the E-UTRA
physical-layer that are relevant from the point-of-view of higher layers. More
specifically, the physical-layer model captures:
\- The structure of higher-layer data being passed down to or up from the
physical layer;
\- The means by which higher layers can configure the physical layer;
\- The different indications (error indications, channel-quality indications,
etc.) that are provided by the physical layer to higher layers;
\- Other (non-transport-channel-based) higher-layer peer-to-peer signalling
supported by the physical layer.
## 6.1 Uplink model
### 6.1.1 Uplink Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Uplink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.1.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue. It should be noted that, in the cases of PUSCH and NPUSCH, the
scheduling decision is fully done at the network side. The uplink transmission
control in the UE then configures the uplink physical-layer processing, based
on uplink transport-format and resource-assignment information received on the
downlink.
**\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block of dynamic size delivered to the physical layer once
every TTI.
**\- CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
**\- FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Physical layer model support of HARQ: in case of Incremental Redundancy,
the corresponding Layer 2 Hybrid-ARQ process controls what redundancy version
is to be used for the physical layer transmission for each TTI.
**\- Interleaving**
\- No control of interleaving by higher layers.
**\- Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, and
256QAM; for BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, supported modulation schemes
are QPSK and 16QAM; for NB-IoT, supported modulation schemes are Pi/4-QPSK and
Pi/2-BPSK for single-tone allocation, and QPSK for multi-tone allocation).
**\- Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks to
the available number of antenna ports.
**\- Support of L1 control signalling**
\- Transmission of ACK/NACK and CSI feedback related to DL data transmission
The model of Figure 6.1.1-1 also captures
\- Transport via physical layer of Hybrid-ARQ related information associated
with the PUSCH, to the peer HARQ process at the transmitter side;
\- Transport via physical layer of corresponding HARQ acknowledgements to
PUSCH transmitter side (except for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs, and UEs in enhanced
coverage).
If a UE is configured with one or more SCells, the physical-layer-processing
chain in Figure 6.1.1-1 is repeated for every UL Serving Cell.
Figure 6.1.1-1: Physical-layer model for UL-SCH transmission
### 6.1.2 Random-access Channel
The physical-layer model for RACH transmission is characterized by a random
access burst that consists of a cyclic prefix, a preamble, and a guard time
during which nothing is transmitted.
The random access preambles are generated from Zadoff-Chu sequences with zero
correlation zone (ZC-ZCZ), generated from one or several root Zadoff-Chu
sequences. For NB-IoT, the random access preambles are generated from single-
subcarrier frequency-hopping symbol groups. A symbol group consists of a
cyclic prefix followed by five identical symbols, whose value is constant
across symbol groups during each NPRACH transmission.
## 6.2 Downlink model
### 6.2.1 Downlink-Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Downlink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding PDSCH or NPDSCH physical-layer-processing chain,
see Figure 6.2.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer
model, e.g. in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are
highlighted in blue on the figure.
**\- Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- N (up to two) transport blocks of dynamic size delivered to the physical
layer once every TTI.
**\- CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
**\- FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Physical layer model support of HARQ: in case of Incremental Redundancy,
the corresponding Layer 2 Hybrid-ARQ process controls what redundancy version
is to be used for the physical layer transmission for each TTI.
**\- Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM, 64 QAM and
256QAM; for BL UEs or UEs in enhanced coverage, supported modulation schemes
are QPSK and 16QAM; for NB-IoT, only QPSK is supported).
**Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from modulated code words (for each
stream) to the available number of antenna ports.
**\- Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
**\- Support of L1 control signalling**
\- Transmission of scheduler related control signals.
**\- Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
The model of Figure 6.2.1-1 also captures:
\- Transport via physical layer of Hybrid-ARQ related information associated
with the PDSCH, to the peer HARQ process at the receiver side;
\- Transport via physical layer of corresponding HARQ acknowledgements to
PDSCH transmitter side.
If a UE is configured with one or more SCells, the physical-layer-processing
chain in Figure 6.2.1-1 is repeated for every DL Serving Cell.
NOTE: The signalling of transport-format and resource-allocation is not
captured in the physical-layer model. At the transmitter side, this
information can be directly derived from the configuration of the physical
layer. The physical layer then transports this information over the radio
interface to its peer physical layer, presumably multiplexed in one way or
another with the HARQ-related information. On the receiver side, this
information is, in contrast to the HARQ-related information, used directly
within the physical layer for PDSCH demodulation, decoding etc., without
passing through higher layers.
Figure 6.2.1-1: Physical-layer model for DL-SCH transmission
### 6.2.2 Broadcast Channel
The physical-layer model for BCH transmission is characterized by a fixed pre-
defined transport format. The TTI (repetition rate) of the BCH is 40 ms except
for NB-IoT and 640 ms for NB-IoT. The BCH physical-layer model is described
based on the corresponding BCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.2.2-1:
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single (fixed-size) transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No BCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Fixed modulation scheme (QPSK), i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- Fixed pre-determined transport format and resource allocation, i.e. no
higher-layer control.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
\- Fixed pre-determined processing, i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Physical-layer model for BCH transmission
NOTE: For NB-IoT, the BCH transport block of 40 bits is truncated to 34 bits
by the NodeB when provided to the physical layer for BCH transmission. The BCH
transport block of 34 bits is padded to 40 bits when delivered by the UE
physical layer to the upper layer.
### 6.2.3 Paging Channel
The physical-layer model for PCH transmission is described based on the
corresponding PCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.2.3-1.
Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g. in the
sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue on
the figure.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No PCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2 controlled resource assignment;
\- Possible support of dynamic transport format and resource allocation.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks to
the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.3-1: Physical-layer model for PCH transmission
### 6.2.4 Multicast Channel
The physical-layer model for MCH transmission is characterized by the support
for multi-cell reception at the UE (a.k.a. \"MBSFN\" transmission). This
implies that only semi-static configuration of the MCH transport format and
resource assignment is possible. The MCH physical-layer model is described
based on the corresponding MCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.2.4-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block delivered to physical layer once every TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No MCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is configured by RRC layer.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2 controlled semi--static resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks (for
each stream) to the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.4-1: Physical-layer model for MCH transmission
## 6.3 Sidelink model
### 6.3.1 Sidelink Broadcast Channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Broadcast Channel transmission is
characterized by a fixed pre-defined transport format. The TTI (repetition
rate) of the SL-BCH not corresponding to V2X sidelink communication is 40ms
whereas the TTI (repetition rate) of the SL-BCH corresponding to V2X sidelink
communication is 160 ms, if a UE is configured to transmit on SL-BCH. The SL-
BCH physical-layer model is described based on the corresponding SL-BCH
physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.3.1-1.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single (fixed-size) transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate matching**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No SL-BCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Fixed modulation scheme (QPSK), i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- Fixed pre-determined transport format i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- RRC controlled semi-static resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- Single antenna port is used.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Physical-layer model for SL-BCH transmission
### 6.3.2 Sidelink Discovery Channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Discovery Channel transmission is
characterized by a fixed pre-defined transport format. The SL-DCH physical-
layer model is described based on the corresponding SL-DCH physical-layer-
processing chain, see Figure 6.3.2-1. Processing steps that are relevant for
the physical-layer model, e.g. in the sense that they are configurable by
higher layers, are highlighted in blue. It should be noted that, in case
scheduled resource allocation of SL-DCH, the scheduling decision is fully done
by network side. The sidelink transmission control in the UE configures the
sidelink physical-layer processing, based on sidelink transport-format and
resource-assignment information received on the downlink. In case UE
autonomous resource selection of SL-DCH, the scheduling decision is done by UE
side. The sidelink transmission control in the UE configures the sidelink
physical-layer processing, based on pre-defined sidelink transport-format and
UE randomly selected resource-assignment.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single (fixed-size) transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layer.
\- **FEC and rate matching**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Support for soft combining, but no support for ACK/NACK feedback.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Fixed modulation scheme (QPSK), i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- RRC controlled semi-static resource assignment;
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- Single antenna port is used.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Physical-layer model for SL-DCH transmission
### 6.3.3 Sidelink Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding SL-SCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure
6.3.3-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in
blue on the figure. It should be noted that, in case of scheduled resource
allocation, the SL-SCH scheduling decision is done by network side. The
sidelink transmission control in the UE configures the sidelink physical-layer
processing, based on sidelink transport-format and resource-assignment
information received on the downlink. In case of UE autonomous resource
selection, the SL-SCH scheduling decision is done by UE side, and the MAC
scheduler in the UE configures the sidelink physical-layer processing, based
on the sidelink transport-format autonomously decided by the UE and
autonomously selected resource-assignment.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block of dynamic size delivered to the physical layer once
every TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate matching**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Support for soft combining, but no support for ACK/NACK feedback.
\- **Data modulation**
\- For scheduled resource allocation, modulation scheme is decided by higher
layer signaling from eNB.
\- For UE autonomous resource selection for sidelink communication, modulation
scheme is decided by MAC scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM) in transmitter UE.
\- For UE autonomous resource selection for V2X sidelink communication,
modulation scheme is decided by MAC scheduler in transmitter UE, according to
the range defined by higher layer signalling from eNB or preconfiguration if
configured.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- Single antenna port is used.
Figure 6.3.3-1: Physical-layer model for SL-SCH transmission
# 7 Void
# 8 Parallel transmission of simultaneous Physical Channels and SRS
This clause describes the requirements from the UE to send and receive on
multiple Physical and Transport Channels and SRS simultaneously depending on
the service capabilities and requirements.
## 8.1 Uplink
The table 8.1-1 describes the possible combinations of physical channels that
can be sent in parallel in the uplink within the same subframe. For NB-IoT,
see Table 8.1-1a.
Table 8.1-1: Uplink
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent | | | | Combination | Combination | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | _q_ x PUSCH | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | | | | Note 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | _k_ x PRACH | RACH | Mandatory | Note 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | _j_ x _k_ x | N/A | Mandatory | CSI and | | | PUCCH | | | Scheduling | | | | | | Requests | | | | | | are | | | | | | provided to | | | | | | Layer 2. | | | | | | Note 4, | | | | | | Note5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | _q_ x | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note1, Note | | | PUSCH\ | | for UEs | 2, Note 4, | | | + _j_ x _k_ | | supporting | Note5 | | | x PUCCH | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of PUSCH | | | | | | and PUCCH | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | +_(q-k)_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | multiple | Note 4 | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | _k_ x PRACH | RACH | Mandatory | Note 3, | | | + _j_ x _k_ | | for UEs | Note 4, | | | x PUCCH | | supporting | Note5 | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | +_(q-k)_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | s | Note 4, | | | | | imultaneous | Note5 | | | + _j_ x | | t | | | | _k_ x PUCCH | | ransmission | | | | | | of PUSCH | | | | | | and PUCCH | | | | | | and | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: One | | | | | | PUSCH per | | | | | | UL CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: _q_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | UL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _q_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-CA | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | PRACH and | | | | | | PUSCH/PUCCH | | | | | | are from | | | | | | cells in | | | | | | different | | | | | | Timing | | | | | | Advance | | | | | | Groups | | | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: _k_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | CGs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-DC | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 2 | | | | | | implies DC | | | | | | capable UE, | | | | | | and one | | | | | | PUCCH and | | | | | | one PRACH | | | | | | per CG. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: _j_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | groups | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _j_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | is | | | | | | supported | | | | | | only on | | | | | | PCell. _j_ | | | | | | = 2 implies | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | is | | | | | | supported | | | | | | on PCell | | | | | | and an | | | | | | SCell. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 8.1-1a: Uplink for NB-IoT
* * *
      Physical Channel Combination   Transport Channel Combination   Mandatory dependent on UE radio access capabilities   Comment
1 NPUSCH UL-SCH Mandatory  
2 NPRACH RACH Mandatory
* * *
The table 8.1-2 describes the possible combinations of SRS and physical
channels that can be sent in parallel in uplink in the last symbol within the
same subframe by one UE. Table 8.1-2 is not applicable for NB-IoT.
Table 8.1-2: Uplink in combinations with SRS
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel and | Channel | dependent | | | | SRS | Combination | on UE radio | | | | Combination | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | _q_ x SRS | N/A | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | | | | Note 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 3, | | | +_(q-k)_ x | | supporting | Note 4, | | | SRS | | multiple | Note 7 | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | _n_ x | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PUSCH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | + _(q-n)_ x | | supporting | Note 4, | | | SRS | | multiple | Note 5, | | | | | TAGs | Note 6 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | _j_ x _k_ x | N/A | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | PUCCH | | for UEs | Note 4, | | | | | supporting | Note 6, | | | + _(q- j_ | | multiple | Note 7, | | | x _k)_ x | | TAGs | Note 8 | | | SRS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | _n_ x PUSCH | UL-SCH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | + _j_ x _k_ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | x PUCCH | | supporting | Note 4, | | | | | s | Note 5, | | | + _(q-n)_ | | imultaneous | Note 6, | | | x SRS | | t | Note 7, | | | | | ransmission | Note 8 | | | | | of PUSCH | | | | | | and PUCCH | | | | | | and | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | + _n_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | multiple | Note 4, | | | | | TAGs | Note 5, | | | + | | | Note 6, | | | _(q-n-k)_ x | | | Note 7 | | | SRS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 2, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 3, | | | + _j_ x _k_ | | supporting | Note 4, | | | x PUCCH | | multiple | Note 6, | | | | | TAGs | Note 7, | | | + | | | Note 8 | | | _(q-(j+1)_ | | | | | | x _k)_ x | | | | | | SRS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | _k_ x | RACH | Mandatory | Note 1, | | | PRACH\ | | for UEs | Note 2, | | | + _n_ x | UL-SCH | supporting | Note 3, | | | PUSCH | | s | Note 4, | | | | | imultaneous | Note 5, | | | + _j_ x | | t | Note 6, | | | _k_ x PUCCH | | ransmission | Note 7, | | | | | of PUSCH | Note 8 | | | + | | and PUCCH | | | | _(q-n-k)_ x | | and | | | | SRS | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: One | | | | | | PUSCH per | | | | | | UL CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: _q_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | UL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _q_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-CA | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | PRACH and | | | | | | PUSC | | | | | | H/PUCCH/SRS | | | | | | are from | | | | | | cells in | | | | | | different | | | | | | TAGs | | | | | | [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: One | | | | | | SRS per UL | | | | | | CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: _n | | | | | | = 1, 2, | | | | | | ..., q- k._ | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: If | | | | | | UE is not | | | | | | configured | | | | | | with | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs, then | | | | | | SRS and | | | | | | PUSCH/PUCCH | | | | | | are not | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | in | | | | | | parallel; | | | | | | otherwise, | | | | | | if UE is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | with | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | TAGs, then | | | | | | SRS and | | | | | | PUSCH/PUCCH | | | | | | are | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | in parallel | | | | | | from | | | | | | different | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cells of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | TAG or | | | | | | different | | | | | | TAGs. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: _k_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | CGs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | non-DC | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | _k_ = 2 | | | | | | implies DC | | | | | | capable UE, | | | | | | and one | | | | | | PUCCH and | | | | | | one PRACH | | | | | | per CG. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 8: _j_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | groups | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | _j_ = 1 | | | | | | implies | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | is | | | | | | supported | | | | | | only on | | | | | | PCell. _j_ | | | | | | = 2 implies | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | is | | | | | | supported | | | | | | on PCell | | | | | | and an | | | | | | SCell. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 8.2 Downlink
The tables describe the possible combinations of physical channels that can be
received in parallel in the downlink in the same subframe by one UE. In one
subframe, the UE shall be able to receive all TBs according to the indication
on PDCCH. Tables 8.2-1, 8.2-1a, 8.2-2 and 8.2-2a are applicable to LTE; Tables
8.2-1b and 8.2-2b are applicable to NB-IoT.
Table 8.2-1: Downlink \"Reception Types\" except for NB-IoT UEs, BL UEs and
UEs in enhanced coverage
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | \"Reception | Physical | Monitored\ | Associated\ | | Type\" | Channel(s) | RNTI | Transport | | | | | Channel | +================+================+================+================+ | A | PBCH | N/A | BCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | PDCCH+PDSCH | SI-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B1 | PDCCH+PDSCH | SI-RNTI (Note | DL-SCH | | | | 11) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | PDCCH+PDSCH | P-RNTI | PCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D | PDCCH+PDSCH | RA-RNTI (Note | DL-SCH | | | | 3) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Temporary | DL-SCH | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 3) (Note 4) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | (PDCCH/EPDCCH) | C-RNTI and | DL-SCH | | | +PDSCH | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D1 | (PDCCH/EPDCCH) | C-RNTI | DL-SCH | | | +PDSCH | | | | | | | | | | (Note 9) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D2 | PDCCH+PDSCH | SC-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | G-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D3 | (PDCCH/EPDCCH) | C-RNTI and | DL-SCH | | | +PDSCH | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | PDCCH+PDSCH | SC-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | G-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E | PDCCH/EPDCCH | C-RNTI | N/A | | | | | | | | (Note 1) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F | PDCCH | Temporary | **UL-** SCH | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 5) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | PDCCH/EPDCCH | C-RNTI and | **UL-SCH** | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F1 | PDCCH/EPDCCH | C-RNTI | UL-SCH | | | | | | | | (Note 9) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G | PDCCH | TPC-PUCCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | H | PDCCH | TPC-PUSCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | PDCCH/EPDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 6) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | J | PDCCH/EPDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 7) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | K | PDCCH | M-RNTI (Note | N/A | | | | 8) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | K1 | PDCCH | SC-N-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | K2 | PDCCH | M-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | L | PMCH | N/A (Note 8) | MCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | M | PDCCH | eIMTA-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | N | PDCCH/EPDCCH | SL-RNTI | SL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | N1 | PDCCH/EPDCCH | SL-V-RNTI | SL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | N2 | PDCCH/EPDCCH | SL | SL-SCH | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | V-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | O | PDCCH | CC-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | P | PDCCH | SRS-TPC-RNTI | N/A | | | | (Note 10) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Q | PDCCH/EPDCCH | UL | UL-SCH | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | V-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Q1 | PDCCH/EPDCCH | UL | N/A | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | V-RNTI (Note | | | | | 12) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | R | PDCCH/EPDCCH | SL | N/A | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | V-RNTI (Note | | | | | 13) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: PDCCH | | | | | or EPDCCH is | | | | | used to convey | | | | | PDCCH order | | | | | for Random | | | | | Access. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: Void. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | RA-RNTI and | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI are | | | | | mutually | | | | | exclusive and | | | | | only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during Random | | | | | Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI is only | | | | | applicable | | | | | when no valid | | | | | C-RNTI is | | | | | available. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI is only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during | | | | | co | | | | | ntention-based | | | | | Random Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for DL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for UL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | | | | | | | Note 8: In | | | | | MBSFN | | | | | subframes only | | | | | | | | | | Note 9: DL-SCH | | | | | reception | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to D1, and | | | | | UL-SCH | | | | | transmission | | | | | corresponding | | | | | to F1, are | | | | | only | | | | | applicable to | | | | | SCells. | | | | | | | | | | Note 10: | | | | | SRS-TPC-RNTI | | | | | is used to | | | | | trigger group | | | | | SRS and TPC | | | | | for SRS-only | | | | | SCells. Up to | | | | | 2 SRS-TPC-RNTI | | | | | can be | | | | | concurrently | | | | | configured. | | | | | | | | | | Note 11: For | | | | | MBMS-dedicated | | | | | carrier, | | | | | SI-RNTI may be | | | | | assigned with | | | | | two values | | | | | which may be | | | | | used in same | | | | | subframe. | | | | | | | | | | Note 12: Used | | | | | for release of | | | | | an UL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | associated | | | | | with UL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | V-RNTI. | | | | | | | | | | Note 13: Used | | | | | for release of | | | | | an SL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | associated | | | | | with SL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | V-RNTI. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 8.2-1a: Downlink \"Reception Types\" for BL UEs and UEs in enhanced
coverage
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | \"Reception | Physical | Monitored\ | Associated\ | | Type\" | Channel(s) | RNTI | Transport | | | | | Channel | +================+================+================+================+ | A | PBCH | N/A | BCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | MPDCCH (Note | C-RNTI | N/A | | | 1) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | MPDCCH | TPC-PUCCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D | MPDCCH | TPC-PUSCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D1 | MPDCCH (Note | SC-RNTI | DL-SCH | | | 7) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | G-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E | MPDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 2) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F | MPDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 3) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G | MPDCCH (Note | RA-RNTI | DL-SCH | | | 4) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Temporary | UL-SCH | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Temporary | DL-SCH | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | P-RNTI | PCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | H | PDSCH (Note 5) | SI-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | P-RNTI | PCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Temporary | DL-SCH | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | RA-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | H1 | PDSCH (Note 7) | SC-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | G-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | MPDCCH | Temporary | UL-SCH | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 6) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | C-RNTI and | UL-SCH | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | J | MPDCCH | C-RNTI and | DL-SCH | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | K | PDSCH (Note 5) | C-RNTI and | DL-SCH | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: MPDCCH | | | | | is used to | | | | | convey PDCCH | | | | | order for | | | | | Random Access. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for DL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for UL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | RA-RNTI, | | | | | P-RNTI, and | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI are not | | | | | required to be | | | | | simultaneously | | | | | monitored. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: All | | | | | RNTIs listed | | | | | in the | | | | | reception type | | | | | are mutually | | | | | exclusive. | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI is only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during | | | | | co | | | | | ntention-based | | | | | Random Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: | | | | | SC-RNTI and | | | | | G-RNTI are not | | | | | required to be | | | | | simultaneously | | | | | monitored. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 8.2-1b: Downlink \"Reception Types\" for NB-IoT UEs
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | \"Reception | Physical | Monitored\ | Associated\ | | Type\" | Channel(s) | RNTI | Transport | | | | | Channel | +================+================+================+================+ | A | NPBCH | N/A | BCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | NPDCCH (Note | C-RNTI | N/A | | | 2) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | NPDCCH | P-RNTI | PCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D | NPDCCH | RA-RNTI (Note | DL-SCH | | | | 1) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 1) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D1 | NPDCCH (Note | SC-RNTI | DL-SCH | | | 3) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | G-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E | NPDSCH | N/A | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F | NPDCCH | C-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G | NPDCCH | C-RNTI | UL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | RA-RNTI and | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI are | | | | | mutually | | | | | exclusive and | | | | | only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during Random | | | | | Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: NPDCCH | | | | | is used to | | | | | convey PDCCH | | | | | order for | | | | | Random Access. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | SC-RNTI and | | | | | G-RNTI are not | | | | | required to be | | | | | simultaneously | | | | | monitored. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 8.2-2: Downlink \"Reception Type\" Combinations except for NB-IoT UEs,
BL UEs and UEs in enhanced coverage
The \"Reception Type\" used in this table refers to the \"Reception Type\" in
Table 8.2-1.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | PCell | PSCell | SCell | Non-serving | | | | | | cell | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1. | | | | | | RRC_IDLE | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.1 All UEs | A + B + C + | | | | | | D | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | for Random | | | | | | Access | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | is only | | | | | | required, | | | | | | related to | | | | | | D. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.2 UEs | K + L | | | | | supporting | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.3 UEs | K1 + D2 | | | | | supporting | | | | | | SC-PTM | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2. | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | _CONNECTED | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.1 All UEs | A + B + (D | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | | or E or G | or G or I) | F1 | | | | or I) + (F | + (F or H | | | | | or H or J) | or J) + M | | | | | + M | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.2 UEs | A + B + (D | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | supporting | or E or G | or G or I) | F1 | | | FS2 | or I) + (F | + (F or H | | | | | or H or J) | or J) + F + | | | | | + F + M + P | M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 6 with | | | | | | special | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 10 and TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 0, two | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for UL-SCH | | | | | | in two | | | | | | different | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.2a UEs | | | D1 + F1 + O | | | supporting | | | | | | FS3 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For FS3, up | | | | | | to four | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for LAA | | | | | | UL-SCH in | | | | | | different | | | | | | FS3 uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.3 UEs | ((E or G or | ((E or G or | (E + L + K) | (A + B) or | | supporting | I) + L + K) | I) + L + K) | or (D1 + B) | (L + K) | | MBMS | or (A + B + | or (A + B + | + F1 | | | | D) + (F or | D) + (F or | | | | | H or J) + M | H or J) + M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | is on PCell | | | | | | and/or any | | | | | | other cell. | | | | | | _r_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs on | | | | | | which the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | M | | | | | | BMSInterest | | | | | | Indication. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of L and | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of K  _r_. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: It | | | | | | is not | | | | | | required to | | | | | | sim | | | | | | ultaneously | | | | | | receive | | | | | | EPDCCH and | | | | | | PMCH on the | | | | | | same cell. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.3a UEs | | | (D1 + B + | (A + B1 + | | supporting | | | K2) or (L + | K2) or (L + | | FeMBMS | | | K2) + F1 | K2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | is on PCell | | | | | | and/or any | | | | | | other cell. | | | | | | _r_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs on | | | | | | which the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | M | | | | | | BMSInterest | | | | | | Indication. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of L and | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of K2  | | | | | | _r_. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: It | | | | | | is not | | | | | | required to | | | | | | sim | | | | | | ultaneously | | | | | | receive | | | | | | EPDCCH and | | | | | | PMCH on the | | | | | | same cell. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.4 MBMS | ((E or G or | ((E or G or | (E + L + K) | (A + B) or | | UEs | I) + L + K) | I) + L + K) | or (D1 + B) | (L + K) | | supporting | or (A + B + | or (A + B + | + F1 | | | FS2 | D) + 1x(F | D) + 1x(F | | | | | or H or J) | or H or J) | | | | | + F + M + P | + F + M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 6 with | | | | | | special | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 10 and TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 0, two | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for UL-SCH | | | | | | in two | | | | | | different | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | is on PCell | | | | | | and/or any | | | | | | other cell. | | | | | | _r_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs on | | | | | | which the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | reception | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | M | | | | | | BMSInterest | | | | | | Indication. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of L and | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of K  _r_. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: It | | | | | | is not | | | | | | required to | | | | | | sim | | | | | | ultaneously | | | | | | receive | | | | | | EPDCCH and | | | | | | PMCH on the | | | | | | same cell. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.5 UEs | A + B + C + | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | supporting | (D or E or | or G or I) | F1 | | | ETWS and | G or I) + | + (F or H | | | | CMAS | (F or H or | or J) + M | | | | | J) + M | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.6 ETWS | A + B + C + | A + (D or E | (E or D1) + | | | and CMAS | (D or E or | or G or I) | F1 | | | UEs | G or I) + | + (F or H | | | | supporting | (F or H or | or J) + F + | | | | FS2 | J) + F + M | M | | | | | + P | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 6 with | | | | | | special | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 10 and TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 0, two | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for UL-SCH | | | | | | in two | | | | | | different | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.7 UEs | A + B + (D | | | | | supporting | or E or G | | | | | sidelink | or I) + (F | | | | | co | or H or J) | | | | | mmunication | + M + N | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.7a UEs | A + B + (D | | | | | supporting | or E or G | | | | | V2X | or I) + (F | | | | | sidelink | or H or J | | | | | co | or Q or Q1) | | | | | mmunication | + M + N1 + | | | | | | (N2 or R) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.7b UEs | A + B + (D | | | | | supporting | or E or G | | | | | V2X | or I) + (F | | | | | sidelink | or H or J | | | | | co | or Q or Q1) | | | | | mmunication | +M | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | The 2.7 and | | | | | | 2.7a | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | in | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | resource | | | | | | allocation | | | | | | mode, and | | | | | | the 2.7b | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | in | | | | | | autonomous | | | | | | resource | | | | | | selection | | | | | | mode. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.8 UEs | A + B + (D | A + B + (D | B + (D1 or | A + B + K1+ | | supporting | or (K1 + | or (K1 + | (K1 + D2) | D2 | | SC-PTM | D2) or (K1 | D2) or (K1 | or (K1 + | | | | + D3) or E | + D3) or E | D3) or E) + | | | | or G or I) | or G or I) | F1 | | | | + (F or H | + (F or H | | | | | or J) + M | or J) + M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when SC-PTM | | | | | | reception | | | | | | is on PCell | | | | | | and/or any | | | | | | other cell. | | | | | | _r_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs on | | | | | | which the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | SC-PTM | | | | | | reception | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | M | | | | | | BMSInterest | | | | | | Indication. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of K1 and | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of D2  | | | | | | _r_. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2.9 SC-PTM | A + B + (D | A + B + (D | B + (D1 or | A + B + K1+ | | UEs | or (K1 + | or (K1 + | (K1 + D2) | D2 | | supporting | D2) or (K1 | D2) or (K1 | or (K1 + | | | FS2 | + D3) or E | + D3) or E | D3) or E) + | | | | or G or I) | or G or I) | F1 | | | | + (F or H | + (F or H | | | | | or J) + F + | or J) + F + | | | | | M + P | M | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Remarks: | | | | | | For TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 6 with | | | | | | special | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 10 and TDD | | | | | | UL/DL | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | 0, two | | | | | | PDCCHs or | | | | | | EPDCCHs can | | | | | | be received | | | | | | in the same | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | for UL-SCH | | | | | | in two | | | | | | different | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | subframes. | | | | | | | | | | | | Remarks: | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | when SC-PTM | | | | | | reception | | | | | | is on PCell | | | | | | and/or any | | | | | | other cell. | | | | | | _r_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs on | | | | | | which the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | SC-PTM | | | | | | reception | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | M | | | | | | BMSInterest | | | | | | Indication. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of K1 and | | | | | | the number | | | | | | of D2  | | | | | | _r_. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: _p_ | | | | | | is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | The number | | | | | | of D1 is  | | | | | | (_p_ -1). | | | | | | _q_ is the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | UL CCs | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE. | | | | | | For UE not | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | FS2, the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | F1 is  | | | | | | (_q_ -1). | | | | | | For UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | FS2, the | | | | | | number of | | | | | | F1 is  | | | | | | 2x(_q_ -1). | | | | | | _q_ = _p_ = | | | | | | 1 implies | | | | | | non-CA | | | | | | capable UE. | | | | | | Only 1xE is | | | | | | possible at | | | | | | any | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | over all | | | | | | serving | | | | | | cells. 1xM | | | | | | is included | | | | | | if UE | | | | | | supports | | | | | | eIMTA. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: The | | | | | | UE is only | | | | | | required to | | | | | | receive one | | | | | | PDSCH, | | | | | | pertaining | | | | | | to D or D1 | | | | | | or D2 (if | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | supports | | | | | | SC-PTM) or | | | | | | D3 (if the | | | | | | UE supports | | | | | | the | | | | | | parallel | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of unicast | | | | | | and | | | | | | SC-PTM), | | | | | | per DL CC. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: If a | | | | | | UE | | | | | | indicating | | | | | | category 0 | | | | | | is | | | | | | scheduled | | | | | | with PDSCH | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | exceeding | | | | | | its | | | | | | processing | | | | | | capability | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.306 | | | | | | [13], the | | | | | | pri | | | | | | oritization | | | | | | between | | | | | | these PDSCH | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | is up to | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | involving | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | | | optional | | | | | | and | | | | | | required | | | | | | only for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | EPDCCH. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 8.2-2a: Downlink \"Reception Type\" Combinations for BL UEs and UEs in
enhanced coverage
The \"Reception Type\" used in this table refers to the \"Reception Type\" in
Table 8.2-1a.
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | | PCell | +===========================+=========================================+ | 1. RRC_IDLE | | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 1.1 All UEs | A or G or H | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 1.2 UEs supporting SC-PTM | A or G or H or (D1 + H1) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 2. RRC_CONNECTED | | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 2.1 All UEs | A or ((((J or E or B) + (I or F)) or C | | | or D) + K) or G or H | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | | Remarks: The combination for Random | | | Access procedure is only required, | | | related to G and H. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | 2.2 UEs supporting FS2 | A or ((((J or E or B) + (I or F)) or C | | | or D) + I + K) or G or H | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | | Remarks: For TDD UL/DL configuration 0, | | | two MPDCCHs can be received in the same | | | subframe for UL-SCH in two different | | | uplink subframes, which is only | | | applicable for UEs configured with CE | | | mode A with no repetitions. | | | | | | Remarks: The combination for Random | | | Access procedure is only required, | | | related to G and H. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
NOTE: Any subset of the combinations specified in table 8.2-2 and 8.2-2a are
also supported.
The \"reception type\" names in Table 8.2-2b refer to the \"reception types\"
from Table 8.2-1b.
Table 8.2-2b: Downlink \"Reception Type\" Combinations for NB-IoT UEs
                              PCell
* * *
1\. RRC_IDLE  
1.1 All UEs A or C or D or E Remarks: The combination for Random Access
procedure is only required, related to D. 1.2 UEs supporting SC-PTM A or C or
D or E or D1 2\. RRC_CONNECTED  
2.1 All UEs A or B or D or F or G or E
## 8.3 Sidelink
The table 8.3-1 describes the possible combinations of physical channels that
can be sent in parallel from UE perspective in the sidelink within the same
subframe. Table 8.3-2 describes the possible combinations of physical channels
that can be received in parallel from UE perspective in the sidelink within
the same subframe.
Table 8.3-1: Sidelink transmission
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent | | | | Combination | Combination | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | PSDCH | SL-DCH | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | discovery | | | | | discovery | transmits | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | messages on | | | | | | the camped | | | | | | cell (idle) | | | | | | or PCell | | | | | | ( | | | | | | connected). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | PSBCH | SL-BCH | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | or V2X | | | | | or V2X | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | transmits | | | | | | Mas | | | | | | terInformat | | | | | | ionBlock-SL | | | | | | messages in | | | | | | PSBCH on | | | | | | one | | | | | | pr | | | | | | econfigured | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | PSSCH | SL-SCH | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | or V2X | | | | | or V2X | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | transmits | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | data in | | | | | | PSSCH on | | | | | | one | | | | | | pr | | | | | | econfigured | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | PSCCH | N/A | Mandatory | The UE | | | | | for UE | supporting | | | | | supporting | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | or V2X | | | | | or V2X | sidelink | | | | | sidelink | co | | | | | co | mmunication | | | | | mmunication | transmits | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | control | | | | | | information | | | | | | in PSCCH on | | | | | | one | | | | | | pr | | | | | | econfigured | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | Depending | | | | | | on the UE | | | | | | capability, | | | | | | the UE may | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | Uplink and | | | | | | Sidelink | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions. | | | | | | If the UE | | | | | | is unable | | | | | | to perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | Uplink and | | | | | | Sidelink | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsmissions, | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | are | | | | | | prioritized | | | | | | according | | | | | | to [12]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: | | | | | | Depending | | | | | | on the UE | | | | | | capability, | | | | | | the UE may | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | (PSBCH or | | | | | | PSSCH or | | | | | | PSCCH) and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | (PSDCH). If | | | | | | the UE is | | | | | | unable to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneous | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | | and | | | | | | discovery, | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | are | | | | | | prioritized | | | | | | according | | | | | | to [12]. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 8.3-2: Sidelink reception
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent on | | | | Combination | Combination | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 1 | PSDCH | SL-DCH | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 2 | PSBCH | SL-BCH | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | or V2X | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 3 | PSSCH | SL-SCH | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | or V2X | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | 4 | PSCCH | N/A | Mandatory | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | or V2X | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | NOTE: For | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication, | | | | | | the UE shall | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | | Downlink and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | reception. | | | | | | For sidelink | | | | | | discovery, | | | | | | depending on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | capability, | | | | | | the UE may | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | | Downlink and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | receptions. | | | | | | If the UE is | | | | | | unable to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | | Downlink and | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | receptions, | | | | | | receptions | | | | | | are | | | | | | prioritized | | | | | | according to | | | | | | [12]. For | | | | | | V2X sidelink | | | | | | co | | | | | | mmunication, | | | | | | the UE shall | | | | | | be able to | | | | | | perform | | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | | Downlink and | | | | | | V2X sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | reception. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: If the | | | | | | configured | | | | | | resources | | | | | | for | | | | | | reception of | | | | | | sidelink | | | | | | c | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | and sidelink | | | | | | discovery | | | | | | are | | | | | | overlapped, | | | | | | receptions | | | | | | are | | | | | | prioritized | | | | | | according to | | | | | | [12]. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
# 9 Measurements provided by the physical layer
## 9.1 Void
## 9.2 UE Measurements
The list and detailed definition of UE measurements definition is provided in
[11].
## 9.3 E-UTRAN Measurements
The list and detailed definition of E-UTRAN measurements definition is
provided in [11].
#