# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope.
The present document describes the overall architecture of the interface for
the provision of MBMS in the E-UTRAN. This includes also a description of the
general aspects, assumptions and principles guiding the architecture and
interface. The MBMS functions to be provided within that architecture are
summarized. It provides an introduction to the TSG RAN TS 36.44x series of
UMTS Technical Specifications that define the different interfaces introduced
for MBMS provision in E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.441: "Layer 1 for interfaces supporting MBMS within E-UTRAN"
[3] 3GPP TS 36.442: "Signalling Transport for interfaces supporting MBMS
within E-UTRAN"
[4] 3GPP TS 36.443: "EUTRAN M2 Application Protocol (M2AP)"
[5] 3GPP TS 36.444: "EUTRAN M3 Application Protocol (M3AP)"
[6] 3GPP TS 36.445: "E-UTRAN M1 Data Transport"
[7] 3GPP TS 25.446: "MBMS synchronisation protocol (SYNC)"
[8] 3GPP TS 23.246: "MBMS Architecture and functional description"
[9] 3GPP TS 36.300: "E-UTRA and E-UTRAN overall description"
[10] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format
**\ **: \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BM-SC Broadcast-Multicast Service Centre
EPC Evolved Packet Core
MCE Multi-cell/multicast Coordination Entity
MME Mobility Management Entity
RNL Radio Network Layer
TNL Transport Network Layer
# 4 General Architecture for EUTRAN MBMS
Figure 4-1 General Architecture for E-UTRAN MBMS
_Figure 4-1 shows a simplified architecture for MBMS in LTE/SAE. It consists
of EPC functional entities and E-UTRAN nodes. Functions of MBMS EPC entities
are defined in TS 23.246 [8]. Functions of MBMS E-UTRAN nodes are defined in
TS 36.300 [9]. It should be noted that TS 36.300 [9] also allows MCE be
deployed inside eNodeB._
_Interfaces related to E-UTRAN (i.e. M1, M2 and M3) are introduced in this
document. For MBMS, control signaling and user plane data packet are
distributed from the EPC to E-UTRAN through different interfaces._
● Control plane interfaces
> _M3, M2 interface are pure control plane interfaces._
>
> _M3 between MME and MCE mainly carries MBMS session management signaling._
>
> _A MCE is connected to one or more than one eNBs within the same MBSFN
> through M2 interface mainly for MBMS session management signaling and radio
> configuration signaling._
● User plane interface
> _M1 interface is a pure user plane interface._
>
> _A MBMS GW is connected to multiple eNBs through M1 interface for data
> distribution._
_Reference points within EPC are not in the scope of this document. Please
refer to TS 23.246 [8] for details._
# 5 Functions of M1 interface for MBMS
## 5.1 General
**_"M1" Interface: MBMS GW -- eNB_**
The M1 interface is the user plane interface of MBMS between MBMS GW and eNB.
IP multicast is used to deliver the downlink packets over the M1 interface and
there is no uplink data over M1 radio network layer. SYNC protocol (TS 25.446
[7]) is used over the M1 interface to keep the content synchronization for
MBMS service data transmission.
## 5.2 Multicast group management function
IP multicast is used to deliver the packets over the M1 interface. The M1
interface has the function to manage the IP multicast groups. The MBMS GW
maintains the IP multicast groups. The MBMS GW allocates the IP multicast
group address when the session arrives, and may release it at session stop. At
the eNB side, the eNB joins the IP multicast group to receive the MBMS User
Plane data at session start, leaves the IP multicast group when the session
stops, may leave the IP multicast group when the session suspends and may
rejoin the IP multicast group when the session resumes.
## 5.3 Content synchronization function
The packets delivered over M1 interface will be synchronously transmitted by
eNBs. To support the inter-eNB content synchronization, SYNC protocol layer is
defined between BM-SC to eNB, which is used to carry additional information
that enable eNBs to identify the timing for radio frame transmission and
detect packet loss. Every packet in M1 contains the SYNC protocol information
which is encapsulated at BM-SC.
# 6 Functions of M2 interface for MBMS
## 6.1 General
**_"M2" Interface: MCE -- eNB_**
An Application Part (M2AP) is defined in TS 36.443 [4] for this interface,
which conveys at least radio configuration data for the multi-cell
transmission mode eNBs and Session Control Signaling. SCTP (IETF RFC 4960
[10]) is used as signaling transport i.e. Point-to-Point signaling is applied.
## 6.2 M2 interface setup and configuration update functions
The M2 Setup (respectively the eNB and MCE configuration update) function
allows to exchange (respectively update) application level data needed for the
eNB and MCE to interoperate correctly on the M2 interface after the TNL
association has become operational.
## 6.3 MBMS Session management function
MBMS session management function is responsible for starting, updating, and
stopping MBMS sessions.
### 6.3.1 M2 service context management function
The M2 service context management function supports the establishment of the
necessary overall initial service context including MBMS E-RAB context, M2
signalling connection ID(s), etc.
The establishment of the overall initial M2 service context is initiated by
the MCE.
The M2 service context management function also supports the release of the
context previously established in the eNB due to service termination. The
release of the context is triggered by the MCE.
### 6.3.2 MBMS E-RAB management functions
The MBMS E-RAB service management function is responsible for establishing and
releasing E-UTRAN resources for service data transport. The establishment of
E-UTRAN resources is triggered by the MCE. The release of E-UTRAN resources is
triggered by the MCE.
### 6.3.3 M2 link management function
The M2 signalling link management function provides a reliable transfer of the
radio network signalling between eNBs and MCE. The SCTP is used to support the
exchange of M2 Application Protocol (M2AP) signalling messages between eNBs
and MCE.
### 6.3.4 MBMS Service Suspension and Resumption function
The MBMS Service Suspension function allows the MCE to request the eNB to stop
the MBSFN transmission of an ongoing service and release associated RAN
resouces while keeping the MBMS context in the eNB.
The MBMS Service Resumption function allows to resume a previously suspended
MBMS Session.
## 6.4 MBMS Scheduling Information transfer function
This function provides multiplexing information if more than one MBMS service
is active. The MCE allocates the amount of resources to multiplexed services,
using service related information. The eNBs accept the MBMS Scheduling
information to synchronize the MCCH transmission in the MBSFN area.
## 6.5 MBMS signalling synchronization over M2
The M2 interface shall support timing and synchronization management
functions. MCE transmits the control information to eNBs through M2 interface.
Synchronization function guarantees the corresponding MCCH to be transmitted
at all eNBs simultaneously.
## 6.6 M2 interface reset and error processing function
These functions allow for managing of signalling associations between eNB-MCE,
surveying M2 interface and recovering from errors.
### 6.6.1 Error indication
This function allows the reporting of general error situations on signalling
exchange.
### 6.6.2 Reset
The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup or
after a failure event occurred. The reset function may also be used to
initialize part of the peer entity. This procedure can be used by both the eNB
and MCE.
## 6.7 MBMS Counting Function
The MBMS Counting function allows the MCE to request the eNB(s) to count and
report per MBSFN area for one or more MBMS services the number of connected
UEs receiving the MBMS Service or interested in receiving it.
# 7 Functions of M3 interface for MBMS
## 7.1 General
**_"M3" Interface: MME -- MCE_**
M3 provides the signalling service between MCE and MME that is required to
fulfil the M3AP functions listed in TS 36.444 [5]. SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [10])
is used as signaling transport i.e. Point-to-Point signaling is applied.
## 7.2 MBMS Session management function
_MBMS session management function is responsible for starting, updating, and
stopping MBMS sessions._
### 7.2.1 M3 service context management function
The M3 service context management function supports the establishment of the
necessary E-MBMS service context including E-MBMS E-RAB context, M3 signalling
connection ID(s), etc.
The establishment of the M3 service context is initiated by the MME. The M3
service context management function also supports the release of the context
previously established in the MCE due to service termination. The release of
the M3 context is triggered by the MME.
### 7.2.2 MBMS E-RAB management functions
The E-MBMS E-RAB service management function is responsible for establishing
and releasing E-UTRAN resources for E-MBMS services. The establishment of
E-UTRAN resources is triggered by the MME and requires respective QoS
information to be provided to the MCE. The release of E-UTRAN resources is
triggered by the MME.
## 7.3 M3 interface reset and error processing function
These functions allow for managing of signalling associations between MME-MCE,
surveying M3 interface and recovering from errors.
### 7.3.1 Error indication
The error indication function is used by the MCE (respectively the MME) to
indicate to the MME (respectively the MCE) that a logical error has occurred.
### 7.3.2 Reset
The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup or
after a failure event occurred. The reset function may also be used to
initialize part of the peer entity. This procedure can be used by both the MCE
and MME.
## 7.4 M3 interface setup and configuration update functions
In distributed MCE architecture, the M3 Setup and MCE Configuration Update
functions may be used to exchange (respectively update) application level data
used for the operation of the M3 interface after the TNL association has
become operational.
# 8 Protocol structure for MBMS related interface in E-UTRAN
## 8.1 General
MBMS related E-UTRAN interfaces, M1, M2 and M3, _are_ layered into a Radio
Network Layer (RNL) and a Transport Network Layer (TNL)_._
The radio network signalling over M3 consists of the M3 Application Protocol
(M3AP). The M3AP protocol (TS 36.444 [5]) consists of procedures between the
EPC and E-UTRAN for MBMS.
The radio network signalling over M2 consists of the M2 Application Protocol
(M2AP). The M2AP protocol (TS 36.443 [4]) consists of procedures between the
MCE and eNB for MBMS.
## 8.2 M1
The protocol stack structure for M1 interface is defined in TS 36.445 section
5.1 [6].
MBMS user data is distributed from the MBMS GW to eNBs by using IP multicast
through the M1 interface. An eNB joins the IP multicast address allocated by
MBMS GW during the MBMS Session Start procedure (TS 23.246 [8]).
## 8.3 M2
The protocol stack structure for M2 interface is defined in TS 36.442 section
4.1.1 [3].
## 8.4 M3
The protocol stack structure for M3 interface is defined in TS 36.442 section
5.1.1 [3].
# 9 Other MBMS E-UTRAN Interface Specifications
## 9.1 Layer 1 for interfaces supporting MBMS within E-UTRAN (3GPP TS 36.441)
TS 36.441 [2] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used to
support the M1, M2 and M3 interface for MBMS in E-UTRAN.
## 9.2 Signalling Transport for interfaces supporting MBMS within E-UTRAN
(3GPP TS 36.442)
TS 36.442 [3] specifies the signalling bearers for the M2AP for the M2
interface and the M3AP for the M3 interface.
## 9.3 E-UTRAN M2 Application Protocol (M2AP) (3GPP TS 36.443)
TS 36.443 [4] specifies the M2AP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the M2 interface.
## 9.4 E-UTRAN M3 Application Protocol (M3AP) (3GPP TS 36.444)
TS 36.444 [5] specifies the M3AP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the M3 interface.
## 9.5 E-UTRAN M1 Data Transport (3GPP TS 36.445)
TS 36.445 [6] specifies the transport bearers for the user plane of the M1
interface.
## 9.6 E-UTRAN MBMS synchronisation protocol (3GPP TS 25.446)
TS 25.446 [7] specifies the MBMS synchronisation protocol over the M1
interface.
#