# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Xw user plane protocol being used over the
Xw interface for LTE/WLAN Aggregation (LWA) and LTE WLAN Radio Level
Integration with IPsec Tunnel (LWIP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**LTE-WLAN Aggregation** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
**LWA bearer** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
**LWA PDU:** in LTE-WLAN Aggregation, a PDU with DRB ID generated by LWAAP
entity for transmission over WLAN.
**LWIP bearer** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
**LWIP option** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
**LWIP PDU:** in LTE WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel, a PDU
generated by LWIPEP entity for transmission over WLAN
**WLAN Termination** : Defined in TS 36.300 [2].
**Xw** : logical interface between eNB and WT.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
eNB E-UTRAN Node
LWA LTE-WLAN Aggregation
> LWIP LTE WLAN Radio Level Integration with IPsec Tunnel
WT WLAN Termination
# 4 General
## 4.1 General aspects
The Xw user plane (Xw UP) protocol is located in the User Plane of the Radio
Network layer over the Xw interface.
In LWA option, the Xw UP protocol is used to convey control information
related to the user data flow management of E-RABs. The WT flow control
feedback may support indication of successful transmission towards a UE, or
successful delivery to the UE, as defined in TS 36.300 [2].
In LWIP option, the Xw UP protocol is used to convey control information
related to the user data flow management of each UE. The WT flow control
feedback may support indication of successful transmission towards a UE, as
defined in TS 36.300 [2].
Each Xw UP protocol instance is associated to one E-RAB only.
This version of the present document defines the Xw UP protocol in the context
of LTE-WLAN Aggregation and LWIP option, more specifically, for UE user data
setup for LWIP operation or for Xw user data bearers setup for E-RABs
configured with the LWA bearer option.
If configured, Xw UP protocol instances exist at the eNB and the WT between
which the Xw user data bearers are setup.
In this version of the present document, Xw UP protocol data is conveyed by
GTP-U protocol means, more specifically, by means of the "Xw RAN Container"
GTP-U extension header as defined in TS 29.281 [3].
# 5 Xw user plane protocol
## 5.1 General
The Xw UP protocol layer is using services of the transport network layer in
order to allow flow control of user data packets transferred over the Xw
interface.
## 5.2 Xw user plane protocol layer services
For LWA option, the following functions are provided by the Xw UP protocol:
\- Provision of Xw UP specific sequence number information for user data
transferred from the eNB to the WT for a specific E-RAB configured with the
LWA bearer option;
\- Information of successful transmission towards or in sequence delivery to
the UE of LWA PDUs from WT for user data associated with a specific E-RAB
configured with the LWA bearer option;
\- Information of LWA PDUs that were not transferred towards or not delivered
to the UE;
\- Information of the currently desired buffer size at the WT for transmitting
to the UE user data associated with a specific E-RAB configured with the LWA
bearer option;
\- Information of the currently minimum desired buffer size at the WT for
transmitting to the UE user data associated with all E-RABs configured with
the LWA bearer option.
For LWIP option, the following functions are provided by the Xw UP protocol:
\- Provision of Xw UP specific sequence number information for user data
transferred from the eNB to the WT for a specific UE configured with the LWIP
bearer option;
\- Information of successful transmission towards the UE of LWIP PDUs from WT
for user data of a UE configured with the LWIP bearer option;
\- Information of LWIP PDUs that were not transferred towards the UE;
\- Information of the currently desired buffer size at the WT for transmitting
to the UE user data for a specific UE configured with the LWIP bearer option;
\- Information of the currently minimum desired buffer size at the WT for
transmitting to the UE user data for UEs configured with the LWIP bearer
option.
## 5.3 Services expected from the Xw Transport Network Layer
The Xw user plane protocol layer expects the following services from the
Transport Network Layer:
\- Transfer of user data.
## 5.4 Elementary procedures
### 5.4.1 Transfer of Downlink User Data
#### 5.4.1.1 Successful operation
The purpose of the Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure is to provide Xw-U
specific sequence number information at the transfer of user data carrying a
DL LWA PDU or DL LWIP PDU from the eNB to the WT via the Xw-U interface.
In LWA option, an Xw user plane instance making use of the Transfer of
Downlink User Data procedure is associated to a single E-RAB only. The
Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure is invoked whenever user data for
that particular E-RAB needs to be sent across the Xw-U interface.
In LWIP option, an Xw user plane instance making use of the Transfer of
Downlink User Data procedure is associated to a single UE only. The Transfer
of Downlink User Data procedure is invoked whenever user data for that
particular UE needs to be sent across the Xw-U interface.
The eNB shall assign consecutive Xw-U sequence numbers to each transferred
Xw-U packet.
The WT shall detect whether an Xw-U packet was lost and memorise the
respective sequence number after it has declared the respective Xw-U packet as
being "lost".
In LWA option, the WT shall transfer the remaining LWA PDUs towards the UE and
memorise the highest Xw-U sequence number of the PDCP PDU that was
successfully transferred towards or delivered to the UE.
NOTE: For LWA option, the Transfer of Downlink User Data procedure and the
associated feedback of lost Xw-U packets assist the eNB in avoiding PDCP HFN
de-synchronisation. If an E-UTRAN deployment decides to not use the Transfer
of Downlink User Data procedure, PDCP HFN synchronization should be ensured by
other means, e.g. UE feedback.
In LWIP option, the WT shall transfer the remaining LWIP PDUs towards the UE
and memorise the highest Xw-U sequence number of the LWIP PDU that was
successfully transferred towards the UE.
Figure 5.4.1.1-1: Successful Transfer of Downlink User Data
#### 5.4.1.2 Unsuccessful operation
Void.
### 5.4.2 Downlink Data Delivery Status
#### 5.4.2.1 Successful operation
The purpose of the Downlink Data Delivery Status procedure is to provide
feedback from the WT to the eNB to allow the eNB to control the downlink user
data flow via the WT for the respective E-RAB in LWA option or for respective
UE in LWIP option. The WT may also transfer uplink user data for the concerned
E-RAB to the eNB together with a DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame within the same
GTP-U PDU.
When the WT decides to trigger the Feedback for Downlink Data Delivery
procedure it shall report:
a) the highest Xw-U sequence number successfully transferred towards or
delivered to the UE among those PDUs received from the eNB;
b) the desired buffer size in bytes for:
\- for LWA option: the concerned E-RAB;
\- for LWIP option: the concerned UE;
c) the minimum desired buffer size in bytes for the UE;
d) the Xw-U packets that were declared as being "lost" by the WT and have not
yet been reported to the eNB within the DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame.
NOTE: If an E-UTRAN deployment has decided not to use the Transfer of Downlink
User Data procedure, d) above is not applicable.
The DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame shall also include an indication whether the
frame is the last DL status report received in the course of releasing a
bearer from the WT. When receiving such indication, if applicable, the eNB
considers that no more UL data is to be expected from the WT.
The eNB, when receiving the DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS frame:
\- regards the desired buffer size under b) and c) above as the amount of data
desired from the WT being declared;
\- for the LWA option: from the Xw-U sequence number reported under a) above
within the same frame, as well as from the most recently reported Xw-U
sequence number(s) of all other E-RABs established for the UE;
\- as the momentary desired buffer sizes, independent of buffer sizes
indicated in the past.
\- is allowed to remove the buffered PDCP or LWIP PDUs according to the
feedback of successfully delivered PDCP or LWIP PDUs;
\- decides upon the actions necessary to take for PDCP or LWIP PDUs reported
other than successfully delivered.
After being reported to the eNB, the WT removes the respective Xw-U sequence
numbers.
Figure 5.4.2.1-1: Successful Downlink Data Delivery Status
#### 5.4.2.2 Unsuccessful operation
Void.
## 5.5 Elements for the Xw user plane protocol
### 5.5.1 General
In the present document the structure of frames are specified by using figures
similar to figure 5.5.1-1.
Bits | 
> Number of Octets
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |  |   
Field 1 | Field 2 | 1 | Octet 1 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 3 | Field 4 | 2 | Octet 2 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 4 continue | Spare |  | Octet 3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 6 | 2 | Octet 4 Octet 5 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Field 6 continue | Padding Bits |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Future extension | 0-m |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Padding | 0-3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Figure 5.5.1-1: Example frame format
Unless otherwise indicated, fields which consist of multiple bits within an
octet have the most significant bit located at the higher bit position
(indicated above frame in figure 5.5.1-1). In addition, if a field spans
several octets, most significant bits are located in lower numbered octets
(right of frame in figure 5.5.1-1).
On the Xw interface, the frame is transmitted starting from the lowest
numbered octet. Within each octet, the bits are sent according to decreasing
bit position (bit position 7 first).
Bits labelled \"Spare\" should be set to "0" by the sender and should not be
checked by the receiver.
The header part of the frame is always an integer number of octets. The
payload part is octet aligned (by adding \'Padding Bits\' when needed). The
total size of the frame shall not exceed 1018 octets (see TS 29.281 [3]).
The receiver should be able to remove an additional future extension field
that may be present.
Padding octets may be added at the end of the frame, see Padding in 5.5.3.12.
### 5.5.2 Frame format for the Xw user plane protocol
#### 5.5.2.1 DL USER DATA (PDU Type 0)
This frame format is defined to allow the WT to detect lost Xw-U packets and
is associated with the transfer of a Downlink LWA PDU over the Xw-U interface.
The following shows the respective DL USER DATA frame.
+----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Bits | > Number of Octets | | | | | | | | +----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | PDU Type (=0) | spare | 1 | | | | | | | +----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Xw-U Sequence Number | 3 | | | | | | | | +----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Padding | 0-3 | | | | | | | | +----------------------+--------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 5.5.2.1-1: DL USER DATA (PDU Type 0) Format
#### 5.5.2.2 DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS (PDU Type 1)
This frame format is defined to transfer feedback to allow the receiving eNB
to control the downlink user data flow via the WT.
+------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | Bits | > Number | | | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | | | > Octets | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | PDU Type | Spare | Final | Lost | 1 | | | | | | (=1) | | Frame Ind. | Packet | | | | | | | | | | Report | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | Highest | 3 | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | ccessfully | | | | | | | | | | delivered | | | | | | | | | | Xw-U | | | | | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | Desired | 4 | | | | | | | | | buffer | | | | | | | | | | size for | | | | | | | | | | the E-RAB | | | | | | | | | | or UE | | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | Minimum | 4 | | | | | | | | | desired | | | | | | | | | | buffer | | | | | | | | | | size for | | | | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | Number of | 1 | | | | | | | | | lost Xw-U | | | | | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | | | | reported | | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | Start of | 6* | | | | | | | | | lost Xw-U | (Number of | | | | | | | | | Sequence | reported | | | | | | | | | Number | lost Xw-u | | | | | | | | | range | SN ranges) | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | End of | | | | | | | | | | lost Xw-U | | | | | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+ | Padding | 0-3 | | | | | | | | +------------+------------+------------+------------+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 5.5.2.2-1: DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS (PDU Type 1) Format
### 5.5.3 Coding of information elements in frames
#### 5.5.3.1 PDU Type
**Description:** The PDU Type indicates the structure of the Xw UP frame. The
field takes the value of the PDU Type it identifies; i.e. "0" for PDU Type 0.
The PDU type is in bit 4 to bit 7 in the first octet of the frame.
**Value range:** {0=DL USER DATA, 1=DL DATA DELIVERY STATUS, 2-15=reserved for
future PDU type extensions}
**Field length:** 4 bits
#### 5.5.3.2 Spare
**Description:** The spare field is set to "0" by the sender and should not be
interpreted by the receiver. This field is reserved for later versions.
**Value range:** (0--2^n^-1).
**Field Length:** n bits.
#### 5.5.3.3 Xw-U Sequence Number
**Description:** This parameter indicates the Xw-U sequence number as assigned
by the respective eNB.
**Value range:** {0..2^24^-1}.
NOTE: For LWA PDUs there should be one-to-one mapping between PDCP SN and Xw-U
SN.
**Field length:** 3 octets.
#### 5.5.3.4 Lost Packet Report
**Description:** This parameter indicates the presence of a list of lost Xw-U
packets in the respective Xw UP frame.
**Value range:** {0=Lost Frame List not present, 1=Lost Frame List present}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.5 Final Frame Indication
**Description:** This parameter indicates whether the frame is the last DL
status report as described in clause 5.4.2.1.
**Value range:** {0=Frame is not final, 1= Frame is final}.
**Field length:** 1 bit.
#### 5.5.3.6 Highest successfully delivered Xw-U Sequence Number
**Description:**
In case of the LWA option, this parameter indicates feedback about the in-
sequence delivery status of LWA PDUs at the WT towards, or to the UE.
In case of the LWIP option, this parameter indicates feedback about the in-
sequence transmission status of LWIP PDUs at the WT towards the UE.
**Value range:** {0..2^24^-1}.
**Field length:** 3 octets.
#### 5.5.3.7 Desired buffer size for the E-RAB or UE
**Description:**
In case of the LWA option, this parameter indicates the desired buffer size
for the concerned E-RAB as specified in clause 5.4.2.1.
In case of the LWIP option, this parameter indicates the desired buffer size
for the concerned UE as specified in clause 5.4.2.1.
**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.
**Field length:** 4 octets.
#### 5.5.3.8 Minimum desired buffer size for the UE
**Description:**
In case of the LWA option, this parameter indicates the minimum desired buffer
size for all E-RABs established for the UE as specified in clause 5.4.2.1.
In case of the LWIP option, this parameter indicates the minimum desired
buffer size for the UE as specified in clause 5.4.2.1.
**Value range:** {0..2^32^-1}.
**Field length:** 4 octets.
#### 5.5.3.9 Number of lost Xw-U Sequence Number ranges reported
**Description:** This parameter indicates the number of Xw-U Sequence Number
ranges reported to be lost.
**Value range:** {1.. 162}.
**Field length:** 1 octet.
#### 5.5.3.10 Start of lost Xw-U Sequence Number range
**Description:** This parameter indicates the start of an Xw-U sequence number
range.
**Value range:** {0..2^18^-1}.
**Field length:** 3 octets.
#### 5.5.3.11 End of lost Xw-U Sequence Number range
**Description:** This parameter indicates the end of an Xw-U sequence number
range.
**Value range:** {0..2^18^-1}.
**Field length:** 3 octets.
#### 5.5.3.12 Padding
**Description:** The padding is included at the end of the frame to ensure
that the NR user plane protocol pdu length (including padding and the future
extension) is (n*4-- 2) octets, where n is a positive integer . If there is
any future extension, the padding should be added after the future extensions.
**Field Length:** 0--3.
### 5.5.4 Timers
Not applicable.
#