# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 1 of a multi-parts TS:
3GPP TS 36.521-1: Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User
Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission and reception;
Part 1: Conformance Testing.
3GPP TS 36.521-2 [11]: **Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA);** User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission
and reception; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS).
3GPP TS 36.521-3 [12]: **Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA);** User Equipment (UE) conformance specification Radio transmission
and reception; Part 3: Radio Resource Management (RRM) conformance testing.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the measurement procedures for the conformance
test of the user equipment (UE) that contain transmitting characteristics,
receiving characteristics and performance requirements as part of the 3G Long
Term Evolution (3G LTE). Conformance test for the support of RRM (Radio
Resource Management) are specified in TS 36.521-3 [12].
The requirements are listed in different clauses only if the corresponding
parameters deviate. More generally, tests are only applicable to those mobiles
that are intended to support the appropriate functionality. To indicate the
circumstances in which tests apply, this is noted in the \"_definition and
applicability_ \" part of the test.
For example only Release 8 and later UE declared to support LTE shall be
tested for this functionality. In the event that for some tests different
conditions apply for different releases, this is indicated within the text of
the test itself.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
> [1] to [22] (void)
[23] 3GPP TS 36.521-1 Release 15: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio transmission
and reception; Part 1: Conformance Testing\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.521-1
Release 15 [23].
# 5 to 14 Void
###### ## Annex A to K: Void
#