# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Intra-band Carrier Aggregation
under Rel-14 time frame according to the New CA WI approach in Release 14 [1].
The purpose is to gather the relevant background information and studies in
order to address Intra-band Carrier Aggregation requirements for the Rel-14
band combinations in Table 1-1.
Table 1-1: Release 14 intra-band carrier aggregation combinations
CA combination REL independent from
* * *
CA_2DL_1A-1A_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_2DL_1C_1UL_BCS1 Rel-11 CA_2DL_3B_1UL_BCS0
Rel-10 CA_2DL_3A-3A_1UL_BCS2 Rel-11 CA_2DL_3A-3A_1UL_BCS3 Rel-11
CA_2DL_5B_2UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_2DL_5B_1UL_BCS1 Rel-11 CA_2DL_5A_5A_1UL_BCS1
Rel-11 CA_2DL_7A-7A_2UL_7A-7A_BCS1 Rel-11 CA_2DL_7A-7A_1UL_BCS2 Rel-11
CA_2DL_7A-7A_1UL_BCS3 Rel-11 CA_2DL_7A-7A_2UL_7A-7A_BCS3 Rel-11
CA_2DL_12A-12A_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_3DL_40D_1UL_BCS1 Rel-11 CA_3DL_40D_3UL_BCS0
Rel-12 CA_4DL_40E_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_2DL_40A-40A_1UL_BCS1 Rel-11
CA_3DL_40A-40C_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_4DL_40C-40C_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_3DL_41D_3UL_BCS0 Rel-12 CA_3DL_41A-41C_2UL_41C_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_4DL_41E_2UL_41C_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_5DL_41C-41D_2UL_41C_BCS0 Rel-12
CA_2DL_42C_2UL_BCS1 Rel-11 CA_3DL_42D_2UL_BCS1 Rel-11 CA_5DL_42F_1UL_BCS0
Rel-11 CA_5DL_42F_2UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_2DL_43C_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_2DL_46C_0UL_BCS0 Rel-13 CA_2DL_46C_0UL_BCS1 Rel-13 CA_3DL_46D_0UL_BCS0
Rel-13 CA_3DL_46D_0UL_BCS1 Rel-13 CA_4DL_46E_0UL_BCS0 Rel-13
CA_4DL_46E_0UL_BCS1 Rel-13 CA_2DL_46A-46A_0UL_BCS0 Rel-13
CA_3DL_46A-46C_0UL_BCS0 Rel-13 CA_4DL_46A-46D_0UL_BCS0 Rel-13
CA_2DL_48A-48A_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_2DL_48C_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_3DL_48A-48C_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_3DL_48D_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_4DL_48A-48D_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_5DL_48A-48E_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_4DL_48C-48C_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_4DL_48E_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_5DL_48C-48D_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_5DL_48F_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_3DL_66D_1UL_BCS0
Rel-10 CA_3DL_66A-66B_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11 CA_3DL_66A-66C_1UL_BCS0 Rel-11
CA_2DL_66A-66A_2UL_66A-66A_BCS0 Rel-13 CA_2DL_66B_2UL_66B_BCS0 Rel-13
CA_2DL_66C_2UL_66C_BCS0 Rel-13
The present document contains a general part and band specific combination
part. The actual requirements are added to the corresponding technical
specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] RP-151862, "New CA WI approach", RAN#70.
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.833-2-07: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
LTE-Advanced intra-band non-contiguous Carrier Aggregation (CA) in Band 7
(Release 12)"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [2].
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for intra-band Carrier Aggregation
including contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum under Rel-14 time frame. It
covers both the UE and BS side. The document is divided in two different
parts:
General part: this part covers BS and UE specific which is band combination
independent.
Specific band combination part: this part covers each band combination and its
specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is defined
per band combination)
The specific band combination parts are independent and therefore, the working
speed also differs.
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
present document, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the
contact person of each band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the
band combination have been implemented.
# 5 Intra-band Carrier Aggregation including contiguous and non-contiguous
spectrum: General Part
As Intra-band Carrier Aggregation combinations including contiguous and non-
contiguous spectrum have been studied in previous releases, the identified
general issues identified in previous releases also apply to Rel-14. The
present document only captured the new general issues if identified in Rel-14.
# 6 Intra-band Carrier Aggregation including contiguous and non-contiguous
spectrum: Specific Band Combination Part
## 6.1 CA_66D_BCS0
### 6.1.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.1.1-1
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | E-UTRA CA | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | mbination | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | +===========+===========+===========+===========+===========+====+===+ | E-UTRA CA | Uplink CA | Component | Maximum | Bandwidth | | | | conf | confi | carriers | ag | co | | | | iguration | gurations | in order | gregated\ | mbination | | | | | | of | bandwidth | set | | | | | (NOTE 3) | i | [MHz] | | | | | | | ncreasing | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | Channel | Channel | Channel | | | | | | b | b | b | | | | | | andwidths | andwidths | andwidths | | | | | | for | for | for | | | | | | carrier | carrier | carrier | | | | | | [MHz] | [MHz] | [MHz] | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | CA_66D | - | 5 | 20 | 20 | 60 | 0 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 20 | 5 | 20 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 20 | 20 | 5 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 10 | 20 | 15 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 15 | 20 | 10 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 10, 15, | 15, 20 | 20 | | | | | | 20 | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 15, 20 | 10 | 20 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 15 | 15, 20 | 15 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 20 | 15, 20 | 10, 15 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+ | | | 20 | 10 | 15 | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----+---+
For CA_66D, the specifications should support fallback to CA_66C in the event
that one of the outer component carriers is released by deactivation or
deconfiguration. However, the bandwidth combination set 0 for CA_66C does not
currently support 5+20 MHz, so it is proposed to add the 5+20 MHz bandwidth
combination to CA_66C for fallback compatibility.
### 6.1.2 Co-existence studies
\
### 6.1.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
No ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ are required for CA_66D intra-band CA.
### 6.1.4 REFSENS requirements
No reference sensitivity adjustments are needed for CA_66D intra-band CA with
single UL.
### 6.1.5 Blocking requirements
In-band blocking and out-of-band blocking requirements for intra-band
contiguous CA with 1UL should apply to CA_66D.
Table 6.1.5-1: In-band blocking
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | c | | | | | | onfiguration | | | | | +==============+==============+======+==============+==============+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | = | ≤ | | | ~Interferer~ | | -F~offset~-- | -F~offset~-- | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+F~offset~ | ≥+F~offset~ | | | | | + | + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_66D | F | MHz | (NOTE 2) | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | | (Range) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 15 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.1.5-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_66D | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
## 6.2 CA_66A-66C_BCS0
### 6.2.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.2.1-1
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration Uplink CA configurations (NOTE 1) Component carriers
in order of increasing carrier frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth
combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                                                            Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                        Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                              Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_66A-66C - 5, 10, 15, 20 See CA_66C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table
5.6A-1 of 36.101 60 0
                                                                                            See CA\_66C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.6A.1-1     5, 10, 15, 20
* * *
### 6.2.2 Co-existence studies
\
### 6.2.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
No ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ are required for CA_66D intra-band CA.
### 6.2.4 REFSENS requirements
Reference sensitivty for CA_66A-66C is not anticipated to be degraded due to
the large Tx-Rx separation and single uplink carrier. Annex A: Change history
## 6.3 CA_7A-7A_BCS2
CA-7A-7A is already specified in Release 12. See clause 5.1 in [4] for CA
operating bands.
### 6.3.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
A new bandwidth combination set 2 is introduced for CA_7A-7A in Release 14.
Table 6.3.1-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band non-contiguous CA in
Band 7
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | E-UTRA CA | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | / Bandwidth | | | | | | combination | | | | | | set | | | | | +===============+===============+===============+===============+===+ | E-UTRA | Component | Maximum | Bandwidth | | | | carriers in | aggregated\ | combination | | | CA | order of | bandwidth | set | | | configuration | increasing | [MHz] | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | | Allowed | Allowed | | | | | channel | channel | | | | | bandwidths | bandwidths | | | | | for carrier | for carrier | | | | | [MHz] | [MHz] | | | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+ | CA_7A-7A | 5, 10, 15, 20 | 5, 10 | 30 | 2 | +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+---+
See clause 5.2 in [4] for the already specified bandwidth combination set 0
and set 1.
### 6.3.2 Co-existence studies
The same analysis as Release 12 is applied. See clause 7.1.1 in [4].
### 6.3.3 ∆TIB and ∆RIB values
No ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ are required for CA_7A-7A intra-band CA.
### 6.3.4 REFSENS requirements
The same REFSENS requirements as Release 12 are applied, due to larger duplex
gap (e.g. compared to band 25), the ΔR~IBNC~ values for CA_7A-7A are all set
to zero. See clause 6.2.1 in [4].
## 6.4 CA_42F_BCS0
### 6.4.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.4.1-1 defines the supported E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth
combination set for LTE-advanced intra-band contiguous CA in Band 42. The
5MHz, 10MHz and 15MHz carriers are only allowed at the edges of aggregated
channel bandwidth so that potential co-existence issue with adjacent systems
can be handled with some flexibility.
Table 6.4.1-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_42F
* * *
                                                       E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration Uplink CA configurations Component carriers in order
of increasing carrier frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                       Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                        Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_42F CA_42C 5,10,15,20 20 20 20 20 100 0
                                                       20                                                            20                                       20                                       20                                       5,10, 15, 20
* * *
### 6.4.2 Co-existence studies
No co-existence issue identified for CA_42F.
### 6.4.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
No ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ are required for CA_42F intra-band contiguous CA.
### 6.4.4 REFSENS requirements
In general, TDD intra-band carrier aggregation does not change the UE
reference sensitivity requirement as it does not introduce any impact to the
UE front end RF architecture. Further the REFSENS requirement for intra-band
contiguous carrier aggregation is measured on a per CC basis and the same
reference sensitivity level as that for single CC is reused on a per CC basis.
Hence the introduction of CA_42F with 5 downlink CCs and maximum 2 uplink CCs
does not impact the current REFSENS requirement.
### 6.4.5 Maximum input level
The maximum input level for CA_42F is defined to keep the total input power
level unchanged compared to CA_42E, -20dBm (64QAM) for 64QAM and -22dBm for
256QAM respectively. Correspondingly the maximum input level per CC for CA_42F
should be -27dBm for 64QAM and -29dBm for 256QAM.
Table 6.4.5-1: Maximum input level for intra-band contiguous CA
+-----------+-------+-----------+---+---+---+---+-----------+ | Rx | Units | CA | | | | | | | Parameter | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | | +===========+=======+===========+===+===+===+===+===========+ | | | A | B | C | D | E | F | +-----------+-------+-----------+---+---+---+---+-----------+ | Power in | dBm | | | | | | -27^2^ | | largest | | | | | | | | | Tra | | | | | | | | | nsmission | | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | | Conf | | | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | | | CC | | | | | | | | +-----------+-------+-----------+---+---+---+---+-----------+ | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [-29]^3^ | +-----------+-------+-----------+---+---+---+---+-----------+ | Power in | dBm | | | | | | -27 + | | each | | | | | | | 10lo | | other CC | | | | | | | g(N~RB,c~ | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB,larg | | | | | | | | | est\ BW~) | | | | | | | | | ^2^ | +-----------+-------+-----------+---+---+---+---+-----------+ | | | | | | | | [-29] + | | | | | | | | | 10lo | | | | | | | | | g(N~RB,c~ | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB,larg | | | | | | | | | est\ BW~) | | | | | | | | | ^3^ | +-----------+-------+-----------+---+---+---+---+-----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmitter | | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | | | 4dB below | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | CMAX_L,c | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A of | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | 36.101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asurement | | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | | is Annex | | | | | | | | | A.3.2: | | | | | | | | | 64QAM, | | | | | | | | | R=3/4 | | | | | | | | | variant | | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1 | | | | | | | | | /A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asurement | | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | | is Annex | | | | | | | | | A.3.2: | | | | | | | | | 256QAM, | | | | | | | | | R=4/5 | | | | | | | | | variant | | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dynamic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1 | | | | | | | | | /A.5.2.1. | | | | | | | | +-----------+-------+-----------+---+---+---+---+-----------+
### 6.4.6 Adjacent channel selectivity
To account for the added difficulty of the baseband filter impact, the ACS
requirements are scaled for the number of aggregated component carriers. The
ACS requirements for CA_42F UE is defined as 20dB as shown in Table 6.4.6-1.
Corresponding power settings for the ACS requirements are shown in Table
6.4.6-2 and Table 6.4.6-3.
Table 6.4.6-1: Adjacent channel selectivity
                         CA Bandwidth Class
* * *
Rx Parameter Units B C D E F ACS dB 20
Table 6.4.6-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 1
+---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +===============+=======+===============+===+===+===+===============+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | Pw in | | | | | | REFSENS + 14 | | Transmission | | | | | | dB | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | onfiguration, | | | | | | | | per CC | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | **P~ | dBm | | | | | Aggregated | | Interferer~** | | | | | | power + 18.5 | | | | | | | | dB | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | **BW~In | MHz | | | | | 5 | | terferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | ** | MHz | | | | | 2.5 + | | F~Interferer~ | | | | | | F~offset~ | | (offset)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -2.5 - | | | | | | | | F~offset~ | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | | | to 4dB below | | | | | | | | P~CMAX_L,c~ | | | | | | | | or PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | as defined in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A in TS | | | | | | | | 36.101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | | | the Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | 5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to | | | | | | | | Annex C.3.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | | | F~interferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | | | the frequency | | | | | | | | separation of | | | | | | | | the center | | | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | | | the carrier | | | | | | | | closest to | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | and shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | | | $\left\lfloo | | | | | | | | r F_{\text{in | | | | | | | | terferer}}/0\ | | | | | | | | text{.}\text{ | | | | | | | | 015} + 0\text | | | | | | | | {.}5 \right\r | | | | | | | | floor 0\text{ | | | | | | | | .}\text{015} | | | | | | | | + 0\text{.}\t | | | | | | | | ext{0075}$MHz | | | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+
Table 6.4.6-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 2
+---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +===============+=======+===============+===+===+===+===============+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | Pw in | dBm | | | | | -43.5 | | Transmission | | | | | | +10log | | Bandwidth | | | | | | ~10~(_N_ ~RB,c | | C | | | | | | ~/N~RB\ agg~) | | onfiguration, | | | | | | | | per CC | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | **P~ | dBm | -25 | | | | | | Interferer~** | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | **BW~In | MHz | | | | | 5 | | terferer\ ~** | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | ** | MHz | | | | | 2.5+ | | F~Interferer~ | | | | | | F~offset~ | | (offset)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -2.5- | | | | | | | | F~offset~ | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | | | to 24dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L,c or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L as | | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5A in | | | | | | | | TS36.101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of | | | | | | | | the Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | | Annex 3.2 | | | | | | | | with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic | | | | | | | | OCNG Pattern | | | | | | | | OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described | | | | | | | | in Annex | | | | | | | | A. | | | | | | | | 5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to | | | | | | | | Annex C.3.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | | | F~interferer~ | | | | | | | | (offset) is | | | | | | | | the frequency | | | | | | | | separation of | | | | | | | | the center | | | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | | | the carrier | | | | | | | | closest to | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | | | the adjacent | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | and shall be | | | | | | | | further | | | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | | | $\left\lfloo | | | | | | | | r F_{\text{in | | | | | | | | terferer}}/0\ | | | | | | | | text{.}\text{ | | | | | | | | 015} + 0\text | | | | | | | | {.}5 \right\r | | | | | | | | floor 0\text{ | | | | | | | | .}\text{015} | | | | | | | | + 0\text{.}\t | | | | | | | | ext{0075}$MHz | | | | | | | | to be offset | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | | | raster. | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---+---+---+---------------+
### 6.4.7 Blocking characteristics
#### 6.4.7.1 In-band blocking
To account for the added difficulty of the baseband filter impact, the in-band
requirement is scaled for the number of aggregated component carriers. The
wanted signal level per CC for CA_42F UE is defined as REFSENS+16dBm as shown
in Table 6.4.7.1-1 and CA configuration is listed in Table 6.4.7.1-2.
Table 6.4.7.1-1: In band blocking parameters
+--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +====================+=======+====================+===+===+===+======+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+ | Pw in Transmission | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Bandwidth | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Configuration, per | | specific value | | | | | | CC | | below | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+ | | | | | | | 16 | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+ | ** | MHz | | | | | 5 | | BW~Interferer\ ~**| | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+ |** F~Ioff | MHz | | | | | 7.5 | | set,\ case\ 1\ ~**| | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+ |** F~Ioff | MHz | | | | | 12.5 | | set,\ case\ 2\ ~** | | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall | | | | | | | | be set to 4dB | | | | | | | | below PCMAX_L,c | | | | | | | | or PCMAX_L as | | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | | subclause 6.2.5A | | | | | | | | in TS 36.101 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | | | consists of the | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | channel specified | | | | | | | | in Annex A.3.2 | | | | | | | | with one sided | | | | | | | | dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 | | | | | | | | FDD/TDD as | | | | | | | | described in Annex | | | | | | | | A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 | | | | | | | | and set-up | | | | | | | | according to Annex | | | | | | | | C.3.1 in TS 36.101 | | | | | | | +--------------------+-------+--------------------+---+---+---+------+
Table 6.4.7.1-2: In-band blocking
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | c | | | | | | onfiguration | | | | | +==============+==============+======+==============+==============+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | = | ≤ | | | ~Interferer~ | | -F~offset~-- | -F~offset~-- | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+F~offset~ | ≥+F~offset~ | | | | | + | + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_1C, | F | MHz | (Note 2) | F~DL_low~ | | CA_2C, | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | CA_3C, | (Range) | | | | | CA_5B, | | | | to | | CA_7C, | | | | | | CA_8B, | | | | F~DL_high~ | | CA_12B, | | | | + 15 | | CA_23B, | | | | | | CA_27B, | | | | | | CA_38C, | | | | | | CA_39C, | | | | | | CA_40C, | | | | | | CA_41C, | | | | | | CA_40D, | | | | | | CA_41D, | | | | | | CA_42C, | | | | | | CA_42D, | | | | | | CA_42E, | | | | | | CA_42F, | | | | | | CA_66B, | | | | | | CA_66C | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | a. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | -F~offset~ - | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | | | b. the | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | +F~offset~ + | | | | | | F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F~offset~ is | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | | | the center | | | | | | frequency of | | | | | | the CC being | | | | | | tested to | | | | | | the edge of | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | > NOTE 4: | | | | | | > The | | | | | | > F | | | | | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | > (offset) | | | | | | > is the | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > separation | | | | | | > of the | | | | | | > center | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > of the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > closest to | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > interferer | | | | | | > and the | | | | | | > center | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > of the | | | | | | > interferer | | | | | | > and shall | | | | | | > be further | | | | | | > adjusted | | | | | | > to | | | | | | > $\left\lf | | | | | | loor F_{\tex | | | | | | t{interferer | | | | | | }}/0\text{.} | | | | | | \text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}5 | | | | | | \right\rfloo | | | | | | r 0\text{.}\ | | | | | | text{015} + | | | | | | 0\text{.}\te | | | | | | xt{0075}$MHz | | | | | | > to be | | | | | | > offset | | | | | | > from the | | | | | | > | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | > raster. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
#### 6.4.7.2 Out-of-band blocking
There is no aggregated bandwidth dependency for out-of-band blocking
requirement. The same requirement is reused for CA_42F with no changes from
the requirements for CA Class B/C/D/E.
Table 6.4.7.2-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters
+----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Rx Parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth Class | | | | | +======================+=======+======================+===+===+===+===+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Pw in Transmission | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Bandwidth | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Configuration, per | | specific value below | | | | | | CC | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | | | | | 9 | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | | transmitter shall be | | | | | | | | set to 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L,c or | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L as defined | | | | | | | | in subclause 6.2.5A. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference | | | | | | | | measurement channel | | | | | | | | is specified in | | | | | | | | Annex A.3.2 with one | | | | | | | | sided dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | | Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD | | | | | | | | as described in | | | | | | | | Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2. | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+
Table 6.4.7.2-2: Out-of-band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_1C, | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | CA_2C, | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | CA_3C, | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | CA_5B, | | | | | | | CA_7C , | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | CA_8B, | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | CA_12B, | | | -60 | -85 | | | CA_23B, | | | | | | | CA_27B, | | | | | | | CA_38C, | | | | | | | CA_40C, | | | | | | | CA_41C, | | | | | | | CA_40D, | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | _42C^1^, | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | _42D^1^, | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | _42E^1^, | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | _42F^1^, | | | | | | | CA_66B, | | | | | | | CA_66C | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | (P~Inte | | | | | | | rferer~) | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ 12 and ≤ 50 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤ 100 ≤
1 QPSK > 50 and ≤ 125 > 50 and ≤ 150 > 75 and ≤ 150 > 75 and ≤ 175 > 100 and ≤
200 ≤ 2 QPSK > 125 > 150 > 150 > 150 > 200 ≤ 3 16 QAM ≤ 12 ≤ 12 ≤ 16 ≤ 16 ≤ 18
≤ 1 16 QAM > 12 and ≤ 50 > 12 and ≤ 50 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 16 and ≤ 75 > 18 and ≤
100 ≤ 2 16 QAM > 50 and ≤ 125 > 50 and ≤ 150 > 75 and ≤ 150 > 75 and ≤ 175 >
100 and ≤ 200 ≤ 3 16 QAM > 125 > 150 > 150 >175 > 200 ≤ 3.5 64 QAM ≤ 12
allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 12 and allocation wholly
contained within a single CC ≤ 16 and allocation wholly contained within a
single CC ≤ 16 and allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 18 and
allocation wholly contained within a single CC ≤ 2 64 QAM > 12 allocation
wholly contained within a single CC or allocation extends across two CC's > 12
allocation wholly contained within a single CC or allocation extends across
two CC's > 16 allocation wholly contained within a single CC or allocation
extends across two CC's > 16 allocation wholly contained within a single CC or
allocation extends across two CC's > 18 allocation wholly contained within a
single CC or allocation extends across two CC's ≤ 3 64 QAM allocation extends
across three CC's allocation extends across three CC's allocation extends
across three CC's allocation extends across three CC's allocation extends
across three CC's ≤ 4.0 256 QAM ≥ 1 ≤ 5.5
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation bandwidth class D with non-
contiguous resource allocation, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for
the maximum output power in Table 6.2.2A-1 is specified as follows
MPR = CEIL { M~A,~ 0.5 }
Where M~A~ is defined as follows for QPSK, 16 QAM and 64 QAM
M~A~ = 8.2 ; 0 ≤ A \ 4.0 ; 0.25 ≤ A \ MA = 8.2 ; 0 ≤ A \
> 9.2 - 40A ; 0.025 ≤ A \
> 8 -- 16A ; 0.05 ≤ A \
> 5.5 ; 0.16 ≤ A \ 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.19.5-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | _48C^1^ | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | (P~Inte | | | | | | | rferer~) | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.20.5-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | _48D^1^ | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | (P~Inte | | | | | | | rferer~) | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.21.5-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | _48E^1^ | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | (P~Inte | | | | | | | rferer~) | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.22.5-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | P | Units | F | | | | confi | arameter | | requency | | | | guration | | | | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | _48F^1^ | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | (P~Inte | | | | | | | rferer~) | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \< 4400 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
## 6.33 CA_1A-1A_BCS0
### 6.33.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.33.1-1: Intra-band contiguous CA operating bands
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode
* * *
                                 BS receive / UE transmit     BS transmit / UE receive                                                
                                 F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~    F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
CA_1-1 1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
### 6.33.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.33.2-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets
defined for intra-band contiguous CA
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+ | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onfigu | | | | | | | | | ration | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | combi | | | | | | | | | nation | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+========+========+====+===+ | E-UTRA | Uplink | Com | M | Ban | | | | | CA | CA | ponent | aximum | dwidth | | | | | c | co | ca | aggre | combi | | | | | onfigu | nfigur | rriers | gated\ | nation | | | | | ration | ations | in | ban | set | | | | | | | order | dwidth | | | | | | | (NOTE | of | \ | | | | | | | 1) | incr | [MHz] | | | | | | | | easing | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+ | | | C | C | C | C | | | | | | hannel | hannel | hannel | hannel | | | | | | band | band | band | band | | | | | | widths | widths | widths | widths | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | c | c | c | c | | | | | | arrier | arrier | arrier | arrier | | | | | | \ | \ | \ | \ | | | | | | [MHz] | [MHz] | [MHz] | [MHz] | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+ | CA\ | - | 5, 10, | 5, 10, | | | 40 | 0 | | _1A-1A | | 15, 20 | 15, 20 | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+
NOTE 1: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when inter-band carrier aggregation is
configured. The downlink operating band is paired with the uplink operating
band (external) of the carrier aggregation configuration that is supporting
the configured Pcell.
### 6.33.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.33.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to Band 1
for UE. It can be concluded that there is no issue on harmonic interference
fall down to the DL receiver.
Table 6.33.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic Interference
                                                                                       2^nd^ Harmonic     3^rd^ Harmonic      2^nd^ Harmonic     3^rd^ Harmonic
* * *
Band UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge DL Low Band
Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge 1 1920 1980 2110
2170 3840 3960 5760 5940 4220 4340 6330 6510
The 2nd and 3rd order harmonics and IMD products caused in the BS by
transmitting of Band 1 DL non-contiguous carriers can be calculated as shown
in table 6.33.3-2 below:
Table 6.33.3-2: Band 1 non-contiguous DL harmonics and IMD products
BS DL carriers f_low f_high
* * *
DL frequency (MHz) 2110 2170 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 4220
4340 3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 6330 6510 2^nd^ order IMD
products (f-low -- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) -60 60
3^rd^ order IMD products (2*f_low --f_high) (2*f_high --f_low) IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 2050 2230
It can be seen from table 6.33.3-2 that:
\- no 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonics products may fall into the BS receive band.
\- no 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ IMD products may fall into the BS receive band.
assuming the maximum possible spacing between the aggregated carriers in the
operating band.
It can be concluded that there is no issue on harmonic and IMD interference
fall down to the UL receiver for Band 1 non-contiguous CA transceiver.
### 6.33.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
No ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ are required for CA_1A-1A intra-band non-contiguous CA.
## 6.34 CA_2DL_5B_2UL_BCS0
### 6.34.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.34.1-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets
defined for intra-band contiguous CA
* * *
                                                               E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
* * *
E-UTRACA configuration Uplink CA configurations (NOTE 1) Component carriers in
order of increasing carrier frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth
combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                               Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                        Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_5B CA_5B 5, 10 10 20 0
                                                               10                                                            5
* * *
### 6.34.2 Co-existence studies
No co-existence studies needed for CA_2DL_5B_2UL_BCS0.
### 6.34.3 REFSENS requirements
REFSENS requirements as defined in table 6.34.3-1 need to be updated in Table
7.3.1A-0h of TS 36.101.
Table 6.34.3-1: Intra-band contiguous CA uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity for Bandwidth Class B
CA configuration / CC combination / N~RB_agg~ / Duplex mode
* * *
Uplink CA configuration 50RB+25RB 50RB+50RB Duplex Mode  
PCC SCC PCC SCC  
CA_5B 25 0 25 0 FDD
### 6.34.4 UE maximum output power
The UE maximum output power for CA_2DL_5B_2UL as defined in Table 6.34.4-1
need to be updated in Table 6.2.2A-1 of TS 36.101.
Table 6.34.4-1: CA UE Power Class for intraband contiguous CA
E-UTRA CA Configuration Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance
(dB) Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_5B 23 +2/-2
### 6.34.5 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
The spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA_2DL_5B_2UL as defined in
Table 6.34.5-1 need to be updated in Table 6.6.3.2A-1 of TS 36.101.
Table 6.34.5-1: Requirements for intraband carrier aggregation
E-UTRA CA Configuration Spurious emission
* * *
                            Protected band                                                                                                        Frequency range (MHz)   Maximum Level (dBm)   MBW (MHz)     NOTE
CA_5B E-UTRA Band 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30,
31, 34, 38, 40, 42, 43, 45, 48, 65, 66, 70 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1
## 6.35 CA_48A-48E_1UL_BCS0
6.35.1 Channel bandwidths for CA_48A-48E
Table 6.35.1-1 presents the channel bandwidths for CA_48A-48E:
Table 6.35.1-1: Channel bandwidths for CA_48A-48E
* * *
                                                                E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set
* * *
E-UTRA CA configuration Uplink CA configurations (NOTE 1) Component carriers
in order of increasing carrier frequency Maximum aggregated\ Bandwidth
combination set  
bandwidth [MHz]
                                                                Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                        Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]                      Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]   Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]
CA_48A-48E - 5, 10, 15, 20 See CA_48E Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table
5.6A.1-1 100 0
                                                                See CA\_48E Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.6A.1-1     5, 10, 15, 20
* * *
6.35.2 Co-existence studies
Table 6.35.2-1 presents DL harmonics and IMD products for Band 48 non-
contiguous CA. As shown below, none of 2nd/3rd DL harmonics as well as 2nd
order IMD products will impact 3GPP bands. 3rd order IMD products fall to UL
frequency range of Band 42, 43 and 48. It should be noted Band 42 and 43 will
be not used in the same region as Band 48. Furthermore, as Band 48 is a TDD
band, the 3rd order IMD product will not fall to UL frequency range as BS will
not transmit and receive at the same time. It is therefore concluded there is
no issue with 3rd IMD product.
Table 6.35.2-1: DL harmonics and IMD products for Band 48 non-contiguous CA
BS DL carriers f-low f-high
* * *
DL frequency (MHz) 3550 3700 2nd harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 7100 7400
3rd harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 10650 11100 2nd order IMD products (f-low
-- f-high) (f-high -- f-low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) -150 150 3rd order IMD
products (2*f-low --f-high) (2*f-high --f-low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3400
3850
6.35.3 ∆TIB and ∆RIB values
No ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ are required for CA_48A-48E intra-band CA.
6.35.4 REFSENS requirements
Table 7.3.1A-3 in TS 36.101 should be updated as shown in the Table 6.35.4-1
below.
Table 6.35.4-1: Intra-band non-contiguous CA with one uplink configuration for
reference sensitivity
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | Ag | W~gap~ / | UL PCC | ΔR~IBNC~ | Duplex | | confi | gregated | [MHz] | al | (dB) | mode | | guration | channel | | location | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | PCC+SCC) | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | CA\ | NOTE 6 | NOTE 7 | NOTE 8 | 0.0 | TDD | | _48A-48E | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | comb | | | | | | | inations | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ndwidths | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | .6A.1-3. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | sizes. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | The PCC | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | is same | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | Tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | N~RB~ as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 5.6-1. | | | | | | | In case | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-block | | | | | | | is TDD | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tra-band | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | CA then | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | PCC and | | | | | | | SCC | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | ocations | | | | | | | are the | | | | | | | same as | | | | | | | N~ | | | | | | | RB_agg~ | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | .3.1A-1. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 6.36 CA_3A-3A_BCS3
6.36.1 Operating bands for CA
**Table 6.36.1-1: Inter-band CA**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | E | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | CA | Band | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | Band | | band | band | mode | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+====+=======+=====+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA | 3 | 1710 | -- | 1785 | 1805 | -- | 1880 | FDD | | _3-3 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
6.36.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.36.2-1: **Supported E-UTRA bandwidths per CA configuration for intra-
band CA**
CA operating / channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | Uplink band | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_3A-3A | 3 | 3 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 3  
|  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
the constituent bands as defined in table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [1] when
operating in single carrier mode.
6.36.3 Co-existence studies
#### 6.36.3.1 For the UE
Table 6.36.3.1-1 shows the frequency ranges for 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonics for
Band 3 UL carriers. It can be seen that the UL harmonic frequencies of Band 3
do not fall into any UE receive bands of interest in the DL.
Table 6.36.3.1-1: **Impact of UL Harmonic Interference**
                                                                                                           **2nd Harmonic**       **3rd Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** 3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355
#### 6.36.3.2 For the BS {#for-the-bs .list-paragraph}
Table 6.36.3.2-1 shows the frequency ranges for 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ harmonics and
IM products for non-contiguous combination of Band (3 + 3) DL carriers.
Table 6.36.3.2-2: **Band 3 non-contiguous DL harmonics and IMD products**
**BS DL carriers** **f1_low** **f1_high**
* * *
DL frequency (MHz) 1805 1880 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3610
3760 3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5415 5640 2^nd^ order IM
products (f1_low -- f1_high) (f1_high -- f1_low) IMD frequency limits (MHz)
-75 75 3^rd^ order IM products (2*f1_low -- f1_high) (2*f1_high -- f1_low) IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 1730 1955 3^rd^ order IM products (2*f1_low + f1_high)
(2*f1_high + f1_low) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5490 5565
It can be seen from Table 6.36.3.2-1 that:
\- 2^nd^ or 3^rd^ order harmonics may fall into BS receiver bands of Band 43,
46 and 48
\- the 3rd order IM products may fall into BS receive bands of Band 1, 2, 3,
4, 9, 10, 25, 33, 35, 36, 37, 39, 65, and 66
It is therefore recommended that a BS transmitting on non-contiguous
combination of Band (3 + 3) do not share the same antenna with a BS receiver
operating on 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 25, 33, 35, 36, 37, 39, 43, 46, 48, 65, and
66to avoid BS receiver desensitization. Note that antenna sharing may be
allowed as the state-of-the-art continues to evolve in the future.
#