# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Coordinated multi-point (CoMP) transmission and reception was first introduced
in 3GPP Rel-11and enhanced during the following releases. It is considered as
a tool to improve the coverage of high data rates, the cell-edge throughput,
and also to increase system throughput.
Inter-eNB support for CoMP based on X2 signaling was introduced in 3GPP Rel-12
and Rel-13. The preceding studies [3, 4] dealt with operability of CoMP itself
based on the assumption that the CoMP cooperating sets (CoMP sets),
determining the coordination areas, are determined and established as such.
This study therefore addresses the question of creation of CoMP sets and
management of these sets based on user and network traffic (including
signalling) conditions.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report covers the outcome of the study item "Study on SON for
eCoMP for LTE" [2].
The present document provides use-case descriptions, possible solutions
relative to the described use cases, and analysis of these solutions. The
document is intended to gather all information and draw a conclusion on way
forward.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
potential impact on the E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-161181, \"Study on SON for eCoMP for LTE\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.819: "Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE physical layer
aspects".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.874: "Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE with non-ideal
backhaul".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CoMP Coordinated Multi-Point
eCoMP Enhanced Coordinated Multi-Point
# 4 General
## 4.1 Objectives of the study
The objective of this study item is to identify scenarios and requirements for
a dynamic and automated SON-based CoMP area generation and to study candidate
solutions. Thus, the following objectives should be part of this study item:
  * Identify scenarios and implementation requirements on network side needed for autonomous SON-based CoMP coordination sets generation and update.
  * Identify information and centralized / distributed procedures that may need to be exchanged on X2 to facilitate creation and update of optimal CoMP coordination sets maximizing the average and cell edge User Packet Throughput gain.
The output of this SI should be aligned with the existing specifications of
other SI/WIs.
## 4.2 Evaluation criteria
The solutions presented as part of this study shall be analysed with respect
to the following evaluation criteria:
**Relevance:** Is the solution designed able to completely or partially solve
the problem captured in section 5.1 for the corresponding use case? Does the
solution enable convergence of the CoMP function on an appropriate time-scale?
What information is available to base the decisions on?
**Impacts on eNB:** Is the eNB's complexity going to be impacted and how?
**Impacts on network:** Are interfaces going to be modified and how? What is
the signalling level for the solution?
**Impact on configuration:** Is the network configuration going to be impacted
and how?
FFS: Further criteria may be added, including possible merge of criteria.
# 5 Problem to be solved and related use-cases
## 5.1 Problem statement and analysis
The problem to be studied is to identify those CoMP transmission points that
maximize the average and cell edge User Packet Throughput gain when
cooperating, taking into account real operating conditions, including:
  * connectivity aspects, in particular backhaul performances;
  * cell layout taking into account deployment and propagation irregularities;
  * spatio-temporal user traffic distribution;
  * temporary or permanent changes in network topology.
## 5.2 SON for eCoMP use-cases
### 5.2.1 Use-case description: Monitoring X2 backhaul characteristics
This use-case is triggered by the CoMP controlling unit (CCU) (centralized
case) or involved eNBs (distributed case).
The purpose of this use-case is to maintain maximum average and cell edge User
Packet Throughput gain following changes in X2 capacity available for inter-
eNB CoMP.
Considering the high level of cooperation and the signalling load between
nodes needed for CoMP operation, X2 performances (i.e. X2 latency and X2
bandwidth) have an important impact on CoMP operations. Furthermore these
performances are variable in time. For example different X2 transport routes
can change the latency. And X2 bandwidth depends on the overall load of the
backhaul network, but also on UEs connectivity and traffic (e.g. Dual
Connectivity). It needs to be noted that CoMP can achieve the best possible
gains only if the worst interferers are taken into consideration when
coordinating radio resources. Namely, if interference from such nodes and
cells is not addressed, there is a high likelihood that CoMP may result in
negative gains. This is also the case if the CoMP benefits metrics are
received too late (due to transport latency for example). Therefore, when
selecting the nodes and cells which need to coordinate resources within a CoMP
cluster, the selection shall always be taken first on the basis of how much
interference that node is generating to the UEs in need of CoMP coordination.
### 5.2.2 Use-case description: Spatio-temporal traffic variation
This use-case is triggered by a function that controls the assignment of CoMP
coordination areas. This CA assignment function may be located in one or more
eNBs, or in OAM.
The purpose of the use-case is to maintain maximum average and cell edge User
Packet Throughput gain following changes in the spatio-temporal UE
distribution.
# 6 Potential solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Coordination Area allocation taking into account X2 link
characteristics
### 6.1.1 Solution description
#### 6.1.1.1 Functional aspects
The solution aims at updating Coordination Areas (CAs) taking into account X2
backhaul characteristics like latency and bandwidth for involved eNBs.
#### 6.1.1.2 Analysis of protocol impacts
##### 6.1.1.2.1 Overview
The solution includes signaling enabling eNBs to inform about characteristics
of their X2 links towards their neighbour eNBs, as well as signaling for
Coordination Area allocation.
Information exchanged on the X2 interface for this solution:
  * X2 link characteristics towards neighbour eNBs like transmission delay, maximum transmission capacity (data rate), cost per megabyte, statistics of the link usage (e.g. information from which can be derived the risk of congestion): X2 enhancement required, as further detailed in clause 6.1.1.2.2.
```{=html}
``` \- CA allocation decision: X2 enhancement required, as further detailed in
clause 6.1.1.2.3.
##### 6.1.1.2.2 Information about X2 links
Inter-eNB CoMP requires X2 control-plane signalling as per TS 36.300 ("_The
coordination of multiple eNBs is achieved by signalling between eNBs of
hypothetical resource allocation information, CoMP hypotheses, associated with
benefit metrics_."). TR 36.874 [1] has shown the impact of X2 backhaul delay
on the achievable CoMP benefit.
Suitability will require low latency but other characteristics are also
important. Even if limited to control-plane signalling only, CoMP information
includes some scheduling information and will therefore typically be
voluminous and frequently updated. A consequence of this is that on top of the
transmission delay, information about the maximum data rate, cost per data
unit and link usage statistics should be considered.
This information can be measured or collected by the eNB on IP level. The X2
characteristics are variable in time, and can hence be considered as a load-
related information which could be transferred by the Resource Status
Reporting procedure or by the Load Indication procedure, implying periodical
and event-triggered reporting respectively.
There are also several options on how to represent the X2 link characteristics
information. The main options are:
  * detailed information (measured latency, max bit rate, ...)
  * composed metric, with 2 (e.g. "unsuitable", "suitable") or more code-points.
If the X2 characteristics information is conveyed using the Load Indication
procedure, signalling could be as depicted in Fig. 1:
Fig. 1: Example of Load Indication procedure (LOAD INFORMATION message)
conveying characteristics of X2 links between the eNB1 and each of its
connected peer eNBs.
##### 6.1.1.2.3 Coordination area allocation decision
Information about the coordination area allocation decision would be sent by
the node responsible for CA allocations towards the eNBs participating in CoMP
operation. Main options are to enhance the existing Load Indication procedure
(class 2) for this purpose or create a new procedure. A new class 1 procedure
would have the advantage of including response and failure messages, and hence
better support error handling.
Fig. 2: Example of new procedure conveying information about CA allocation
decision (e.g. designation of central unit and cooperating eNBs / TPs).
### 6.1.2 Solution evaluation
## 6.2 Solution #2: _Use of CoMP and_ Coordination Area allocation _taking
into account degraded X2 link_
### 6.2.1 Solution description
_eNBs could monitor the performance of the X2 link by means of transport
network monitoring tools. If the backhaul performance of the interface between
one eNB and eNBs constituting the main source of interference for UEs to be
handled via CoMP is not sufficient to guarantee optimal CoMP efficiency, the
CoMP function is turned off for such UEs or the periodicity of the CoMP
measurement reporting and/or CoMP information can be adjusted until conditions
resume to acceptable performance levels._
_If the problems persist, OAM could collect information about the X2 link
characteristics and any actions as described above from certain eNBs, make a
decision of_ coordination _area and configure the eNBs accordingly._
### 6.2.2 Solution evaluation
## 6.3 Solution #3: Adaptive Coordination Areas
### 6.3.1 Solution description
#### 6.3.1.1 Functional aspects
This SON solution aims to determine and adapt the CoMP coordination areas
according to the spatio-temporal UE distribution in the network. The principle
of operation is illustrated in Fig. 3. Information describing the spatial UE
distribution is exchanged on X2, and a node in charge of coordination adapts
the CA allocation in order to avoid concentrations of UEs on inter-CA borders.
{width="5.448611111111111in" height="3.8743055555555554in"}
**Fig. 3:** Principle of CA adaptation for solution 3.
# 7 Conclusion
#