# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the study item "Further
Enhancements LTE Device to Device, UE to Network Relays for IoT and Wearables"
[2].
The objective of this SI is to study enhancements to ProSe UE-to-network
relaying and to the LTE D2D framework for commercial and public safety
applications such as wearable and IoT devices. It is assumed that evolved
ProSe Remote UEs can support both WAN and D2D connection, and that evolved
ProSe Remote UEs have 3GPP subscription credentials. The D2D connection is
realized by either LTE sidelink or non-3GPP technology. All non-3GPP
technologies should be considered transparent for generic relay architecture
over them. The primary objective of the study is to address power efficiency
for evolved ProSe Remote UEs (e.g. wearable devices).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-161303: "Further Enhancements LTE Device to Device, UE to Network
Relays for IoT and Wearables
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Scenarios and requirements
_Editor notes: This section is to describe supported LTE Device to Device, UE
to Network Relays for IoT and Wearables scenarios._
## 4.1 Assumptions
The section describes the assumptions for designing evolved ProSe Remote UE
and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
\- Any specific enhancements to Bluetooth (BT) or WiFi is not part of this
study;
\- Co-existence with Rel-12/13 UEs supporting sidelink operation in the same
spectrum is taken into account;
\- There is no differentiation between PS and commercial use cases from Access
Stratum (AS) perspective, with the assumption that the core network will have
full control to authorize out-of-coverage operation for certain UEs;
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE can be of any UE category;
\- For PS, allowing a Rel-13 remote UE to connect to a Rel-14 evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE is not a primary objective of this study. There is
nothing that prohibits a Rel-14 UE to implement Rel-13 features/mechanism to
connect to Rel-13 ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UEs;
\- It is not required to support service continuity between Release 13 ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE and Release 14 evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
## 4.2 Requirements
_Editor notes: This section is to describe high level requirements for
designing solutions._
The candidate solutions to be considered in this study should meet the
following requirements:
### 4.2.1 Relaying solution requirements
The purpose of this section is to present the requirements on the relaying
solution.
#### 4.2.1.1 Requirement 1 -- Visibility and reachability
The evolved ProSe Remote UE shall be visible and reachable by the network.
#### 4.2.1.2 Requirement 2 -- Traffic differentiation
The eNB shall be capable of distinguishing traffic originating from the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay and traffic originating from evolved ProSe
Remote UEs connected to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.
The eNB shall be capable of distinguishing traffic originating from different
evolved ProSe Remote UEs connected to the same evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay.
#### 4.2.1.3 Requirement 3 -- Power consumption
As a primary requirement, under the defined scenarios, use cases, and traffic
models the relay solution shall allow for decrease in power consumption of
evolved ProSe Remote UE when using indirect 3GPP connection as compared to
direct 3GPP connection.
As a secondary requirement, under the defined scenarios, use cases, and
traffic models negative impact on power consumption in the evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay should be minimized.
#### 4.2.1.4 Requirement 4 -- Device complexity
As a guideline, the device complexity of the evolved ProSe Remote UE should be
taken into account when analysing the solutions.
Under the defined scenarios, use cases, and traffic models negative impact of
the relaying solution on the device complexity of the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay should be minimized
#### 4.2.1.5 Requirement 5 -- Efficient signalling
Under the defined scenarios, use cases, and traffic models, the signalling
(e.g. messages and procedures) shall facilitate efficient operation (e.g.
setup, management, release). This includes signalling over both PC5 and Uu.
#### 4.2.1.6 Requirement 6 -- Traffic types
The relay solution shall support different traffic types including VoIP,
streaming services, instant messaging, small data, MTC traffic etc. in an
efficient manner.
#### 4.2.1.7 Requirement 7 -- Co-existence with Rel-12/13 Public Safety UEs
The relay solution shall support co-existence on the same carrier between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay on one side
and Rel-12/13 Public Safety (PS) UEs on the other.
#### 4.2.1.8 Requirement 8 -- Service continuity
The relay solution shall support service continuity when the evolved ProSe
Remote UE selects or switches its path between Uu and PC5. Following service
continuity scenarios are considered in this study with a lower priority
compared to the path switch between Uu and PC5:
> \- service continuity among different evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UEs
> (i.e. reselection of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE) for PC5 and
> non-3GPP access;
>
> \- service continuity for the switching scenario between direct 3GPP
> connection and indirect non-3GPP connection.
The service continuity of switching from PC5 to non-3GPP access (and vice
versa) within the same evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE or switching from
non-3GPP access to another non-3GPP access is not studied as part of this
study. The service continuity of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE moving together from one cell to another cell is
supported in this study.
#### 4.2.1.9 Requirement 9 -- Data security
The relay solution shall support data security such that signalling and/or
data traffic between the eNB and the evolved ProSe Remote UE is not deciphered
or attacked by the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.
#### 4.2.1.10 Requirement 10 -- Common relay architecture
A common relay architecture for both 3GPP and non-3GPP should be targeted, if
possible.
#### 4.2.1.11 Requirement 11 -- QoS support
The relay solution shall allow for various QoS configurations to meet
requirements of different services and traffic types. The level of QoS while
using indirect 3GPP connection based on PC5 should be comparable to that
achieved while using direct 3GPP connection for the same service.
Editor's note: Further requirements are FFS.
## 4.3 Scenarios
The coverage scenarios considered in this study focus on the followings.
\- Evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE are EUTRAN
in-coverage;
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is in EUTRAN coverage and evolved
ProSe Remote UE can be in enhanced coverage (enhanced coverage implies that
the UE is connecting to the network via Rel-13 MTC in CE mode);
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is in EUTRAN coverage and evolved
ProSe Remote UE is out of coverage of EUTRAN.
The considered scenarios are reflected in Figure 4.3-1. The shown connections
for the Uu interface indicate coverage and reachability, i.e. the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE shown is not necessarily in RRC_CONNECTED, but is
in coverage and can communicate with the network on Uu interface. In this
study, scenario of the UE context for the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE maintained in the same eNB is
prioritized.
Figure 4.3-1: Coverage scenarios
In Figure 4.3-1, "in coverage" for the evolved ProSe Remote UE may include
extended coverage.
In the below, "linked" means that the short range link is setup between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and both
UEs can exchange data in any direction. For PC5, "linked" state is equivalent
to state of PC5 connection established. It is assumed that trust relationship
between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE, if required, is handled by upper layers. The state of trust relationship
being established is defined as "associated".
The following procedures are supported for these scenarios:
  * In Scenario 2, either the evolved ProSe Remote UE or the network can initiate establishing a link between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
  * In scenario 3, either the evolved ProSe Remote UE or the network can initiate establishing a link between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
  * It can be considered if there should be further restrictions on the network initiated cases.
The evolved ProSe Remote UE is not required to be in RRC_CONNECTED while
linked with an evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.The evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE may be in RRC_IDLE while linked with an evolved ProSe Remote
UE. RRC connection state of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE may change independently of their connection state of
PC5/non-3GPP access. Both the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the
evolved ProSe Remote UE are in RRC_CONNECTED while unicast data is being
relayed.
When used to describe the evolved ProSe Remote UE, RRC_CONNECTED means that
the UE has a context in the eNB. The evolved ProSe Remote UE behaviour in RRC
states is FFS.
The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE can provide both unicast and
multicast services.
# 5 Technical support for LTE device to device, UE-to- Network relays for IoT
and wearables
## 5.1 Layer 2 evolved UE-to-Network relay solution
_Editor notes: Including necessary enhancements for supporting a generic Layer
2 evolved UE-to-Network relay including architecture, methods for the network
to identify, address, and reach an evolved Remote UE via an evolved UE-to-
Network Relay UE._
### 5.1.1 Architecture
In this subclause, a protocol architecture for supporting Layer 2 evolved UE-
to-Network Relay UE is given for the user plane and the control plane.
For protocol architecture for the user plane and control plane, relaying is
performed above RLC sublayer. The evolved ProSe Remote UE's user plane and
control plane data are relayed above RLC via the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE from the evolved ProSe Remote UE to network and vice versa. Uu PDCP
and RRC are terminated between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the eNB while
RLC, MAC and PHY and the non-3GPP transport layers are terminated in each link
(i.e. the link between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay UE and the link between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE and the eNB). The user plane protocol stack and the control plane protocol
stack when PC5 is used between the evolved ProSe remote UE and the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is shown in Figure 5.1.1-1 and Figure 5.1.1-2.
The user plane protocol stack and the control plane protocol stack when
non-3GPP access is used between the evolved ProSe remote UE and the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is shown in Figure 5.1.1-3 and Figure 5.1.1-4.
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether an PDCP layer is needed between evolved ProSe
Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE for PC5.
Editor's Note: It is FFS how DRBs are configured, defined, and handled on Uu
and PC5.
Figure 5.1.1-1: User plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (PC5)
Figure 5.1.1-2: Control plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (PC5)
Figure 5.1.1-3: User plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (non-3GPP access)
Figure 5.1.1-4: Control plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (non-3GPP access)
Traffic of one or multiple evolved ProSe Remote UEs may be mapped to a single
DRB of Uu interface of the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. Multiple Uu
DRBs may be used to carry traffic of different QoS classes, for one or
multiple evolved ProSe Remote UEs. It is also possible to multiplex traffic of
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE itself onto the Uu DRB, which is used to
relay traffic to/from evolved ProSe Remote UEs. How the mapping of the traffic
between sidelink bearers and Uu bearers is done is up to the eNB
implementation and the mapping is configured in evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE by the eNB. An adaptation layer over Uu is supported to identify the
evolved ProSe Remote UE/evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the
corresponding bearer.
Within a Uu DRB, different evolved ProSe Remote UEs and different bearers of
the evolved ProSe Remote UE are indicated by additional information included
in adaptation layer header which is added to PDCP PDU. The evolved ProSe
Remote UE is identified in the adaptation layer header on Uu by only local
identifier (i.e. an index), which is known to at least the eNB and evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. For identifying bearer of the evolved ProSe
Remote UE, a bearer identity is indicated by additional information included
in adaptation layer header.
For non-3GPP access and PC5, no additional UE identifier needs to be provided
by the adaptation layer. The evolved ProSe Remote UE is identified on the
short range link by the RAT-specific Layer 2 identifier (i.e. MAC address for
non-3GPP access and FFS for PC5). The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
needs to be aware of the mapping between evolved ProSe Remote UE identities on
the short range link and on Uu interface.
Editor's Note: The details of the local identifier are left for the WI phase.
An adaptation layer is supported over non-3GPP access for the short range link
between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE. Adaptation layer header is added to PDCP PDU. The adaptation layer header
on non-3GPP access includes a DRB identity. No additional bearer identity is
required to be exchanged between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
the evolved ProSe Remote UE over the PC5.
The adaptation layer can be considered as part of PDCP sublayer or a separate
new layer between PDCP sublayer and RLC sublayer.
Editor's Note: The details of the header structure/adaptation layer location
are left for the WI phase.
### 5.1.2 Protocol enhancements
#### 5.1.2.1 Discovery and connection establishment procedure
Discovery is defined as the process that detects and identifies another UE in
proximity. For PC5, legacy relay discovery procedure is assumed to be used as
a baseline. The legacy discovery physical channel is assumed to be used and
the size of the discovery message is assumed to be fixed to 232 bits as the
legacy discovery message size.
Editor's Note: RAN2 can study if additional enhancements to the relay
discovery procedure are needed.
In order for evolved ProSe Remote UE to communicate with the network via
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE, it is necessary to establish connection
between evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. For
PC5, "PC5 Signalling Protocol\" is assumed to be used for establishing a
secure connection and the legacy connection establishment procedure is assumed
to be used.
Editor's Note: RAN2 can study RAN2 specific enhancements related to connection
establishment for power consumption purposes.
#### 5.1.2.2 Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE
In this study, it is assumed that the evolved ProSe Remote UE should be linked
with the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE in order to receive paging via
the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. The evolved ProSe Remote UE supports
reception of paging over the linked evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE while
the evolved ProSe Remote UE is in and out of E-UTRAN coverage. The evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE supports forwarding of paging for the evolved
ProSe Remote UE located in and out of E-UTRAN coverage.
Editor's Note: It is FFS if network can configure the UE to monitor Uu paging
while in-coverage.
There are multiple possible paging options with which the evolved ProSe Remote
UE in RRC_IDLE can be reachable in downlink when it is in E-UTRAN coverage or
out of E-UTRAN coverage as shown below.
Option 1: The evolved ProSe Remote UE monitors its own paging occasion (PO)
over Uu interface, so the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE does not need
to relay the evolved ProSe Remote UE's paging over short range link. The
evolved ProSe Remote UE with single receiver need to monitor Uu only in this
option since the evolved ProSe Remote UE cannot be linked to the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE via PC5 interface to send or receive data while
monitoring POs via Uu simultaneously. This option is shown in Figure
5.1.2.2-1.
{width="4.638888888888889in" height="2.459722222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE (Option 1)
> Advantages:
>
> \- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE does not need to relay the
> evolved ProSe Remote UE's paging over short range link so that additional
> power consumption for L2 relay UE and additional use of SL resource are not
> required.
>
> Disadvantages:
\- It is not applicable when the evolved ProSe Remote UE is out of E-UTRAN
coverage;
\- If the evolved ProSe Remote UE is linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE while receiving via Uu, the evolved ProSe Remote UE needs to attempt
paging reception over downlink in addition to the reception of short range
link while linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. This is less
power efficient for the evolved ProSe Remote UE.
Option 2: The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE monitors its linked evolved
ProSe Remote UE's PO in addition to its own PO. The evolved ProSe Remote UE
does not need to attempt paging reception over downlink while linked to the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
may need to monitor multiple paging occasions. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE has to know the paging occasion of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and
has to decode a paging message and determine which evolved ProSe Remote UE the
paging is for. Also, the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE may need to
relay the evolved ProSe Remote UE's paging over short range link. This option
is shown in Figure 5.1.2.2-2.
{width="4.386805555555555in" height="2.8048611111111112in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-2: Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE (Option 2)
> Advantages:
\- It is commonly applicable to both when the evolved ProSe Remote UE is in
and out of E-UTRAN coverage;
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE does not need to attempt paging reception over
DL while linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. This is more
power efficient for the evolved ProSe Remote UE;
\- No need for network to know whether the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE are linked or associated.
> Disadvantages:
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE needs to monitor multiple POs.
This is less power efficient for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE as
the power consumption may increase depending on the number of evolved ProSe
Remote UEs linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE;
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE needs to relay evolved ProSe
Remote UE's paging over short range link. This causes additional power
consumption for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and additional use of
SL resource.
Option 3: The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE monitors its own PO only
and paging for the linked evolved ProSe Remote UE is also sent in the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE's PO. The evolved ProSe Remote UE does not need
to attempt paging reception over downlink while linked to the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE has to decode
a paging message, determine which evolved ProSe Remote UE the paging is for
and needs to relay the evolved ProSe Remote UE's paging over short range link.
In order to page the evolved ProSe Remote UE, the core network (i.e. MME) is
required to know linked status between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE and the evolved ProSe Remote UE and remap evolved ProSe Remote UE's paging
messages to occur on evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE's POs when evolved
ProSe Remote UE are linked. This option is shown in Figure 5.1.2.2-3.
{width="4.620138888888889in" height="2.9194444444444443in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-3: Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE (Option 3)
> Advantages:
\- It is commonly applicable to both when the evolved ProSe Remote UE is in
and out of E-UTRAN coverage;
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE does not need to attempt paging reception over
DL while linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. This is more
power efficient for the evolved ProSe Remote UE;
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE does not need to monitor multiple
POs. This is more power efficient for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
compared to the option 2.
> Disadvantages:
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE needs to relay evolved ProSe
Remote UE's paging over short range link. This causes additional power
consumption for evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and additional use of SL
resource;
\- The network needs to know linked status between the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE and the evolved ProSe Remote UE.
#### 5.1.2.3 System information reception for evolved ProSe Remote UE
The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE supports relaying of system
information for the linked evolved ProSe Remote UEs located out of E-UTRAN
coverage. Not all system information is relayed to the linked evolved ProSe
Remote UE via the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. The system information
is not delivered periodically to the evolved ProSe Remote UE, but only when
deemed necessary.
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether to support relaying of system information for
the linked evolved ProSe Remote UEs located in-coverage.
Editor's Note: It is FFS which parts of system information are delivered to
the linked evolved ProSe Remote UE and how they are determined.
## 5.2 LTE sidelink enhancements
_Editor notes: Including necessary enhancements for enabling QoS, more
efficient, reliable, and/or low complexity/cost & low energy sidelink._
### 5.2.1 General considerations on sidelink enhancements
Discontinuous reception is studied for PC5.
Editor's Note: Details of the discontinuous reception and options to support
it are FFS.
RLC AM is supported for PC5 in this study. Enhancement to the existing RLC AM
is not considered in this study.
Semi-persistent transmission (e.g. similar to SPS) is considered useful.
Editor's Note: The details of the semi-persistent transmission and whether it
is feasible are up to RAN1.
### 5.2.2 Synchronization aspects
### 5.2.3 Discovery aspects
### 5.2.4 Communication and UE-to-NW relaying aspects
### 5.2.5 Summary and conclusions on LTE sidelink enhancements
# 6 Evaluation results
_Editor notes: Detailed evaluation assumptions are placed in Annex A._
# 7 Conclusions
_Editor notes: Summarize the findings of the study on Further Enhancements to
LTE Device to Device, UE to Network Relays for IoT and Wearables._
###### ### Annex A: Evaluation methodology
# A.1 Evaluation assumptions
#