# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the CBRS (Citizens Broadband
Radio Service) 3.5GHz E-UTRA TDD band (3550-3700MHz) for operations in the
United States.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [2] FCC-15-47A1.
> https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-15-47A1.pdf
>
> [3] FCC-16-55A1.
> https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-16-55A1.pdf
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
CBRS Citizens Broadband Radio Service
CBSD Citizens Broadband Radio Service Device
DL Downlink
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EUD End User Device
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 Background
**On April 21^st^ 2015, the FCC released a Report and Order (R &O) and Second
Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Second FNPRM) to establish new rules
for commercial use of the 3550-3700 MHz band. This framework creates a
contiguous 150 MHz block at 3550-3700 MHz (3.5 GHz) for mobile broadband that
FCC calls "Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS)" and regulated under new
Part 96 of FCC's Rules. Furthermore, on May 2^nd^ 2016, a second R&O and Order
on Reconsideration was released by FCC to finalize the rules.**
The objective of the Work Item is to s**pecify a new E-UTRA TDD operating band
(3550-3700 MHz) with support of 5, 10, 15 and 20MHz channel bandwidths to
operate in the USA.**
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
The 3550-3700MHz band plan is shown in Figure 5.1. The adjacent 3700-4200MHz
band is used by C-Band Fixed Satellite Services Earth Stations. On the lower
side, the band 3100-3550MHz is used by US Department of Defense (DoD) for
operating various types of shipborne, land-based, and aeronautical mobile
radar systems.
{width="6.69375in" height="0.8284722222222223in"}
Figure 5.1: Band plan
Summary of the FCC's rules relevant to RAN4 work to define a new band for US
3.5GHz band are provided below:
> _Power Limits:_
The maximum EIRP and maximum Power Spectral Density (PSD) of any CBSD and EUD
must comply with the limits shown in the table below:
Table 5.**1:** CBSD and EUD Power Limits
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+ | | Category A CBSD | Category B CBSD | EUD | | | | (only outdoor) | | | | (indoor or | | | | | outdoor) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+ | Maximum EIRP | 30 | 47 | 23 | | (dBm/10MHz) | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+ | Maximum PSD | 20 | 37 | n/a | | (dBm/MHz) | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
_3.5 GHz Emissions and Interference Limits:_
(1) _General protection levels._ Except as otherwise specified below, for CBSD
channel and frequency assignments, the conducted power of any emission outside
the fundamental emission (whether in or outside of the authorized band) shall
not exceed -13 dBm/MHz within 0-10 megahertz above the upper assigned channel
edge and within 0-10 megahertz below the lower assigned channel edge. At all
frequencies greater than 10 megahertz above the upper assigned channel edge
and less than 10 MHz below the lower assigned channel edge, the conducted
power of any emission shall not exceed -25 dBm/MHz. The upper and lower
assigned channel edges are the upper and lower limits of any channel assigned
to a CBSD, or in the case of multiple contiguous channels, the upper and lower
limits of the combined contiguous channels.
(2) _Additional protection levels._ The conducted power of any emissions below
3530 MHz or above 3720 MHz shall not exceed -40dBm/MHz.
In summary, the emission limits for CBSDs and EUDs are as follows:
\- -13 dBm/MHz from 0 to 10 MHz from the assigned channel edge
\- -25 dBm/MHz beyond 10 MHz from the assigned channel edge down to 3530 MHz
and up to 3720 MHz
\- -40 dBm/MHz below 3530 MHz and above 3720 MHz
{width="5.61875in" height="3.071527777777778in"}
Figure 5.2: CBSD & EUD Emission Limits
(3) _Measurement procedure:_
(i) Compliance with this provision is based on the use of measurement
instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 megahertz or greater.
However, in the 1 megahertz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the
licensee\'s authorized frequency channel, a resolution bandwidth of no less
than one percent of the fundamental emission bandwidth may be employed. A
narrower resolution bandwidth is permitted in all cases to improve measurement
accuracy provided the measured power is integrated over the full reference
bandwidth (_i.e.,_ 1 MHz or 1 percent of emission bandwidth, as specified).
The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two
points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier
center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB
below the transmitter power.
# 6 List of band specific issues for the LTE TDD 3.5GHz band (3550-3700 MHz)
Below is the list of issues that are studied for the LTE TDD 3.5GHz band:
\- Co-existence with other 3GPP operating bands in the USA
\- BS unwanted emission
\- UE REFSENS, unwanted emissions, out-of-band blocking and A-MPR
# 7 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 7.1 UE specific
Following changes are needed into TS 36.101 for adding a new band for 3.5 GHz
in US.
Table 7.1-1: Changes required into TS 36.101.
* * *
Clause Title Expected changes 5.5 Operating bands New band number is assigned
5.6.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz bandwidths
are listed in Table 5.6.1-1 for the new band 5.7.1 Channel spacing No change
5.7.2 Channel raster  
5.7.4 TX--RX frequency separation  
6.2.2 UE maximum output power Power Class 3 is assigned for the new band 6.2.3
UE Maximum Output power for modulation / channel bandwidth No change 6.2.4 UE
maximum output power with additional requirements Band specific additional
requirements are listed in Table 6.2.4-1 and new NS-value is assigned. New
A-MPR table is added. 6.2.5 Configured transmitted power Change needed due to
possible common FE filter for 3.5 GHz bands 6.3.2 UE Minimum output power No
change 6.3.3A UE Transmit OFF power  
6.3.4A ON/OFF time mask  
6.3.5A Power control  
6.5.1A Frequency error  
6.5.2A Transmit modulation quality  
6.6.1A Occupied bandwidth  
6.6.2.1 Spectrum emission mask  
6.6.2.2 Additional Spectrum Emission Mask New sub-clause for emission mask
defined by FCC for 3.5 GHz is created 6.6.2.3.1 (ACLR) Minimum requirement
E-UTRA No change 6.6.2.3.2 (ACLR) Minimum requirement UTRA  
6.6.3.1 (Spurious emissions) Minimum requirements  
6.6.3.2 Spurious emission band UE co-existence Requirement for protection
against other US bands and from other US bands is added in to Table 6.6.3.2-1
6.6.3.3 Additional spurious emissions New sub-clause for additional spurious
emission defined by FCC for 3.5 GHz is created 6.7.1 (Transmit
intermodulation) Minimum requirement No change 7.3.1 (REFSENS) Minimum
requirements (QPSK) REFSENS for new band is added into Table 7.3.1-1 7.4.1
(Maximum input level) Minimum requirements No change 7.5.1 (ACS) Minimum
requirements  
7.6.1.1 (IBB) Minimum requirements New band is added into Table 7.6.1.1-2
7.6.2.1 (OBB) Minimum requirements New band is added into Table 7.6.2.1-2
7.6.3.1 (NBB) Minimum requirements No change 7.7.1 (Spurious response) Minimum
requirements for CA  
7.8.1 (Wideband intermodulation) Minimum requirements for CA  
7.9.1 (Spurious emissions) Minimum requirements
* * *
### 7.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 7.1.1.1 Maximum output power
For an End User Device, the maximum output power is defined as 23 dBm EIRP in
10 MHz. Given that the antenna gain on the UE is typically less than 0 dB, it
seems reasonable that the class 3 maximum output power as defined in 36.101 of
23 dBm +2/-3, consistent with Band 42 and Band 43, can be adopted for this
band as the conducted specification. Of course, it is still incumbent upon the
End User Device manufacturer to ultimately satisfy the EIRP requirement for
regulatory certification. The FCC rules specify the maximum EIRP within 10
MHz. It might be interpreted that this rule would allow higher transmit EIRP
in wider bandwidths, for example 3 dB higher in a 20 MHz fully allocated
channel. However, we propose that the same power class and maximum output
power be applied in the 3GPP specifications for all channel bandwidths defined
for the band, including 15 and 20 MHz.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: UE Power Class
* * *
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) 42 23 +2/-3  
43 23 +2/-3  
...  
[47] 23 +2/-3
* * *
#### 7.1.1.2 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
An NS value (tentatively assigned NS_27) should be defined for the band to
signal that additional spurious emission requirements are applicable and that
A-MPR is available.
Table 7.1.1.2-1: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Network | Requ | E-UTRA | Channel | R | A-MPR | | Si | irements | Band | b | esources | (dB) | | gnalling | (su | | andwidth | Blocks | | | value | bclause) | | (MHz) | ( | | | | | | | _N_ ~RB~) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS | 6. | [48] | 5, 10, | Table | | | _[27] | 6.2.2.x, | | 15, 20 | X.Y-Z | | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | .6.3.3.y | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 7.1.1.3 Configured transmitted power
Additionally, to reap ecosystem benefits by enabling reuse of the RF front-end
across Band 42, Band 43, and the new US 3.5 GHz band, any ΔT~IB,c~ allowance
for Band 42 or for Band 43 should also be applicable for the new US 3.5 GHz
band, and vice-versa. This is similar to the handling for Band 65 where it was
motivated to enable a common front-end design with Band 1.
Attachment of the following or similar note to the ΔT~IB,c~ tables may be used
to accomplish this.
NOTE: For UE supporting E-UTRA band 42, 43, or 48 and CA configurations
including Band 42, 43 or 48, the applicable ΔT~IB,c~ in Band 42, 43, or 48 is
the max(Band 42 ΔT~IB,c~ , Band 43 ΔT~IB,c~, Band 48 ΔT~IB,c~).
#### 7.1.1.4 Spectrum emission mask (network signalled "NS_[27]")
The emission requirements are summarized below in Figure 7.1.1.4-1, extracted
from Figure 2, page 60 of the FCC's R&O [2].
{width="6.678472222222222in" height="3.390972222222222in"}
Figure 7.1.1.4-1: Emission requirements taken from FCC R&O in [3].
#### 7.1.1.5 UE coexistence
The band is defined for operation in the US. Therefore, US bands should be
protected and should provide protection to this band at a level of -50
dBm/MHz. Bands include 2, 4, 5, 12, 13, 14, 17, 24, 25, 26, 29, 30, 41, 66,
and 70. Band 66 uplink requires a second harmonic exception.
#### 7.1.1.6 Additional spurious emissions (network signalled valued
"NS_[27]")
Additional protection is required such that the power of any emissions below
3530 MHz or above 3720 MHz shall not exceed -40 dBm/MHz.
#### 7.1.1.7 A-MPR
##### 7.1.1.7.1 Study assumptions (Company 1)
We analyze the A-MPR required assuming that the SEM and additional spurious
emission requirements will be conditioned on NS signaling. To conduct the
analysis, the following parameters and assumptions were used
1\. A 3.5 GHz PA was modeled/measured. This PA is capable of supporting the
entire range 3400 -- 3800 MHz. Compared to the previous study, the PA has been
updated. Unfortunately, the updated PA requires slightly more A-MPR than
previously reported, but is more reflective of the actual PA to be
commercialized for this application.
2\. No filter attenuation is assumed since a multi-layer ceramic filter used
in 3.5 GHz applications will not be able to provide any attenuation at the
offsets required here. It is assumed that to enable harmonization and to
minimize fragmentation of the 3.5 GHz ecosystem, a common RF front-end will be
used for all 3.5 GHz TDD bands worldwide. In any event, it will be shown below
that even if a filter were to be assumed, it would not help in meeting the SEM
requirement.
3\. -25 dBm/MHz LO and IQ image rejection.
4\. -60 dB counter-IM3 rejection.
##### 7.1.1.7.2 Study results (Company 1)
Simulations and lab measurements were conducted with an updated 3.5 GHz PA to
evaluate the necessary A-MPR to meet both the SEM and the spurious emission
requirement. No A-MPR was found to be required for 5 and 10 MHz channels.
However, while it was previously reported that up to 3 dB A-MPR is required
for 20 MHz channels and 15 MHz channels had not been studied, a more
comprehensive study with updated an PA reveals that the previous result was
overly optimistic. In fact, as shown below, for 15 and 20 MHz channels, A-MPR
of up to 4 dB is required for some allocations.
Simulation results are shown below.
{width="5.21875in" height="4.322916666666667in"}
Figure 7.1.1.7.2-1: A-MPR simulation results, 15 MHz
{width="5.15in" height="4.950694444444444in"}
Figure 7.1.1.7.2-2: A-MPR simulation results, 20 MHz
Measurement results to confirm simulation results are included in the table
below.
Table 7.1.1.7.2-1. Summary of A-MPR measurements and simulation results
* * *
Channel BW (MHz) Fc (MHz) RBstart L_CRB MPR A-MPR  
Simulation Measurement Part 1 Measurement Part 2 15 3557.5 0 1 0 3.5 3.6 3.3 5
1 0 1 0.0 0.1 6 1 0 0.5 0.4 0.4 7 1 0. 0 0.5 0.2 70 1 0 3 2.8 2.2 71 1 0 3 2.8
2.2 0 6 0 2 2.7 2.2 64 9 0 1 0.5 0.3 0 10 0 2 2.0 2.2 0 12 0 1 1.3 1.6 63 12 0
1 0.6 0.4 0 60 1 0 0.3 0.0 0 64 1 1 0.9 0.8 11 64 1 0.5 0.0 0.0 0 72 1 1 1.5
1.3 0 75 1 1 1.5 1.5 20 3560 0 1 0 3.5 3.5 3.4 12 1 0 3 3.5 3.3 13 1 0 0.5 0
0.3 15 1 0 0.5 0.1 0.4 16 1 0 0 0.0 0.4 86 1 0 0 0.0 0.0 87 1 0 3.5 2.7 2.6 99
1 0 3.5 2.8 2.3 0 4 0 2.5 3.0 3.2 10 9 0 1 1.5 1.7 0 10 0 1.5 2.1 2.4 80 10 0
0.5 0.7 0.6 90 10 0 1.5 1.5 1.4 0 18 0 1 1.7 2.0 76 18 0 0.5 0.5 0.5 82 18 0 1
0.9 0.9 0 20 1 0 0.6 0.9 0 60 1 0 0.5 0.0 0 64 1 1 1.2 1.0 0 72 1 1 1.3 1.5 28
72 1 1 0.3 0.3 20 80 1 1 0.9 0.9 0 90 1 2.5 2.0 1.9 10 90 1 1.5 1.3 1.4 0 100
1 3 2.8 2.7
* * *
The results provided in the simulations and measurements above include both
SEM and spurious emission requirements. It was found that the -25 dBm/MHz for
SEM was dominant, especially for narrowband allocations. Moreover, since SEM
requirements are defined relative to channel boundaries, the A-MPR needed to
meet the emission mask is required of all channels throughout the band, rather
than limited to only band edge channels. Equally important, since the SEM
requirements must be met _within_ the band, an RF filter is not able to
provide any relief.
We compare the results presented above with other similar requirements. We
first observe the similarity in SEM requirements proposed for this band
compared to those defined by NS_06 for US 700 MHz bands where no A-MPR is
allowed. However, NS_06 is only defined for bandwidths up to 10 MHz.
Therefore, it can be anticipated that A-MPR for up to 10 MHz channels in this
3.5 GHz band would similarly not require A-MPR assuming that the PA models at
3.5 GHz do not deviate significantly compared to those at 700 MHz when
constrained by ACLR and other general requirements. Simulation results confirm
these expectations. For 10 MHz channels, no A-MPR was needed to meet the SEM
requirement. However, since the SEM requirement for US 3.5 GHz does not scale
with bandwidth, it was found that there is a need for A-MPR with larger
bandwidths.
Specifically, the results illustrated above below show that up to 4 dB of
A-MPR is needed to meet SEM and spurious emissions. The allocations needing
the largest A-MPR are small allocations located at the edge of the channel due
to IMD products exceeding the -25 dBm/MHz limit at 10 MHz offset from the
channel edge. We note that this could have been avoided if the SEM mask were
to scale with bandwidth such that the -25 dBm/MHz boundary is located at an
offset equal to the channel bandwidth. However with the existing SEM limit for
channels larger than 10 MHz, the required backoff can have a significant
impact to reliability of PUCCH channels, thereby suggesting that over-
provisioning of the PUCCH resource may be needed for 15 and 20 MHz carriers. A
similar requirement can be observed for Band 28 with NS_18. In that case, the
requirement is -26.2 dBm/6 MHz at an offset of 5 MHz away from the channel
edge. The challenge is similar to the requirement here of -25 dBm/MHz at 10
MHz away from the channel edge for narrow-band allocations located at the band
edge. For NS_18, the maximum A-MPR allowed is 4 dB, which is consistent with
the findings and proposal for this band.
##### 7.1.1.7.3 Possible A-MPR table (Company 1)
An A-MPR table for consideration is provided below, applicable for QPSK and
16QAM.
Table 7.1.1.7.3-1. Possible A-MPR table based on simulation and measurement
* * *
CBW RBstart RBend L_CRB A-MPR 5 -- -- -- 0 dB 10 -- -- -- 0 dB 15 0 -- 6 -- ≤
15 ≤ 4 dB \-- 68 -- 74  
\-- -- ≥ 60 ≤ 1.5 dB 20 0 -- 12 -- ≤ 20 ≤ 4 dB \-- 87 -- 99  
13 -- 15 -- ≤ 3 ≤ 1 dB \-- 84 -- 86  
\-- -- ≥ 60 and \ 60 | > 60 | N/A | +-------------------+----------------------------+-----------------+---------+---------+ | | RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] | N/A | N/A | > 71 | +-------------------+----------------------------+-----------------+---------+---------+ | | A-MPR [dB] | ≤ 3 | ≤ 2 | ≤ 3 | +-------------------+----------------------------+-----------------+---------+---------+ | 20 | RB~start~ | 0 - 12 | 13 - 28 | 79 - 99 | +-------------------+----------------------------+-----------------+---------+---------+ | | L~CRB~ [RBs] | \ 60 | > 65 | N/A | +-------------------+----------------------------+-----------------+---------+---------+ | | RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] | N/A | N/A | > 88 | +-------------------+----------------------------+-----------------+---------+---------+ | | A-MPR [dB] | ≤ 4 | ≤ 3 | ≤ 3 | +-------------------+----------------------------+-----------------+---------+---------+
### 7.1.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.1.2.1 Reference sensitivity
For the TDD band, the reference sensitivity is strongly dependent on the
front-end filter insertion loss since there is no simultaneous transmit
component. As it is expected that the same filter for Band 42 and Band 43 can
be reused for the US 3.5 GHz band, it is reasonable to assign the same
reference sensitivity to this band as specified for Band 42 and 43.
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
* * *
Channel bandwidth
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz\ 3 MHz\ 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15 MHz\ 20 MHz\ Duplex Mode (dBm)
(dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
42 -99 -96 -94.2 -93 TDD
43 -99 -96 -94.2 -93 TDD
...
[48] -99 -96 -94.2 -93 TDD
* * *
Additionally, to reap ecosystem benefits by enabling reuse of the RF front-end
across Band 42, Band 43, and the new US 3.5 GHz band, any ΔR~IB,c~ allowance
for Band 42 or for Band 43 should also be applicable for the new US 3.5 GHz
band, and vice-versa. This is similar to the handling for Band 65 where it was
motivated to enable a common front-end design with Band 1.
Attachment of the following or similar note to the ΔR~IB,c~ tables may be used
to accomplish this.
NOTE: For UE supporting E-UTRA band 42, 43, or 48 and CA configurations
including Band 42, 43 or 48, the applicable ΔR~IB,c~ in Band 42, 43, or 48 is
the max(Band 42 ΔR~IB,c~ , Band 43 ΔR~IB,c~, Band 48 ΔR~IB,c~).
#### 7.1.2.2 Blocking
In-band blocking and out-of-band blocking requirements for the US 3.5 GHz band
should reuse the same requirements as specified for Band 42 and Band 43 since
there are no specific mandatory blocking requirements for the UE defined in
the FCC rules. For out-of-band blocking, it is anticipated that the UE
supporting 3.5 GHz bands including Band 42, 43, and the US 3.5 GHz will
utilize a ceramic front-end RF filter to minimize insertion loss. Therefore,
the supportable out-of-band blocking has been adjusted in the following
manner.
NOTE 2: The power level of the interferer (P~Interferer~) for Range 3 shall be
modified to -20 dBm for F~Interferer~ > 2800 MHz and F~Interferer~ \< 4400
MHz.
This modification of out-of-band blocking shall also apply to the UE
supporting the US 3.5 GHz band.
## 7.2 BS specific
The following BS specific 36.104 changes are expected due to introduction of
new 3.5GHz band in the USA:
6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category A)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25,
30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, [48], 65, 66,
emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.1-4 to
6.6.3.1-6:
6.6.3.2.1 Category B requirements (Option 1)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 22, 25, 30, 33, 34, 35,
36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, [48], 65, 66, emissions shall not exceed
the maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.2.1-4 to 6.6.3.2.1-6:
6.6.3.3 Additional requirements
The following requirement may apply to E-UTRA BS operating in Band [48] in
certain regions. Emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in
Table 6.6.3.3-x.
Table 6.6.3.3-x: Additional operating band unwanted emission limits for Band
[48]
* * *
Channel bandwidth Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum
requirement Measurement bandwidth (Note 5) All 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 10 MHz 0.5 MHz ≤
f_offset \< 9.5 MHz -13 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
6.6.4.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A)
6.6.4.1.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.4.1.1.1-1
Table 6.6.4.1.1.1-1: BS Spurious emission limits, Category A
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9kHz ‑ 150kHz | -13 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150kHz ‑ 30MHz | | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30MHz ‑ 1GHz | | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1GHz ‑ 12.75 | | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ‑ | | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz - 26 | | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 4 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s2.5 table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42, 43 and 48. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Band 46. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
6.6.4.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B)
6.6.4.1.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.4.1.2.1-1
Table 6.6.4.1.2.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits, Category B
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 kHz ↔ 150 | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | | kHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150 kHz ↔ 30 | -36 dBm | 10 kHz | Note 1 | | MHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30 MHz ↔ 1 GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ↔ | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ↔ 26 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 4 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [2] , | | | | | s2.5 table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42, 43 and 48. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Band 46. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
6.6.4.3.1 Minimum Requirement
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
* * *
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note UTRA FDD Band XXII or
E-UTRA Band 22 3510 -- 3590 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply
to E-UTRA BS operating in band 22, 42 or [48]. E-UTRA Band 42 3400 - 3600 MHz
-52 dBm 1 MHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22, 42, 43
or [48]. E-UTRA Band 43 3600 - 3800 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This is not applicable
to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42, 43 or [48]. E-UTRA Band [48] 3550 - 3700
MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22,
42, 43 or [48].
* * *
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1A: Home BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with
Home BS operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | coexistence | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | BS | co-location | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 3410 - 3490 | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XXII | MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | E-UTRA Band | | | | Home BS | | 22 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 22, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | Home BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3400 - 3600 | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | 42 | MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to Home BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 22, | | | | | | 42, 43 or | | | | | | [48] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3600 - 3800 | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | 43 | MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to Home BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42, | | | | | | 43 or | | | | | | [48] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3550 - 3700 | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | [48] | MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to E-UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 22, | | | | | | 42, 43 or | | | | | | [48]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The following requirement may apply to E-UTRA BS operating in Band [48] in
certain regions. The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.6.4.3.1-x: Additional E-UTRA BS Spurious emissions limits for Band
[48]
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3530MHz -- | -25dBm | 1 MHz | Applicable | | 3720MHz | | | 10MHz from the | | | | | assigned | | | | | channel edge | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3100MHz -- | -40dBm | 1 MHz | | | 3530MHz | | | | | | | | | | 3720MHz -- | | | | | 4200MHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
6.6.4.4 Co-location with other base stations
Table 6.6.4.4.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note WA E-UTRA Band 42 3400 -- 3600 MHz -96 dBm
100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22, 42, 43 or
[48] WA E-UTRA Band 43 3600 -- 3800 MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable
to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42, 43 or [48] WA E-UTRA Band [48] 3550 -- 3700
MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42
or 43
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note WA E-UTRA Band 42 3400 -- 3600 MHz -88 dBm
100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22, 42, 43 or
[48] WA E-UTRA Band 43 3600 -- 3800 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable
to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42, 43 or [48] LA E-UTRA Band [48] 3550 -- 3700
MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42
or 43
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium range BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note WA E-UTRA Band 42 3400 -- 3600 MHz -91 dBm
100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22, 42, 43 or
[48] WA E-UTRA Band 43 3600 -- 3800 MHz -91 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable
to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42, 43 or [48] MR E-UTRA Band [48] 3550 -- 3700
MHz -91 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42
or 43
* * *
7.6.1.1 Minimum requirement
Table 7.6.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 13, | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 1-23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-45, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 48], | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 68 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 1 | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 3-14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 1-23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-45, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 48], | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 68 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1b: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 13, | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 14, | -20) | | +20) | | 4dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 1-23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-44, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 48], | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 68 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 4dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | wer/h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 13, | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 1-23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-45, | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | 48], | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 68 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations
Table 7.6.2.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Wide Area BS when
co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal WA E-UTRA Band [48] 3550-3700 +16 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA E-UTRA Band [48] 3550-3700 -6 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Medium Range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal MR E-UTRA Band [48] 3550-3700 +8 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
7.7.1 Minimum requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the levels in Table
7.7.1-1:
Table 7.7.1-1: General spurious emission minimum requirement
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note 30MHz ‑ 1 GHz -57 dBm
100 kHz  
1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz  
12.75 GHz ‑ 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating
band in GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz Applies only for Bands 22, 42, 43 and 48. NOTE: The
frequency range between 2.5 * BW~Channel~ below the first carrier frequency
and 2.5 * BW~Channel~ above the last carrier frequency transmitted by the BS,
where BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth according to Table 5.6‑1, may be
excluded from the requirement. However, frequencies that are more than 10 MHz
below the lowest frequency of any of the BS supported downlink operating band
or more than 10 MHz above the highest frequency of any of the BS supported
downlink operating band shall not be excluded from the requirement. For BS
capable of multiband operation, the exclusion applies for all supported
operating bands. For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands
are mapped on separate antenna connectors, the single-band requirements apply
and the excluded frequency range is only applicable for the operating band
supported on each antenna connector.
* * *
# 8 Study of MSR specific issues
There are not specific MSR issues for Band [48].
# 9 Channel numbering
Operating band number and the EARFCN allocated for 3.5GHz TDD band in the USA
(3550-3700 MHz) are outlined in Table 9-1 and 9-2 respectively.
Table 9-1: Operating band definition for 3.5 GHz in the USA
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
[48] 3550 MHz -- 3700 MHz 3550 MHz -- 3700 MHz TDD
* * *
Table 9-2: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ [48] 3550 55240 55240 -- 56739 3550 55240 55240 -- 56739
* * *
# 10 Required changes to E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
+-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | Affected existing | | | | | specifications | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | Spec No. | Subject of the CR | Comments | CR/TP (Tdoc) | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 36.101 | E-UTRA; UE Radio | Core part | R4-1610776 | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 36.104 | E-UTRA; Base | Core part | R4-1610296 | | | Station (BS) | | | | | radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 36.113 | E-UTRA; BS and | Core part | R4-1610298 | | | repeater EMC | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 36.124 | E-UTRA; EMC | Core part | R4-1610299 | | | requirements for | | | | | mobile terminals | | | | | and ancillary | | | | | equipment | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 36.133 | E-UTRA; | Core part | R4-1609285 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of RRM | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 37.104 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | R4-1610325 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 37.113 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | R4-1610324 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | Electromagnetic | | | | | Compatibility | | | | | (EMC) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 25.104 | Base Station (BS) | Core part | R4-1610327 | | | radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception (FDD) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 25.461 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R4-1610294 | | | interface: Layer | | | | | 1 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 25.466 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R4-1610295 | | | interface: | | | | | Application part | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 25.133 | UTRAN: | Core part | R4-1609284 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of radio | | | | | resource | | | | | management (FDD) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 37.141 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Perf part | R4-1610777 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 36.141 | E-UTRA; Base | Perf part | R4-1610297 | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 25.123 | UTRAN: | Perf part | R4-1609283 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of radio | | | | | resource | | | | | management (TDD) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+ | 25.141 | Base Station (BS) | Perf part | R4-1610326 | | | conformance | | | | | testing (FDD) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----------+--------------+
#