# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document a technical report for the AWS 3/4 band for LTE work
item. The band is specified as 15+25 MHz (1 695 -- 1 710 MHz / 1 995 -- 2 020
MHz) with two duplex spacings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.870: \"Study on New AWS 3/4 Band for LTE\".
[4] Amendment of the Commission\'s Rules with Regard to Commercial Operations
in the 1695-1710 MHz, 1755-1780 MHz, and 2155-2180 MHz Bands, GN Docket No.
13-185, Report and Order, 29 FCC Rcd 4610 (2014) (AWS-3 R&O).FCC 14-31 Report
and Order.
[5] RP-151731: \"New WI: New AWS 3/4 Band for LTE\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[8] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[10] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[11] 3GPP TR 36.849: \"Study on Advanced Wireless Services (AWS) extension
band for LTE\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
Following are the justification from the WI [5]:
It is proposed to standardize a new E-UTRA operating band incorporating the
newly available mid-band spectrum in the US. Specifically, the proposed band
consists of:
\- 1 695-1 710 MHz (15 MHz) UL
\- 1 995-2 020 MHz (25 MHz) DL
The proposed band achieves the following key objectives:
\- Pairing standalone uplink (1 695-1 710 MHz) and downlink (2 000-2 020 MHz)
spectrum blocks made available through recent FCC auction and rule changes.
\- Maximizing the downlink band by incorporating the adjacent H block downlink
(1 995-2 000 MHz).
Figure 4-1 depicts the arrangement of the proposed band plan.
{width="6.6625in" height="1.7805555555555554in"}
Figure 4-1. Proposed band plan arrangement
Following are the core objectives from the WI [5]:
\- Standardization of new FDD E-UTRA band 1 695-1 710 MHz uplink and 1 995-2
020 MHz downlink in North America:
\- Primary UL/DL symmetric pairing with a 300 MHz duplex spacing
\- Secondary UL/DL symmetric pairing with a 295 MHz duplex spacing
\- Specify band numbering and RF characteristics of the new band
\- Address potential BS and UE coexistence issues
\- Update the related E-UTRA technical specifications to include support for
the new band
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 5.1 General
The frequency band arrangements and regulatory background are detailed in the
SI [3] and are briefly summarised in this clause.
## 5.2 Frequency band arrangements
The AWS-3 unpaired uplink spectrum was auctioned off in two separate blocks;
A1 (1 695-1 700 MHz) and B1 (1 700-1 710 MHz). Figure 5.2-1 below depicts the
arrangement of the proposed band plan.
{width="4.897222222222222in" height="0.9131944444444444in"}
Figure 5.2-1: Proposed 15+25 MHz band plan
Figure 5.2-2 below depicts the arrangement of the proposed band plan AWS-3/4,
B70, relative to the adjacent spectrum.
{width="6.69375in" height="1.1131944444444444in"}
Figure 5.2-2: AWS 3/4 Band (70)
The proposed band plan is an asymmetric band plan which consists of both
paired and unpaired DL blocks. While a single licensee has access to both the
PCS H and AWS-4 blocks, multiple entities hold licenses to AWS-3; this means
the amount of accessible uplink spectrum varies from market to market
depending on who the AWS-3 licensee is and this variability in licensing
results in a few relevant deployment scenarios as shown in Figure 5.2-3 below.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="1.7222222222222223in"}
Figure 5.2-3: AWS 3/4 deployment scenario 1/2/3
**Scenario 1:** applies to markets in where the entire 15 MHz of uplink is
accessible. In this scenario, 1 695-1 710 MHz uplink can be paired with 1
995-2 010 MHz downlink, yielding a duplex spacing of 300 MHz. The remaining
downlink spectrum at 2 010-2 020 MHz can be configured as a SCell via future
DL intra-band contiguous CA.
**Scenario 2:** applies to markets in where only 10 MHz of uplink (i.e. B1
block) is accessible (i.e. licensed) or within protection zones where the
legacy government satellite receivers need to be protected from harmful uplink
interference. This scenario will require a duplex spacing (295 MHz) to allow
access in the future to the remaining spectrum via DL intra-band contiguous
CA.
**Scenario 3:** applies to markets in where only 5 MHz of uplink (i.e. A1
block) is accessible. In this scenario, 1 695-1 700 MHz uplink can be paired
with 1 995-2 000 MHz downlink, yielding the same duplex spacing of 300 MHz as
Scenario 1. The remaining downlink spectrum at 2 000-2 020 MHz can be
configured as a SCell via future DL intra-band contiguous CA
All three deployment scenarios have one common goal which is to allow the
AWS-3 UL blocks (A1, B1) full access to the 25 MHz downlink band. Additional
DL spectrum which is not part of the paired DL band (highlighted as SCELL in
Figure 5.2-3) can be support by a future work item based on intra-band carrier
aggregation.
## 5.3 Regulatory background
The FCC specifies an OOBE level of 43+10log~10~(P) (i.e. -13dBm/MHz) for the
proposed uplink frequency block [3]. In addition the AWS-3 unpaired uplink
licensees are required protect legacy government satellite receiver locations
which operate in both co-channel and adjacent channel to the 1 695-1 710 MHz
UL band. These locations are grouped into 27 protection zones and commercial
licensees are required to coordinate with the government in order to operate
commercial services within these zones [3]. There are no coordination
requirements for commercial licensees to operate outside the protection zones.
{width="5.329166666666667in" height="3.9229166666666666in"}
Figure 5.3-1: Federal government operations in and around 1 695-1 710 MHz UL
band
A high level map of the applicable protection zone which require protection of
Federal satellite receiver sites is shown below in Figure 5.3-2.
{width="4.904861111111111in" height="3.3041666666666667in"}
Figure 5.3-2: 1 695-1 710 MHz protection zones in the continental US [5]
Whether operating outside protection zones or, after successful coordination,
within protection zones, commercial licensees will be under an obligation not
to cause harmful interference to the co-channel and adjacent channel federal
sites.
# 6 List of LTE band specific issues for AWS 3/4 band
The following is list of preliminary issues identified at the start of the
work item;
**General**
\- Operating band and channel arrangements
\- TX --RX Frequency separation
**Specific E-UTRA**
\- UE specific (stand alone band)
\- Filter data
\- UE TX requirements
\- UE RX requirements
\- BS specific (stand alone band)
\- Operating band unwanted emissions
\- Additional spurious emission requirements
\- Co-location with other base stations
\- General blocking requirements
\- Blocking requirements for co-location
# 7 General issues
## 7.1 Operating band and channel arrangements
The proposed changes to account for standalone (non-CA operation) are shown in
Table 7.1-1.
Table 7.1-1 E-UTRA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | **E |** U | **Dow |** D | | | | | | ‑UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | Oper | (UL) | (DL) | M | | | | | | ating | oper | oper | ode**| | | | | | B | ating | ating | | | | | | | and** | band\ | band\ | | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | rec | tran | | | | | | | | eive\ | smit\ | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | --** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 66 | 1710 | -- | 1780 | 2110 | -- | 2200 | F | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | DD^1^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 70 | 1695 | -- | 1710 | 1995 | -- | 2020 | F | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | DD^2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2180 | | | | | | | | | -2200 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onfig | | | | | | | | | ured. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2010 | | | | | | | | | -2020 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | TX-RX | | | | | | | | | separ | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | 300 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2005 | | | | | | | | | -2020 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | TX-RX | | | | | | | | | separ | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | 295 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
## 7.2 TX--RX frequency separation
As indicated in [3] is feasible to specify two duplex spacing\'s in the
proposed band (1 695-1 710 MHz UL & 1 995-2 020 MHz DL) to provide deployment
flexibility in protecting federal satellite receiver sites and addressing
market license variations. The proposed changes to TS 36.101 are shown in
Table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
**E-UTRA Operating Band** **TX -- RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation**
**....**
**66** **400 MHz**
70 295, 300MHz
* * *
From [3] the proposed AWS-3/4 band plan has a large 285 MHz duplex gap and
therefore the performance differences between the two TX/RX carrier/duplex
spacing are expected to be insignificant. In this case of Band 70 the 285 MHz
duplex gap would mitigate any RF self-interference issues so that both the
inner and outer duplexed channels will have the same reception and
transmission performance requirements. This means the minimum performance
requirements for the band can remain consistent regardless of the TX/RX
frequency or duplex spacing choice.
TX -- RX **carrier centre frequency of 300 MHz** will be used to specify the
core R4 RF performance requirements defined in UE and BS specifications.
However, the BS and UE will also need to support the TX \-- RX **carrier
centre frequency of 295MHz for the operating band for other deployment
scenarios.**
## 7.3 Operating band with an un-paired DL part
Similar to B66 which is an operating band with an unpaired spectrum, the
requirements for standalone (non-CA operation) would only apply for the paired
part of the band 70. Therefore, the existing text in 3GPP TS 36.101 \" _For
operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_ _5.1-1 (E-UTRA
operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers assigned in the
paired part. \"_****will also be applicable for this new band 70.**
TX -- RX **carrier centre frequency of 300 MHz** will be used to specify the
core R4 RF performance requirements defined in UE and BS specifications.
However, the BS and UE will also need to support the TX \-- RX **carrier
centre frequency of 295MHz for the operating band for other deployment
scenarios.in Figure 7.3-1.**
{width="6.673611111111111in" height="1.1777777777777778in"}
Figure 7.3-1: Scenarios depending on the TX-RX separation
# 8 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 8.1 UE specific (stand alone band)
### 8.1.1 Filter data
This clause is designed to capture the key aspect of the duplex filter to
support Band 70. It proposed that results of filter date is captured and
compared to the reference band (B4). This data can then be used to consider
the impact on TX maximum power and RFSENS.
Filter data for the Band 70 (1695-1710 MHz UL/1195-2020 MHz DL) is shown in
Table 8.1-1. The data provided is all under extreme temperature condition
(ETC).
Table 8.1-1: Simulated filter data for AWS extension band
+----------+-----------+-----------+------------------+------------------+ | | TX IL Max | RX IL Max | TX Isolation Min | RX Isolation Min | | | | | | | | | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | (dB) | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------------+------------------+ | Vendor A | 1,3 | 1,3 | 60 | 60 | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------------+------------------+ | Vendor B | 2,0 | 2,8 | 55 | 55 | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------------+------------------+ | Vendor C | 1,8 | 2,0 | 55 | 50 | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------------+------------------+ | Vendor D | | | | | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------------+------------------+ | Average | 1,7 | 2,1 | 56 | 55 | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------------+------------------+
First, as reference, data for Band 4 duplexer performance is provided. This
data is reproduced from Table 8.1-4 of 3GPP TR 36.849 [11].
Table 8.1-2: Band 4 filter performance reference
* * *
Tx IL Rx IL Tx Isolation Rx Isolation Source 1.7 2,2 54 50 Vendor A, Table
8.1-4 of [3GPP TR 36.849] 1.8 2,2 55 50 Vendor B, Table 8.1-4 of [3GPP TR
36.849] 2.0 2,5 55 47 Vendor C, Table 8.1-4 of [3GPP TR 36.849] 1.8 1,8 60 60
Vendor D, Table 8.1-4 of [3GPP TR 36.849] 1.8 2,2 56 52 Average
* * *
The RFSENS for a B70 device compared to a B4 device would mainly be due to
delta difference between the B70 and B4 duplexer or antenna filter losses
Filter data (worst case) are provided by three different filter vendors. **In
this case the average delta in a B70 Rx filter would -0.1 dB to compared with
the average value for B4 (2.1 dB/Table 8.1-2)** B1 (and NOT taking in account
a more realistic value for the RFIC NF contribution). Therefore using the same
methodology to determine RFSENS as B4 the RFSENS for B70 would be -0.1 dB
relative to B4. Therefore, it is proposed the RFSENS requirements for B70
should be the same a B4 as indicated below:
Table 8.1-3
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **E |** 1.4 | **3 |** 5 | **10 |** 15 | **20 |** Dup | | -UTRA | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | lex**| | B | | | | | | | | | and** | | | | | | | **M | | | | | | | | | ode** | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **(d |**(d | **(d |**(d | **(d |**(d | | | | Bm)**| Bm)** | Bm)**| Bm)** | Bm)**| Bm)** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | ** ** | ** ** | **\- | ** |** 9 | ** | FDD | | _70_ _| | | 100_ _| -97_ _| 5.2_ _| -94_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 8.1.2 UE TX requirements
#### 8.1.2.1 Maximum output power
Band 70 Maximum output power is also potentially impacted it is desired to
share a common PA between Band 4 and Band 70. However, it is possible that a
shared PA in this frequency range is also shared with other bands which may
require more output power therefore Band 4 is typically not the limiting band
when dimensioning the output PA power. Therefore, it is proposed that maximum
output power can be maintained at 23 dBm +/- 2 dB for Band 70.
#### 8.1.2.2 A-MPR / Spectrum emission mask
#### The FCC specifies an OOBE level of 43+10log~10~(P) (i.e. -13 dBm/MHz) to
the proposed uplink frequency block [3]. **This is similar to Band 2, 4, 10,
25, 35, 36 and 66. Therefore, in this case NS_03 would also be applicable for
the Band 70 uplink.** The proposed changes to TS 36.101 are shown in Table
8.1.2.2-1.
Table 8.1.2.2-1: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
* * *
**Network Signalling value** **Requirements (subclause)** **E-UTRA Band**
**Channel bandwidth (MHz)** **Resources Blocks (_N_ ~RB~)** **A-MPR (dB)** \-
- - - - - NS_03 6.6.2.2.1 2, 4,10, 23, 25, 35, 36, 66, 70 3 >5 ≤ 1 5 >6 ≤ 1 10
>6 ≤ 1 15 >8 ≤ 1 20 >10 ≤ 1 \- - - - -
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Co-existence with other 3GPP bands
The FCC specifies an OOBE level of 43+10log~10~(P) (i.e. -13 dBm/MHz) to the
proposed uplink frequency block [3]. No additional OOBE requirements are
specified for the block. This OOBE limit is much less than the generic 3GPP UE
spurious emission requirements and no special UE to UE co-existence
requirements for the band are needed.
The Co-existence with Bands 2, 4, 5, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
29, 30, 41 and 66 need to be considered. The downlink frequency ranges of
these bands have enough separations from the new proposed band\'s UL so that
its emissions can be kept at -50 dBm/MHz, except for Band 23. The proposed
band plan uses Band 23\'s UL frequency range as downlink. It is proposed to
update the requirements related to B23 as this band will be superseded once
the new band 70 is introduced in the 3GPP specifications. This will be done as
part of the CR(s) package. This change to B23 indicated as strike-through in
Table 8.1.2.3-1.
Table 8.1.2.3-1: Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **E |** Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | B | emiss | | | | | | | | and**| ion** | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | * | * | **Ma |** MBW | **N | | | | |_Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE** | | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)**| | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and** | (M | Bm)**| | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 859 | - | 869 | -27 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 67,70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 15 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 12, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 12, | | | range | | | | | | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ~ | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | ~23~~ | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0,12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 703 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | 790 | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 30 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 66 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 70 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | ~ | | | | | | | | | ~23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5.5-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | ~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1915. | | | | | | | | | 7MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 15: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6.3 | | | | | | | | | .1A-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 21: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2500 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 560.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 562.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2552 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2560 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 22: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2615 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 605.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 607.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2597 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2605 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB.\ | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verla | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2615 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2620 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | +19 | | | | | | | | | dBm | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | | | _P- | | | | | | | | | Max_. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 30: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 45-25 | | | | | | | | | 75MHz | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 95-26 | | | | | | | | | 45MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | or 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 8.1.3 UE RX requirements
#### 8.1.3.1 UE RFSENS
The reference sensitivity is impacted by the duplex filter insertion loss in
the Rx path since this directly increases the overall noise figure of the
receiver. The AWS-3/4 band plan would require to support two TX to RX spacing,
however due to the large duplex gap the performance differences between the
two TX/RX carriers (295/300MHz) are expected to be insignificant. This means
the minimum performance requirements for the band can remain consistent
regardless of the TX/RX frequency or duplex spacing choice [3]. Changes to TS
36.101 are proposed in Table 8.1.3.1-1 and Table 8.1.3.1-2.
Table 8.1.3.1-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~ (Table 7.3.1-1 of TS
36.101)
* * *
Channel bandwidth
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz\ 3 MHz\ 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15 MHz\ 20 MHz\ Duplex Mode (dBm)
(dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
4 -104,7 -101,7 -100 -97 -95,2 -94 FDD
70 -100 -97 -95.2 **-94** FDD
* * *
NS_03 need to be signalled for REFSENS
Table 8.1.3.1-2: Network signalling value for reference sensitivity (Table
7.3.1-3 of TS 36.101)
* * *
E-UTRA Band Network Signalling value Band 70 NS_03
* * *
##### 8.1.3.1.1 Uplink configuration
Given the large 295/300 MHz TX-RX separation for Band 70, the uplink
configuration for reference sensitivity can be fully allocated. The proposed
test configuration to take into account the Primary and Secondary TX-RX
spacing would be the responsibility of RAN5. However, effort should be made to
avoid duplication of all RX tests and any additional tests should be minimised
in order to confirm the UE support the additional TX-RX spacing.
For operating bands with an unpaired DL part, the requirements only apply for
carriers assigned in the paired part.
#### 8.1.3.2 RX Requirements for operating bands with an unpaired spectrum
Similar to B66 which is an operating band with an unpaired spectrum, the
requirements for standalone (non CA operation) would only apply for the paired
part of the band 70. Therefore, the existing text in 3GPP TS 36.101 in the
following subclauses _\"_ will also **will also be applicable for this new
band 70\";**
> 7.4.1 Minimum requirements [Maximum input level]
>
> _..... For operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_
> *5.1-1 (E-UTRA operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers
> assigned in the paired part.... ***
>
> 7.5.1 Minimum requirements [Adjacent Channel Selectivity]
>
> _..... For operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_
> *5.1-1 (E-UTRA operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers
> assigned in the paired part.... ***
>
> 7.6.1.1 Minimum requirements [In band blocking]
>
> _..... For operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_
> *5.1-1 (E-UTRA operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers
> assigned in the paired part.... ***
>
> 7.6.2.1 Minimum requirements [Out of band blocking]
>
> _..... For operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_
> *5.1-1 (E-UTRA operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers
> assigned in the paired part.... ***
>
> 7.6.3.1 Minimum requirements [Narrow band blocking]
>
> _..... For operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_
> *5.1-1 (E-UTRA operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers
> assigned in the paired part.... ***
>
> 7.7.1 Minimum requirements [Spurious response]
>
> _..... For operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_
> *5.1-1 (E-UTRA operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers
> assigned in the paired part.... ***
>
> 7.8.1.1 Minimum requirements [Wide band intermodulation]
>
> _..... For operating bands with an unpaired DL part as noted in Table_
> *5.1-1 (E-UTRA operating bands), the requirements only apply for carriers
> assigned in the paired part.... ***
## 8.2 BS specific (stand alone band)
### 8.2.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
The FCC specified that when the 2000-2020 MHz block is configured as downlink,
an OOBE level of 43+10log~10~(P) (i.e. -13 dBm/MHz) applies to the band [3].
The 1995-2000 MHz block has the same OOBE requirement below 1995 MHz [4].
Therefore, the general limits for Category A and the additional limits for
E‑UTRA bands >1GHz as specified in clause 6.6.3 of TS 36.104 and TS 36.141 for
E-UTRA Bands 2 and 4 are also applied for Band 70. Note that the general
limits for Category B Option 2 are not applicable in North America, and thus
need not be specified for Band 70.
It is proposed to update the requirements related to B23 as this band will be
superseded once the new band 70 is introduced in the 3GPP specifications. This
will be done as part of the CR(s) package. This change to B23 indicated as
strike-through.
The following impact to BS specification (on the basis of 36.104) is proposed
for the introduction of Band 70:
> \>
>
> 6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category A)
>
> For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 21, 22, ~~23,~~
> 24, 25, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 66, 70 emissions
> shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.1-4 to
> 6.6.3.1-6:
>
> 6.6.3.2 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category B)
>
> For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 22, 25, 30, 33, 34, 35,
> 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 66, 70 emissions shall not exceed the
> maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.2.1-4 to 6.6.3.2.1-6:
>
> 6.6.3.3 Additional requirements
>
> In certain regions the following requirement may apply. For E-UTRA BS
> operating in Bands 2, 4, 10, ~~23,~~ 25, 30, 35, 36, 41, 66, 70 emissions
> shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in Table 6.6.3.3-2.
>
> \>
### 8.2.2 Additional spurious emissions requirements
The E-UTRA BS spurious emissions limits currently specified for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands are more stringent than the
general emissions limits by the FCC. For Bands 2 and 25, whose downlink bands
fall within the 10 MHz exclusion zone of the proposed band\'s downlink, it is
proposed that the -52 dBm/MHz downlink limit does not apply between Bands 2/25
and the new band.
To ensure sufficient protection to the co-existing systems, the same limits as
the other E-UTRA bands BS are specified for Band 70 in clause 6.6.4.3 of TS
36.104 and clause 6.6.4.5.4 of TS 36.141. The same modifications are needed in
clause 6.6.1.3 of TS 37.104 and clause 6.6.1.5.5 of TS 37.141.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="1.2347222222222223in"}
Figure 8.2.2-1: 3GPP operating bands around Band 70
The DL spurious emissions for BS co-existence applies at 10MHz from the DL
operating band.
Table 8.2.2-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | System type | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | for E-UTRA | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | to co-exist | c | | | | | with | o-existence | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 ‑ 1990 | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | 2,band 25, | | | | | | Band 70 or | | | | | | band 36. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 ‑ 1910 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 35. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 - 1990 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band II or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 2 | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | 25 or 70. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 - 1910 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXV or | 1995 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 25 | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | 25 or 70 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1915 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | For E-UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for | | | | | | 1910 MHz to | | | | | | 1915 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ~~E-UTRA | ~~2180 ‑ | ~~-52 dBm~~ | ~~1 MHz~~ | ~~This | | Band 23~~ | 2200 MHz~~ | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 23 | | | | | | or 66.~~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | ~~2000 - | ~~-49 dBm~~ | ~~1 MHz~~ | ~~This | | | 2020 MHz~~ | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 23, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Bands 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | where the | | | | | | limits are | | | | | | defined | | | | | | separately. | | | | | | This | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | 70~~ | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1995 - 2020 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 70 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | 25 or 70 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1695 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1710 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 70, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ~~NOTE 4: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to a | | | | | | Band 2 | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | of an | | | | | | earlier | | | | | | release. In | | | | | | addition, | | | | | | it does not | | | | | | apply to an | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 2 BS from | | | | | | an earlier | | | | | | release | | | | | | m | | | | | | anufactured | | | | | | before 31 | | | | | | December, | | | | | | 2012, which | | | | | | is upgraded | | | | | | to support | | | | | | Rel-10 | | | | | | features, | | | | | | where the | | | | | | upgrade | | | | | | does not | | | | | | affect | | | | | | existing RF | | | | | | parts of | | | | | | the radio | | | | | | unit | | | | | | related to | | | | | | this | | | | | | req | | | | | | uirement.~~ | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 8.2.2-2: Home BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with Home BS
operating in other frequency bands
* * *
Type of coexistence BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note ~~E-UTRA Band 23~~ ~~2000 - 2020 MHz~~
~~TBD~~ ~~TBD~~ ~~This requirement does not apply to Home BS operating in band
23, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 6.6.4.2. This
requirement does not apply to Home BS operating in Band 70~~ E-UTRA Band 70
1695 - 1710 MHz -71 dBm 100 kHz This requirement does not apply to Home BS
operating in band 70, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-
clause 6.6.4.2.
* * *
### 8.2.3 Co-location with other base stations
The E-UTRA BS spurious emissions limits currently specified for co-location
with another BS are more stringent than the general emissions limits by the
FCC. To ensure sufficient protection to the co-located BS, the same limits as
the other E-UTRA bands BS are specified for Band 70 in clause 6.6.4.4 of TS
36.104 and clause 6.6.4.5.5 of TS 36.141. The same modifications are needed in
clause 6.6.1.4 of TS 37.104 and clause 6.6.1.5.6 of TS 37.141.
Table 8.2.3-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located with
another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note WA E-UTRA Band 70 1695 - 1710 MHz -96 dBm 100
kHz
* * *
Table 8.2.3-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located with
another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note LA E-UTRA Band 70 1695 - 1710 MHz -88 dBm 100
kHz
* * *
Table 8.2.3-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium range BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note MR E-UTRA Band 70 1695 - 1710 MHz -91 dBm 100
kHz
* * *
### 8.2.4 General blocking requirement
The general blocking requirements currently specified for E-UTRA BS apply the
in-band blocking signal within +/-20 MHz of the UL frequency range of a band,
except when the DL frequency range of the same band falls within such range.
Since the duplex distance of Band 66 is larger than 20 MHz and thus no
exception is needed, the same general blocking requirements as specified for
E-UTRA Bands 4 and 23 BS are specified for Band 66 in clause 7.6.1 of TS
36.104 and, clause 7.6.5.1 of TS 36.141, to ensure sufficient BS receiver
blocking ability. The same modifications are needed in clause 7.5.1 of TS
37.104 and clauses 7.4.5.1 and 7.5.5.1 of TS 37.141.
Table 8.2.4-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (u | | | | | | | | | pper) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 13, | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21,22 | | | | | | | | | ~~ | | | | | | | | | 23~~, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-44, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | .1-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | **: | | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | pable | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | mult | | | | | | | | | iband | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | pre | | | | | | | | | sent, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | + 1.4 | | | | | | | | | dB. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2.4-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (u | | | | | | | | | pper) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 1 | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 3-14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21,22 | | | | | | | | | ~~ | | | | | | | | | 23~~, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-44, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Tab | | | | | | | | | le 7. | | | | | | | | | 2.1-2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | **: | | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | pable | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | mult | | | | | | | | | iband | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | pre | | | | | | | | | sent, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | + 1.4 | | | | | | | | | dB. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2.4-3: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 13, | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 14, | -20) | | +20) | | 4dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | ~~ | | | | | | | | | -23~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-44, | | | | | | | | | 66 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 4dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | .1-3. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2.4-4: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (hi | | | | | | | | | gher) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 13, | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | ~~ | | | | | | | | | 23,~~ | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-44, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.2 | | | | | | | | | .1-4. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | **: | | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | pable | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | mult | | | | | | | | | iband | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | pre | | | | | | | | | sent, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | + 1.4 | | | | | | | | | dB. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 8.2.5 Blocking requirement for co-location with other base stations
The blocking requirements currently specified for E-UTRA BS when co-located
with BS in other frequency bands do not apply when the interfering signal
falls within +/-10 MHz of the UL frequency range of a band, except for Band 13
in order to allow co-location with Band 14 BS. Since no DL frequency range of
BS in other frequency bands is within +/-10 MHz of the UL frequency range of
Band 66 and thus no exception is needed, the blocking requirements for co-
location with other BS are specified for Band 66 in clause 7.6.2 of TS 36.104,
clause 7.6.5.2 of TS 36.141, using the same interfering signal as the other
E-UTRA bands BS. The same changes are needed in clause 7.5.2 of TS 37.104 and
clause 7.5.5.2 of TS 37.141:
Table 8.2.5-1: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Wide Area BS when
co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Co-located | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Type of | | BS type | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Interfering | | | of | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | Signal | | | Interfering | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | WA E-UTRA | 1995- 2020 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band 70 | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.2.1-1. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Except for | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 13, | | | | | | these | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within any | | | | | | of the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band or in | | | | | | the 10 MHz | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | outside any | | | | | | of the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | For a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13 | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Some | | | | | | c | | | | | | ombinations | | | | | | of bands | | | | | | may not be | | | | | | possible to | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | above. The | | | | | | current | | | | | | state | | | | | | -of-the-art | | | | | | technology | | | | | | does not | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | single | | | | | | generic | | | | | | solution | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | of UTRA TDD | | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | TDD with | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | on adjacent | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for 30dB | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | However, | | | | | | there are | | | | | | certain | | | | | | site- | | | | | | engineering | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | that can be | | | | | | used. These | | | | | | techniques | | | | | | are | | | | | | addressed | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | 25.942. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11 | | | | | | or 21, this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | 75.9-1495.9 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Co-located | | | | | | TDD base | | | | | | stations | | | | | | that are | | | | | | s | | | | | | ynchronized | | | | | | and using | | | | | | the same or | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band can | | | | | | receive | | | | | | without | | | | | | special | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements. | | | | | | For | | | | | | uns | | | | | | ynchronized | | | | | | base | | | | | | stations, | | | | | | special | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | may apply | | | | | | that are | | | | | | not covered | | | | | | by the 3GPP | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 8.2.5-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Co-located | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Type of | | BS type | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Interfering | | | of | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | Signal | | | Interfering | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 1995- 2020 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band 70 | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.2.1-2. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Except for | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 13, | | | | | | these | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within any | | | | | | of the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band or in | | | | | | the 10 MHz | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | outside any | | | | | | of the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | For a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13 | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Some | | | | | | c | | | | | | ombinations | | | | | | of bands | | | | | | may not be | | | | | | possible to | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | above. The | | | | | | current | | | | | | state | | | | | | -of-the-art | | | | | | technology | | | | | | does not | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | single | | | | | | generic | | | | | | solution | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | of UTRA TDD | | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | TDD with | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | on adjacent | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for 30dB | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | However, | | | | | | there are | | | | | | certain | | | | | | site- | | | | | | engineering | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | that can be | | | | | | used. These | | | | | | techniques | | | | | | are | | | | | | addressed | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | [8]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11 | | | | | | or 21, this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | 75.9-1495.9 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Co-located | | | | | | TDD base | | | | | | stations | | | | | | that are | | | | | | s | | | | | | ynchronized | | | | | | and using | | | | | | the same or | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band can | | | | | | receive | | | | | | without | | | | | | special | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements. | | | | | | For | | | | | | uns | | | | | | ynchronized | | | | | | base | | | | | | stations, | | | | | | special | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | may apply | | | | | | that are | | | | | | not covered | | | | | | by the 3GPP | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 8.2.5-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Medium Range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Co-located | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Type of | | BS type | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Interfering | | | of | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | Signal | | | Interfering | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MR E-UTRA | 1995- 2020 | +8 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band 70 | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.2.1-4. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Except for | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 13, | | | | | | these | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within any | | | | | | of the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band or in | | | | | | the 10 MHz | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | outside any | | | | | | of the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | For a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13 | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Some | | | | | | c | | | | | | ombinations | | | | | | of bands | | | | | | may not be | | | | | | possible to | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | above. The | | | | | | current | | | | | | state | | | | | | -of-the-art | | | | | | technology | | | | | | does not | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | single | | | | | | generic | | | | | | solution | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | of UTRA TDD | | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | TDD with | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | on adjacent | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for 30dB | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | However, | | | | | | there are | | | | | | certain | | | | | | site- | | | | | | engineering | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | that can be | | | | | | used. These | | | | | | techniques | | | | | | are | | | | | | addressed | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | 25.942. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11 | | | | | | or 21, this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies for | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | 75.9-1495.9 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | Co-located | | | | | | TDD base | | | | | | stations | | | | | | that are | | | | | | s | | | | | | ynchronized | | | | | | and using | | | | | | the same or | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band can | | | | | | receive | | | | | | without | | | | | | special | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements. | | | | | | For | | | | | | uns | | | | | | ynchronized | | | | | | base | | | | | | stations, | | | | | | special | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | may apply | | | | | | that are | | | | | | not covered | | | | | | by the 3GPP | | | | | | spec | | | | | | ifications. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 8.3 Intra-band contiguous CA class C
### 8.3.1 CA Channel bandwidth and bandwidth configuration set
Table 8.3.1-1 includes the bandwidth combinations for CA_70C.
Table 8.3.1-1: B70 E-UTRA intra band CA configurations and bandwidth
combination sets
* * *
                                **E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set**
**E-UTRA CA configuration** **Uplink CA configurations** **Component carriers
in order of increasing carrier frequency** **Maximum aggregated\** Bandwidth
combination set**  
bandwidth [MHz]**
                                                                                          **Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]**                        **Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]**   **Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]**   **Channel bandwidths for carrier \[MHz\]**
CA_70C - 5 20 25 0
                                                                                          10                                                                15
                                                                                          15                                                                10
* * *
Table 8.3.1-1 includes the bandwidth combinations for CA_70C.
### 8.3.2 CA UE in-band blocking
Changes to clause 7.6.1.1A-2 of TS 36.101 as shown below to add B70.
Table 7.6.1.1A-2: In-band blocking (extracted from TS 36.101)
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | **CA | ** |** Unit**|** Case 1**|** Case 2**| | conf | Parameter** | | | | | iguration** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | | P~ | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | Interferer~ | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | | F~ | MHz | =- | ≤- | | | Interferer~ | | F~offset~-- | F~offset~-- | | | | | F~Ioffs | F~Ioffs | | | (offset) | | et,case\ 1~ | et,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+F~offset~ | ≥+F~offset~ | | | | | + | + | | | | | F~Ioffs | F~Ioffs | | | | | et,case\ 1~ | et,case\ 2~ | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | CA_1C, | F~ | MHz | (NOTE 2) | F~DL_low~ | | CA_2C, | Interferer~ | | | -- 15 | | CA_3C, | (Range) | | | | | CA_5B, | | | | to | | CA_7C, | | | | | | CA_8B, | | | | F~DL_high~ | | CA_12B, | | | | + 15 | | CA_23B, | | | | | | CA_27B, | | | | | | CA_38C, | | | | | | CA_39C, | | | | | | CA_40C, | | | | | | CA_41C, | | | | | | CA_40D, | | | | | | CA_41D, | | | | | | CA_42C, | | | | | | CA_42D, | | | | | | CA_42E, | | | | | | CA_66B, | | | | | | CA_66C, | | | | | | CA_70C | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | > NOTE 1: | | | | | | > For | | | | | | > certain | | | | | | > bands, | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > unwanted | | | | | | > modulated | | | | | | > | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | > signal | | | | | | > may not | | | | | | > fall | | | | | | > inside | | | | | | > the UE | | | | | | > receive | | | | | | > band, but | | | | | | > within | | | | | | > the first | | | | | | > 15 MHz | | | | | | > below or | | | | | | > above the | | | | | | > UE | | | | | | > receive | | | | | | > band | | | | | | > | | | | | | > NOTE 2: | | | | | | > For each | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | > is valid | | | | | | > for two | | | | | | > f | | | | | | requencies: | | | | | | > | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > | | | | | | -F~offset~ | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | > F~Ioffset | | | | | | ,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > | | | | | | +F~offset~ | | | | | | > \+ | | | | | | > F~Ioffset | | | | | | ,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > | | | | | | > NOTE 3: | | | | | | > F~offset~ | | | | | | > is the | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > offset | | | | | | > from the | | | | | | > center | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > of the CC | | | | | | > being | | | | | | > tested to | | | | | | > the edge | | | | | | > of | | | | | | > | | | | | | aggregated | | | | | | > channel | | | | | | > | | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | | | > | | | | | | > NOTE 4: | | | | | | > The | | | | | | > F~ | | | | | | interferer~ | | | | | | > (offset) | | | | | | > is the | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > | | | | | | separation | | | | | | > of the | | | | | | > center | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > of the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > closest | | | | | | > to the | | | | | | > | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | > and the | | | | | | > center | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > of the | | | | | | > | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | > and shall | | | | | | > be | | | | | | > further | | | | | | > adjusted | | | | | | > to | | | | | | > {width= | | | | | | "2.03472222 | | | | | | 22222223in" | | | | | | > h | | | | | | eight="0.20 | | | | | | 90277777777 | | | | | | 7778in"}MHz | | | | | | > to be | | | | | | > offset | | | | | | > from the | | | | | | > | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | > raster. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
### 8.3.3 CA UE out of band blocking
Changes to clause 7.6.1.2A-2 of TS 36.101 as shown below to add B70:
Table 7.6.2.1A-2: Out of band blocking (extracted from TS 36.101)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **CA |** Par | * | **Fre | | | | configu | ameter** | _Units_ _| quency_ _| | | | ration_ _| | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | |__Range |__Range |__Range | | | | | 1_ _| 2_ _| 3_ * | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA_1C, | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | CA_2C, | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | CA_3C, | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | CA_5B, | | | | | | | CA_7C, | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | CA_8B, | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | CA_12B, | | | -60 | -85 | | | CA_23B, | | | | | | | CA_27B, | | | | | | | CA_38C, | | | | | | | CA_40C, | | | | | | | CA_41C, | | | | | | | CA_40D, | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | _42C^1^, | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | _42D^1^, | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | _42E^1^, | | | | | | | CA_66B, | | | | | | | CA_66C, | | | | | | | CA_70C | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | (P~Inte | | | | | | | rferer~) | | | | | | | for this | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \< 4400 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 8.3.4 Other CA requirements
No modification of the test description are needed for B70.
# 9 Study of MSR specific issues
# 10 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
Table 10-1 include the Operating band number and the EARFCN numbers proposed
for AWS 3/4 Band.
Table 10-1: EARFCN numbers for Band 70
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | **Dow |** U | | | | | | _E-UTRA | nlink_ _| plink_ _| | | | | | Oper | | | | | | | | ating_ _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | |_ Band**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | |** F~D | **N~Off |** Range | **F~U |** N~Off | **Range | | | L_low~ | s-DL~** | of | L_low~ | s-UL~**| of | | | (MHz)** | | N~DL~**| (MHz)** | | N~UL~** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 70 | 1995 | 68336 | 6833 | 1695 | 132972 | 132972 | | | | | 6-68485 | | | -133221 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# 11 Required changes to E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 11-1.
Table 11-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
* * *
3GPP specification Clause in TR 30.007 where the required changes are given
Clause in the present document identifying additional changes TS 36.101
8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2  
TS 36.106 8.2.1.3  
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4  
TS 36.124 8.2.1.5  
TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7  
TS 36.143 8.2.1.8  
TS 36.307 8.2.1.9  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1  
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3  
TS 25.106 8.2.2.5  
TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10  
TS 25.143 8.2.2.12  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15  
TS 25.466 8.2.2.16  
TS 37.104 8.2.3.1  
TS 37.113 8.2.2.2  
TS 37.141 8.2.2.3
* * *
#