# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
A work item for Enhanced CRS and 4Rx SU-MIMO Interference Mitigation
Performance Requirements for LTE was approved at the 3GPP RAN #73 meeting [2].
This technical report summarizes the work that RAN WG4 has accomplished in
this work item to investigate the feasibility of CRS-IM and SU-MIMO IM
receivers.
In the LTE Release 11 to 13, multiple UE interference mitigation (IM) receiver
enhancements for the interference-limited environments were introduced,
including LMMSE-IRC, CRS-IM, SU-MIMO IM, NAICS, and other advanced receivers.
The substantial part of the respective 3GPP work was dedicated to the
introduction of the CRS Interference Mitigation (CRS-IM) functionality, which
was done in the scope of the Release 11 FeICIC WI and Release 12/13 CRS-IM SI
and WI. The purpose of the introduced CRS-IM functionality is to specify the
receiver mechanisms to mitigate the dominant CRS interferences from the
neighbouring cells, which may become a limiting factor for the DL performance
for the synchronous homogeneous deployments. As the result of the 3GPP work in
the LTE Release 11-13, multiple CRS-IM UE demodulation performance
requirements were defined covering some typical LTE operation scenarios.
However, still only a subset of the important operation scenarios was
addressed in the UE demodulation performance for other scenarios is not
guaranteed:
\- CRS-IM requirements are introduced for the case of the network deployments
using 2 CRS APs only, meanwhile, the UE behaviour for the case of 4 CRS APs
deployments is undefined.
\- CRS-IM requirements is defined for the case using the same number of CRS
APs in the serving and interference cells. Practically, different cells may
use different CRS configurations.
\- CRS-IM requirements are specified for the UEs equipped with 2 receive
antennas only, while the UEs with 4 receive antennas, which are emerging in
the market, may also benefit from using the CRS-IM and should be considered.
Therefore, the CRS-IM functionality is actually not defined for many important
use cases and without proper UE demodulation requirements it is not possible
to guarantee correct UE implementations. The work item [2] aims to investigate
and introduce CRS-IM for the generic LTE deployment scenarios with various
combinations of the number of CRS APs and number of UE receive chains.
**In the LTE Release 12 the performance requirements for UEs using enhanced
interference cancellation and suppression SU-MIMO receivers were introduced.
The advanced receivers such as reduced complexity ML (R-ML) were considered
for the intra-cell SU-MIMO inter-stream interference handling. The performance
requirements were introduced for the UEs equipped with 2 receive antennas.
Recently in the LTE Release 13 the basic performance requirements for the 4
receive antennas UEs were introduced, however, the requirements for the SU-
MIMO scenarios are assumed to be based on the simple LMMSE receiver. By using
SU-MIMO advanced receiver, which can suppress or cancel the inter-stream
interference, the significant gain can be achieved in the typical scenarios.**
**This technical report captures the outcome of the work item technical
studies.** The content of each specific clause of the report is briefly
described as follows.
Clause 1 of this document defines the scope and objectives of this study.
Clause 4 describes studies on the enhanced CRS-IM performance requirements.
Clause 5 describes studies on the enhanced SU-MIMO IM performance
requirements.
Clause 6 captures the conclusions.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this report is to investigate feasibility and specify
requirements for 1) CRS-IM receivers for the generic scenarios with different
number of CRS APs (2, 4) and different number of UE receive antennas and 2)
SU-MIMO IM receivers for UEs equipped with 4 receive antennas. The work item
[2] has the following detailed objectives:
\- Investigate feasibility and specify requirements for the CRS-IM receivers
for the generic scenarios with different number of CRS APs (2, 4) and
different number of UE receive antennas for synchronous networks:
\- Stage 1: Investigate performance benefits and feasibility of using CRS-IM
receivers:
\- Identify target scenarios including deployment scenarios, interference
models, and others
\- Reuse Rel-12 NAICS and Rel-13 CRS-IM WIs assumptions as the starting point
\- Evaluate the CRS-IM performance benefits
\- Identify reference CRS-IM receiver structure assumptions including at least
number of cancelled cell(s), and IM algorithm.
\- The tradeoff between complexity and performance should be analyzed in order
to define reference receivers.
\- Stage 2: Specify UE demodulation and CSI reporting performance requirements
to verify practical CRS-IM operation for the identified scenarios based on the
outcome of Stage 1.
\- The work should be done under the following assumptions:
\- The following scenarios are prioritized:
\- 2 RX antennas UEs with 4 CRS APs in the serving and interference cell(s)
\- 2 RX antennas UEs with a mix of 2 and 4 CRS APs in the serving and
interference cell(s)
\- 4 RX antennas UEs with 2 and 4 CRS APs in the serving and interference
cell(s)
\- CRS-IM can be used for different downlink physical channels:
\- First priority: PDSCH (both CRS- and DMRS-based transmission modes)
\- Second priority: DL control channels including PDCCH, PCFICH, PHICH and
EPDCCH
\- Non-colliding CRS scenarios are primarily considered.
\- Colliding CRS scenarios are not precluded.
\- Homogeneous deployment scenarios are primarily considered
\- Heterogeneous deployment scenarios are not precluded.
\- Single carrier case.
\- Reference PDSCH receiver structure: LMMSE-IRC with CRS-IM.
\- Investigate feasibility and specify requirements for the enhanced SU-MIMO
inter-stream interference mitigation (SU-MIMO IM) receivers for the scenarios
with 4 receive antennas UEs
\- Stage 1: Investigate performance benefits and feasibility of using SU-MIMO
IM receivers for the scenarios with 4 receive antennas UEs.
\- Investigate and agree on target scenarios including layer number for
spatial multiplexing, MCS, propagation conditions and others for performance
evaluation
\- Reuse the assumptions for Rel-12 SU-MIMO IM (Type-C receiver) and Rel-13
4Rx MIMO performance requirements as starting point.
\- SU-MIMO scenarios
\- rank 2/3/4 SU-MIMO is considered
\- The maximum number of layers (e.g. rank3/4) should be determined based on
feasibility study (e.g. operating SNR), realistic Tx EVM assumption and the
study on performance gains, reference receiver complexity and testability,
etc.
\- Strive to reuse agreed Tx EVM for 4Rx in Rel-13 if the related agreement
can be reached
\- Consider 2 and 4 CRS APs scenarios
\- Channel correlations
\- Focus on the Medium, Medium A and High antenna correlation models
\- Modulation order: up to 256QAM
\- The considered modulation orders should be decided based on feasibility
study (e.g. operating SNR), realistic Tx EVM assumption, performance gains,
reference receiver complexity and testability, etc.
\- Strive to reuse agreed Tx EVM for 4Rx in Rel-13 if the related agreement
can be reached.
\- Identify the reference receiver structure for SU-MIMO IM evaluation
\- R-ML is considered in high priority
\- Evaluate the performance of enhanced SU-MIMO IM receivers.
\- Stage 2: Specify UE demodulation performance requirements to verify
enhanced SU-MIMO receivers for the UEs equipped with 4 RX antennas
\- Reference receiver structure and other test parameters are based on the
outcome of Stage 1.
\- Single carrier case.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905, "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TSG RAN RP-161877, "New Work Item Proposal: Enhanced CRS and SU-MIMO
Interference Mitigation Performance Requirements for LTE".
[3] 3GPP TSG RAN RP-120860 "Further Enhanced Non CA-based ICIC for LTE"
[4] 3GPP TSG RAN RP-142263 "New Work Item proposal: Perf. Part: CRS
Interference Mitigation for LTE Homogenous Deployments"
[5] 3GPP T**R** 36.829 "Enhanced performance requirement for LTE User
Equipment (UE)"
[6] 3GPP T**R** 36.866 "Study on Network-Assisted Interference Cancellation
and Suppression (NAIC) for LTE"
[7] R4-1702193 "Summary of Enhanced CRS-IM PDSCH simulation results (FDD)",
February 2017
[8] R4-1702909 "Summary of Enhanced CRS-IM PDSCH simulation results (FDD)",
April 2017
[9] R4-1702194 "Summary of Enhanced CRS-IM DL Control Channels simulation
results (FDD)", February 2017
[10] R4-1700937 "Summary of simulation results for enhanced SU-MIMO (FDD)",
February 2017
[11] R4-1703254 "Summary of simulation results for enhanced SU-MIMO (FDD)",
April 2017
[12] R4-1704942 "Summary of simulation results for enhanced SU-MIMO", May 2017
[13] R4-1707881 "Summary of simulation results for enhanced SU-MIMO", Aug 2017
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.
AP Antenna port
BS Base station
CRS Cell-specific Reference signals
CRS-IM CRS Interference Mitigation
CSI-RS Channel State Information RS
DL Downlink
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplexing
FeICIC Further eICIC
FFT Fast Fourier Transform
FRC Fixed reference channel
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
IM Interference mitigation
INR Interference to noise ratio
LMMSE-IRC Linear MMSE interference rejection combining
LTE Long Term Evolution
MIMO Multiple input and multiple output
PCFICH Physical control format indicator channel
PDSCH Physical downlink shared channel
PDCCH Physical downlink control channel
PMI Precoding Matrix Indicator
PRB Physical resource block
RU Resource Utilization
SINR Signal to interference and noise ratio
SNR Signal to noise ratio
SU-MIMO IM SU-MIMO inter-stream Interference Mitigation
TDD Time-division duplex
TM Transmission mode
UE User Equipment
WI Work Item
# 4 Enhanced CRS-IM
The objective of the work item [2] is to **investigate performance benefits,
complexity, and feasibility of using enhanced CRS-IM receivers** in
application to the generic scenarios with different number of CRS APs (2, 4)
and different number of UE receive antennas**:**
\- Identify target scenarios including deployment scenarios, interference
models.
\- Identify reference CRS-IM receiver structure assumptions.
\- Evaluate the CRS-IM performance benefits.
This section summarizes the results of the respective studies on the
performance benefits and feasibility of enhanced CRS-IM receivers. The section
includes the following sub-clauses:
\- Clause 4.1 includes the description of the scenarios used to assess the
link level performance of CRS-IM receivers.
\- Clause 4.2 describes the reference CRS-IM receiver assumptions considered
during the studies.
\- Clause 4.3 provides the results of the link-level performance evaluations
and related observations.
\- Clause 4.4 provides summary of conclusions on enhanced CRS-IM
investigations.
## 4.1 Scenarios and simulation assumptions
### 4.1.1 PDSCH
In this section scenarios and simulation assumptions for PDSCH enhanced CRS-IM
performance evaluations are provided. In Table 4.1.1-1 the list of PDSCH test
cases is shown. **The detailed simulation assumptions are provided** in Table
4.1.1-2 and fixed reference channels (FRCs) are provided in Table 4.1.1-3 and
Table 4.1.1-4.
Table 4.1.1-1: PDSCH demodulation test scenarios
* * *
Test TM CRS pattern Number of UE receive chains Number of CRS APs  
Serving cell Interference cells 1 TM4 Non Colliding 2 4 4 2 TM4 Non Colliding
4 2 2 3 TM9 Non Colliding 4 2 2 4 TM4 Non Colliding 4 4 4 5 TM4 Colliding 2 4
4 6 TM4 Colliding 2 4 2 7 TM4 Colliding 2 2 4
* * *
Table 4.1.1-2: PDSCH simulation assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Value | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Duplexing | FDD | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit EVM | 6% | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna models | Tests 1, 5, 6: 4x2 | | | | low correlation | | | | | | | | Tests 2, 3: 2x4 low | | | | correlation | | | | | | | | Test 4: 4x4 low | | | | correlation | | | | | | | | Test 7: 2x2 low | | | | correlation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell ID pattern | Non-colliding CRS: | | | | | | | | - Serving cell: 0 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: 1 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: 6 | | | | | | | | Colliding CRS: | | | | | | | | - Serving cell: 0 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: 6 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference power | Interference to | | | profile | noise ratio | | | | | | | | - Profile 1: I1/Noc | | | | = 10.45 dB, I2/No = | | | | 4.6 dB | | | | | | | | - Profile 2: I1/Noc | | | | = 15.8 dB, I2/No = | | | | 10.5 dB | | | | | | | | - Profile 3: I1/Noc | | | | = 4.7dB, I2/No = 1.4 | | | | dB | | | | | | | | Tests 1, 2, 3, 4, 7: | | | | Profile 1 | | | | | | | | Tests 5, 6: Profile | | | | 1, 2, 3 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | All cells are | | | synchronization in | synchronous | | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time-delay wrt. | | | | serving cell | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 3 µs | -1 µs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Frequency shift wrt. | | | synchronization in | serving cell | | | frequency | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 300 Hz | -100 Hz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | EVA-5Hz for all | | | | links. Use different | | | | channel seed for | | | | between cells. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of control | CFI = 2. Same value | | | region OFDM symbols | in all cells | | | (CFI) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HARQ modelling | Maximum 4 HARQ | | | | retransmissions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CSI-RS configuration | Number of CSI-RS | | | for serving cell | ports : 2 | | | (for Test 3) | | | | | CSI-RS periodicity | | | | and subframe offset | | | | : 5/2 | | | | | | | | CSI reference signal | | | | configuration : 0 | | | | | | | | Zero-power CSI-RS | | | | configuration : 3 | | | | /0001000000000000 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Desired PDSCH | Resource allocation | PDSCH is scheduled | | transmission | | in subframes 0-4, | | parameters | | 6-9 | | | | | | | | TM4: 50 PRB for all | | | | subframes | | | | | | | | TM9: 50 PRB for | | | | subframes 1-4, 6-9; | | | | 41 PRB for subframe | | | | 0 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | PMI | TM4: Follow PMI, | | | | reporting mode PUSCH | | | | 3-1 | | | | | | | | TM9: Random PMI with | | | | 1 PRG / 1 TTI | | | | granularity | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical channels | CRS | | | and signal | | | | explicitly | PDSCH | | | transmitted in | | | | interfering cells | PSS/SSS/PBCH | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference PDSCH | Resource allocation | Random full band | | transmission | | (50PRB) on/off | | parameters | | model, proportional | | | | to the average | | | | resource utilization | | | | in the interfering | | | | cells. | | | | | | | | Average resource | | | | utilization (RU) in | | | | the interfering | | | | cells: | | | | | | | | - Option 1: 20% | | | | (all tests) | | | | | | | | Option 2: 0% (Tests | | | | 4, 5 with Option 2 | | | | interference power | | | | profile) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Rank | Randomly changing | | | | rank per allocated | | | | sub-band from | | | | subframe to su- | | | | bframe: 80% rank-1, | | | | 20% rank-2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Interference model | Based on TS 36.101 | | | | B.5.3 and B.5.4 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | TM | Same as serving cell | | | | TM | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.1.1-3: PDSCH FRC for TM4
* * *
Parameter Unit Value
                                               Tests 2,7   Tests 1,4,5,6
FRC index FRC.1-1 FRC.1-2 FRC.2-1 FRC.2-2
Channel bandwidth MHz 10 10 10 10
Allocated resource blocks 50 50 50 50
Allocated number of PDCCH symbols 2 2 2 2
Allocated subframes per Radio Frame 9 9 9 9
Modulation 16QAM 64QAM 16QAM 64QAM
Target Coding Rate 0.58 0.5 0.5 0.5
Information Bit Payload
For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9 Bits 15264 19848 12960 18336
For Sub-Frame 5 Bits n/a n/a n/a n/a
For Sub-Frame 0 Bits 14112 18336 11448 18336
Number of Code Blocks
For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9 Bits 3 4 3 3
For Sub-Frame 5 Bits n/a n/a n/a n/a
For Sub-Frame 0 Bits 3 3 2 3
Binary Channel Bits
For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9 Bits 26400 39600 25600 38400
For Sub-Frame 5 Bits n/a n/a n/a n/a
For Sub-Frame 0 Bits 24768 37152 24064 36096
Max. Throughput averaged over 1\ Mbps 13.6224 17.712 11.513 16.502 frame
UE Category ≥ 2 ≥ 2 ≥ 1 ≥ 2
* * *
Table 4.1.1-4: PDSCH FRC for TM9
+--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Test 3 | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | FRC index | | FRC.3-1 | FRC.3-2 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel bandwidth | MHz | 10 | 10 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Allocated resource blocks | | 50 (Note 3) | 50 (Note 3) | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Allocated subframes per Radio | | 9 | 9 | | Frame | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Modulation | | 16QAM | 64QAM | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Target Coding Rate | | 0.54 | 0.51 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Information Bit Payload | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4 | Bits | 12960 | 18336 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 6,7,8,9 | Bits | 12960 | 18336 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 5 | Bits | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 0 | Bits | 10680 | 14688 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Number of Code Blocks | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4 | Bits | 3 | 3 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 6,7,8,9 | Bits | 3 | 3 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 5 | Bits | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 0 | Bits | 2 | 3 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Binary Channel Bits | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 1,4,6,9 | Bits | 24000 | 36000 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 2,7 | Bits | 23600 | 35400 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 3,8 | Bits | 23200 | 34800 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 5 | Bits | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 0 | Bits | 19680 | 29520 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Max. Throughput averaged over | Mbps | 11.436 | 16.138 | | 1\ | | | | | frame | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | UE Category | | ≥ 2 | ≥ 2 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: 2 symbols allocated to | | | | | PDCCH. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: Reference signal, | | | | | synchronization signals and | | | | | PBCH allocated as per TS | | | | | 36.211 [4]. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: 50 resource blocks are | | | | | allocated in sub-frames 1, 2, | | | | | 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 41 | | | | | resource blocks | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+
### 4.1.2 PDCCH/PCFICH
In this section scenarios and simulation assumptions for PDCCH/PCFICH enhanced
CRS-IM performance evaluations are provided. In Table 4.1.2-1 the list of
PDCCH/PCFICH test cases is shown. **The detailed simulation assumptions are
provided** in Table 4.1.2-2 and the FRCs are summarized in Table 4.1.2-3.
Table 4.1.2-1: PDCCH/PCFICH demodulation test cases
* * *
Test CRS pattern Number of UE receive chains Number of CRS APs  
Serving cell Interferer cells 1 Non Colliding 2 4 4 2 Non Colliding 4 2 2 3
Non Colliding 4 4 4
* * *
Table 4.1.2-2: PDCCH/PCFICH simulation assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Value | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Duplexing | FDD | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit EVM | 6% | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna models | Test 1: 4x2 low | | | | correlation | | | | | | | | Test 2: 2x4 low | | | | correlation | | | | | | | | Test 3: 4x4 low | | | | correlation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell ID pattern | Non-colliding CRS: | | | | | | | | - Serving cell: 0 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: 1 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: 6 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference power | Profile #1: | | | profile | | | | | Interference cell 1: | | | | I1/Noc = 13.91 dB | | | | | | | | Interference cell 2: | | | | I2/Noc = 3.34 dB | | | | | | | | Profile #2: | | | | | | | | Interference cell 1: | | | | I1/Noc = 8.36 dB | | | | | | | | Interference cell 2: | | | | I2/Noc = 1.66 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | All cells are | | | synchronization in | synchronous | | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time-delay wrt. | | | | serving cell | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 2 µs | 3 µs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Frequency shift wrt. | | | synchronization in | serving cell | | | frequency | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 200 Hz | 300 Hz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | EPA-5Hz for all | | | | links. Use different | | | | channel seed for | | | | between cells. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PHICH parameters | Normal | | | | | | | | PHICH Ng = 1/6 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference model | TS 36.101 B.7 | | | | (Rel-13 CCIM) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDCCH/PCFICH | Test #1: PDCCH AL = | | | parameters | 2; CFI = 2 | | | | | | | | Test #2: PDCCH AL = | | | | 1,2; CFI = 1 | | | | | | | | Test #3: PDCCH AL = | | | | 1,2; CFI = 2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.1.2-3: PDCCH FRCs
* * *
Parameter Unit Test 1 Test 2 Test 3 Number of transmitter antennas 4 2 4
Channel bandwidth MHz 10 10 10 Number of OFDM symbols for PDCCH symbols 2 2 2
Aggregation level CCE 2 1,2 1,2 DCI Format 2 2 2 Cell ID 0 0 0 Payload
(without CRC) Bits 46 43 46
* * *
### 4.1.3 PHICH
In this section scenarios and simulation assumptions for PHICH enhanced CRS-IM
performance evaluations are provided. In Table 4.1.3-1 the list of PHICH test
cases is shown. **The detailed simulation assumptions are provided** in Table
4.1.3-2 and the FRCs are summarized in Table 4.1.3-3.
Table 4.1.3-1: PHICH demodulation test cases
* * *
Test CRS pattern Number of UE receive chains Number of CRS APs  
Serving cell Interferer cells 1 Non Colliding 2 4 4 2 Non Colliding 4 2 2 3
Non Colliding 4 4 4
* * *
Table 4.1.3-2: PHICH simulation assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Value | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Duplexing | FDD | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit EVM | 6% | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna models | Test 1: 4x2 low | | | | correlation | | | | | | | | Test 2: 2x4 low | | | | correlation | | | | | | | | Test 3: 4x4 low | | | | correlation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell ID pattern | Non-colliding CRS: | | | | | | | | - Serving cell: 0 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: 1 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: 6 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference power | Profile #1: | | | profile | | | | | Interference cell 1: | | | | I1/Noc = 13.91 dB | | | | | | | | Interference cell 2: | | | | I2/Noc = 3.34 dB | | | | | | | | Profile #2: | | | | | | | | Interference cell 1: | | | | I1/Noc = 8.36 dB | | | | | | | | Interference cell 2: | | | | I2/Noc = 1.66 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | All cells are | | | synchronization in | synchronous | | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time-delay wrt. | | | | serving cell | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 2 µs | 3 µs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Frequency shift wrt. | | | synchronization in | serving cell | | | frequency | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 200 Hz | 300 Hz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | EPA-5Hz for all | | | | links. Use different | | | | channel seed for | | | | between cells. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PHICH duration | Test #1: Extended | | | | | | | | Test #2: Normal | | | | | | | | Test #3: Extended | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference model | TS 36.101 B.7 | | | | (Rel-13 CCIM) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDCCH/PCFICH/PHICH | **PHICH Ng = 1** | | | parameters | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.1.3-3: PHICH FRCs
* * *
Parameter Unit Test 1, 3 Test 2 Number of transmitter antennas 4 2 Channel
bandwidth MHz 10 10 Number of OFDM symbols for PDCCH 3 1 User roles W I1 I2 W
I1 I2 Resource allocation (0,0) (0,1) (0,4) (0,0) (0,1) (0,4) Power offsets dB
-4 0 -3 -4 0 -3 Payload A R R A R R
* * *
### 4.1.4 EPDCCH
In this section scenarios and simulation assumptions for EPDCCH enhanced CRS-
IM performance evaluations are provided. In Table 4.1.4-1 the list of EPDCCH
test cases is shown. **The detailed simulation assumptions are provided** in
Table 4.1.4-2.
Table 4.1.4-1: EPDCCH demodulation test cases
* * *
Test CRS pattern Number of UE receive chains Number of CRS APs  
Serving cell Interference cells 1 Non Colliding 4 2 2
* * *
Table 4.1.4-2: EPDCCH simulation assumptions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Value | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Duplexing | FDD | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit EVM | 6% | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna models | 2x4 low correlation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell ID pattern | Non-colliding CRS: | | | | | | | | - Serving cell: 0 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: 1 | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: 6 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | All cells are | | | synchronization in | synchronous | | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Time-delay wrt. | | | | serving cell | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 2 µs | 3 µs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network | Frequency shift wrt. | | | synchronization in | serving cell | | | frequency | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 1st interfering cell | 2nd interfering cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 200 Hz | 300 Hz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | EPA-5Hz for all | | | | links. Use different | | | | channel seed for | | | | between cells. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Serving cell EPDCCH | AL 2, Localized | | | transmission | EPDCCH | | | parameters | | | | | DCI Format 2C (44 | | | | bits) | | | | | | | | EPDCCH starting | | | | symbol is 2. CFI = | | | | 1. EPDCCH starting | | | | symbol is RRC | | | | configured. | | | | | | | | Aligned control | | | | regions and EPDCCH | | | | starting symbols in | | | | the serving and | | | | interference cells | | | | | | | | Number of EPDCCH | | | | Sets Configured = 1 | | | | | | | | Localized EPDCCH set | | | | PRBs {0, 7, 14, 21, | | | | 28, 35, 42, 49} | | | | | | | | EPDCCH is | | | | transmitted in all | | | | subframes | | | | | | | | EPDCCH precoding | | | | model is in | | | | accordance to TS | | | | 36.101 B.4.4. and | | | | B.4.5 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference model | Same as for PDSCH | | | | simulations | | | | | | | | Model #1: | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: I1/Noc = 13.91 dB | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: I2/Noc = 3.34 dB | | | | | | | | - Average resource | | | | utilization in the | | | | interfering cells: | | | | 0% | | | | | | | | Model #2: | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: I1/Noc = 10.44 dB | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: I2/Noc = 4.57 dB | | | | | | | | - Average resource | | | | utilization in the | | | | interfering cells: | | | | 20% | | | | | | | | Model #3: | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 1: I1/Noc = 8.36 dB | | | | | | | | - Interference cell | | | | 2: I2/Noc = 1.66 dB | | | | | | | | - Average resource | | | | utilization in the | | | | interfering cells: | | | | 50% | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.2 Receiver structures and assumptions
### 4.2.1 Baseline reference receivers
The performance of the Enhanced CRS-IM receiver structures is analysed against
the following Baseline reference receiver structures which are used to define
the minimum performance requirements in the existing LTE systems:
\- PDSCH: LMMSE-IRC detector as defined in TR 36.829 [5];
\- DL Control Channels (PDCCH, PCFICH, PHICH, EPDCCH): LMMSE-MRC detector.
\- The baseline LMMSE-IRC and LMMSE-MRC receivers are assumed to not
differentiate CRS or data interference when suppressing them.
### 4.2.2 Enhanced reference receivers
The following Enhanced reference receiver structures are considered in the
studies:
\- PDSCH: LMMSE-IRC detector as defined in TR 36.829 [5] combined with a CRS-
IM receiver;
\- DL Control Channels: LMMSE-IRC detector as defined in TR 36.829 [5]
combined with a CRS-IM receiver (Type A DL Control Channel IM receiver).
The CRS IM receiver defined for Release 11 FeICIC [3] and Release 13 CRS-IM
[4] is reused. In particular, the following CRS-IM receiver assumptions are
used in the studies:
\- Single FFT processing
\- No restriction on whether mitigated CRS interference is intra-/inter-site.
\- Number of cancelled cells for non-colliding CRS-IM:
\- The PDSCH and DL Control Channels minimum performance requirements agreed
to be defined under assumption of single dominant interference cell CRS-IM.
\- UEs are not restricted to use more than 1 cell CRS-IM and this is left up
to UE implementation.
During the studies different sub-types of CRS-IM receiver implementation were
considered for different scenarios
\- CRS-IM receivers for non-colliding CRS and 4 CRS APs ports (PDSCH Tests #1,
#4)
\- CRS-IM Receiver #A1: Full complexity four ports CRS-IM processing.
\- CRS-IM Receiver #A2: Reduced complexity CRS-IM processing (e.g. full
complexity for CRS APs 0, 1 and low complexity for CRS APs 2,3).
\- CRS-IM receivers for colliding CRS scenarios with same number of CRS APs in
the serving and neighbouring cells (PDSCH Test #5)
\- CRS-IM Receiver #B1: LMMSE-IRC with 1 cell CRS-IM to improve channel
estimation.
\- CRS-IM Receiver #B2: LMMSE-IRC with 1 cell CRS-IM to improve channel and
interference estimation.
\- CRS-IM receivers for colliding CRS with different number of CRS APs in the
serving and neighbouring cells (PDSCH Test #6)
\- CRS-IM Receiver #C1: LMMSE-IRC with covariance matrix estimation on serving
cell CRS APs 0-3 and 1 cell CRS-IM.
\- CRS-IM Receiver #C2: LMMSE-IRC with covariance matrix estimation on serving
cell CRS APs 2-3 and 1 cell CRS-IM.
### 4.2.3 CRS assistance information assumptions
The performance analysis in the technical report is provided under assumption
of ideal knowledge of the dominant interferer cell CRS Assistance information
including
\- Physical Cell ID;
\- Number of CRS AP;
\- MBSFN subframe configuration.
Different receivers in terms of availability of CRS assistance information
were considered for Enhanced CRS-IM
\- Option 1: CRS-IM receivers without capabilities to detect neighboring cell
CRS Assistance information.
\- Option 2: CRS-IM receivers capable of blind detection of the number of CRS-
APs in the interference cells.
The link-level performance evaluation was conducted under assumption of
perfect knowledge of the interference cell CRS assistance information.
## 4.3 Link-level performance evaluation
### 4.3.1 PDSCH
In this section we provide the summary of the link-level performance
evaluation results for PDSCH test cases. The detailed link-level performance
evaluation results for Enhanced CRS-IM for PDSCH from the companies are
provided in [7] and [8].
#### 4.3.1.1 PDSCH Test Case #1
The summary of the PDSCH test case #1 (TM4, 4 CRS APs, Non-colliding CRS
pattern and 2 UE receiver chains) performance evaluation results based on [7]
is provided in Table 4.3.1.1-1. The following observations were made based on
the evaluation results:
\- CRS-IM receivers allow achieving noticeable performance improvement (1.9 --
2.6 dB) over baseline LMMSE-IRC receiver for both 16QAM and 64QAM scenarios.
\- Reduced complexity CRS-IM receiver (CRS-IM #A1) has relatively small
performance degradation (less than 0.6 dB) comparing to the full complexity
CRS-IM receiver (CRS-IM #A2).
Table 4.3.1.1-1: PDSCH test case #1 performance evaluation summary
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Test | FRC | In | Av | C | | | | | | | terfe | erage | RS-IM | | | | | | | rence | SINR | gain | | | | | | | power | for | over | | | | | | | pr | 70% | L | | | | | | | ofile | of | MMSE, | | | | | | | and | max | dB | | | | | | | RU | t | | | | | | | | | hroug | | | | | | | | | hput, | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | LMMS | C | C | C | C | | | | | E-IRC | RS-IM | RS-IM | RS-IM | RS-IM | | | | | | #A1 | #A2 | #A1 | #A2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Test | FR | Pr | -2.1 | -4.7 | -4.5 | 2.6 | 2.5 | | 1 | C.2-1 | ofile | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | (1 | #1;RU | | | | | | | | 6QAM) | = 20% | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | FR | Pr | 2.5 | 0.5 | 0.7 | 2.0 | 1.9 | | | C.2-2 | ofile | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | (6 | #1;RU | | | | | | | | 4QAM) | = 20% | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 4.3.1.2 PDSCH Test Case #2
The summary of the PDSCH test case #2 (TM4, 2 CRS APs, Non-colliding CRS
pattern and 4 UE receiver chains) performance evaluation results based on [7]
is provided in Table 4.3.1.2-1. The following observations were made based on
the evaluation results:
\- CRS-IM receiver allows achieving noticeable performance improvement (up to
2.5 dB) over baseline LMMSE-IRC receiver for both 16QAM and 64QAM scenarios.
Table 4.3.1.2-1: PDSCH test case #2 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test FRC Interference power profile and RU Average SINR for 70% of max
throughput, dB CRS-IM gain over LMMSE, dB  
LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM  
Test 2 FRC.1-1 (16QAM) Profile #1;RU = 20% -3.9 -6.4 2.5 FRC.1-2 (64QAM)
Profile #1;RU = 20% -0.5 -2.8 2.3
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 PDSCH Test Case #3
The summary of the PDSCH test case #3 (TM9, 2 CRS APs, Non-colliding CRS
pattern and 4 UE receiver chains) performance evaluation results based on [7]
is provided in Table 4.3.1.3-1. The following observations were made based on
the evaluation results:
\- CRS-IM receiver allows achieving noticeable performance improvement (1.8 -
2.3 dB) over baseline LMMSE-IRC receiver for both 16QAM and 64QAM scenarios.
Table 4.3.1.3-1: PDSCH test case #3 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test FRC Interference power profile and RU Average SINR for 70% of max
throughput, dB CRS-IM gain over LMMSE, dB  
LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM  
Test 3 FRC.3-1 (16QAM) Profile #1;RU = 20% -4.0 -6.2 2.3 FRC.3-2 (64QAM)
Profile #1;RU = 20% -0.2 -2.0 1.8
* * *
#### 4.3.1.4 PDSCH Test Case #4
The summary of the PDSCH test case #4 (TM4, 4 CRS APs, Non-colliding CRS
pattern and 4 UE receiver chains) performance evaluation results based on [7]
is provided in Table 4.3.1.4-1. The following observations were made based on
the evaluation results:
\- CRS-IM receivers allow achieving noticeable performance improvement (2.3 --
2.9 dB) over baseline LMMSE-IRC receiver for both 16QAM and 64QAM scenarios.
\- Reduced complexity CRS-IM receiver (CRS-IM #A1) has relatively small
performance degradation (less than 0.5 dB) comparing to the full complexity
CRS-IM receiver (CRS-IM #A2).
Table 4.3.1.4-1: PDSCH test case #4 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test FRC Interference power profile and RU Average SINR for 70% of max
throughput, dB CRS-IM gain over LMMSE, dB
                                                                 LMMSE-IRC                                    CRS-IM \#A1                  CRS-IM \#A2   CRS-IM \#A1   CRS-IM \#A2
Test 4 FRC.2-1 (16QAM) Profile #1;\ -4.8 -7.6 -7.4 2.9 2.7 RU = 20%
           FRC.2-2 (64QAM)   Profile \#1;\                       -0.7                                         -3.1                         -2.9          2.4           2.3
                             RU = 20%
* * *
#### 4.3.1.5 PDSCH Test Case #5
The summary of the PDSCH test case #5 performance evaluation results based on
[8] is provided in Table 4.3.1.5-1. The following observations were made based
on the evaluation results:
\- CRS-IM receiver #B1:
\- Provides limited performance improvement for all investigated scenarios.
\- The largest performance improvement (1.2 dB) over baseline LMMSE-IRC
receiver is observed for the scenarios no PDSCH transmissions in the
neighboring cells (interference Profile 2 and 0% RU).
\- For other scenarios the performance gains are in the range from 0.2 dB to
0.6 dB.
\- CRS-IM receiver #B2:
\- Provides noticeable performance gains (2.4 dB) over LMMSE-IRC receivers for
the scenarios with no PDSCH transmissions in the neighboring cells
(interference Profile 2 and 0% RU).
\- The gains for the scenarios with interference Profile 1 and 20% RU are
reduced to 1.3 dB.
\- In the scenarios with low interference power (Profile 3), the CRS-IM
receiver #B2 provides robust performance and does not lead to performance
degradation comparing to the LMMSE-IRC receiver.
Table 4.3.1.5-1: PDSCH test case #5 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test FRC Interference power profile and RU Average SINR for 70% of max
throughput, dB CRS-IM gain over LMMSE, dB  
LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM #B1 CRS-IM #B2 CRS-IM #B1 CRS-IM #B2 Test 5 FRC.2-1 (16QAM)
Profile #1; RU = 20% 1.3 0.7 0.0 0.6 1.3 Profile #2; RU = 0% -2.4 -3.5 -4.7
1.2 2.4 Profile #3; RU = 20% 3.0 2.7 2.6 0.2 0.4
* * *
#### 4.3.1.6 PDSCH Test Case #6
The summary of the PDSCH test case #6 performance evaluation results based on
[8] is provided in Table 4.3.1.6-1. The following observations were made based
on the evaluation results:
\- CRS-IM receiver #C1
\- Provides limited performance improvement for the investigated scenarios
(0.3 to 2.0 dB).
\- The largest performance improvement (2 dB) over baseline LMMSE-IRC receiver
is observed for the scenarios no PDSCH transmissions in the neighboring cells
(interference Profile 2 and 0% RU).
\- CRS-IM receiver #C2
\- Provides relatively large performance improvement for the investigated
scenarios (0.4 to 3 dB).
\- The largest performance improvement (3 dB) over baseline LMMSE-IRC receiver
is observed for the scenarios no PDSCH transmissions in the neighboring cells
(interference Profile 2 and 0% RU).
\- The gains for the scenarios with interference Profile 1 and 20% RU are
reduced to 1.5 dB.
\- In the scenarios with low interference power (Profile 3), the CRS-IM
receiver #C2 provides robust performance and does not lead to performance
degradation comparing to the LMMSE-IRC receiver.
Table 4.3.1.6-1: PDSCH test case #6 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test FRC Interference power profile and RU Average SINR for 70% of max
throughput, dB CRS-IM gain over LMMSE, dB  
LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM #C1 CRS-IM #C2 CRS-IM #C1 CRS-IM #C2 Test 6 FRC.2-1 (16QAM)
Profile #1;RU = 20% 0.1 -0.8 -1.4 0.9 1.5 Profile #2; RU = 0% -3.7 -5.7 -6.7
2.0 3.0 Profile #3; RU = 20% 2.4 2.1 2.0 0.3 0.4
* * *
#### 4.3.1.7 PDSCH Test Case #7
The summary of the PDSCH test case #7 performance evaluation results based on
[7] is provided in Table 4.3.1.7-1. The following observations were made based
on the evaluation results:
\- CRS-IM receiver provides limited performance improvement (\~1dB) over
baseline LMMSE-IRC receiver for the investigated scenarios.
Table 4.3.1.7-1: PDSCH test case #7 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test FRC Interference power profile and RU Average SINR for 70% of max
throughput, dB CRS-IM gain over LMMSE, dB  
LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM  
Test 7 FRC.1-1 (16QAM) Profile #1; RU = 20% 0.4 -0.7 1.1 FRC.1-2 (64QAM)
Profile #1; RU = 20% 3.2 2.2 1.0
* * *
### 4.3.2 PDCCH/PCFICH
In this section we provide the summary of the link-level performance
evaluation results for Enhanced CRS-IM for PDCCH/PCFICH.
#### 4.3.2.1 PDCCH/PCFICH Test Case #1
The summary of the PDCCH/PCFICH test case #1 performance evaluation results
based [9] is provided in Table 4.3.2.1-1. The following observations were made
based on the evaluation results:
\- LMMSE-IRC receivers provide 0.4 -- 0.5 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 1.5 -- 2.7 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 1.0 -- 2.3 dB performance gains over LMMSE-IRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receiver performance improvement in case of CFI=2 is larger in
comparison with CFI=3 case.
Table 4.3.2.1-1: PDCCH/PCFICH test case #1 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test CFI Interference Profile Average SINR @ 1% Pm-dsg, dB Gain over LMMSE-
MRC, dB Gain over LMMSE-IRC, dB  
LMMSE-MRC LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM CRS-IM Test 1 2 Profile #1 0.2
-0.3 -2.7 0.5 2.9 2.4 Profile #2 0.1 -0.3 -1.9 0.4 2.0 1.6 3 Profile #1 -0.2
-0.7 -2.0 0.5 1.8 1.3 Profile #2 -0.2 -0.7 -1.7 0.4 1.5 1.0
* * *
#### 4.3.2.2 PDCCH/PCFICH Test Case #2
The summary of the PDCCH/PCFICH test case #2 performance evaluation results
based on [9] is provided in Table 4.3.2.2-1. The following observations were
made based on the evaluation results:
\- LMMSE-IRC receivers provide 2.3 -- 3.9 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 2.9 -- 6.0 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 0.2 -- 2.1 dB performance gains over LMMSE-IRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- For the investigated scenarios with PDCCH AL 2 and low antenna correlation,
the SINR operating point for the CRS-IM receiver SINR operating point is below
typical UE SINR operating range.
Table 4.3.2.2-1: PDCCH/PCFICH test case #2 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test CFI Interference Profile Average SINR @ 1% Pm-dsg, dB Gain over LMMSE-
MRC, dB Gain over LMMSE-IRC, dB  
LMMSE-MRC LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM CRS-IM Test 2 1 Profile #1 -3.1
-7.0 -9.1 3.9 6.0 2.1 Profile #2 -3.3 -5.6 -7.1 2.3 3.8 1.5 3 Profile #1 -3.4
-7.1 -7.5 3.7 4.1 0.4 Profile #2 -3.2 -5.9 -6.1 2.7 2.9 0.2
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 PDCCH/PCFICH Test Case #3
The summary of the PDCCH/PCFICH test case #3 performance evaluation results
based on R4-1702913 is provided in Table 4.3.2.3-1. The following observations
were made based on the evaluation results:
\- LMMSE-IRC receivers provide 2.2 -- 2.6 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 3.7 -- 4.6 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 1.4 -- 2.0 dB performance gains over LMMSE-IRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- For PDCCH AL 1 the CRS-IM receiver operating point is -7.8 dB which below
typical UE SINR operating range. For the PDCCH AL 1 the CRS-IM receiver
operating point is -0.9 dB which in the typical UE SINR operating range.
Table 4.3.2.3-1: PDCCH/PCFICH test case #3 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test CFI PDCCH AL Interference Profile Average SINR \@1% Pm-dsg, dB Gain over
LMMSE-MRC, dB Gain over LMMSE-IRC, dB  
LMMSE-MRC LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM CRS-IM Test 3 2 2 Profile #1 -3.2
-5.8 -7.8 2.6 4.6 2.0 1 2.8 0.5 -0.9 2.2 3.7 1.4
* * *
### 4.3.3 PHICH
In this section we provide the summary of the link-level performance
evaluation results for Enhanced CRS-IM for PHICH.
#### 4.3.3.1 PHICH Test Case #1
The summary of the PHICH test case #1 performance evaluation results based on
[9] is provided in Table 4.3.3.1-1. The following observations were made based
on the evaluation results:
\- LMMSE-IRC receivers provide 0.4 -- 0.5 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 1.3 -- 1.7 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 0.9 -- 1.3 dB performance gains over LMMSE-IRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
Table 4.3.3.1-1: PHICH test case #1 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test Interference Profile Average SINR @ 0.1% Pm-an, dB Gain over LMMSE-MRC,
dB Gain over LMMSE-IRC, dB  
LMMSE-MRC LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM CRS-IM Test 1 Profile #1 -0.3 -0.8
-1.9 0.5 1.6 1.1 Profile #2 -0.7 -1.2 -2.1 0.5 1.3 0.9
* * *
#### 4.3.3.2 PHICH Test Case #2
The summary of the PHICH test case #2 performance evaluation results based on
summary of results in [9] is provided in Table 4.3.3.2-1. The following
observations were made based on the evaluation results:
\- LMMSE-IRC receivers provide 2.3 -- 3.7 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 3.8 -- 5.5 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 1.4 -- 1.8 dB performance gains over LMMSE-IRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- For the investigated scenarios the CRS-IM receiver operating SINR point is
below -6dB dB which below typical UE SINR operating range.
Table 4.3.3.2-1: PHICH test case #2 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test Interference Profile Average SINR @ 0.1% Pm-an, dB Gain over LMMSE-MRC,
dB Gain over LMMSE-IRC, dB  
LMMSE-MRC LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM CRS-IM Test 2 Profile #1 -2.8 -6.6
-8.4 3.7 5.5 1.8 Profile #2 -2.9 -5.2 -6.7 2.3 3.8 1.4
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 PHICH Test Case #3
The summary of the PHICH test case #3 performance evaluation results based on
summary of results in R4-1702913 is provided in Table 4.3.3.3-1. The following
observations were made based on the evaluation results:
\- LMMSE-IRC receivers provide 2.6 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 4.0 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC receivers
for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 1.4 dB performance gains over LMMSE-IRC receivers
for the investigated scenarios.
\- For the investigated scenarios the CRS-IM receiver operating SINR point is
below -6dB dB which below typical UE SINR operating range.
Table 4.3.3.3-1: PHICH test case #3 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test Interference Profile Average SINR @ 0.1% Pm-an, dB Gain over LMMSE-MRC,
dB Gain over LMMSE-IRC, dB  
LMMSE-MRC LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM CRS-IM Test 3 Profile #1 -2.8 -5.5
-6.8 2.6 4.0 1.4
* * *
### 4.3.4 EPDCCH
In this section we provide the summary of the link-level performance
evaluation results for Enhanced CRS-IM for EPDCCH.
The summary of the performance evaluation results based on summary of results
in [9] is provided in Table 4.3.4-1. The following observations were made
based on the evaluation results:
\- LMMSE-IRC receivers provide up to 4.0 performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the Model #2 and #3 scenarios. For the Model #1 scenario LMMSE-
IRC receiver provides slight performance loss of 0.4 dB comparing to the
LMMSE-MRC receiver.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 5.1 -- 6.3 dB performance gains over LMMSE-MRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
\- CRS-IM receivers provide 1.2 -- 5.5 dB performance gains over LMMSE-IRC
receivers for the investigated scenarios.
Table 4.3.4-1: EPDCCH test case #1 performance evaluation summary
* * *
Test Interference model Average SINR \@1% Pm-dsg, dB Gain over LMMSE-MRC, dB
Gain over LMMSE-IRC, dB  
LMMSE-MRC LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM LMMSE-IRC CRS-IM CRS-IM Test 1 Model #1 -5.0 -4.6
-10.1 -0.4 5.1 5.5 Model #2 0.5 -3.5 -5.8 4.0 6.3 2.3 Model #3 2.2 -1.8 -3.0
4.0 5.2 1.2
* * *
## 4.4 Conclusions
The following conclusions were made on the benefits and feasibility of
enhanced CRS-IM receivers:
\- PDSCH
\- PDSCH test cases #1, 2, 3, 4: The performance benefits and feasibility of
CRS-IM receivers in application to Tests 1, 2, 3, and 4 are confirmed. The
performance requirements to verify CRS-IM performance for such scenarios
agreed to be defined in the TS 36.101.
\- PDSCH test case #5: The performance gains of CRS-IM receiver #B2 were
confirmed. No consensus reached on the interferer PDSCH presence blind
detection feasibility for CRS-IM receiver #B2. It was agreed that the minimum
performance requirements will not be defined in the TS 36.101 and the case is
left up to UE implementation.
\- PDSCH test case #6: The performance gains and feasibility of CRS-IM
receiver #C1 and #C2 were confirmed. It was agreed that the minimum
performance requirements will not be defined in the TS 36.101 and the case is
left up to UE implementation.
\- PDSCH test case #7: It was agreed that the minimum performance requirements
will not be defined in the TS 36.101 due to limited CRS-IM receiver
performance gains.
\- PDCCH/PCFICH
\- PDCCH/PCFICH test case #1: The performance benefits and feasibility of CRS-
IM receivers were confirmed. The performance requirements to verify CRS-IM
performance agreed to be defined in the TS 36.101.
\- PDCCH/PCFICH test case #2: No consensus reached on the performance benefits
and feasibility of CRS-IM receivers. It was agreed that the minimum
performance requirements will not be defined in the TS 36.101 and the case is
left up to UE implementation.
\- PDCCH/PCFICH test case #3: The performance benefits and feasibility of
LMMSE-IRC receivers were confirmed. No consensus reached on the performance
benefits and feasibility of CRS-IM receivers. It was agreed that the minimum
performance requirements will be defined in the TS 36.101 based on the LMMSE-
IRC receiver.
\- PHICH
\- PHICH test case #1: The performance benefits and feasibility of CRS-IM
receivers were confirmed. It was agreed that the minimum performance
requirements will not be defined in the TS 36.101 and the case is left up to
UE implementation.
\- PHICH test case #2 and #3: No consensus reached on the performance benefits
and feasibility of CRS-IM receivers. It was agreed that the minimum
performance requirements will not be defined in the TS 36.101 and the case is
left up to UE implementation.
\- EPDCCH
\- The performance gains and feasibility of CRS-IM receiver were confirmed for
the investigated scenarios.
\- Work on the CRS-IM performance requirements definition for EPDCCH is
deprioritized. The minimum performance requirements will not be defined in the
TS 36.101 and the case is left up to UE implementation.
# 5 Enhanced SU-MIMO **IM** based on 4RX
In Release 12, enhanced SU-MIMO IM receivers were introduced to improve the DL
spectral efficiency for UEs equipped with two receive antennas for the
scenarios with multiple MIMO stream PDSCH transmissions. The investigated
enhanced SU-MIMO IM receivers were proven to be able to handle inter-stream
interference more efficiently comparing to the conventional LMMSE receivers.
The corresponding enhanced performance requirements were defined in
application to the UEs equipped with 2 receive (RX) antennas and for MIMO rank
2 scenarios.
The objective of the work item [2] is to investigate performance benefits,
complexity, and feasibility of using SU-MIMO IM receivers in application to
the UEs equipped with 4 receive antennas:
\- Investigate and agree on target scenarios including layer number for
spatial multiplexing, MCS, propagation conditions, antenna correlation and
others for performance evaluation
\- Identify the reference receiver structure for SU-MIMO IM evaluation
\- Evaluate the performance of enhanced SU-MIMO IM receivers
**This section provides the summary of the analysis of the enhanced SU-MIMO IM
receivers for UEs equipped with 4 receive antennas and includes the following
sub-clauses:**
\- Clause 5.1 describes the simulation scenarios used for SU-MIMO IM
performance analysis;
\- Clause 5.2 describes the receiver structure used for evaluation of enhanced
SU-MIMO IM;
\- Clause 5.3 summarizes the results of the link-level performance
evaluations.
\- **Clause 5.4 provides summary of conclusions on enhanced SU-MIMO IM
investigations.**
## 5.1 Scenarios
**This section describes the evaluation scenarios and simulation assumptions
used for the investigations of performance benefits and feasibility for
enhanced SU-MIMO IM receiver with 4 receive antennas.**
**The performance analysis covers a wide set of scenarios:**
\- Modulation order: from 16QAM and up to 256QAM
\- MIMO rank 2, 3 and 4
\- PDSCH transmission modes 3, 4 and 9
**In** Table 5.1-1**, simulation assumptions for scenarios to evaluate
enhanced SU-MIMO IM receiver performance are provided. The scenarios with
64QAM with rank 4, 256QAM with rank 3 and rank 4 are deprioritized in terms of
complexity and performance. In** Table 5.1-2**, the evaluated antenna
correlation scenarios are provided. The analysis is provided under assumption
of noise-limited scenarios without any inter-cell interference.**
Table 5.1-1: Scenarios for evaluation
* * *
Test case MIMO Rank **TM** **Modulation and Code Rate** **Channel model**
**Antenna configuration** 1 Rank 2 TM4 16QAM CR ½ ETU70 2x4 2 TM9 16QAM CR ½
EPA5 2x4 3 TM4 64QAM CR ½ EPA5 2x4 4 TM9 64QAM CR ½ EPA5 2x4 5 TM4 64QAM CR ½
EPA5 4x4 6 TM9 64QAM CR ½ EPA5 4x4 7 TM4 256QAM CR 0.62 EPA5 4x4 8 TM9 256QAM
CR 0.67 EPA5 4x4 9 Rank3 TM3 16QAM CR ½ EVA70 4x4 10 TM3 64QAM CR 0.43 EPA5
4x4 11 Rank4 TM4 16QAM CR ½ EPA5 4x4 12 TM9 16QAM CR 0.57 EPA5 4x4
* * *
Table 5.1-2: Antenna correlation scenario for evaluations
* * *
           Antenna Correlation
AC #1 ULA Low correlation AC #2 ULA Medium correlation (α=0.3, β=0.9) AC #3
ULA Medium A correlation (α=0.3, β=0.3874) AC #4 XPOL Medium A correlation
(α=0.3, β=0.6, γ=0.2)
* * *
## 5.2 Receiver structures and assumptions
The baseline PDSCH SU-MIMO performance requirements for UEs equipped with both
2 and 4 receive antennas are based on the conventional LMMSE receivers as
described in the TR 36.829 [5].
Enhanced non-linear receivers can be used to improve the SU-MIMO performance
for the case rank 2 or more PDSCH signal transmissions.
For UEs equipped with 2 receive antennas in Release 12 Enhanced SU-MIMO IM
work item two enhanced receiver structures were considered to improve the
performance including R-ML (Reduced complexity ML) and CWIC (Code word level
-- IC) receivers as described in the TR 36.866 [6]. Both receiver structures
were shown to provide sufficient and comparable performance improvement over
baseline LMMSE receivers and the exact decision on the enhanced SU-MIMO IM
receiver structure was left up to UE implementation.
For UEs equipped with 4 receive antennas, the R-ML receiver is considered as
the only candidate enhanced SU-MIMO IM receiver structure, while CWIC
receivers are considered to be relatively complex for practical
implementation.
R-ML receivers are assumed to perform reduced complexity joint detection of
multiple MIMO layers modulation symbols in accordance to the maximum
likelihood (ML) criterion. R-ML receiver may have different implementations
(e.g. sphere decoding, QR-MLD, MLM, etc.). In addition, there may be some
adjustable receiver parameters that have impact on the R-ML receiver
performance (e.g. the radius of the sphere decoder, the final candidate set
size for LLR calculation and so on). The exact selection of R-ML receiver
algorithm and parameters depends on the UE implementation.
## 5.3 Link-level performance evaluation
In this section, link-level evaluation parameters and results are provided.
### 5.3.1 Parameters for link-level evaluation
The common test parameters (FDD) are given in Table 5.3.1-1. The evaluation
scenarios with specific parameters are listed in Table 5.1-1 including rank 2,
3 and 4. For each scenario, in order to find cases with testable gain,
different antenna correlation options are considered in Table 5.1-2, including
ULA low, ULA medium, ULA medium A, ULA high and XPOL medium A.
Table 5.3.1-1: Common parameters for evaluations (FDD)
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Bandwidth | MHz | 10 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Inter-TTI Distance | | 1 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Number of HARQ processes | Processes | 8 | | per component carrier | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Maximum number of HARQ | | 4 | | transmission | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Redundancy version | | {0,1,2,3} for QPSK and | | coding sequence | | 16QAM | | | | | | | | {0,0,1,2} for 64QAM and | | | | 256QAM | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Number of OFDM symbols | OFDM symbols | 2 for 10 MHz | | for PDCCH | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Reporting Mode | | PUSCH 3-1 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Cyclic Prefix | | Normal | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Cell ID | | 0 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Tx EVM | | 6% for 16QAM and 64QAM; | | | | | | | | 3% for 256QAM | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Reference receiver | | LMMSE, R-ML | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
### 5.3.2 Link-level simulation results
In this section the summary of the link-level performance evaluation results
for enhanced SU-MIMO is provided:
\- MIMO rank 2 scenarios:
\- Table 5.3.2-1: SNR required to reach 70% of max throughput for enhanced
R-ML and baseline LMMSE receivers;
\- Table 5.3.2-2: R-ML receiver SNR gain over LMMSE receiver for the 70% of
max throughput;
\- MIMO rank 3 scenarios:
\- Table 5.3.2-3: SNR required to reach 70% of max throughput for enhanced
R-ML and baseline LMMSE receivers;
\- Table 5.3.2-4: R-ML receiver SNR gain over LMMSE receiver for the 70% of
max throughput;
\- MIMO rank 4 scenarios:
\- Table 5.3.2-5: SNR required to reach 70% of max throughput for enhanced
R-ML and baseline LMMSE receivers;
\- Table 5.3.2-6: R-ML receiver SNR gain over LMMSE receiver for the 70% of
max throughput.
Detailed link-level evaluation results from companies are captured in [10-13].
Note: N/A means that throughput curve does not reach 70 % of maximum
throughput for evaluated SNR region. Empty means that results are unavailable.
Table 5.3.2-1: Simulation results summary - SNR for 70% of max throughput
(MIMO Rank 2)
Test case | Antenna correlation | Receiver | SNR for 70% of max throughput, [dB] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | Company 1 | Company 2 | Company 3 | Company 4 | Company 5 | Company 6 | Average | Span | STD  
Test #1  
TM4 16QAM 2x4 | AC #2  
ULA Med | R-ML | 14.7 | 15.3 | 15.9 | 13.9 | 13.5 | 14.8 | 14.7 | 2.4 | 0.9  
|  | LMMSE | 18.9 | 18.2 | 18.3 | 18.2 | 16.2 | 17.5 | 17.9 | 2.7 | 0.9  
Test #2  
TM9 16QAM 2x4 | AC #2  
ULA Med | R-ML | 14.1 | 13.2 | 14.3 | 13.4 | 13.9 | 14.4 | 13.9 | 1.2 | 0.5  
|  | LMMSE | 17.3 | 16.0 | 17.0 | 17.7 | 16.6 | 17.5 | 17.0 | 1.7 | 0.6  
Test #3  
TM4 64QAM 4x4 | AC #3  
ULA Med A | R-ML | 20.6 | 17.1 | 16.5 | 18.6 |  | 19.1 | 18.4 | 4.2 | 1.7  
|  | LMMSE | 21.9 | 18.4 | 18.8 | 21.0 |  | 20.8 | 20.2 | 3.4 | 1.5  
| AC #2  
ULA Med | R-ML | 12.5 | 11.4 | 11.5 | 12.1 |  | 12.4 | 12.0 | 1.1 | 0.5  
|  | LMMSE | 13.6 | 11.7 | 12.0 | 12.9 |  | 12.8 | 12.6 | 1.9 | 0.8  
Test #4  
TM9 64QAM 4x4 | AC #2  
ULA Med | R-ML | 22.0 | 19.3 | 19.3 |  |  | 21.7 | 20.6 | 2.6 | 1.4  
|  | LMMSE | 23.4 | 20.6 | 27.3 |  |  | 23.8 | 23.8 | 6.7 | 2.8  
| AC #3  
ULA Med A | R-ML | 14.4 | 13.3 | 17.4 |  |  | 14.2 | 14.8 | 4.1 | 1.8  
|  | LMMSE | 16.0 | 13.6 | 20.4 |  |  | 14.8 | 16.2 | 6.8 | 3.0  
Test #5  
TM4 256QAM 4x4 | AC #1  
ULA Low | R-ML | 18.5 | 14.8 | 15.1 |  |  |  | 16.1 | 3.7 | 2.1  
|  | LMMSE | 19.3 | 14.7 | 15.1 |  |  |  | 16.4 | 4.6 | 2.6  
| AC #2  
ULA Med | R-ML | 24.6 | 26.2 | 26.8 |  |  |  | 25.9 | 2.2 | 1.1  
|  | LMMSE | 26.3 | 27.3 | 27.3 |  |  |  | 27.0 | 1.1 | 0.6  
| AC #3  
ULA Med A | R-ML | 17.5 | 19.7 | 18.7 |  |  |  | 18.6 | 2.2 | 1.1  
|  | LMMSE | 19.4 | 20.1 | 20.5 |  |  |  | 20.0 | 1.1 | 0.6  
Test #6  
TM9 256QAM 4x4 | AC #1  
ULA Low | R-ML | 18.5 | 16.4 | 14.4 |  |  |  | 16.4 | 4.1 | 2.0  
|  | LMMSE | 20.9 | 16.3 | 14.4 |  |  |  | 17.2 | 6.5 | 3.4  
| AC #2  
ULA Med | R-ML | N/A | 28.3 | 22.1 |  |  |  | 25.2 | 6.2 | 4.4  
|  | LMMSE | N/A | 29.5 | 24.6 |  |  |  | 27.0 | 4.9 | 3.5  
| AC #3  
ULA Med A | R-ML | 25.1 | 21.6 | 18.1 |  |  |  | 21.6 | 7.0 | 3.5  
|  | LMMSE | 27.5 | 22.0 | 18.6 |  |  |  | 22.7 | 9.0 | 4.5  
Table 5.3.2-2: Simulation results summary -- R-ML receiver gain vs. LMMSE
(MIMO Rank 2)
Test case | Antenna correlation | **R-ML receiver SNR gain vs. LMMSE for 70% of max throughput, [dB]** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Company 1 | Company 2 | Company 3 | Company 4 | Company 5 | Company 6 | Average | Span | STD  
Test #1  
TM4 16QAM 2x4 | AC #2  
ULA Med | 4.3 | 2.9 | 2.4 | 4.3 | 2.7 | 2.7 | 3.2 | 2.0 | 0.8  
Test #2  
TM9 16QAM 2x4 | AC #2  
ULA Med | 3.2 | 2.8 | 2.7 | 4.3 | 2.7 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 1.7 | 0.6  
Test #3  
TM4 64QAM 4x4 | AC #3  
ULA Med A | 1.2 | 1.3 | 2.3 | 2.4 |  | 1.7 | 1.8 | 1.2 | 0.5  
| AC #2  
ULA Med | 1.1 | 0.3 | 0.5 | 0.8 |  | 0.4 | 0.6 | 0.8 | 0.3  
Test #4  
TM9 64QAM 4x4 | AC #3  
ULA Med A | 1.4 | 1.2 | 7.9 |  |  | 2.1 | 3.2 | 6.7 | 2.8  
| AC #2  
ULA Med | 1.6 | 0.3 | 3.0 |  |  | 0.6 | 1.4 | 2.7 | 1.1  
Test #5  
TM4 256QAM 4x4 | AC #1  
ULA Low | 0.9 | 0.0 | 0.0 |  |  |  | 0.3 | 0.9 | 0.5  
| AC #2  
ULA Med | 1.7 | 1.1 | 0.5 |  |  |  | 1.1 | 1.2 | 0.6  
| AC #3  
ULA Med A | 1.9 | 0.3 | 1.8 |  |  |  | 1.3 | 1.6 | 0.9  
Test #6  
TM9 256QAM 4x4 | AC #1  
ULA Low | 2.5 | 0.0 | 0.1 |  |  |  | 0.9 | 2.5 | 1.4  
| AC #2  
ULA Med |  | 1.1 | 2.5 |  |  |  | 1.8 | 1.4 | 1.0  
| AC #3  
ULA Med A | 2.4 | 0.4 | 0.5 |  |  |  | 1.1 | 2.0 | 1.1  
Table 5.3.2-3: Simulation results summary - SNR for 70% of max throughput
(MIMO Rank 3)
* * *
Test case Antenna correlation Receiver SNR for 70% of max throughput, [dB]
                                                   Company 1                               Company 2   Company 3   Company 4   Company 5   Company 6   Average   Span   STD
Test #7\ AC #1\ R-ML 9.2 9.1 9.2 9.2 0.1 0.1 TM3 16QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                                        LMMSE      10.4                                    9.2         9.5                                             9.7       1.2    0.6
                  AC \#2\               R-ML       N/A                                     27.7        24.5                                            26.1      3.2    2.3
                  ULA Med
                                        LMMSE      N/A                                     N/A         N/A
                  AC \#3\               R-ML       21.4                                    19.6        20.6        19.1        19.6        19.4        19.9      2.3    0.9
                  ULA Med A
                                        LMMSE      28.6                                    25.4        24.9        24.5        26.1        25.6        25.8      4.1    1.4
                  AC \#4\               R-ML       10.8                                    10.6                                                        10.7      0.2    0.1
                  XPL Med A
                                        LMMSE      11.7                                    10.8                                                        11.3      0.9    0.6
Test #8\ AC #1\ R-ML 11.7 12.3 12.0 0.6 0.4 TM3 64QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                                        LMMSE                                              11.7        12.3                                            12.0      0.5    0.4
                  AC \#2\               R-ML                                               N/A         N/A                                                              
                  ULA Med
                                        LMMSE                                              N/A         N/A
                  AC \#3\               R-ML       N/A                                     24.8        23.3                                            24.1      1.5    1.1
                  ULA Med A
                                        LMMSE      31.6                                    26.7        23.9                                            27.4      7.8    3.9
                  AC \#4\               R-ML       13.6                                    13.1                    13.4                                13.3      0.5    0.3
                  XPL Med A
                                        LMMSE      15.2                                    13.2                    13.4                                13.9      2.0    1.1
* * *
Table 5.3.2-4: Simulation results summary -- R-ML receiver gain vs. LMMSE
(MIMO Rank 3)
* * *
Test case Antenna correlation **R-ML receiver SNR gain vs. LMMSE for 70% of
max throughput, [dB]**
                                        Company 1                                                                Company 2   Company 3   Company 4   Company 5   Company 6   Average   Span   STD
Test #7\ AC #1\ 1.1 0.1 0.3 0.5 1.0 0.5 TM3 16QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                  AC \#2\                                                                                                                                                                     
                  ULA Med
                  AC \#3\               7.2                                                                      5.8         4.3         5.4         6.5         6.2         5.9       2.9    0.9
                  ULA Med A
                  AC \#4\               0.9                                                                      0.2                                                         0.6       0.7    0.5
                  XPL Med A
Test #8\ AC #1\ 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 TM3 64QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                  AC \#2\                                                                                                                                                                     
                  ULA Med
                  AC \#3\                                                                                        1.9         0.6                                             1.3       1.3    0.9
                  ULA Med A
                  AC \#4\               1.6                                                                      0.1                     0.0                                 0.6       1.6    0.9
                  XPL Med A
* * *
Table 5.3.2-5: Simulation results summary - SNR for 70% of max throughput
(MIMO Rank 4)
* * *
Test case Antenna correlation Receiver SNR for 70% of max throughput, [dB]
                                                   Company 1                               Company 2   Company 3   Company 4   Company 5   Company 6   Average   Span   STD
Test #9\ AC #1\ R-ML 9.2 10.1 9.7 0.9 0.6 TM4 16QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                                        LMMSE                                              9.7         10.1                                            9.9       0.4    0.3
                  AC \#2\               R-ML       N/A                                     N/A         28.7                                            28.7      0.0    
                  ULA Med
                                        LMMSE      N/A                                     N/A         N/A
                  AC \#3\               R-ML       N/A                                     21.2        N/A                                             21.2      0.0    
                  ULA Med A
                                        LMMSE      N/A                                     28.9        N/A                                             28.9      0.0
                  AC \#4\               R-ML       13.8                                    12.6        12.1        14.2                    13.0        13.1      2.1    0.9
                  XPL Med A
                                        LMMSE      15.3                                    13.4        12.7        15.1                    14.2        14.1      2.6    1.1
Test #10\ AC #1\ R-ML 13.5 15.3 14.4 1.8 1.3 TM9 16QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                                        LMMSE                                              14.8        15.4                                            15.1      0.6    0.4
                  AC \#2\               R-ML                                               N/A         N/A                                                              
                  ULA Med
                                        LMMSE                                              N/A         N/A
                  AC \#3\               R-ML       N/A                                     27.7        N/A                                             27.7      0.0    
                  ULA Med A
                                        LMMSE      N/A                                     N/A         N/A
                  AC \#4\               R-ML       17.9                                    15.3        15.7        16.4                    16.2        16.3      2.6    1.0
                  XPL Med A
                                        LMMSE      20.4                                    16.8        16.6        18.2                    19.0        18.2      3.9    1.6
* * *
Table 5.3.2-6: Simulation results summary -- R-ML receiver gain vs. LMMSE
(MIMO Rank 4)
* * *
Test case Antenna correlation **R-ML receiver SNR gain vs. LMMSE for 70% of
max throughput, [dB]**
                                        Company 1                                                                Company 2   Company 3   Company 4   Company 5   Company 6   Average   Span   STD
Test #9\ AC #1\ 0.5 0.0 0.3 0.5 0.4 TM4 16QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                  AC \#2\                                                                                                                                                                     
                  ULA Med
                  AC \#3\                                                                                        7.6                                                         7.6       0.0    
                  ULA Med A
                  AC \#4\               1.5                                                                      0.9         0.6         0.9                     1.2         1.0       0.9    0.3
                  XPL Med A
Test #10\ AC #1\ 1.2 0.1 0.7 1.1 0.8 TM9 16QAM 4x4 ULA Low
                  AC \#2\                                                                                                                                                                     
                  ULA Med
                  AC \#3\                                                                                                                                                                     
                  ULA Med A
                  AC \#4\               2.6                                                                      1.5         0.9         1.8                     2.8         1.9       1.9    0.7
                  XPL Med A
* * *
## 5.4 Conclusions
The following conclusions were made on the benefits and feasibility of
enhanced SU-MIMO IM receivers:
\- For rank 2 scenarios, the performance benefits and feasibility of enhanced
SU-MIMO IM receiver for TM4 and TM9 have been confirmed.
\- For rank 3 scenarios, the performance benefits and feasibility of enhanced
SU-MIMO IM receiver for TM3 have been confirmed.
\- For rank 4 scenarios, the performance benefits and feasibility of enhanced
SU-MIMO IM receiver for TM9 have been confirmed.
# 6 Conclusions
This technical report summarizes the results of the feasibility studies on CRS
interference mitigation in application to the generic scenarios with different
number of CRS APs (2, 4) and different number of UE receive antennas and on
**SU-MIMO IM receivers in application to the UEs equipped with 4 receive
antennas.**
Receiver structures based on LMMSE-IRC detector combined with a CRS-IM
receiver were investigated in application to the generic scenarios with
different number of CRS APs (2, 4) and different number of UE receive antennas
including 2 and 4 receive antennas. The feasibility studies were done for the
PDSCH and DL control channels including PDCCH, PCFICH, PHICH and EPDCCH. Based
on the results of the studies RAN4 concluded on the feasibility and
substantial performance benefits of the CRS-IM receivers.
Receiver structure based on SU-MIMO receiver with 4 receive antennas were
investigated in application to the generic scenarios with different modulation
order and rank for TM3, TM4 and TM9. The feasibility studies were done for
combinations of various antenna correlations including low, medium, medium A
and high. Based on the results of the studies RAN4 concluded on the
feasibility and substantial performance benefits of the SU-MIMO receiver with
4 receive antennas.
#