# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is to evaluate possible methods and conditions for
existing Band 11 and Band 21 UEs to comply with a new satellite protection
requirement defined by ITU-R.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] \"Final Acts WRC-15\", WORLD RADIOCOMMUNICATION CONFERENCE (GENEVA, 2015)
.
[3] R4-165235: \"Operating scenarios to enhance the value of the 1.5GHz
band\".
[4] R4-166173: \"Initial simulation results for the feasibility study on
global application of LTE Band 11 and of LTE Band 21 UEs\".
[5] R4-166324: \"Discussion on Band 11 UE emission to protect EESS\".
[6] R4-168453: \"EESS protection study\".
[7] R4-167412: \"B11 measurement results for EESS protection\".
[8] R4-168411: \"For maximum use of the 1.5GHz band\".
[9] R4-168506: \"How to protect EESS by 1.5GHz UE\".
[10] R4-169494: \"Band 11 PA measurements on EESS protection\".
...
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
L~CRB~ transmission bandwidth which represents the length of a contiguous
resource block allocation expressed in units of resources blocks
RB~start~ the lowest RB index of transmitted resource blocks
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
EESS Earth Exploration-Satellite Service
RB Resource Block
# 4 General
## 4.1 Background
Band 11 (UE transmit: 1427.9 - 1447.9 MHz, BS transmit: 1475.9 -1495.9 MHz)
and Band 21 (UE transmit: 1447.9 - 1462.9 MHz, BS transmit: 1495.9 -1510.9
MHz) have been operated for some time in Japan. On the other hand, there has
been a long standing discussion in ITU-R on the interference from the cellular
to satellite operated next to the bands.
In WRC-15, it was concluded that 1.5 GHz (1427 -- 1518 MHz) was identified as
IMT spectrum and at the same time the unwanted emission limit for UEs (IMT
Mobile station) operated in 1427 -- 1452 MHz was mandated to protect EESS
(Earth Exploration-Satellite Service) Final Acts WRC-15 [2]. Note that this
limit does not apply to UEs for which the notification information was
received by ITU-R before the last day of WRC-15, i.e. UEs in Japan.
With those decisions, while Band 11 and 21 could potentially be utilized for
the new IMT spectrum other than in Japan, existing Band 11 and 21 UEs if
operated outside Japan has to comply with the unwanted emission limits. This
could be done with RB restriction controlled by a BS scheduler and/or multiple
NS/Pemax when appropriate but these schemes are determined based on UE
assumptions in 3GPP and it is quite difficult for an organization outside to
evaluate or estimate.
In this study, the methodologies and actual conditions mentioned above are
studied.
## 4.2 Protection requirements
The actual protection requirement is that UEs (IMT mobile station) operated in
1427 -1452 MHz shall meet ‑62 dBW / 27 MHz (-32 dBm / 27 MHz) at 1400 -- 1427
MHz with UE transmit power of 15 dBm [2, Resolution 750]. Note that the
condition of 15 dBm here is for unwanted emission definition and does not mean
that the maximum power of UE should be limited to 15 dBm in real operation.
# 5 Evaluation conditions
## 5.1 Frequency positions and bandwidths
Firstly, in the course of discussion, it was agreed that Band 21 may be
excluded from the evaluation, i.e. Band 21 UE may be used without any Tx
restriction from EESS protection standpoint. Concerning Band 11, it was agreed
to investigate the following 4 scenarios:
(1) First 10 MHz (1427.9 -- 1437.9 MHz),
(2) Second 10 MHz (1437.9 -- 1447.9 MHz),
(3) First 5 MHz (1427.9 -- 1432.9 MHz) and
(4) Second 5 MHz (1432.9 -- 1437.9 MHz).
The scenarios are depicted in Figure 5.1-1.
{width="5.10625in" height="0.8097222222222222in"}
Figure 5.1-1: Frequencies to be investigated
In addition, to utilize the spectrum better, it was also agreed to evaluate
offsets necessary for Cat. M1 and Cat. NB1 UEs when these are operated closer
to the lowest edge (1427.9 MHz), as described in [3].
## 5.2 Simulation settings
The following items were agreed as simulation setting:
\- Impairments assumed are: I/Q imbalance = 25 dBc, LO leakage = 25 dBc, CIM3=
60 dBc,
\- No filter attenuation is assumed in the region of 1400 -- 1427 MHz
\- Tx Power is to be set to 15 dBm at the antenna port.
# 6 Evaluation results
## 6.1 Simulation results
### 6.1.1 Conditions for UE testing for compliance
Final Acts WRC-15 [2] may be understood to say that a UE is tested at Tx = 15
dBm to comply with the protection requirement mentioned above. Thus, it is
assumed that the UE should be tested at 15 dBm and the possible methods, e.g.
A-MPR or RB restriction, should guarantee the protection requirement at 15 dBm
transmission power in the first place.
### 6.1.2 UE operation other than Tx power = 15dBm
Final Acts WRC-15 [2] does not mention requirements/conditions for a UE to
transmit other than at 15 dBm. Since co-existence studies have already been
done in ITU-R taking into account the collective effect of many UEs toward a
victim satellite, it is understood that variation of UE Tx power up to 23 dBm
or lower than 15 dBm is also taken into account. In this context, it is
assumed that UE may take any power as long as the protection requirements are
met. This means that if an RB allocation (i.e. a combination of RB~START~ and
RB length: L~CRB~) is permitted at 15 dBm, this allocation may be used in any
power up to 23 dBm.
There are two possible schemes to limit RB allocation to satisfy the
requirement: using A-MPR and RB restriction. The following clauses describe
the details of these methods including pros and cons.
## 6.2 Simulation results
Two simulation results are presented for the first 10MHz case, i.e. (1) in
section 5.1 [4, 5]. Note that simulations in this section were done in 23dBm
in maximum power and evaluate necessary back off relative to 23dBm with MPR
when needed.
{width="4.586111111111111in" height="3.4381944444444446in"}
Figure 6.2-1: Simulation result for the first 10MHz case [4]
INCLUDEPICTURE \"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\" \\*
MERGEFORMATINET INCLUDEPICTURE \"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\"
\\* MERGEFORMATINET INCLUDEPICTURE
\"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\" \\* MERGEFORMATINET
INCLUDEPICTURE \"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\" \\*
MERGEFORMATINET INCLUDEPICTURE \"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\"
\\* MERGEFORMATINET INCLUDEPICTURE
\"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\" \\* MERGEFORMATINET
INCLUDEPICTURE \"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\" \\*
MERGEFORMATINET INCLUDEPICTURE \"/Users/cid/image001.png\@01D1F51E.235DD130\"
\\* MERGEFORMATINET {width="3.9993055555555554in"
height="3.3055555555555554in"}
**Figure 6.2-2: Simulation result for the first 10MHz case [5]\ **
Firstly, the region where backoff is less than or equal to than 8 dB (7 dB in
case of 1 dB MPR to be applied, L~CRB ~> 12 in 10 MHz) is defined as the
\"permitted region\". On the other hand, the region where further backoff is
needed at 15 dBm is called as the \"prohibited region\". As mentioned above,
in the permitted region, a UE may use the RB allocation at any Tx power in
actual operation.
Two results show similar tendencies in terms of > 8 dB (or 7 dB) backoff
region, i.e.
\- up to 8RBs, no restriction is required,
\- the border of the regions is almost linearly extended from (RB~START~,
L~CRB~) = (0, 9) toward (20, 30), via (4,12),
This is depicted in Figure 6.2-3 where the white-colored region is
\"permitted\" in any power while yellow-colored region means \"prohibited\"
due to 15dBm results.
{width="5.079861111111111in" height="2.8569444444444443in"}
Figure 6.2-3: Prohibited and permitted regions for the first 10 MHz case
From these observations, it can be concluded that in this 10 MHz operation:
1) up to 8RBs may be used without restriction.
This fact leads to the following outcomes:
2) no PUCCH overprovisioning is required and,
3) eMTC (6RB) or in-band NB-IoT (1RB) could also be accommodated without
restriction.
Simulations for scenarios (2) -- (4) were presented in R4-168453 [6].
Concerning the first 5 MHz, the simulation result is shown in Figure 6.2-4
which is similar to first 10 MHz, i.e., up to 8RB may be used without any
restriction and this leads to the same outcomes in 2) and 3) above. (Note that
in 5 MHz and QPSK, 1 dB MPR is to be applied for L~CRB ~> 8).
{width="4.586111111111111in" height="3.4506944444444443in"}
Figure 6.2-4: Simulation result for the first 5 MHz case
Concerning second 10MHz and 5MHz, as shown in Figure 6.2-5 and 6.2-6 below,
there is no need to apply deep backoff such as 7 -- 8 dB. Thus, it can be
concluded that these frequency ranges may be used without any restriction.
{width="4.773611111111111in" height="3.5868055555555554in"}
Figure 6.2-5: Simulation result for the second 10 MHz case
{width="4.463888888888889in" height="3.359027777777778in"}
Figure 6.2-6: Simulation result for the second 5 MHz case
In addition, measurement results of PA were presented in R4-167412 [7]:
Table 6.2-1: Measurement result for Band 11 scenarios [7]
* * *
The first 5 MHz of B11 (case 3 in 5.1) The first 10 MHz of B11\ The second
5MHz and the second 10MHz in B11 (case 2 and case 4 in 5.1)  
(case 1 in 5.1)
RBstart L~CRB~ RBstart L~CRB~ No restriction for RB allocation
0 8 0 8
12 or 13 12 25 25
* * *
This measurement result agrees well with the simulation results described
above.
Based on the measurement of actual PAs at max (22 or 23 dBm) and reduced
power, R4-169494 [10] reported some observations and suggestions to set
relaxed criteria in operation above 15 dBm output power. While the document
echoes the unlimited use of the second 5 / 10 MHz as above, it also suggests
the possibility of extended RB usage in the first 5 / 10 MHz with improvement
of Tx impairments such as agreed for UL 256QAM.
## 6.3 Conditions required for EESS protection
Since the first 10 MHz and the first 5 MHz cases are only subject to resource
restriction, this clause focuses on the two cases.
### 6.3.1 A-MPR scheme
A-MPR is an ordinary method in LTE for the compliance to a protection
requirement. This requests a UE to implement the relation between RB
allocation (RB~start~ and L~CRB~) and required additional (i.e. post MPR)
backoff in a certain band. When an eNodeB broadcasts a relevant signal
(NS_XX), a UE shall limit its Tx power if necessary according to RB
allocation. Normally, A-MPR is defined when a new band is introduced: since it
is requested to be implemented in UEs and this is mainly used for regulatory
compliance, it is highly desirable for all the UEs for the band to support the
A-MPR. However, it is permitted to introduce A-MPR in the middle but for this
case, it is necessary to understand the drawback: this does not work for
\"legacy\" UEs which were released before the A-MPR was defined.
In the course of discussion, a new A-MPR schemes was discussed in R4-168411
[80 and R4-168506 [9] but with the clarification of prerequisites noted in
clause 6.1, it was concluded to use conventional A-MPR scheme. For the first
10 MHz case, as discussed above, the permitted region is free from A-MPR and
the prohibited region is for heavy backoff to satisfy the protection
requirement at 15 dBm. An example of possible A-MPR is derived from Figure
6.3.1-1 and shown in Table 6.3.1-1 below.
{width="5.2in" height="2.654861111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.1-1: A-MPR for the first 10 MHz case
Table 6.3.1-1: A-MPR for the first 10 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C  
RB~start~ 0 - 4 5 -- 11 12 -- 20  
L~CRB~ [RBs] 9-15 ≥16 12-16 ≥ 18 18-24 ≥ 25 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 13 ≤ 15 ≤ 9 ≤ 13 ≤ 9
≤ 13 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted
to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
As per the convention of the A-MPR/NS table, RB allocations not indicated in
the table may be used without A‑MPR. Since clarification of this point is
really needed, a note is added to the table.
For the first 5 MHz, an example of A-MPR table based on Figure 6.2-4 is:
Table 6.3.1-2: A-MPR for the first 5MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C  
RB~start~ 0 - 1 2 -- 4 5 -- 6  
L~CRB~ [RBs] 9-16 ≥18 12 - 16 ≥18 ≥18 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 10 ≤ 11 ≤ 9 ≤ 10 ≤ 9 Note:
RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
### 6.3.2 RB restriction scheme
RB restriction can be understood, in terms of RB allocation, as a special case
of A-MPR scheme where A-MPR is equal to 0. Thus, RB allocation is limited to
where additional power backoff is not required in the A-MPR scheme and the
actual RB allocation conditions have to be implemented in the eNodeB
scheduler, not in the UE. Because of this difference, a major advantage over
A-MPR scheme is that legacy UEs may also be operated under an eNodeB
supporting the RB restriction but flexibility of RB allocation would be
compromised.
Because no power reduction is applied, the operation in RB restriction is
limited to the \"permitted\" region in Figure 6.2-3 and in principle this
region may be used without any restriction as long as a scheduler in an eNodeB
can support it. However, the degree of freedom in RB allocation is a trade off
with the complexity of implementation or testability.
In the 10 MHz case, up to L~CRB~ = 8 may be used for any RB~Start~ first of
all. This is indicated in light green in Figure 6.3.2-1. In addition,
practically speaking, considering 5-6 RBs on both ends are occupied by PUCCH,
it is likely to introduce a combination such as (RB~start ~≧ 8, L~CRB ~≦ 16)
or (RB~start ~≧ 12, L~CRB ~≦ 20) in addition to L~CRB~≦ 8 for any RB~start~.
Note that Table 6.2-1 suggests (RB~start ~≧ 25, L~CRB ~≦ 25). An example of
such extension is shown in Figure 6.3.2-1 in dark green.
{width="5.169444444444444in" height="2.654861111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.2-1: RB restriction for the first 10MHz case
In the case of the first 5 MHz, in addition to up to 8RB without constraints,
(RB~start ~≧ 4, L~CRB ~≦ 12) might be likely as extended allocation taking 2
or 3 PUCCH region into consideration.
# 7 Conclusion
In this TR, possible schemes of Band 11 and Band 21 UE for EESS protection
were discussed. It was found that:
1) Only the lowest 5 or 10 MHz in Band 11 is subject to limitation of RB
allocation and the rest of Band 11 and Band 21 may be used without any
restriction,
2) In the lowest 5 or 10 MHz of Band 11, up to 8RB may be used without
limitation,
3) Because of 2), Cat. M1 (eMTC) or Cat NB1 (NB-IoT) in in-band may also be
used without restriction, and
4) Possible A-MPR and RB restriction schemes for the lowest 5 or 10 MHz were
also studied.
On the other hand, the two methods, A-MPR or RB restriction, have pros and
cons of their own and the choice will strongly depend on the availability of
\"legacy\" Band 11 and Band 21 UEs at the time of adopting the bands under
EESS protection. Therefore it is recommended for potential adopters to
consider this aspect carefully
#