# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the technical report for the study item
"Study on Further enhancements to Coordinated Multi-Point Operation" [2]. The
purpose of this TR is to help TSG RAN WG1 to understand the performance
benefit **of the enhancements related to coordinated multi-point schemes**.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
This document is intended to gather all information and draw a conclusion on
way forward.
This document will be kept up-to-date via CRs in the future.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-160665, \"New SID: Further enhancements to Coordinated Multi-Point
Operation\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.819, \"Coordinated multi-point operation for LTE physical layer
aspects (Release 11)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CoMP Coordinated Multi Point
CW Codeword
NC-JT Non Coherent Joint Transmission
CS/CB Coordinated Scheduling / Coordinated Beamforming
FD-MIMO Full dimensional MIMO
CSI Channel State Information
# 4 Introduction
_Editor's note: Capturing objective in SID [2]_
In the 3GPP TSG RAN #71 meeting, the Study Item Description on "Study on
Further enhancements to Coordinated Multi-Point Operation" was agreed for
Release 14 [2]. **The main objectives of the study item are to identify and
evaluate the performance benefits of the following enhancements related to
coordinated multi-point schemes:**
\- Support of non-coherent joint transmission (JT) (e.g. support of MIMO
layers transmission by the different transmission points in the single-user
MIMO)
\- Extension of beamforming and scheduling coordination (CS/CB) for Rel-13 FD-
MIMO on the transmission points
# 5 Evaluation scenarios and CoMP categories
## 5.1 Evaluation scenarios
_Editor's note: This subclause will capture the evaluation scenarios.
Evaluation should focus on the dense deployment scenarios_
The scenarios for evaluations are described in this clause:
\- Scenario A: Indoor small cell deployment, as illustrated in Figure A.1
\- Scenario B: Macro cell deployment, as illustrated in Figure A.2
\- Scenario C: Heterogeneous network with co-channel urban macro and outdoor
small cell deployment, as illustrated in Figure A.3
\- Scenario D: Heterogeneous network with non co-channel urban macro and
outdoor small cell deployment, as illustrated in Figure A.4.
## 5.2 CoMP categories
The following two CoMP categories are studied in this study item:
\- Non-Coherent JT:
Non-coherent JT scheme corresponds to the transmission scheme where
transmission of the MIMO layer(s) is performed from two or more transmission
points (TPs) without adaptive precoding across the TPs.
Non-coherent JT schemes can be classified as follows:
\- Mapping of codewords (CWs) to TPs:
**Case 1** : Different CWs are transmitted from different TPs. Each TP perform
adaptive precoding independently
**Case 2a** : The same CW is transmitted from different TPs with spatial
diversity (e.g. SFBC) / spatial multiplexing
**Case 2b** : The same CW is transmitted from different TPs using SFN
\- Resource allocations on different TPs:
> **Scheme 1:** The resource allocations from different TPs for a UE are fully
> overlapped
>
> **Scheme 2:** The resource allocations from different TPs for a UE are
> partially overlapped
>
> **Scheme 3:** The resource allocations from different TPs for a UE are not
> overlapped
\- Coordinated Scheduling/Beamforming (CS/CB)
Coordinated Scheduling/Beamforming as defined in **[3] using FD-MIMO
transmission schemes**
# 6 Potential enhancements for coordinated multi-point operation
_Editor's note: This subclause will capture the potential enhancements_
## 6.1 Potential enhancements for non-coherent joint transmission
Potential enhancements for non-coherent joint transmission (NCJT) can be
categorized as follows:
\- Enhancement to QCL assumptions for DM-RS antenna ports
\- Control signalling enhancements
\- CSI enhancements
\- Enhancement to channel/interference measurements
### 6.1.1 Enhancements related to QCL assumptions for DM-RS antenna ports
This category comprises schemes which support non-co-located DMRS ports. In
case of non-coherent JT, different CWs can be transmitted from different non-
co-located TPs in Case 1. Therefore, different MIMO layers and hence different
DMRS ports can come from different non-co-located TPs. In such case, a UE
cannot assume all DM-RS antenna ports are quasi co-located. In order to
support such QCL assumptions, one of the following approaches of specification
enhancements can be considered:
**\- Approach 1:** QCL assumption of DMRS ports is indicated per DMRS port
basis.
**\- Approach 2:** QCL assumption of DMRS ports is indicated per DMRS port
group basis.
**\- Approach 3:** QCL assumption of DMRS ports is indicated per CW basis.
Approach 1 is the most flexible since each DMRS port can have its own QCL
assumption. However, it tends to require more signaling overhead for
indication. Approach 2 can potentially reduce the DCI overhead by grouping the
DMRS ports into multiple groups if the DMRS port group(s) is configured in
higher layer signaling. Approach 3 is similar to Approach 2 where grouping is
done implicitly according to the allocated codeword(s). Overhead can be
potentially reduced further with this fixed relationship.
### 6.1.2 Enhancements related to control signaling
#### 6.1.2.1 Enhancements to PQI
This category comprises schemes where PQI (PDSCH RE Mapping and Quasi-co-
location Indication) is enhanced considering joint transmission from multiple
TPs. Particularly, the coordinating TPs for joint transmission may belong to
different cells which CRS resources are non-colliding. The signals received at
the position of REs that used for transmitting CRS may include two parts: data
signal from the serving TP and CRS from the coordinated transmission TP. In
this case, the mismatching of equivalent channel between data REs and DMRS REs
would arise and lead to the increase of decoding error rate. Hence multiple
CRS resources can be considered for PDSCH RE mapping. In addition, more than
one CSI-RS resource can be configured in each PQI status for QCL purpose as
mentioned in Section 6.1.1. Hence potential specification enhancements under
this category may include one or more of the following:
\- Support multiple CRS resources for PDSCH RE mapping in each PQI status.
\- Support multiple CSI-RS resources for QCL purpose in each PQI status.
\- Introduce more PQI bits to support more combinations of PQI parameters.
#### 6.1.2.2 Enhancements to MCS
This category comprises schemes where multiple MCSs are configured for single
CW from single and/or multiple TPs. For Scheme 2 of resource allocation i.e.
partial overlapping scheme, different interference is experienced for the same
codeword and hence using one MCS across the same codeword may not be
sufficient. Enhancements to MCS and CSI feedback can be considered to adapt
different interference conditions within one codeword. One example is to allow
multiple modulation schemes in one codeword.
#### 6.1.2.3 Enhancements to resource allocation
This category comprises schemes where resource allocation is enhanced
considering three resource allocation schemes stated in Section 5.2. In this
category, potential specifications enhancements may include one or more of the
following two approaches:
**\- Approach 1** : Single DCI approach - Support of resource allocation per
codeword basis in one DCI.
**\- Approach 2** : Multiple DCI approach - Support of multiple DCIs for
resource allocation from multiple TPs
One resource allocation indication for each component carrier can be only
signalled by one DCI in the current specification. Approach 1 extends the
resource allocation indication to multiple resource allocation indications in
case of multiple codewords to support non-coherent JT from multiple TPs. Joint
resource allocation indication can be also designed to support only a subset
of resource allocation schemes e.g. Scheme 1 and Scheme 3 in Approach 1. In
Approach 2, multiple resource allocation indications are independently
signaled via multiple DCIs. Therefore, Approach 2 requires a UE to support
reception of multiple DCIs in one component carrier.
#### 6.1.2.4 Number of CWs per TP
This category comprises schemes where the number of CWs per TP is considered.
Since CW-to-layer mapping is tightly depended on the number of CWs that can be
transmitted by each coordinated TP, it is necessary to determine the number of
CWs for each TP firstly. Potential specification enhancements under this
category may include one or more of the following:
**\- Approach 1** : Single DCI approach - each TP can be restricted to
transmit one CW.
**\- Approach 2** : Multiple DCI approach - up to one or two CWs per TP.
Approach 1 could save the signaling overhead since each TP is restricted to
transmit one CW and the existing UE capability can also be used when only two
TPs are involved in non-coherent transmission
Approach 2-1 considers up to two CWs per TP. In such case, the existing DCI
design can be reused and achieve minor specification changes while the
ACK/NACK should be considered for more than two CWs at the UE side.
Approach 2-2 considers one CW per TP. In such case, the DCI design needs to be
changed but ACK/NACK design of LTE can be reused.
#### 6.1.2.5 Enhancements to CW-to-layer mapping
This category comprises schemes where CW-to-layer mapping can be configured
for joint transmission from multiple TPs. In this category, potential
specification enhancements may include one or more of the following
approaches:
**\- Approach 1:** Single DCI approach
**\- Approach 2:** Multiple DCI approach
Approach 1 supports configuration of CW to layer mapping for each CW so that
it requires less coordination between two TPs for joint transmission. Both
joint and independent configuration can be considered for multiple CWs. The CW
to layer mapping may also imply certain CW to DMRS port mapping. For example,
one TP uses port 7 and/or 8 and another TP uses port 11 and/or 13 for
transmission. Some restriction can be considered to restrict number of CWs per
TP in the specification e.g. per CW QCL in Approach 1.
Approach 2 requires a UE to support reception of multiple DCIs in one
component carrier. Some restrictions can be considered to reduce the UE
complexity on decoding multiple codewords. For example, single codeword per
DCI can be configured for multi-layer initial transmission so that the maximum
number of codewords is equal to two in case of joint transmission from two
TPs. More than two DCIs can be considered. In such case, it requires UE to
process more than two CWs.
### 6.1.3 Enhancements related to CSI
This category comprises schemes where enhanced CSI calculation is introduced.
These schemes are targeted to enhance accuracy of CSI calculation under the
assumption of non-coherent joint transmission with consideration of inter-TP
or inter-CW interference. CSI enhancements can be done under the framework of
single CSI process or multiple CSI processes. Enhancements can also be
considered for advanced receiver e.g. SIC for non-coherent JT.
Several examples of schemes which fall under this category can be described as
bellow:
**\- Scheme 1:** using single CSI process with K>1 CSI-RS resources. Channel
measurement and inter-TP interference measurement can be flexibly configured
based on the selection of these K CSI-RS resource for different hypothesis.
**\- Scheme 2:** using single CSI process with enhanced codebook and an
aggregated CSI resource from multiple CSI-RS resources. CSI-RS resources from
multiple TPs are aggregated to form one CSI-RS resource. An enhanced codebook
with the codeword structure considering non-coherent joint transmission can be
applied to the aggregated channel measured from the aggregated CSI-RS. An
example of the codeword structure considering two-TP joint transmission is $W
= \begin{bmatrix} W_{a} & 0 \ 0 & W_{b} \ \end{bmatrix}$ , where $W_{a}$ and
$W_{b}$ are the precoding matrices applied to the two TPs respectively.
**\- Scheme 3:** using multiple CSI processes with dependency among CSI
processes. For the multiple CSI processes mechanism, dependency among these
CSI-processes can be considered. In this way, different interference
assumption for each TP is indicated. More specially, the calculated CSI of one
CSI process, e.g., PMI, from the first TP can be treated as configuration of
interferer during the CSI calculation for another CSI process i.e. for another
TP. This indication can also be used to improve the CSI accuracy assuming
advanced receiver, e.g., SIC.
### 6.1.4 Enhancements related to channel /interference measurements
This category comprises schemes where the enhanced measurements are utilized
to assist channel and interference measurement. These schemes are targeted to
enhance accuracy of channel/interference measurement and reduce the overhead
of measurement resources. In this category, potential specification
enhancements may include introduction of interference measurement resources
and configuration of measurement schemes. Several examples of schemes which
fall under this category can be described as follows.
**\- Scheme 1** , interference measurement based on NZP-CSI-RS: Considering
SIC, the first codeword is decoded with interference with another codeword. At
least for the interference from another codeword, it makes sense to consider
interference measurement based on NZP CSI-RS associated with the interfering
codeword. In such case, explicit channel estimation is derived for inter-CW
interference. Enhancements of using beamformed CSI-RS for NCJT can be also
considered especially for TDD scenarios where the precoder is obtained by
channel reciprocity via SRS.
**\- Scheme 2,** aperiodic CSI-IM: Aperiodic CSI-IM with interference
measurement restriction is beneficial for dynamic switching among different
CoMP schemes e.g. non-coherent JT and CS/CB. With aperiodic IMR based on ZP
CSI-RS, the network can trigger the UE to measure and CSI with desired
interference hypothesis more flexibly. This can be also combined with the
interference measurement based on NZP-CSI-RS. Then a resource pool for
aperiodic CSI-RS can be configured for both channel measurement and
interference measurement. Aperiodic channel and interference measurement
resources can be selected upon CSI triggering so that the UE can report many
CSI hypotheses within one CSI process.
**\- Scheme 3** , measurement restriction in the frequency domain: Measurement
restriction in frequency domain can be utilized to form multiple CSIs in
frequency domain. This can be considered for Scheme 3 of resource allocation
where transmitted data from coordinating TPs is partially overlapped which
means inter-TP interference is frequency selective.
### 6.1.5 Enhancements related to CSI with non-ideal backhaul
This category comprises schemes where fast CSI acquisition approaches are
considered with non-ideal backhaul links. Coordinating TPs obtain the CSI
through X2 interface with the backhaul time delay, which will lead to the
outdated CSI and performance degradation. The following two approaches can be
considered to reduce the impact of non-ideal backhaul delay:
**\- Approach 1** : UE reports its CSI measurement results to all coordinating
TPs through physical air interface directly
**\- Approach 2** : Exchange the SRS configuration between TPs
Approach 1 could be applied for both FDD and TDD systems. The target UE
reports its CSI measurement results to all coordination TPs through physical
air interface directly, from which the coordinating TPs can obtain the CSI of
the target UE more quickly. Approach 2 is suitable for TDD systems. All
coordinating TPs could exchange the SRS configuration of the target UE with
each other through X2 interface. Such approach could facilitate all
coordinating TPs to receive SRS of the target UE and obtain the CSI with more
quickly.
## 6.2 Potential enhancements for coordinated scheduling/beamforming with FD-
MIMO
Potential enhancements for coordinated scheduling/beamforming (CS/CB) can be
categorized as follows:
\- CSI feedback enhancement
\- Interference measurement enhancements
\- Enhancement to coordination information between eNBs/TPs
\- Enhancement to reference signals
\- QCL enhancement
\- Enhancement to SRS
### 6.2.1 Enhancements related to CSI feedback
This category comprises schemes where CSI calculation and feedback are
enhanced taking into account the effect of CS/CB. These schemes are targeted
to enhance accuracy of CSI and optimize the performance of coordination.
In this category, the following schemes can be considered:
**\- Scheme 1** : In this scheme, different beamforming hypotheses of
interference from coordinated TPs are considered for CSI derivation. This can
be achieved by using K>1 CSI-RS resources for Class B FD-MIMO. Channel
measurement and inter-TP interference measurement can be flexibly configured
based on the selection of these K CSI-RS resource for different hypothesis.
One special case of considering multiple interference hypotheses is to select
only the strongest interference among the K CSI-RS resources for CSI
derivation.
**\- Scheme 2** : In this scheme, soft PMI restriction due to CS/CB
coordination can be considered. In this approach, PMIs for the serving TP can
be selected at the UE using two or more power ratios, where each power offset
is applied to different group of PMI codebooks.
### 6.2.2 Enhancements related to interference measurement
This category comprises schemes where interference measurements are enhanced
by taking into account multiple interference hypotheses due to CS/CB. These
schemes are targeted to enhance accuracy of interference measurement and
reduce the overhead of measurement resources. In this category, potential
specification enhancements may include introduction of interference
measurement resources and configuration of measurement schemes.
Several examples of schemes which fall under this category can be described as
follows.
**\- Scheme 1** , interference measurement based on NZP-CSI-RS: Enhancements
of using beamformed and/or non-precoded CSI-RS for interference measurement
can be considered. One approach is to use K>1 CSI-RS resources in Class B FD-
MIMO to form multiple interference hypotheses. Another approach is to use
different precoding matrices to form multiple interference hypotheses when
using non-precoded NZP CSI-RS for interference measurement.
**\- Scheme 2,** aperiodic CSI-IM: Aperiodic CSI-IM with interference
measurement restriction is beneficial for dynamic switching among different
CoMP schemes e.g. non-coherent JT and CS/CB. With aperiodic IMR based on ZP
CSI-RS, the network can trigger the UE to measure and CSI with desired
interference hypothesis more flexibly. This can be also combined with the
interference measurement based on NZP-CSI-RS.
**\- Scheme 3,** measurement restriction in the frequency domain: Measurement
restriction in frequency domain can be utilized to form multiple CSIs in
frequency domain. In CS/CB, coordination can be done in frequency domain.
Measurement restriction according to the frequency domain coordination can be
considered. For example, interference is measured in subband which can
potentially lead to more accurate CQI/PMI.
### 6.2.3 Enhancements related to coordination information between eNBs/TPs
This category comprises schemes where the additional information is shared
among eNBs/TPs within coordinating set via X2 interface. These schemes are
targeted to enhance the performance of CS/CB with non-ideal backhaul
condition. Potential specification enhancements may include addition of shared
information in the X2 protocol.
In this category, the following information can be considered for exchange
between eNBs/TPs
\- CSI, e.g., CRI, PMI and RI - By sharing spatial channel information,
coordinating eNBs/TPs can perform CS/CB accordingly.
\- RS and measurement configuration, e.g., SRS, CSI-RS, DM-RS - Reference
signals can be configured semi-statically or dynamically according to the
coordination schemes. Interference measurement can be made based on the
reference signals of interfering eNBs/TPs. Therefore, exchange of RS
information facilitates inter-eNBs/TP coordination.
### 6.2.4 Enhancements related to reference signals
This category comprises schemes where reference signals are enhanced to
support CS/CB. These schemes are targeted to enhance the accuracy of RS based
channel and interference measurement or reduce the RS overhead. Potential
specification enhancements may include configuration of reference signals and
coordination on reference signals.
Some examples of schemes which fall under this category can be described as
follows.
**\- Scheme 1,** DMRS: DMRS configurations are shared among coordinating
eNBs/TPs. TPs can coordinate on usage of orthogonal DMRS ports. e.g. Cell 1
uses port 7 and Cell 2 uses port 8. Moreover, rank coordination can be
implemented using DMRS port coordination. With such coordination, the accuracy
of both channel and interference measurement can be improved.
**\- Scheme 2,** Multiplexing of CSI-RS resource with IC: Spatial multiplexing
of CSI-RS resources from different TPs or CSI-RS resources with different
beamformers from the same TP can be considered to reduce CSI-RS overhead. To
reduce the overhead of CSI-RS resource while maintaining measurement accuracy,
CSI-RS-IC can be introduced to cancel interference caused by multiplexing. To
support such receiver, the serving TP should indicate resource information of
coordinating TPs, including power of NZP CSI-RS, parameters for scrambling
sequence.
**\- Scheme 3,** SRS: Sharing of SRS configuration between eNBs can enable
coordinating eNBs to measure SRS from interfering UE(s). Moreover,
coordination schemes such as using resource-specific sequence and VCID can be
considered to improve the SRS measurement accuracy. These SRS enhancements are
beneficial to the systems where channel reciprocity is held e.g. for TDD
systems.
**\- Scheme 4,** resource pool sharing for channel and interference
measurement: A resource pool for aperiodic or semi-persistent CSI-RS can be
configured for both channel measurement and interference measurement.
Transmission of CSI-RS can be aperiodically triggered by each beam/TP in the
coordinating set according to the demand. Aperiodic channel and interference
measurement resources can be selected upon CSI triggering so that the UE can
report more than one CSIs within one CSI process. This can effectively support
more than one CSIs without increasing the overhead of measurement resources.
### 6.2.5 Enhancements related to QCL
This category comprises schemes where QCL assumptions are enhanced to support
measurement of RS ports which are not quasi-co-located from the serving TP in
case of CS/CB. Potential specification enhancements may include QCL indication
of DMRS ports or CSI-RS ports. Several examples of schemes which fall under
this category can be described as follows.
**\- Scheme 1,** DMRS: As described in Section 6.2.4, orthogonal DM-RS ports
can be used for coordinating TPs to reduce interference on DMRS. Interference
channel can be explicitly estimated if DMRS information is known. To perform
more accurate interference estimation, different QCL assumptions can be
considered for different DMRS ports.
**\- Scheme 2,** CSI-RS: K CSI-RS resources in Class B FD-MIMO can be
configured with different QCL assumptions to support the case that the K CSI-
RS resources may come from different TPs or different beams with different QCL
assumptions.
# 7 Evaluation results
## 7.1 Simulation results for non-coherent joint transmission
The summary of the simulation results based on agreed assumptions are shown
below:
Scenario A:
Table 7.1-1: Source 1 (R1-1611438) for scenario A (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU RU=5% RU=20% RU=40% RU=70%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline
Scheme 1-1 Mean UPT(Mbps) 52.09 70.31 43.88 53.56 32.66 40.62 19.02 21.73 5%
UPT(Mbps) 28.55 36.62 13.23 15.68 3.07 3.68 1.63 1.89 50% UPT(Mbps) 56.34 74.4
53.2 56.14 31.01 38.1 12.62 14.37 95% UPT(Mbps) 56.34 88.89 56.34 84.26 56.34
85.11 55.95 68.29 RU in Simulation 6.64% 6.69% 19.40% 18.46% 37.99% 33.27%
67.29% 66.45% Mean UPT gain 34.98% 22.06% 24.37% 14.25%  
5% UPT gain 28.27% 18.52% 19.87% 15.95%  
50% UPT gain 32.06% 5.53% 22.86% 13.87%  
95% UPT gain 57.77% 49.56% 51.06% 22.06%  
RU Gain 0.75% -4.85% -12.42% -1.25%
* * *
Table 7.1-2: Source 2 (R1-1611886) for scenario A (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU λ = 3 s-1 λ = 15 s-1 λ = 25 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 2-1 Baseline Scheme 2-1 Baseline Scheme 2-1 RU in
Simulation 5.53% 4.86% 24.00% 16.00% 43.88% 32.00% Mean UPT gain 55.14% 69.64%
62.54%  
5% UPT gain 63.77% 43.80% -6.80%  
50% UPT gain 57.56% 85.09% 141.88%  
95% UPT gain 44.92% 52.51% 54.28%  
RU λ = 3 s-1 λ = 18 s-1 λ = 25 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 2-2 Baseline Scheme 2-2 Baseline Scheme 2-2 RU in
Simulation 4.36% 3.93% 28.00% 18.70% 40.40% 28.00% Mean UPT gain 42.06% 59.59%
59.17%  
5% UPT gain 45.64% 36.49% 1.37%  
50% UPT gain 43.48% 75.61% 76.39%  
95% UPT gain 34.89% 47.31% 44.86%
* * *
Table 7.1-3: Source 3 (R1-1611951) for scenario A (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU λ = 5 s-1 λ = 10 s-1 λ = 15 s-1 λ = 20 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline
Scheme 3-1 Mean UPT(Mbps) 52.98 77.57 46.88 63.92 40.12 49.87 31.48 36.15 5%
UPT(Mbps) 29.37 33.63 19.13 20.75 13 12.14 7.25 6.65 50% UPT(Mbps) 58.46 97.54
54.91 58.66 41.45 22.62 28.71 28.65 95% UPT(Mbps) 58.99 99.63 58.99 99.39
58.91 98.99 58.77 98 RU in Simulation 5.00% 6.00% 12.00% 15.00% 19.00% 23.00%
30.00% 38.00% RU λ = 5 s-1 λ = 10 s-1 λ = 20 s-1 λ = 35 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 3-2 Baseline Scheme 3-2 Baseline Scheme 3-2 Baseline
Scheme 3-2 Mean UPT(Mbps) 80.98 82.92 49.09 53.64 28.43 32.15 5% UPT(Mbps)
36.38 41.79 17.14 20.06 8.05 9.89 50% UPT(Mbps) 95.52 95.54 42.15 47.7 24.31
27.22 95% UPT(Mbps) 97.32 97.32 96.64 96.64 61.88 73.99 RU in Simulation 3.00%
3.00% 18.00% 20.00% 42.00% 47.00% Mean UPT gain 2.00% 9.00% 13.00%  
5% UPT gain 15.00% 17.00% 23.00%  
50% UPT gain 0.00% 13.00% 12.00%  
95% UPT gain 0.00% 0.00% 20.00%  
RU λ = 5 s-1 λ = 10 s-1 λ = 20 s-1 λ = 35 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 3-3 Baseline Scheme 3-3 Baseline Scheme 3-3 Baseline
Scheme 3-3 Mean UPT(Mbps) 72.99 35.1 72.99 35.1 52.76 60.8 31.44 39.4 5%
UPT(Mbps) 29.66 91.46 29.66 91.46 18.89 23.19 9.72 12.36 50% UPT(Mbps) 83.72
97.21 83.72 97.21 45 56.81 26.99 33.75 95% UPT(Mbps) 97.31 97.31 97.31 97.31
96.87 97.02 72.19 93.21 RU in Simulation 3.00% 3.00% 7.00% 7.00% 18.00% 20.00%
38.00% 42.00% Mean UPT gain 2.00% 5.00% 15.00% 25.00%  
5% UPT gain 17.00% 18.00% 23.00% 27.00%  
50% UPT gain 0.00% 9.00% 26.00% 25.00%  
95% UPT gain 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 29.00%
* * *
Table 7.1-4: Source 4 (R1-1612114) for scenario A (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU RU=35%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 4-1 Scheme 4-2 Scheme 4-3 Mean UPT(Mbps) 32.7 (+21%)
27.0 (0%) 31.9 (+18%) 34.2 (+26.6%) 5% UPT(Mbps) 7160 (+39%) 5480 (+6.6%) 5810
(+13%) 5660 (+10%) 50% UPT(Mbps) 28.8 (+36%) 22.3 (+5.6%) 23.7 (+12.3%) 25.0
(+18.4%) 95% UPT(Mbps) 67.8 (0%) 67.8 (0%) 81.7 (+20.5%) 82.6 (+21.8%) RU in
Simulation 26.00% 45.00% 45.00% 44.00%
* * *
Table 7.1-5: Source 5 (R1-1701841) for scenario A (SU-MIMO)
* * *
**RU** **RU=85%**  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-1 Mean UPT(Mbps) 5.638 6.7479 5% UPT(Mbps) 0.6676
0.7027 50% UPT(Mbps) 3.2051 3.413 95% UPT(Mbps) 18.6047 21.978 RU in
Simulation 0.87% 0.854 Mean UPT gain 19.69%  
5% UPT gain 5.26%  
50% UPT gain 6.49%  
95% UPT gain 18.13%  
RU Gain -2.06%
* * *
Scenario B:
Table 7.1-6: Source 1 (R1-1611886) for scenario B (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU λ = 3 s-1 λ = 10 s-1 λ = 22 s-1 λ = 35 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline
Scheme 1-1 RU in Simulation 5.20% 3.78% 18.19% 17.08% 39.68% 23.41% 71.75%
54.99% Mean UPT gain 21.78% 20.43% 19.82% 22.74%  
5% UPT gain 11.24% 9.63% -1.49% 11.96%  
50% UPT gain 21.34% 19.56% 19.70% 23.11%  
95% UPT gain 28.63% 27.12% 27.20% 28.76%  
RU λ = 3 s-1 λ = 18 s-1 λ = 30 s-1 λ = 40 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-2 Baseline Scheme 1-2 Baseline Scheme 1-2 Baseline
Scheme 1-2 RU in Simulation 3.16% 3.36% 17.82% 13.00% 36.44% 28.78% 66.00%
42.08% Mean UPT gain 30.02% 27.75% 24.94% 52.02%  
5% UPT gain 22.37% 12.97% 6.33% -30.38%  
50% UPT gain 17.23% 24.73% 22.76% 40.67%  
95% UPT gain 63.05% 54.53% 50.46% 52.33%
* * *
Table 7.1-7: Source 2 (R1-1611953) for Scenario B (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU λ = 1.4 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 2-1 Mean UPT(Mbps)  
5% UPT(Mbps) 15 15 50% UPT(Mbps) 39 38 95% UPT(Mbps) 59 88
* * *
Table 7.1-8: Source 3 (R1-1608933) for Scenario B (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU λ = 1.4 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 3-1 Scheme 3-2 Mean UPT(Mbps) 52.1(101%) 53.2 (103%)
55.8 (108%) 5% UPT(Mbps) 16.7(95%) 18.2(104%) 17.5(100%) 50% UPT(Mbps) 95%
UPT(Mbps) RU in Simulation 13.00% 17.00% 17.00%
* * *
Scenario D:
Table 7.1-9: Source 1 (R1-1611952) for scenario D (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU λ = 2 s-1 λ = 4 s-1 λ = 8 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline Scheme 1-1 Baseline Scheme 1-1 Mean
UPT(Mbps) 49.52 58.09 46.09 46.09 39.29 44.48 5% UPT(Mbps) 19.67 20.38 16.49
16.49 11.41 11.73 50% UPT(Mbps) 58.34 58.51 53.98 53.98 40.49 43.69 95%
UPT(Mbps) 58.99 98.69 58.99 58.99 58.91 91.88 RU in Simulation 4.00% 5.00%
9.00% 10.00% 20.00% 23.00%
* * *
Other results:
Source 1(R1-1611177): Link performance for Case 2b with different Cell ID
> Scheme 1: data is not mapped on the CRS REs of both the serving TP and the
> coordinated TP
>
> Scheme 2: data is not mapped on the CRS REs of the serving TP
{width="5.139583333333333in" height="2.685416666666667in"}
Figure 1: Link performance evaluation of PDSCH RE mapping for non-coherent JT
Source 2(R1-1609715): QCL measurement results
\- Proper QCL assumptions$$
\- The QCL assumptions are based on the small cell which transmits PDSCH (i.e.
Cell 2)
\- Improper QCL assumptions
\- The QCL assumptions are based on the small cell which transmits RS only
(i.e. Cell 1)
{width="3.201388888888889in"
height="2.678472222222222in"}{width="3.201388888888889in" height="2.6875in"}
Figure 2A: Testing scenario 1 Figure 2B: Testing scenario 2
The following is observed from the above results:
\- From system-level simulation results NC-JT schemes provides the following
performance improvement
\- NC-JT provides 26.36% performance gain in average UPT
\- NC-JT provides 37.26% performance gain in 95%-tile UPT
\- NC-JT provides 24.33% performance gain in 50%-tile UPT
\- NC-JT provides 12.66% performance gain in 5%-tile UPT
\- Note: The above results for each metric are average over all simulation
scenarios
\- The NC-JT gains depends on the RU and number of antenna at TPs
\- In general, NC-JT gains increase when the RU values decrease
\- NC-JT shows gains for different number of TRP and UE antenna ports
## 7.2 Simulation results for coordinated scheduling/beamforming with FD-MIMO
The summary of the simulation results based on agreed assumptions are shown
below:
Scenario A:
Table 7.2-1: Source 1 (R1-1609864) for scenario A (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU 20% 50% 65%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-1 Scheme 1-2 Baseline Scheme 1-1 Scheme 1-2 Baseline
Scheme 1-1 Scheme 1-2 Mean UPT gain 0% 1% 1% 0% 3% 12% 0% 8% 29% 5% UPT gain
0% 11% 23% 0% 19% 65% 0% 34% 132% 50% UPT gain 0% 1% 4% 0% 5% 20% 0% 12% 39%
* * *
Scenario B
Table 7.2-2: Source 1 (R1-1611440) for scenario B (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU 70%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-1 Scheme 1-2 Scheme 1-3 Mean UPT(Mbps) 16.32 15.82
17.76 16.89 5% UPT(Mbps) 3.13 3.35 4.64 3.88 50% UPT(Mbps) 11.15 10.62 12.91
11.82 RU in Simulation 70.0% 69.0% 68.0% 65.0% Mean UPT gain 0% -3% 1.5% 3.5%
5% UPT gain 0% 7% 17.0% 24.0% 50% UPT gain 0% -5% 4.0% 7.0% RU Gain 0% -1.4%
-2.9% -7.1%
* * *
Table 7.2-3: Source 1 (R1-1611440) for scenario B (MU-MIMO)
* * *
RU 67%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 1-1 Scheme 1-2 Scheme 1-3 Mean UPT(Mbps) 17.55 17.02
17.76 18.36 5% UPT(Mbps) 4.01 4.21 4.64 4.93 50% UPT(Mbps) 12.53 12.05 12.91
13.81 RU in Simulation 67.0% 68.0% 65.0% 62.0% Mean UPT gain 0% -3.0% 1.0%
4.6% 5% UPT gain 0% 5.0% 16.0% 23.0% 50% UPT gain 0% -4.0% 3.0% 8.0% RU Gain
0% 1.5% -3.0% -7.5%
* * *
Table 7.2-4: Source 2 (R1-1611955) for scenario B (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU λ = 1.9 s-1 λ = 3.0 s-1 λ = 3.6 s-1 λ = 4.0 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 2-1 Scheme 2-1 Baseline Scheme 2-1 Scheme 2-1 Baseline
Scheme 2-1 Baseline Scheme 2-1 Mean UPT(Mbps) 33.57 45.81 46.43 22.89 40.74
41.9 16.28 38.14 18.12 37.74 5% UPT(Mbps) 11.27 24.43 24.52 5.66 18.97 19.33
2.97 16.5 3.48 15.04 50% UPT(Mbps) 31.65 50.64 51.59 18.88 43.46 45.88 12.17
38.1 13.74 37.55 95% UPT(Mbps) 55.71 55.8 55.81 55.26 55.71 55.77 45.35 55.69
49.87 55.7 RU in Simulation 23.10% 15.10% 14.90% 45.60% 24.00% 23.50% 61.40%
28.90% 61.20% 31.90% Mean UPT gain 0% 36% 27.00% 0% 78% 53% 0% 134% 0% 108% 5%
UPT gain 0% 117% 84.00% 0% 235% 148% 0% 456% 0% 332% 50% UPT gain 0% 60%
42.00% 0% 130% 92% 0% 213% 0% 173% 95% UPT gain 0% 0% 0.00% 0% 1% 0% 0% 23% 0%
12% RU Gain 0% -34.60% -29.10% 0% -47.40% -39.70% 0% -52.90% 0% -47.90% RU λ =
1.3 s-1 λ = 1.9 s-1 λ = 2.2 s-1  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 2-2 Scheme 2-3 Baseline Scheme 2-2 Scheme 2-3 Baseline
Scheme 2-2 Scheme 2-3  
Mean UPT(Mbps) 26.94 29 28.47 19.28 21.84 21.22 13.3 15.72 15.08  
5% UPT(Mbps) 7.99 8.58 8.61 4.66 5.26 5.42 2.52 2.95 3.11  
50% UPT(Mbps) 23.1 25.7 25.06 14.77 17.67 16.97 9.27 11.64 10.98  
95% UPT(Mbps) 55.53 55.62 55.57 51.09 55.2 54.81 39.24 43.19 41.64  
RU in Simulation 22.20% 20.80% 20.70% 41.80% 38.10% 37.90% 61.94% 57.10% 0.574  
Mean UPT gain 0% 7.60% 6.00% 0% 13.30% 10.30% 0% 18.20% 0.136  
5% UPT gain 0% 7.40% 8.80% 0% 12.90% 16.60% 0% 17.10% 0.254  
50% UPT gain 0% 11.30% 9.10% 0% 19.60% 15.90% 0% 25.60% 0.192  
95% UPT gain 0% 0.20% 0.10% 0% 8.00% 7.30% 0% 10.10% 0.071  
RU Gain 0% -6.30% -7.00% 0% -8.90% -9.60% 0% -7.80% -0.074
* * *
Table 7.2-5: Source 3 (R1-1611887) for scenario B (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU 24% 47% 75%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Mean UPT
gain 0% -2.82% 0% -1.79% 0% -0.14% 5% UPT gain 0% 3.49% 0% 4.46% 0% 16.32% RU
24% 46% 77%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Mean UPT
gain 0% -3.45% 0% -5.40% 0% -4.92% 5% UPT gain 0% 3.28% 0% 15.67% 0% 26.37%
* * *
Table 7.2-6: Source 3 (R1-1611887) for scenario B (MU-MIMO)
* * *
RU RU=26% RU=44% RU=67%  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Baseline Scheme 3-1 Mean UPT
gain 0% 3.58% 0% 0.59% 0% -0.63% 5% UPT gain 0% 5.04% 0% 8.82% 0% 8.32%
* * *
Table 7.2-7: Source 4 (R1-1612414) for Scenario B (SU-MIMO)
* * *
RU Full buffer  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 4-1 Scheme 4-2 Mean UPT gain 0% 17.00% 10.00% 5% UPT
gain 0% 78.00% 77.0% RU Full buffer  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 4-3 Scheme 4-4 Mean UPT gain 0% 6.00% 11.00% 5% UPT
gain 0% 25.0% 18.0% RU Full buffer  
Scheme Baseline Scheme 4-5 Scheme 4-6 Mean UPT gain 0% 25.00% 10.00% 5% UPT
gain 0% 65.0% 24.0%
* * *
The following is observed from the above results:
\- From system-level simulation results CS/CB FeCoMP with FD-MIMO provides the
following performance improvement
\- CS/CB provides 18% performance gain in average UPT
\- CS/CB provides 6% performance gain in 95%-tile UPT
\- CS/CB provides 46% performance gain in 50%-tile UPT
\- CS/CB provides 61% performance gain in 5%-tile UPT
\- Note: The above results for each metric are average over all simulation
scenarios
\- Simulation results in Table 7.2-4 were obtained based on large number TRPs
in coordination cluster
\- Substantially larger gain of CS/CB is observed with the largest
coordination area
\- This observation is based on evaluation results including one set of
results with coordination area of 57 cells.
\- The CS/CB gains depends on the RU
\- CS/CB gains are higher for higher RU
# 8 Conclusions
_Editor's note: This subclause will capture the RAN1 conclusions_
Based on this study, the following conclusions are drawn:
\- NC-JT can increase system user experience
\- NC-JT is generally more beneficial when the network experiences lower
traffic load
\- NC-JT is generally more beneficial in user perceived throughput for
50%-tile and 95%-tile of UE perceived throughput distribution, compared to
other UEs
\- NC-JT is generally beneficial for 4Rx UEs
NOTE: Gain is also observed for 2Rx UEs in one set of results
\- CS/CB with FD-MIMO can increase system user experience
\- CS/CB is generally more beneficial when the network experiences higher
traffic load
\- CS/CB is generally more beneficial in user perceived throughput for 5%-tile
(cell-edge performance) of UE perceived throughput distribution, compared to
other UEs
NOTE: Substantially larger gain of CS/CB is observed with the largest
coordination area based on one set of results
\- RAN1 concludes this Study Item and is ready for Work Item
###### ### Annex A: Simulation assumptions
_Editor's note: This annex will capture the simulation assumptions agreed for
performance evaluation of further enhancements on CoMP in RAN WG1_
The configurations for the system simulations are captured in this clause as
shown in Table A-1.
Table A-1 Configurations for system simulation
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameters | Scenario A | Scenario B | Scenario C/ D | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Type | Indoor Hotspot | Urban Micro | Co-channel and | | | (Figure A-1) | (Figure A-2) | Non co-channel | | | | | urban macro | | | | | with small | | | | | cells (Figure | | | | | A-3/A-4) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Layout | [Single | [Single | [Two | | | laye | layer | layer | | | r]{.underline} | ]{.underline}\ | s]{.underline} | | | | Macro layer: | | | | Indoor TP: | Hex. Grid | Macro layer: | | | | | Hex. Grid | | | Number of TPs: | [Number of | | | | | tiers: to be | Small cell | | | N=8, N=12 | reported] | layer: Random | | | (optional) | | drop N TPs in | | | | | the small cell | | | per 120m x 50m | | cluster | | | | | | | | | | N = 4 TPs, N = | | | | | 10 TPs | | | | | | | | | | [Number of | | | | | tiers: to be | | | | | reported] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ISD | 20m, 30m | 200m | Macro layer: | | | depending on | | 500m | | | the number of | | | | | small cell TPs | | Small cell | | | | | layer: Random | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Minimum | According to | According to | According to | | distances | TR 36.872 | TR 36.897 | TR 36.872 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Carrier | 3.5GHz | 2GHz | Macro layer: | | frequency | | | 2GHz | | | | | | | | | | Small cell | | | | | layer: | | | | | | | | | | 2.0GHz | | | | | (co-channel)\ | | | | | 3.5GHz (non | | | | | co-channel) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Coordination | All sites | 3 macro sites, | 3 macro sites | | cluster size | | 7 macro sites | with 3*3*N | | for ideal | | is optional, | small cell TPs | | backhaul | | other | | | | | coordination | 1 macro sites | | | | cluster size | with 1*3*N | | | | are not | small cell TPs | | | | precluded | | | | | | 7 macro sites | | | | | with 7*3*N | | | | | small cell TPs | | | | | is optional, | | | | | other | | | | | coordination | | | | | cluster size | | | | | are not | | | | | precluded | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | System | 10MHz (50RBs) | | | | Bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Channel model | Indoor Hotspot | Macro: 3D UMi | Macro layer: | | | | | 3D UMa | | | (see TR 36.814 | (see TR | | | | with the | 36.873) | Small cell | | | application of | | layer: 3D UMi | | | 3D distance | | | | | between an eNB | | (see TR | | | and a UE) | | 36.873) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TP antenna | ULA with M=1, | (8,4,2), | [Macro cell | | configuration | N=1, 2 or 4 | (8,8,2) | layer | | (M,N,P) | (optional), P | optional, | TP | | | = 2 with | (8,1,2) with | :]{.underline} | | | polarization | polarization | | | | _Model -2 from |_ Model -2 from | (8,4,2), | | | TR 36.873 _| TR 36.873_ | (8,8,2) | | | | | optional, | | | | Maximum number | (8,1,2) | | | | of TXRUs = 16 | | | | | | Maximum number | | | | | of TXRUs = 16 | | | | | | | | | | [Small cell | | | | | layer | | | | | TP | | | | | :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | M=1 | | | | | [,]{. | | | | | underline}N=1, | | | | | 2 or 4 | | | | | (optional), P | | | | | = 2 | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | polarization | | | | | _Model -2 from | | | | | TR 36.873_ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TP Tx power | 24dBm | 41dBm | Macro layer: | | | | | 46dBm | | | | | | | | | | Small cell | | | | | layer: 30dBm | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TP antenna | 2D omni with | 3D directional | Macro layer: | | pattern | 5dBi gain | with 8dBi gain | 3D directional | | | (According to | (According to | with 8dBi gain | | | TR 36.814) | TR 36.873) | (According to | | | | | TR 36.873) | | | | | | | | | | Small cell | | | | | layer: | | | | | | | | | | 3D directional | | | | | with 5dBi | | | | | gain, | | | | | θetilt=90 deg, | | | | | HPBWv= 40 | | | | | degrees | | | | | (According to | | | | | TR 36.819) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TP antenna | 6m | 10m | 25m for macro | | height | | | cells, 10m for | | | | | small cells | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Small cell TP | According to | N/A | According to | | dropping | TP layout | | TR 36.872 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE antenna | 1.5m, uniform | According to | According to | | height/UE | | TR 36.873 | TR 36.873 | | dropping | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Association of | Association | | | | UE to TP | method | | | | | (including | | | | | CRE) should be | | | | | reported | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Maximum CoMP | Baseline 3TPs. | | | | measurement | If a different | | | | set size | value is used, | | | | | it should be | | | | | indicated. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE antenna | According to | | | | gain | TR 36.873 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE receiver | 9 dB | | | | noise figure | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Traffic model | Non full | | | | | buffer FTP | | | | | traffic model | | | | | 1: S = | | | | | 0.1Mbytes | | | | | (optional) or | | | | | 0.5Mbytes | | | | | | | | | | Full buffer | | | | | | | | | | _Note:RAN1 | | | | | will not draw | | | | | any | | | | | conclusions on | | | | | the | | | | | performance | | | | | gains of full | | | | | buffer traffic | | | | | model results_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Traffic load | \ \- PUSCH 3-2 | | | | assumption | > for | | | | | > n | | | | | on-reciprocity | | | | | > operation | | | | | > (PUSCH 3-0 | | | | | > for | | | | | > reciprocity | | | | | > based | | | | | > operation) | | | | | > | | | | | > \- CQI, PMI | | | | | > and RI | | | | | > reporting | | | | | > triggered | | | | | > per 5ms | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Feedback | | | | | > delay is 5 | | | | | > ms | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Other | | | | | > parameters | | | | | > should be | | | | | > reported if | | | | | > used | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Overhead | > _3 symbols | | | | | > for DL CCHs, | | | | | > 2 CRS ports | | | | | > and DM-RS | | | | | > overhead | | | | | > according to | | | | | > number of | | | | | > scheduled | | | | | > layers_ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmission | TM10 based | | | | mode | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | Non coherent | | | | CSI-RS antenna | JT: 2 or more | | | | ports | ports per NZP | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | resource | | | | | | | | | | CS/CB for | | | | | FD-MIMO: 2 or | | | | | more ports per | | | | | NZP CSI-RS | | | | | resource | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Channel | Realistic | | | | estimation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CRS | CRS modelling | | | | interference | should be | | | | modelling | provided | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Handover | 3dB | | | | margin | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Backhaul link | 0ms, 2ms | | | | delay | (optional), | | | | | 5ms, 50ms | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Baseline | Rel-13 FD-MIMO | | | | scheme | without | | | | | coordination | | | | | for CS/CB | | | | | | | | | | > \- DPS/DPB | | | | | > for NCJT | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Other | | | | | > parameters | | | | | > should be | | | | | > reported if | | | | | > used | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _Performance | > \- Mean, 5%, | | | | Metr | > 50%, 95% | | | | ic/Parameters_ | > user | | | | | > throughput | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Served | | | | | > cell | | | | | > throughput | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Resource | | | | | > utilization | | | | | > (RU) | | | | | > | | | | | > \- Packet | | | | | > arrival rate | | | | | > λ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
{width="3.3555555555555556in" height="1.5166666666666666in"}
Figure A-1: Scenario A indoor small cell deployment
{width="2.9569444444444444in" height="2.84375in"}
Figure A-2: Scenario B macro cell deployment
{width="3.2597222222222224in" height="2.5729166666666665in"}
Figure A-3: Scenario C heterogeneous network with co-channel urban macro and
outdoor small cell deployment
{width="3.25in" height="2.5618055555555554in"}
Figure A-4: Scenario D heterogeneous network with non co-channel urban macro
and outdoor small cell deployment
#