# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document summarizes the studies of NB-IoT RF requirement for
coexistence with CDMA.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: "Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands"
[3] RP-161187, "Study on NB-IoT RF requirement for coexistence with CDMA"
[4] 3GPP TR 36.802: \" Narrowband Internet of Things (NB-IoT); Technical
Report for BS and UE radio transmission and reception (Release 13)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Objective of Study Item
Heading styles are included in the 3GPP TR Template and are used as follows:
This study item is to evaluate NB-IoT RF requirement to coexistence with CDMA
system, the detailed objectives are:
\- Identify operating bands for interference evaluation on NB-IoT coexistence
with CDMA, such as bands around 800M (B5, B26 etc.).
\- For the NB-IoT stand-alone operation mode, evaluate coexistence requirement
between NB-IoT and CDMA, and further evaluate whether R13 NB-IoT RF
requirements could be reused or not.
\- Identify necessary additional RF requirements to ensure NB-IoT for co-
existence with CDMA.
# 5 Frequency bands for evaluation of NB-IoT coexistence with CDMA
The CDMA air interface is used for both 2G and 3G networks to provide voice
and data services, which is widely used in many countries such as China,
Japan, Korea, US etc. in different regions. From the cdma2000 devices
statistic information of CDG, it can be found that CDMA frequency is mainly
using the bands below 2GHz, while 800M is the most important frequency band
for CDMA network for providing wide coverage. NB-IoT is targeting low cost and
wide area IoT application, which makes the frequency below 1GHz more suitable
for deployment. CDMA operators would prefer to deploy NB-IoT in the 800M
frequency band, which will be gradually re-farmed to LTE system, and CDMA and
NB-IoT coexistence will be a practical problem for both intra-operator and
inter-operator deployment scenarios.
The E-UTRA bands for NB-IoT around 800MHz are listed in Table 5-1, which
should be considered for NB-IoT RF evaluation to coexisted with CDMA.
Table 5-1 Operation bands of NB-IoT for RF evaluation around 800M
* * *
NB-IOT Operating Band Uplink (UL)\ Downlink (DL)\  
operating band\ operating band\  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**   **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894MHz
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz
18 815 MHz -- 830 MHz 860 MHz -- 875 MHz
19 830 MHz -- 845 MHz 875 MHz -- 890 MHz
20 832 MHz -- 862 MHz 791 MHz -- 821 MHz
26 814 MHz -- 849 MHz 859 MHz -- 894 MHz
* * *
# 6 System scenarios
## 6.1 Coexistence simulation cases
Simulation cases for evaluating coexistence study for NB-IoT are described in
this section. Only standalone NB-IoT operation mode is considered for
coexistence between CDMA and NB-IoT. The coexistence needs studied both for
the downlink and the uplink. The simulation cases are given in Table 6.1-1
Table 6.1-1 Simulation cases for coexistence study between CDMA and NB-IoT
* * *
Cases Aggressor system Victim system Link Direction Deployment 1 NB-IoT CDMA1x
Downlink Uncoordinated 2 CDMA1x NB-IoT Downlink Uncoordinated 3 NB-IoT CDMA1x
Uplink Uncoordinated 4 CDMA1x NB-IoT Uplink Uncoordinated
* * *
## 6.2 Coexistence simulation assumptions
Simulation parameters of Standalone NB-IoT for R13 coexistence study are
reused. For CDMA 1x system, the simulation parameters are mainly refer to
TR25.942, while the CDMA1x BS and UE's ACLR and ACS values are derived from
3GPP2 specs in C.S0010-D and C.S0011-D. The details simulation assumptions are
given in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1 Simulation assumptions for coexistence between CDMA and NB-IoT
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | NB-IoT | CDMA2000 1x | | | | | | | standalone | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency in | 0.85 | 0.85 | | GHz | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Size of each nominal | 0.2 | 1.23 | | channel BW in MHz | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmission | 0.18 | 1.23 | | bandwidth in MHz | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Environment | Urban macro | Urban macro | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network layout | 19-sites [57 | 19-sites [57 | | | sectors] with | sectors] with | | | wrap-around | wrap-around | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 750m\ | 750m\ | | in meter | (Same for aggressor | (Same for aggressor | | | and victim) | and victim) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | System loading and | Full buffer 100% | All users with | | activity | | 9.6kbps speech | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network location | Non co-located (at | Non co-located with | | | cell edge of legacy) | IoT | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL subcarrier | 15kHz | n/a | | spacing | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL | See RP-152284(both | n/a | | | multi-tone and | | | | single-tone) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL power control | No | TR25.942\ | | | | (reuse UMTS PC) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL power control | 36.942 section | TR25.942\ | | | 5.1.1.6 (set 1) by | (reuse UMTS PC) | | | bandwidth scale, | | | | target SNR at BS is | | | | 15 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency reuse | 1 | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of scheduled | 1 | According to 95% | | UE per cell (DL) | | users achieving | | | | target of | | | | (Eb/N0-0.5)dB; non | | | | orthogonally 0.2; | | | | target Eb/N0=5.5dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of scheduled | 3 for multi-tone | according to 5.5dB | | UE per cell (UL) | (60kHz per UE), 12 | noise rise; target | | | for 15kHz | Eb/N0=4.0dB\ | | | single-tone, 48 for | no MUD utilized, | | | 3.75kHz single-tone | beta=0 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna height in | 30 | 30 | | meter | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS max TX power in | 43/200kHz | 43 | | dBm | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Tx power of | n/a | 36.5 (R4-030558\ | | common channel in | | 22.4% Total Power) | | dBm^1^ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna gain | 15 | 15 | | including feeder | | | | loss in dBi | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna pattern | Horizontal | Horizontal\ | | | (TR36.942) | (65deg for -3dB) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS antenna | 20 | 20 | | front-back ratio in | | | | dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna height in | 1.5 | 1.5 | | meter | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE TX power in dBm | -40 to 23 | -52 to 23 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE antenna gain in | 0 | 0 | | dBi | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Building penetration | 45.820 Annex D.1 | n/a | | loss | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell selection | 3 | 3 | | margin in dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS-MS min couple | 70 | 70 | | loss in dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS ACLR in dB | 40 to 60^2^ | 37.2\ | | | | (own channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 1.23MHz\ | | | | adjacent channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 180kHz) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS ACS in dB | 40 to 50^2^ | 71\ | | | | (own channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 1.23MHz\ | | | | adjacent channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 180kHz) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE ACLR in dB | 20 to 50^2^ | 34.2\ | | | | (own channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 1.23MHz\ | | | | adjacent channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 180kHz) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE ACS in dB | 20 to 40^2^ | 49.5\ | | | | (own channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 1.23MHz\ | | | | adjacent channel | | | | measurement BW: | | | | 180kHz) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS noise figure in | 5 | 5 | | dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE noise figure in | 9 | 9 | | dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS-UE path-loss | TR36.942 macro urban | TR36.942 macro urban | | model | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Standard deviation | 10 | 10 | | of BS-UE log-normal | | | | shadow fading in dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | Inter-cell 0.5 | Inter-cell 0.5 | | correlation | intra-cell 1 | intra-cell 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Evaluation metrics | SINR vs ACS (as | Capacity vs NB-IoT | | | victim) | ACLR (as victim). | | | | For DL, capacity is | | | | the number of | | | | satisfied users. For | | | | UL, capacity is the | | | | number of users when | | | | 5.5dB noise rise is | | | | reached | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier | 1.1MHz to | 1.1MHz to | | separation^3^ | CDMA(central | NB-IoT(central | | | frequency | frequency | | | separation) | separation)\ | | | | Other Options are | | | | not Excluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: DL overhead | | | | channel resource | | | | consumption, | | | | including pilot, | | | | paging and sync | | | | overhead. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Similar to | | | | coexistence study in | | | | TR36.802, NB-IoT | | | | ACLR and ACS are | | | | defined for its own | | | | bandwidth size. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Other | | | | carrier separation | | | | options are not | | | | excluded. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.3 Coexistence simulation methodology
The following methodology for coexistence analysis will be used:
**Step-1** : RAN4 get agreement on RF performance assumptions for legacy CDMA
system.
\- The RF performance assumptions for legacy CDMA system should be determined
firstly, e.g., ACLR/ACS performance for both CDMA UE and BS.
**Step-2** : Based upon operators' input on the NB-IoT deployment scenarios,
the carrier separation between NB-IoT and CDMA systems are determined.
\- The carrier separation should be determined based on practical operators'
deployment needs.
**Step-3** : Conduct coexistence simulation based on agreed simulation
assumptions, under certain agreed RF performance assumptions for legacy CDMA
system and certain carrier separation options between NB-IoT and CDMA systems.
\- After obtaining coexistence simulation results, RAN4 should compare the
simulation results with Rel-13 NB-IoT RF requirement to determine it could be
reused or not.
\- If the aligned simulation results indicate that Rel-13 NB-IoT RF
requirements could be reused to guarantee the coexistence between NB-IoT and
legacy system, go to step 4.
\- If the aligned simulation results indicate that Rel-13 NB-IoT RF
requirements is not enough to guarantee the coexistence between NB-IoT and
legacy system, go to step 5.
**Step-4** : Conclusion can be reached that Rel-13 NB-IoT RF requirements
could be reused to make sure a proper coexistence with CDMA system.
**Step-5** : Identify the necessity of introducing new NB-IoT RF requirement
to make sure a proper coexistence with CDMA system.
Similar to the methodology utilized in Rel-13 coexistence study for NB-IoT
[4], the evaluation metrics used in this coexistence study is
\- For NB-IoT, SINR loss should be less or equal to 1dB
\- For CDMA , Capacity loss should be less or equal to 5%
Similar to the methodology utilized in Rel-13 coexistence study for NB-IoT
[4], the following calculation for ACLR/ACS modeling is applied in the
coexistence study:
\- Definition and assumption
\- CDMA ACLR is defined for NB-IoT system bandwidth of 180 kHz.
\- CDMA ACS is defined for its own bandwidth (while the adjacent channel
measurement bandwidth (as aggressor) is 180kHz), and the value is derived
based on single tone desensitization test.
\- NB-IoT ACLR and ACS are defined for its own bandwidth size
\- Attenuations are flat in the adjacent channels
\- ACLR and ACS are the inputs to the simulations
\- ACLR_e is the effective ACLR in the interference calculation
\- ACS_e is the effective ACS in the interference calculation
\- Interference from CDMA2000 to NB-IoT
\- ACLR_e = ACLR~CDMA~ -- 10*log10(1/(# of IoT users))
\- ACS_e = ACS~NB-IoT~ [pessimistic assumption]
\- Interference from NB-IoT to CDMA2000
\- ACLR_e = ACLR~NB-IoT~ -- 10*log10(1.23MHz/180kHz) [pessimistic assumption]
\- ACS_e = ACS~CDMA~
## 6.4 Coexistence simulation results
### 6.4.1 Case1 -- Downlink, NB-IoT aggressor, CDMA1x victim
Table 6.4.1: Simulation results for Case1
* * *
Sourcing Case 1\ CDMA 850MHz  
NB-IoT -> CDMA1x
             BS ACLR             30            35     40     45     50     55     60
Samsung Capacity loss 1.44 0.62 0.28 0.09 0.03
Huawei Capacity loss 1.6 0.36 0.14 0.08 0.07
Ericsson Capacity loss 0.10 0.03 0.01 0.00 0.00
Qualcomm Capacity loss 0.39 0.31 0.23 0.15 0.1
* * *
### 6.4.2 Case2 -- Downlink, CDMA1x aggressor, NB-IoT victim
Table 6.4.2: Simulation results for Case2
* * *
Sourcing Case 2\ CDMA 850MHz  
CDMA1x -> NB-IoT
             UE ACS              20            25     30     35     40
Samsung SNR loss\ 1.55 0.76 0.40 0.24 0.16 5%
             SNR loss\           0.73          0.38   0.21   0.15   0.11
             50%
             SNR loss\           0.14          0.07   0.03   0.02   0.01
             95%
             SNR loss\           0.04          0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00
             99%
Huawei SNR loss\ 7.9 4.33 2.7 1.17 0.81 5%
             SNR loss\           4.59          2.9    1.68   0.97   0.42
             50%
             SNR loss\           2.01          1.36   0.98   0.58   0.38
             95%
             SNR loss\           1.99          0.34   0      0      0
             99%
Ericsson SNR loss\ 6 2.8 1.6 0.9 0.7 5%
             SNR loss\           1.3           0.8    0.5    0.3    0.2
             50%
             SNR loss\           0.3           0.2    0      0      0
             95%
             SNR loss\           0.1           0      0      0      0
             99%
Qualcomm SNR loss\ 3,77 1.76 0.89 0.47 0.25 5%
             SNR loss\           1.09          0.63   0.36   0.2    0.11
             50%
             SNR loss\           0.27          0.14   0.07   0.03   0.02
             95%
             SNR loss\           0.07          0.04   0.01   0.01   0
             99%
* * *
### 6.4.3 Case3 -- Uplink, NB-IoT aggressor, CDMA1x victim
Table 6.4.3a: Simulation results for Case3
* * *
Sourcing Case 3\ CDMA 850MHz  
NB-IoT -> CDMA1x\  
3 UEs - 60 kHz
             UE ACLR              20            25      30      35      40      45     50     55
Samsung Capacity loss 92.00 57.09 27.66 8.25 2.82 0.75
Huawei Capacity loss 85.60 52.90 22.20 8.50 3.20 1.90 0.90
Ericsson Capacity loss 73.18 65.23 52.78 35.49 18.50 7.96 2.66
Qualcomm Capacity loss 52.24 27.75 12.33 5.02 2.03 0.88
* * *
Table 6.4.3b: Simulation results for Case3
* * *
Sourcing Case 3\ CDMA 850MHz  
NB-IoT -> CDMA1x\  
12 UEs - 15 kHz
             UE ACLR              20            25   30      35      40      45     50     55
Samsung Capacity loss 80.9 41.55 12.34 3.91 1.06
Qualcomm Capacity loss 64.76 35.68 17.18 7.05 2.64 1.06
* * *
Table 6.4.3c: Simulation results for Case3
* * *
Sourcing Case 3\ CDMA 850MHz  
NB-IoT -> CDMA1x\  
48 UEs - 3.75 kHz
             UE ACLR              20            25     30      35      40      45     50     55
Samsung Capacity loss 86.14 41.48 13.15 4.15 1.39
Huawei Capacity loss 93.2 61.1 27.3 9.2 5 2.4 0.6
Qualcomm Capacity loss 71.81 44.31 21.41 8.81 3.26 1.23
* * *
### 6.4.4 Case4 -- Uplink, CDMA1x aggressor, NB-IoT victim
Table 6.4.4a: Simulation results for Case4
* * *
Sourcing Case 4\ CDMA 850MHz  
CDMA1x -> NB-IoT\  
3 UEs - 60 kHz
               BS ACS               40            45      50
Samsung SNR loss\ 0.01 0.01 0.01 5%
               SNR loss\            0.03          0.02    0.02
               50%
               SNR loss\            0.10          0.09    0.08
               95%
               SNR loss\            0.10          0.09    0.08
               99%
Huawei SNR loss\ 0.03 0.01 0.01 5%
               SNR loss\            0.18          0.06    0.03
               50%
               SNR loss\            0.13          0.04    0.01
               95%
               SNR loss\            0.22          0.07    0.02
               99%
Ericsson SNR loss\ 0.40 0.40 0.40 5%
               SNR loss\            0.10          0.10    0.10
               50%
               SNR loss\            0.00          0.00    0.00
               95%
               SNR loss\            0.20          0.20    0.20
               99%
Qualcomm* SNR loss\ 0.001 0 0 5%
               SNR loss\            0.001         0.001   0.001
               50%
               SNR loss\            0.001         0       0
               95%
               SNR loss\            0.02          0.01    0
               99%
* * *
Table 6.4.4b: Simulation results for Case4
* * *
Sourcing Case 4\ CDMA 850MHz  
CDMA1x -> NB-IoT\  
12 UEs - 15 kHz
               SNR loss\            40            45      50
               5%
Samsung SNR loss\ 0.01 0.01 0.01 50%
               SNR loss\            0.03          0.03    0.03
               95%
               SNR loss\            0.09          0.08    0.08
               99%
               SNR loss\            0.12          0.11    0.10
               95%
Ericsson SNR loss\ 0 0 0 5%
               SNR loss\            0.1           0.1     0.1
               50%
               SNR loss\            0.3           0.3     0.3
               95%
               SNR loss\            0.5           0.4     0.4
               99%
Qualcomm* SNR loss\ 0 0 0 5%
               SNR loss\            0.002         0.001   0
               50%
               SNR loss\            0.01          0.003   0.003
               95%
               SNR loss\            0.01          0.003   0.002
               99%
* * *
Table 6.4.4c: Simulation results for Case4
* * *
Sourcing Case 4\ CDMA 850MHz  
CDMA1x -> NB-IoT\  
48 UEs - 3.75 kHz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BS ACS               40            45      50
Samsung SNR loss\ 0.01 0.01 0.01 5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            0.03          0.03    0.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            0.09          0.08    0.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     95%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            0.10          0.08    0.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     99%
Huawei SNR loss\ 0.50 0.15 0.05 5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            2.17          0.79    0.27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            2.30          0.97    0.36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     95%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            2.10          0.97    0.67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     99%
Qualcomm^1^ SNR loss\ 0.001 0 0 5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            0.002         0.001   0.001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            0.01          0.003   0.002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     95%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SNR loss\            0.003         0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     99%
Note 1: In Qualcomm's simulation considering the interference from CDMA2000 to
NB-IoT, the equation ACLR_e = ACLR_~CDMA~ is utilized. It indicates the
effective ACLR ( ACLR_e ) is defined over the NB-IoT system bandwidth.
* * *
# 7 RF requirement evaluation for NB-IoT coexistence with CDMA
Co-existence simulations are performed between NB-IoT and CDMA systems. These
simulation results summarized in the previous chapter will be utilized to
study whether or not Rel-13 NB-IoT BS and UE RF requirement can satisfy the
coexistence with legacy CDMA system.
It should be noted that based on the approved simulation assumption, the
carrier separation between NB-IoT and CDMA is 1.1 MHz. Correspondingly the
edge to edge frequency separation is 385 kHz. The analysis is based on this
assumption.
{width="6.15625in" height="1.8333333333333333in"}
Figure 7-1: Carrier separation between NB-IoT and CDMA
## 7.1 Study of BS requirement
### 7.1.1 NB-IoT BS Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
From the simulation results, BS ACLR requirements are summarized in Table
7.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.1-1: Simulation results outcomes for BS ACLR
+------+----------+-------+---------------------+------------------------------+ | BS | Company | Value | Impact | Agreed ACLR Requirement (dB) | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+------------------------------+ | ACLR | Samsung | 40 | 1.44% capacity loss | \<40 | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+------------------------------+ | | Huawei | 30 | 1.6% capacity loss | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+------------------------------+ | | Qualcomm | 35 | 0.39% capacity loss | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+------------------------------+ | | Ericsson | 40 | 0.1% capacity loss | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+------------------------------+
Based on simulation results for the coexistence scenario 1 from different
companies, the CDMA performance loss criteria (equal or less than 5% capacity
loss) can be well satisfied even when NB-IoT BS ACLR is 40 dB (defined for its
own bandwidth). By comparing with current Rel-13 NB-IoT requirement defined in
TS 36.104, the current requirements (40dB for 1st neighboring channel and 50dB
for 2nd neighboring channel) are stringent enough to guarantee the protection
for CDMA system, especially considering more guard band (1.1 MHz for central
frequency separation, or equivalently 385kHz edge to edge separation) is
provided for the coexistence scenario for CDMA system.
Therefore, Rel-13 NB-IoT BS ACLR requirement is stringent enough to guarantee
the protection for CDMA system, and no additional requirement is needed.
### 7.1.2 NB-IoT BS Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
From the simulation results, BS ACS requirements are summarized in Table
7.1.2-1.
Table 7.1.2-1: Simulation results outcomes for BS ACS
+-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | BS | Company | Value | Impact | Agreed ACS Requirement (dB) | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | ACS | Samsung | 40 | [0.01; 0.10] dB | \<45 | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | | Huawei | 45 | [0.01; 0.07] dB | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | | Qualcomm | 40 | [0.001; 0.02] | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | | Ericsson | 40 | [0.0; 0.40] dB | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
Based on simulation results for the coexistence scenario 4 from different
companies, the NB-IoT performance loss criteria (equal or less than 1dB SINR
loss) can be well satisfied even when NB-IoT BS ACS is 45 dB for its own
bandwidth. By comparing with current Rel-13 NB-IoT requirement defined in TS
36.104, the current requirements (\~45 dB at 100 KHz edge to edge frequency
offset) are stringent enough to guarantee the protection for CDMA system. The
guard band (1.1 MHz for central frequency separation, or equivalently 385kHz
edge to edge separation) also provide enough margin to guarantee the
protection requirement for CDMA system can be meet easily.
Hence, Rel-13 NB-IoT BS ACS requirement is stringent enough to guarantee the
coexistence with neighboring CDMA system, and no additional requirement is
needed.
## 7.2 Study of UE requirement
### 7.2.1 NB-IoT UE Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
From the simulation results, UE ACLR requirements are summarized in Table
7.2-1
Table 7.2.1-1: Simulation results outcomes for UE ACLR
+------+----------+-------+---------------------+---------------------+ | UE | Company | Value | Impact | Agreed ACLR | | | | | | Requirement (dB) | | | | (dB) | | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+---------------------+ | ACLR | Samsung | 45 | [2.82; 4.15] % | \<50 | | | | | capacity loss | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+---------------------+ | | Huawei | 40 | [3.20;5] % | | | | | | capacity loss | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+---------------------+ | | Qualcomm | 50 | [2.03;3.26]% | | | | | | capacity loss | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+---------------------+ | | Ericsson | 50 | 2.66% capacity loss | | +------+----------+-------+---------------------+---------------------+
As RAN4 group agreement, NB-IoT UE spectrum emission mask specified in Table
6.6.2F.1-1 in TS 36.101 will be used to study whether the achievable ACLR
value obtained from Rel-13 NB-IoT UE RF requirement can guarantee the
coexistence with CDMA. Specifically, with 385 kHz edge to edge separation
between CDMA and NB-IoT deployment, around 49dB ACLR (integrated over 180 kHz
adjacent channel frequency based on the emission mask with 23dBm assumed for
Tx power) can be provided. Furthermore, more than 50dB can be expected with
485 kHz edge to edge separation.
Based on simulation results for the coexistence scenario 3 from different
companies, the CDMA performance loss criteria (equal or less than 5% capacity
loss) can be well satisfied when the minimum requirement for NB-IoT UE ACLR is
within the range of 45-50 dB (defined for its own bandwidth). Considering the
practical NB-IoT UE implementation margin from spectrum emission mask, the
ACLR requirement to protect CDMA can be easily satisfied without the necessity
to introduce extra requirement and test case.
Hence, Rel-13 NB-IoT UE ACLR requirement (with 385 kHz edge to edge separation
between CDMA and NB-IoT deployment), can guarantee the coexistence with
neighboring CDMA system considering practical NB-IoT UE implementation margin,
and no additional requirement is needed.
#### 7.2.2 NB-IoT UE Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
From the simulation results, UE ACS requirements are summarized in Table
7.2.2-1
Table 7.2.2-1: Simulation results outcomes for UE ACS
+-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | UE | Company | Value | Impact | Agreed ACS Requirement (dB) | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | ACS | Samsung | 25 | [0.01; 0.76] dB | \<35 | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | | Huawei | 35 | [0;1.17] dB | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | | Qualcomm | 30 | [0.01;0.89]dB | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+ | | Ericsson | 35 | [0;0.9] dB | | +-----+----------+-------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
Based on the simulation results for the coexistence scenario 2 from different
companies, the NB-IoT performance loss criteria (equal or less than 1dB SINR
loss) can be well satisfied when the requirement for the NB-IoT UE ACS is
equal or larger than 35 dB for its own bandwidth, except one worst case
simulation result from an individual company, in which SINR loss could be as
large as 1.17dB for 5%-tile UE under 35dB ACS.
With the current Rel-13 NB-IoT requirement analyzed in TR 36.802, the current
requirements provide 30dB UE ACS for neighboring GSM signal and 35dB UE ACS
for neighboring E-UTRA signal. By comparing the test condition for 35dB E-UTRA
ACS requirement, the guard band between CDMA and NB-IoT deployment is much
larger, (i.e., 1.1MHz central frequency separation, and equivalently 385kHz
edge to edge separation), which is able to provide enough gap to guarantee the
protection requirement even for the worst case simulation result.
Therefore, Rel-13 NB-IoT UE ACS requirement is stringent enough to guarantee
the coexistence with neighboring CDMA system, and no additional requirement is
needed.
## 7.3 Further consideration
Based on RAN4 discussion, there are some options which can further help
reducing UE ACLR needs and then improve NB-IoT and CDMA systems coexistence.
Two of those options are provided here for information, which does not have
any impact on the final conclusion drawn from this study.
By improving BS scheduler to schedule the less power aggressive UEs on NB-IoT
tone(s) close to CDMA band and the other UEs on the other side of NB-IoT PRB
(example shown on Figure 7.3-1), or/and by using A-MPR feature for those UEs
which are scheduled on tone(s) close to CDMA band (example shown on Figure
7.3-2) would guarantee even better coexistence in between both RATs.
{width="6.594444444444444in" height="1.551388888888889in"}
Figure 7.3-1: NB-IoT UEs scheduling depending on used output power
{width="6.68125in" height="1.3645833333333333in"}
Figure 7.3-2: NB-IoT UE and A-MPR consideration
# 8 Conclusion
As one of the most promising and competitive IoT technology, Narrowband IoT RF
requirements have been completed in Rel-13 standardization while limited
consideration for coexistence with CDMA has been taken in NB-IoT RF evaluation
and specifications, which however challenges worldwide CDMA operators to
handle the inter-operator coexistence issue as well as carrier planning for
NB-IoT deployment. Thus this study item with results documented in TR36.752
was approved in order to evaluate coexistence requirement between NB-IoT and
CDMA, and then further assess whether Rel-13 NB-IoT RF requirements could be
reused or not.
After potential NB-IoT operating bands being identified for interference
evaluation on NB-IoT coexistence with CDMA, extensive studies from various
industry participants have been conducted with the following conclusion
achieved: With 1.1MHz central carrier separation between NB-IoT and CDMA, or
equivalently 385kHz edge to edge frequency separation, Rel-13 NB-IoT BS and UE
RF requirements are stringent enough to guarantee the coexistence with
neighboring CDMA system, and no additional requirement is needed.
#