# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report on TR on V2X Services based on
LTE sidelink.
The purpose of the present document is to study the radio requirements and
adjacent channel coexistence with high power up to 33dBm on V2X services based
on LTE sidelink as part of the Rel-14 work item. The normative requirements
resulting from the present document will be addressed in the applicable
release 14 Technical Specifications (TS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-161894: \"Revised WI proposal: LTE-based V2X Services\".
_[3] 3GPP_ TR 36.885 V2.0.0: \" Study on LTE-based V2X Services\".
_[4] 3GPP_ TR 36.101 V14.1.0: \" User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception\".
[5] R4-168998: "**WF on power class for high power V2X UE".**
[6] RP-162519: \"Revised WI proposal: LTE-based V2X Services\".
[7] R4-1610902, \"Clarifications on some issues for V2X,\" Huawei
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
D2D Device to Device
D2DSS D2D Synchronization Signal
PD2DSCH Physical D2D Synchronization Channel
PD2DSS Primary D2D Synchronization Signal
ProSe Proximity based Services
PS Public Safety
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast CHannel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery CHannel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
PSSS Primary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
SD2DSS Secondary D2D Synchronization Signal
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
SSSS Secondary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
V2X Vehicle to Anything
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
The pace of LTE network deployment is accelerating all over the world, which
enables more and more advanced services and Internet applications making use
of the inherent benefits of LTE, such as higher data rate, lower latency and
enhanced coverage. Widely deployed LTE-based network provides the opportunity
for the vehicle industry to realize the concept of 'connected cars'. By
providing a vehicle with an access to the LTE network a vehicle can be
connected to the Internet and other vehicles so that a broad range of existing
or new services can be envisaged. Vehicle manufacturers and cellular network
operators show strong interests in vehicle wireless communications for
proximity safety services as well as commercial applications.
LTE-based V2X study is urgently desired from market requirement, and the
market for V2V communication in particular is time sensitive. There are many
research projects and field tests of connected vehicles in some countries or
regions, such as US/Europe/Japan/korea. In China, CCSA has finished the
feasible study for vehicle safety application based on TD-LTE in 2014 and
began the series of industrial standard of communication based on LTE for
vehicle application. Further, in March 2015, the frequency study of V2X also
started in CCSA and some vehicular industrial alliances in china. Based on the
study, National Regulatory Authority in China will allocate the frequency of
connected vehicles.
In order to respond to this situation, RAN approved the feasibility study on
LTE-based V2X services to evaluate new functionalities needed to operate LTE-
based V2X (V2V, V2I/N, and V2P), and to investigate potential enhancements for
vehicular services. The study was completed in RAN#72.
In the study, the RAN WGs concluded that it is feasible to support transport
for V2V, V2I/N and V2P services over Uu. The RAN WGs identified solutions to
improve the latency, capacity, and reliability performance of LTE Uu interface
and observed that UL enhancements to the SPS protocol and DL enhancement to
multicast/broadcast are beneficial from performance perspective. In addition,
the RAN WGs concluded that it is feasible to support V2I and V2P servicesover
PC5. It is concluded that V2P services where P-UE sends V2X messages but not
receives V2X messages is substantially more power efficient than V2P services
where P-UE receives V2X messages from V-UEs. The RAN WGs identified that some
changes to the PC5 interface would be beneficial in terms of power consumption
and UE complexity in case of P2V transmissions. RAN WGs also preliminarily
discussed the co-existence between DSRC/IEEE 802.11p and LTE PC5 for V2V. For
deployment of LTE PC5 for V2V and DSRC/IEEE 802.11p in the same geographical
area, RAN WGs think that the ideal option is when they use different frequency
channels. Nevertheless, if they use shared frequency channels, RAN WGs think
they can still co-exist together with some standardizations and/or regulatory
actions in other bodies in order to enable this.
A new work item on architecture enhancements for LTE support of V2X services
was approved in SA2 in S2-163204. In this work item, architecture enhancement
to support V2X services using both PC5 and Uu will be covered.
## 4.2 Objective
The objectives of this work are to specify enhancements to both Uu transport
and PC5 transport in E-UTRAN to support LTE-based V2X (V2V, V2I/N, and V2P)
based on the outcome of the related study.
The detailed objectives are as follows:
1) To specify enhancements to both SC-PTM and MBSFN transmissions for support
of V2X services including:
    a.  DL transmission in small areas based on geographical
        information, with necessary coordination with SA2 (note:
        Depending on the solutions, the specification(s) may or may not
        be impacted) \[RAN3\]
        -   Based on input from SA2/RAN3, determine whether any
            additional enhancement is necessary to reduce control plane
            latency and specify a solution (as identified in TR 36.885)
            if needed \[RAN2\]
    b.  Shorter modification/repetition period(s) of MCCH and SC-MCCH,
        and shorter MCH scheduling period(s) \[RAN2, RAN3\]
Note: SA2 is expected to send LS to RAN3 in case that architecture impacts
exist.
2) To specify enhancements to UL and SL SPS transmissions for support of V2X
services including:
    a.  Multiple SPS configurations \[RAN2, RAN1\]
    b.  Reporting of UE assistance information for SPS transmissions
        \[RAN2\]
3) To specify enhancements for support of V2P service:
    a.  Random resource selection for P-UEs potentially on the PC5
        resource pool shared with V-UE transmissions, with additional
        study on sensing operation during a limited time for P-UEs
        \[RAN1, RAN2\]
    b.  Authorization for pedestrian UEs, if necessary \[RAN3, RAN2 if
        needed\]
4) To specify solution(s) facilitating long-term basis co-channel coexistence
between DSRC/IEEE 802.11p and LTE PC5 for V2V operating over the same
frequency channels [RAN1]
> This objective starts from RAN#73 and target is to complete this by RAN#74.
> Solution(s) to be specified should avoid negative impact on the performance
> of LTE PC5.
5) To determine the need of a signaling to indicate whether Uu and/or PC5 is
allowed for transport of V2V messages within network coverage, if necessary,
in coordination with other working groups [RAN2]
6) To specify other enhancements to PC5/Uu for V2X on the following aspects:
    a.  Support of UE maximum transmission power up to 33 dBm
        (considering the regulatory limit on the maximum e.i.r.p.) for
        PC5 in 5855 MHz \~ 5925 MHz. \[RAN4\]
    b.  Support of QoS depending on the outcome of SA2 work \[RAN2,
        RAN3\]
    c.  Support of inter-PLMN for both PC5 and Uu (Note: Depending on
        the solutions, the specification(s) may or may not be impacted)
        \[RAN2, RAN3, RAN1\]
    d.  Congestion control for PC5-based V2X including load balancing
        across multiple carriers \[RAN1, RAN2, RAN4\]
    e.  Remaining enhancement to sidelink synchronization including
        SLSS-based synchronization and offset to shift the DFN \#0 w.r.t
        the reference timing derived from GNSS \[RAN1, RAN2, RAN4\]
        -   A solution not agreed by RAN1\#86bis/RAN2\#95bis shall not
            be considered for standardization.
    f.  Simultaneous PC5 operations over multiple carriers that may or
        may not be adjacent \[RAN4, RAN2\].
    g.  Simultaneous Uu and PC5 operations in different carriers and
        configuring PC5 resources across carriers \[RAN4, RAN1, RAN2\]
    h.  Prioritization of SL TX for V2X over WAN TX under eNB management
        (e.g., SL gap) \[RAN1, RAN2, RAN4\]
        -   Lower priority is given to this objective. A solution not
            agreed by RAN1\#86bis/RAN2\#95bis shall not be considered
            for standardization.
    i.  Handle multiplexing V2V with other signals/channels if
        necessary, e.g., for the case where the bitmap for V2V subframes
        does not repeat an integer number of times within the DFN period
        \[RAN1, RAN2\]
        -   A solution not agreed by RAN1\#86bis/RAN2\#95bis shall not
            be considered for standardization.
    j.  Support for traffic with smaller periodicity on PC5 based V2V
        using shorter resource reservation period \[RAN1, RAN2\]
        -   A solution not agreed by RAN1\#86bis/RAN2\#95bis shall not
            be considered for standardization.
7) To specify UE RF requirements including those for SL operation for licensed
spectrum and for regional regulations [RAN4]
8) To specify RRM core requirement [RAN4]
This work item should take into account the functionalities that are to be
specified in the related work on sidelink V2V. This work item incorporate the
important aspects that were not completed in V2V WI. The objective for these
aspects should be specified based on the agreements made during V2V WI. For
objectives f and g, the following prioritization shall be considered:
i. Specify the following scenarios with first priority.
    1.  Band 47 + Band 47 (Contiguous concurrent operation), Band 47 +
        Band X (Uu for V2X service), Band 47 + Band Y (Uu for non-V2X
        service)
    2.  Band X or Band Y is licensed band such as Band 3,7,8,39,41
## 4.3 V2X operating scenarios
### 4.3.1 General description
In the V2X WID, a number of scenarios are identified for possible deployment
of V2X services as following.
a. V2V operation based on PC5/Uu
b. V2I operation based on PC5 (UE type RSU) /Uu (eNB type RSU)
c. V2P operation based on PC5/Uu
In V2V WI, RAN4 focus on the single carrier V2V operation. Hence V2V UE only
operated in decicated ITS spectrum (Band 47) based on PC5.
In V2X WI, RAN4 should define the multi carrier V2X operation to support
various V2X operating scenarios as shown in Figure 4.3.1-1 to 4.3.1-3.
a. **PC5 based V2V (b) Uu based V2V**
> Figure 4.3.1-1: V2V operation
a. **PC5 based V2I (b) Uu based V2I**
> Figure 4.3.1-2: V2I operation
a. **PC5 based V2P (b) Uu based V2P**
> Figure 4.3.1-3: V2P operation
Multi-carrier operation for LTE-based V2X service are supported in the two
scenarios as shown in Figure 4.3.1-4.
(a) MCC operation at 5.9GHz (PC5+PC5) (b) MCC operation at 2GHz + 5.9GHz
(Uu+PC5)
> Figure 4.3.1-4: MCC operation in V2X scenarios
### 4.3.2 Operation aspects
Scenarios considered by RAN4 for LTE-based V2X operation (Tx/Rx of V2X
message) are as follows:
  * **(Aspect 1) Operation bands used as test points for evaluation**
    * Case 1A: 5.9 GHz (Dedicated ITS spectrum)
    * Case 1B: 2 GHz
```{=html}
``` \- **(Aspect 2) eNB deployment including the possibility of network >
control**
    -   PC5 based operation :
        -   Case 2A: UE autonomous resource allocation, at least mode 2,
            based on semi-statically network-configured/pre-configured
            radio parameters including no eNB coverage case.
        -   Case 2B: eNB providing more UE specific or/and more dynamic
            resource allocation including Mode 1 compared to case 2A.
        -   Note: Related to aspect 2, it is necessary to consider the
            condition to apply any preconfigured radio parameters.
    -   Uu based operation :
        -   eNB deployment and network control for radio resources are
            always assumed in uplink and downlink.
  * **(Aspect 3) Multi-carrier operation**
Multiple carrier operation can support a number of configurations as shown in
Table 4.3.2-1 including for example:
> **Table 4.3.2-1 MCC operation for LTE-based V2X service**
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CC2 | Band 47 | Licensed | Licensed | Licensed | | | | | Band X | Band X | band X | | | CC1 | (PC5 | (PC5 | (Uu V2X) | (WAN) | | | | V2X) | V2X) | | | | | | | | e.g.) | e.g) | | | | | | B3/B8... | B1/B5... | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In | Band 47 | N/A | - Band | - Band | - Band | | ter-band | | | 47 + | 47 +Band | 47 + | | MCC | (PC5 | | Band X | X | Band X | | o | V2X) | | | | | | peration | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Licensed | - Band | Not | - Band | - Band | | | band Y | Y + Band | possible | Y + Band | Y + Band | | | | 47 | | X | X | | | (PC5 | | | | | | | V2X) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In | Band 47 | - Band | N/A | N/A | N/A | | tra-band | | 47 + | | | | | | (PC5 | Band 47 | | | | | MCC | V2X) | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Licensed | N/A | - Band | Not | Not | | | band X | | X + Band | possible | possible | | | | | X | | | | | (PC5 | | | | | | | V2X) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Based on the Table 4.3.2-1, RAN4 focus on the MCC operations as below in V2X
WI due to interested operator service scenarios and use cases in SA1.
  * **1^st^ priority for MCC operation:**
    * **Multi carrier operation with Band 47 (PC5 V2X) and licensed bands (Uu V2X)**
    * **Multi carrier operation at Band 47 (PC5 V2X)** \+ Band 47 (PC5 V2X) : Contiguous concurrent operation
    * **Multi carrier operation with Band 47 (PC5 V2X) and licensed bands (WAN)**
  * **2^nd^ Priority for MCC operation:**
    * **Multi carrier operation with Band 47(PC5 V2X) and licensed bands (PC5 V2X)**
    * **Multi carrier operation with licensed band (PC5 V2X) and licensed bands (Uu V2X)**
    * **Multi carrier operation at licensed bands (PC5 V2X)**
    * **Multi carrier operation at Band 47 (PC5 V2X)** \+ Band 47 (PC5 V2X) : Non-contiguous concurrent operation
```{=html}
``` \- **(Aspect 4) Operating scenarios**
Single or multiple operator deployments can support these candidate cases for
LTE-based V2X service:
  * Case 4A: Single operator operation
  * Case 4B: A set of PC5/Uu operation carrier(s) is shared by UEs > subscribed to different operators.
    * In this case, UEs belonging to different operators transmit on > the shared uplink carrier(s) while receiving on the shared > downlink carrier(s).
  * Case 4C: Each operator is allocated with a different carrier for > both uplink and downlink.
    * In this case, a UE transmits only on the uplink carrier(s) > allocated to the operator to which it belongs. The UE may > receive on multiple DL carriers, i.e., UE receives on the > downlink carrier allocated to the other operator as well as > the downlink carrier allocated to the operator to which it > belongs.
    * A UE is allowed to receive downlink broadcast of other operator.
> RAN4 will evaluate adjacent channel coexistence as well as analyze RF
> requirements in Rel-14 to support high power V2X UE with up to 33dBm. It is
> proposed that initially V2X operation over PC5/Uu be assumed for a single
> operator on a single carrier. Scenarios with multiple operators can also be
> considered as below according to operating scneraios.
>
> The candidate Case 4B is assumed in ITS spectrum and Case 4C is only
> considered for LTE-based V2V UE in a licensed band.
  * **(Aspect 5) Co-existing with Uu/PC5**
    * PC5 based operation :
      * Case 5A: Dedicated carrier for V2x. There is no uplink (Uu) traffic on the PC5 operation carrier.
      * Case 5B: V2X carrier is shared with Uu.
    * Uu based operation:
      * Case 5A: There is no sidelink traffic on the Uu operation carrier.
      * Case 5B: The uplink carrier is shared with sidelink.
For V2X service at 5.9GHz, the Case 5A can be assumed. Case 5B is not RAN4
scope for coexistence evaluation.
#### 4.3.2.1 Licensed bands operation
Regarding the inter-band MCC, it can be alternatively classified as two
scenarios based on whether the licensed bands support PC5 V2X service. The
following part outlines the impact on the RF requirements and possible issues
for these two scenarios.
#### 4.3.2.1.1 Scenario 1: Uu based V2X and legacy WAN service at licensed
bands
  * _[RF requirements for the licensed bands]{.underline}_
Though Uu V2X and WAN are two different services for the licensed bands, the
physical layer designs are the same. The RF requirements are based on legacy
LTE UE for both cases.
It is a common view that separate antennas would be used for low bands and
5GHz LAA band, i.e. Band 46. As Band 47 is part of the spectrum of Band 46,
the assumptions in study of Band 46 are also valid for Band 47 related band
combinations when we consider the RF requirements. It is noted that trap filer
is not considered for some band combinations with Band 46 and RAN4 agreed not
to specify MSD requirements for the frequency range in Band 46 which is hit by
the harmonics of the low bands for LTE service. This method may not be
appropriate for V2X Band combinations, as V2X needs to consider the safety
issue, the performance of Band 47 cannot be degraded too much for band
combinations with harmonic issue. Thus the harmonic issue shall be studied
carefully for some of the band combinations in next release as agreed phased
approach to introduce new licensed band for V2X operation.
#### 4.3.2.1.2 Scenario 2: PC5 based V2X service at licensed bands
  * _[RF requirements for the licensed bands]{.underline}_
    * [_Co-existence of V2X UE(PC5) and legacy WAN UE(Uu) on different carrier_]{.underline}
Based on the coexistence simulation results, it was identified that without
interference mitigation scheme, licensed bands supporting PC5 based Sidelink
transmission cannot co-exist well with legacy LTE system, and it will cause
more than 5% throughput loss for some cases, especially to the cell edge
performance. Though power control can be helpful to reduce the interference,
the OLPC scheme is not optimized by RAN1 design, which means it may not always
work well in the network. That is part of the reason why scenario of licensed
bands support PC5 V2X service has low priority at this stage. So RAN4 did not
support corresponding RF requirements for PC5 based V2X UE at the licensed
bands.
  * [_Co-existence of V2X UE(PC5) and legacy WAN UE(Uu) on the same carrier_]{.underline}
Issues on the co-existence of PC5 and legacy Uu on the same carrier were also
discussed. For this case, more studies are needed from the perspective of
synchronization/timing performance on PC5.
For the bands supporting PC5 interface, the physical layer design is different
from the LTE UE.
For instance, PSCCH and PSSCH for sidelink are not the same as PUCCH and PUSCH
for uplink, which means MPR/A-MPR shall be redefined for the licensed bands if
these bands need to support PC5 V2X service. Also there was no decision how to
support PC5 based V2X transmission and legacy WAN Uu at same carrier such as
TDM operation or FDM operations.
And for the receiver side, the REFSENS requirements for target SNR of V2X UE
has been changed compared to legacy LTE UE, thus the REFSENS for licensed
bands shall be defined accordingly for PC5 V2X service.
Whether other RF requirements are impacted needs further study.
### 4.3.3 Operating bands and channel arrangement
#### 4.3.3.1 Operating bands for V2X Communication
V2X Communication is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in
Table 4.3.3.1-1 and 4.3.3.1-2.
Table 4.3.3.1-1 V2X operating band over PC5
* * *
V2X Operating Band E‑UTRA Operating Band V2X UE transmit V2X UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
47 47 5855 MHz - 5925 MHz 5855 MHz - 5925 MHz
* * *
Table 4.3.3.1-2 V2X operating band over Uu
* * *
V2X Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\
Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                       F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD
7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD
39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
41 2496 MHz 2690 MHz 2496 MHz 2690 MHz TDD
* * *
V2X communication is also designed to operate for intra-band MCC operation on
the operating band listed in Table 4.3.3.1-3:
Table 4.3.3.1-3: V2X intra-band MCC operation
* * *
V2X MCC Band V2X operating Band Interface V2X_47 47 PC5
* * *
V2X communication is also designed to operate for inter-band MCC operation on
the operating band combinations listed in Table 4.3.3.1-4:
Table 4.3.3.1-4: V2X inter-band MCC operation
+---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | V2X MCC Band | V2X Band | Interface | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | V2X_3_47 | 3 | Uu | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | | 47 | PC5 | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | V2X_7_47 | 7 | Uu | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | | 47 | PC5 | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | V2X_8_47 | 8 | Uu | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | | 47 | PC5 | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | V2X_39_47 | 39 | Uu | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | | 47 | PC5 | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | V2X_41_47 | 41 | Uu | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | | 47 | PC5 | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: These scenarios can also cover the | | | | concurrent operation between V2X operation | | | | and legacy E-UTRA operation in the same UE. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Whether PC5 is supported in these | | | | licensed band could be investaged in future | | | | releases. | | | +---------------------------------------------+----------+-----------+
For introducing new license bands for V2X operation, RAN4 agreed the follow
phased approach
  * **Due to time limitation to complete at March 2017, the phased > approach proposed to add new licensed bands as below**
    * **[1^st^ phase, Add new licensed bands w/o harmonics/IMD > problems into Band 47.]{.underline}**
      * **So Band 7 is added for the new inter-band con-current V2X > operation in V2X WI.**
    * **[2^nd^ phase, RAN4 study how to solve the harmonics/IMDs > problems of multi-carrier V2X band combination]{.underline}.**
#### 4.3.3.2 Channel bandwidth for V2X Communication
#### 4.3.3.2.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for V2X Communication
The V2X Communication channel bandwidths and operating bands are shown in
Table 4.3.3.2.1-1. The same (symmetrical) channel bandwidth is specified for
both the TX and RX path.
Table 4.3.3.2.1-1 V2X Communciation channel bandwidth
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | V2X | | | | | | | | band / | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | V2X | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 47 | | | | Yes | | Yes | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 39 | | | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | **Yes** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 41 | | | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### 4.3.3.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for MCC operation
For V2X intra-band MCC operation, the V2X Communication channel bandwidths for
each operating band is specified in Table 4.3.3.2.2-1. CA bandwidth class and
CA channel spacing can be reused for intra-band MCC V2X.
Table 4.3.3.2.2-1 V2X intra-band MCC configurations
* * *
                          V2X MCC configuration / Bandwidth combination set
V2X MCC Configuration Component carriers in order of increasing carrier
frequency Maximum aggregate bandwidth [MHz] Bandwidth combination set  
Channel bandwidths for carrier [MHz] Channel bandwidths for carrier [MHz]
Channel bandwidths for carrier [MHz] Channel bandwidths for carrier [MHz]
Channel bandwidths for carrier [MHz]  
V2X_47B 10 10 20 0
* * *
For V2X inter-band MCC operation, the V2X Communication channel bandwidths for
each operating band is specified in Table 4.3.3.2.2-2.
Table 4.3.3.2.2-2: V2X inter-band MCC configurations
* * *
V2X MCC Configuration E-UTRA Bands 1.4\ 3\ 5\ 10\ 15\ 20\ Maximum bandwidth
[MHz] Bandwidth combination set MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
V2X_3A-47A 3 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **40** **0**
                          47                                           Yes                 Yes
V2X_7A_47A 7 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **40** **0**
                          47                                           Yes                 Yes
V2X_8A-47A 8 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** 30 0
                          47                                           Yes                 Yes
V2X_39A-47A 39 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **40** **0**
                          47                                           Yes                 Yes
V2X_41A-47A 41 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **40** **0**
                          47                                           Yes                 Yes
* * *
# 5 Common issues for V2V/V2X services
## 5.1 Coxistence evaluation aspect
For the V2V coexistence evaluation at licensed band, RAN4 agreed the
additional coexistence simulation assumption as below. To evaluate adjacent
channel coexistence at licensed bands, RAN4 follow the general coexistence
simulation assumptions in section 5.4 in TR36.785 v1.0.0
### 5.1.1 Power control
OLPC scheme should be used for several minimum output power values can be
evaluated, e.g. -10dBm, 0dBm and 10dBm.
  * Rmin in the power control formula should be adjusted according to the minimum output power
> Table 5.1.1-1 Power control schemes
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | V2V UE transmit power | As per PC set 1 and PC | | | control | set 2 of TR 36.942 | | | | | | | | - Note that power | | | | control algorithm | | | | parameters (PodBm, | | | | CLxile) should be | | | | optimized for network | | | | layouts being | | | | simulated. For | | | | simplicity, power | | | | control algorithm | | | | parameters are reused | | | | in section 5.1.1.6 in | | | | TR 36.942 for all | | | | network layouts | | | | | | | | - Rmin = -64dBm | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **PC Set** | **Gamma** | **CLxile (dBm)** | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | 1 | 1 | 112 | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | 2 | 0.8 | 129 | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
### 5.1.2 UE activation rate
Basically, same simulation for UE activation rate assumption is considered as
1% activation rate for V2V UE in coexistence study.
Other activation rate can be considered optionally with different CAM
intervals
  * 15km: 0.1%
  * 60km:0.33%
5.1.3 Conclusion with revised simulation assumptions
The PC5-based V2V UE coexistence evaluations are performed at 2GHz operating
frequency range with some revised simulation assumptions in section 5.1. The
adjacent coexistence simulation results are summarized in sub-clause 5.1.3.
Based on the evaluation results,
  1. For Case1 (V2X UE-to-LTE BS at 2GHz), following observations are made:
     * Based on the revised simulation assumptions in the TR, the co-existence criteria is not met in some scenarios.
       * Power control evaluation :
         * For minimum output power = -10dBm & 0dBm, neglectable impact is observed to victim LTE BS.
           * Reduced output power in Case1 will be coupled in Case2
         * For minimum output power = 10dBm, unacceptable degradation (>5% throughput loss) is still observed to victim LTE BS for V2V speed of 15km/h.
       * Activation rate evaluation :
         * For LTE with PC set2, unacceptable degradation (>5% throughput loss) is still observed to victim LTE BS for edge throughput.
Further study on the open loop power control schemes is needed in RAN1/RAN4
and will need to be revisited in the next enhanced V2X WI if not addressed in
the current WI.
  1. For Case 2 (LTE UE-to-V2X UE at 2GHz), LTE system adjacent interference will cause very little performance loss to V2V system. However, this case is coupled with Case 1.
     * Power control evaluation :
       * With some scenarios employing power control schemes, the V2V PRR loss may become worse and unstable;
       * The power control can mitigate the interference from V2V UE to LTE UE, but V2V system performance becomes worse so further study and discussion is needed in RAN4.
Optimized open loop power control can be considered as one solution to protect
adjacent legacy LTE systems.
Other alternative solutions also consider to protect adjacent systems.
## 5.2 Transmitter characteristics
### 5.2.1 MPR requirements
MPR simulation is done to meet general LTE ACLR and SEM requirements. Based on
the simulation results, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the
maximum output power due to higher order modulation and transmit bandwidth
configuration (resource blocks) is specified as follows:
Table 5.2.1-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for V2V with PSCCH and PSSCH in
adjacent
+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | Mod | Channel | MPR | | | | | | | ulation | ba | (dB) | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Trans | | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | | (N~RB~) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | QPSK | | | | - | | - | ≤ 1.5 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | 16 QAM | | | | - | | - | ≤ 2 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+
For transmissions with PSCCH and PSSCH in non-adjacent resource blocks in
single component carrier, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the
maximum output power is specified as follows
MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows
M~A~ = 4.5 ; 0.00\10 & | [0] | [11.5] | | | | ≤22] | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [5] | [10] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [10] | [8] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [15] | [4.5] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [20 and | [2.5] | | | | | 25] | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [≥ 30] | [1] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | [>22] | [0 and 5] | [9] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [10] | [8] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [15] | [7.5] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | | [20] | [4.5] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 5870, 5910, | [\45] | | [3] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 5880, 5890, | [\42] | | [1.5] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | N | 5860 | [≤ 5] | ≥ 0 | [12] | | on-Adjacent | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | [>5] | | [10] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 5870, 5910, | [≤ 5] | ≥ 0 | [3.5] | | | 5920 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | [>5 & | | [1.5] | | | | ≤42] | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | [>42] | | [3] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 5880, 5890, | [≤18] | ≥ 0 | [2] | | | 5900, | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | [>18 & | | [1] | | | | ≤42] | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | | [>42] | | [1.5] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
### 5.2.3 CEN DSRC Protection
To protect operation of electronic toll collection in the frequency band 5 795
MHz to 5 815 MHz from harmful interference, mitigation techniques have to be
implemented as defined in ETSI TS 102 792. Different co-existence modes to
protect CEN DSRC and HDR DSRC are defined in ETSI TS 102 792.
#### 5.2.3.1 Normal mode
ECC/DEC(08)01 [i.2], ECC/REC(08)01 [i.3], and ETSI EN 302 571 [i.5] regulate
output power level and unwanted emissions for ITS stations (see table 5.2).
Operation limited only by these requirements is referred to as normal mode.
Table 5.2.3.1-1: RX blocking for Normal mode
{width="6.259722222222222in" height="0.9895833333333334in"}
NOTE: Some ITS-G5A/B/D channels have other limits for the output power level,
see ETSI EN 302 571 [i.5], clause 6.3.
#### 5.2.3.2 Coexistence mode
In coexistence mode additional restrictions apply. These restrictions apply to
output power level, unwanted emissions and transmit timing. The restrictions
are designed to decrease the interference from ITS stations to a level which
implies no harmful performance degradation of CEN DSRC based toll stations.
An ITS station may be designed to operate in coexistence mode all the time.
Four different coexistence modes, designated A, B, C, and D are defined (see
table 5.3). An ITS station shall choose one of these modes when applicable.
Table 5.2.3.2-1: RX blocking for Coexistence mode
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="1.3333333333333333in"}
#### 5.2.3.3 Requirements for CEN DSRC Protection
For handling CEN DSRC interference mitigation, RAN4 included additional
configured transmitted power requirement and UE to UE coexistence spurious
emission requirements need to be specified in 3GPP TS36.101.
The V2X UE is allowed to set its configured maximum output power P~CMAX,_c_ ~
for component carrier _c_. The configured maximum output power P~CMAX,_c_ ~ is
set within the following bounds:
P~CMAX_L,_c_ ~ ≤ P~CMAX,_c_ ~ ≤ P~CMAX_H,_c_ ~ with
P~CMAX_L,_c_ ~ = MIN {P~EMAX,_c_ ~ -- ∆T~C,_c_ ~, P~PowerClass~ ---- MAX(MPR
_~c~_ \+ A-MPR _~c~_ \+ ΔT~IB,c~ + ∆T~C,_c_ ~ + ∆T~ProSe~, P-MPR _~c~_),
P~Regulatory,c~ }
P~CMAX_H,_c_ ~ = MIN {P~EMAX,_c_ ~, P~PowerClass~, P~Regulatory,c~ }
where
> \- For the total transmitted power P~CMAX,c~ of PSSCH and PSCCH, P~EMAX,c~
> is the value given by IE _maxTxPower_ , defined by [7], when the UE is not
> associated with a serving cell on the V2X carrier .
>
> \- For$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{PSBCH}}$, P~EMAX,_c_ ~ is the value given by the
> IE _maxTxPower_ in [7] when the UE is not associated with a serving cell on
> the V2X carrier.
>
> \- For$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{SSSS}}$, the value is as calculated for
> $P_{\text{CMAX},\text{PSBCH}}$ and applying the MPR for SSSS as specified in
> Section 6.2.3D.
>
> \- P~PowerClass~ is the maximum UE power specified in Table 6.2.2-1 without
> taking into account the tolerance specified in the Table 6.2.2-1;
>
> \- MPR _~c~_ and A-MPR _~c~_ for serving cell _c_ are specified in subclause
> 6.2.3G and subclause 6.2.4G, respectively;
>
> \- ∆ _T~IB,c~_ , ∆T~C,_c_ ~, ∆T~ProSe~ and P-MPR _~c~_ are specified in
> subclause 6.2.5
>
> \- P~Regulatory,c~ = 10 dBm when the CEN DSRC tolling system is nearby V2X
> UE; P~Regulatory,c~ = 33 dBm otherwise.
P-MPR _~c~_ is the allowed maximum output power reduction for
a) ensuring compliance with applicable electromagnetic energy absorption
requirements and addressing unwanted emissions / self desense requirements in
case of simultaneous transmissions on multiple RAT(s) for scenarios not in
scope of 3GPP RAN specifications;
b) ensuring compliance with applicable electromagnetic energy absorption
requirements in case of proximity detection is used to address such
requirements that require a lower maximum output power.
The UE shall apply P-MPR _~c~_ for serving cell _c_ only for the above cases.
For UE conducted conformance testing P-MPR shall be 0 dB
NOTE 1: P-MPR _~c~_ was introduced in the P~CMAX,_c_ ~ equation such that the
UE can report to the eNB the available maximum output transmit power. This
information can be used by the eNB for scheduling decisions.
NOTE 2: P-MPR _~c~_ may impact the maximum uplink performance for the selected
UL transmission path.
UE to UE coexistence spurious emission requirements are specified as below
Table 5.2.3.3-1.
Table 5.2.3.3-1: Requirements
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | E-UTRA | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | | Pro | Fre | M | MBW | NOTE | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | ... | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | 47 | E-UTRA | FD | - | FDL | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | L_low | | _high | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, 65 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | | Fre | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 38 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | | Fre | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 38 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | | Fre | 5795 | - | 5815 | \ | 1 | 38 | | | quency | | | | [-30] | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | | Fre | 5795 | - | 5815 | \ | 1 | 39 | | | quency | | | | [-65] | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 38: | | | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | NS_XX | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igured | | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | e-conf | | | | | | | | | igured | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | para | | | | | | | | | meters | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 39: | | | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | aximum | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | uction | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | chemes | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | CEN | | | | | | | | | DSRC | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | olling | | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | nearby | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---+----+
  * 
### 5.2.4 Transmit signal quality requirements
#### 5.2.4.1 Frequency error
The UE modulated carrier frequency for V2X sidelink transmissions shall be
accurate to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period of one time slot (0.5 ms)
compared to the carrier frequency received from the synchronization source in
case of using V2X UE synchronization source.
The UE modulated carrier frequency for V2X sidelink transmissions shall be
accurate to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period of one time slot (0.5 ms)
compared to the absolute frequency in case of using GNSS synchronization
source.
The UE modulated carrier frequency for V2X sidelink transmissions shall be
accurate to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period of one time slot (0.5 ms)
compared to the carrier frequency received from the synchronization source in
case of using E-UTRA cell synchronization source.
## 5.3 Receiver characteristics
### 5.3.1 REFSENS
Based on the agreed 3dB bossting in SA compare to PSDCH, RAN4 revised REFSENS
requirements as below Table 5.3.1-1
Table 5.3.1-1: Reference sensitivity
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | uplex | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | Mode | | ProSe | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 47 | | | | **\ | | [-8 | TDD | | | | | | [-90. | | 7.5] | | | | | | | 4]** | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | A.8.2 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
  * 
#### 5.3.1.1 Region 1 Regulatory Sensitivities
The regional requirements are defined with respect to different combinations
of modulation and target coding rate. The requirement only applies to the set
of modulation and target coding rates (MCS) that the equipment supports. Thus,
for V2X, regional sensitivity requirements only applies to 4 combinations:
QPSK, target rate 1/2; QPSK, target rate 3/4; 16QAM, target rate 1/2; 16QAM,
target rate 3/4. The only supported channel bandwidth is 10MHz.
3GPP methodology is to define only one _[reference]{.underline}_ sensitivity
with respect to QPSK modulation and target coding rate of 1/3. The purpose of
this is to test Noise Figure and Implementation Margin of UEs. Given the same
Noise Figure and Implementation Margin, the expected sensitivity level of
other MCSs can be calculated based on the same parameters with SNR~V2V~
defined as the demodulation SNR level required to achieve 10% frame error rate
at the corresponding MCS. The simulation results for the required demodulation
SNR can be found in Figure 5.3.1.1-1, Figure 5.3.1.1-2 and Figure 5.3.1.1-3.
The coding rate in the simulation is the information bits compare to the
effective channel bits.
{width="2.6173611111111112in" height="1.9645833333333333in"}
{width="2.61875in" height="1.9652777777777777in"}
{width="2.61875in" height="1.9673611111111111in"} {width="2.620833333333333in"
height="1.9673611111111111in"}
Figure 5.3.1.1-1 SNR simulation results for LTE V2V from [1]
{width="2.5881944444444445in" height="2.0229166666666667in"}
{width="2.6104166666666666in" height="2.0069444444444446in"}
QPSK 1/2 QPSK 3/4
{width="2.595833333333333in" height="2.0069444444444446in"}
{width="2.566666666666667in" height="2.0069444444444446in"}
16QAM 1/2 16QAM 3/4
Figure 5.3.1.1-2 SNR simulation results for LTE V2V from [2]
{width="5.24375in" height="3.14375in"}
Figure 5.3.1.1-3 SNR simulation results for LTE V2V from [3]
Table 5.3.1.1-1 shows the comparison of regulatory sensitivity and LTE V2V
sensitivity. From the results, it is observed that LTE V2V can meet Region 1
regulatory sensitivity requirements with large margin.
Table 5.3.1.1-1 Comparison of regulatory sensitivity and LTE V2V sensitivity
* * *
**Modulation** **Coding rate** **Sensitivity requirement in EN 302 571 (dBm)**
**Sensitivity for V2V from [1] (dBm)** **Margin (dB)** **Sensitivity for V2V
from [2] (dBm)** **Margin (dB)** QPSK 1/2 -82 -90.01 8.01 [-89.7] 7.7 QPSK 3/4
-80 -86.50 6.5 [-85.6] 5.6 16-QAM 1/2 -77 -83.85 6.85 [-83] 6 16-QAM 3/4 -73
-80.30 7.3 [-78.4] 5.4
* * *
### 5.3.2 ACS
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) requirement for V2V is specified in TS
36.101 as below. As 10MHz is typical channel bandwidth used in the V2V band,
the interferer bandwidth shall be changed to 10MHz instead of 5MHz.
Table 5.3.2-1: Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X
* * *
                         Channel bandwidth
Rx Parameter Units 1.4\ 3\ 5\ 10\ 15\ 20\ MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
ACS dB 33.0 27.0
* * *
Table 5.3.2-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X, Case
1
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | P~REF | | | | | | | in | | SENS\ | | | | | | | Tr | | _V2X~ | | | | | | | ansmi | | + 14 | | | | | | | ssion | | dB | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | dBm | | | | RE | | RE | | P~Int | | | | | FSENS | | FSENS | | erfer | | | | | +4 | | +3 | | er~**| | | | | 5.5dB | | 9.5dB | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** BW~ | MHz | | | | 10 | | 10 | | Inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | \ ~**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** F~I | MHz | | | | 10+0 | | 15+0 | | nterf | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | (offs | | | | | / | | / | | et)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -10-0 | | -15-0 | | | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 5.3.2-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X, Case
2
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | | | | -56.5 | | -50.5 | | in | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~I | dBm | -25 | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BW~I | MHz | | | | 10 | | 10 | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | F~I | MHz | | | | 10+0 | | 15+0 | | nterf | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | (of | | | | | / | | / | | fset) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -10-0 | | -15-0 | | | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 5.3.2.1 Region 1 Regulatory Selectivities
For Region 1, there are additional selectivity requirements that are specified
in EN 302 571.
Table : Limits for receiver adjacent channel rejection,\ alternate adjacent
channel rejection, and blocking
* * *
Modulation Coding rate Adjacent channel rejection (dB) Alternate adjacent
channel rejection (dB) BPSK 1/2 16 32 BPSK 3/4 15 31 QPSK 1/2 13 29 QPSK 3/4
11 27 16-QAM 1/2 8 24 16-QAM 3/4 4 20 64-QAM 2/3 0 16 64-QAM 3/4 -1 15
* * *
The selectivity requirements are specified for each combination of Modulation
order and target coding rate as two values adjacent channel rejection (ACR)
and alternate adjacent channel rejection (A-ACR). The definitions of ACR and
A-ACR are as bellows:
> _The adjacent channel rejection is a measure of the capability of the
> receiver to operate satisfactorily in the presence of a signal in the
> adjacent channel, which differs in frequency from the wanted signal by ± 10
> MHz._
>
> _The alternate channel rejection is a measure of the capability of the
> receiver to operate satisfactorily in the presence of a signal in the
> alternate adjacent channel, which differs in frequency from the wanted
> signal by ± 20 MHz_.
In figure 5.3.2.1-1 is an illustration of the selectivity conformance test
described in Clause 5.3.7 of [9]. The wanted signal is set at 3dB above the
sensitivity level and the interference signal is set at ACR dBc above the
wanted signal, i.e.
P~signal~ = P~sensitive~ + 3 (eq. 1)
P~interf~ = P~sensitive~ + 3 + ACR (dBm). (eq. 2)
Taking P~sensitive~ values for each MCS as defined by the Regional Required
Sensitivity, all the corresponding values can be computed and gathered in
table 5.3.2.1-1.
Figure 5.3.2.1-1. Illustration of Region 1 Selectivity Conformance Test
Table 5.3.2.1‑1: Region 1 ACR Conformance Test Parameters
* * *
**Modulation** **Coding rate** **Regional Required Sensitivity (dBm)** **ACR
(dB)** **P~interf~ (dBm) (eq. 2)** BPSK 1/2 -85 15 -66 BPSK 3/4 -84 14 -66
QPSK 1/2 -82 13 -66 QPSK 3/4 -80 11 -66 16-QAM 1/2 -77 8 -66 16-QAM 3/4 -73 4
-66 64-QAM 2/3 -69 0 -66 64-QAM 3/4 -68 -1 -66
* * *
Given the parameter setting in Table 5.3.2.1-1, the remaining interference
power after being antenuated is
P~interf,\ remained~ = P~interf~ -- ACS = -66 -- 33 = -99 (dBm)
The total noise and interference power is hence
P~I\ +\ N~ = 10 * log10( 10\^(-9.9) + 10\^(-9.1)) = -90.4 (dBm)
Where noise floor is -91dBm coming from thermal noise of -104dBm and noise
figure of 13dB. The expected minimum decodable input signal level can be
computed as
P~decode~ = P~I\ +\ N~ + SNR~V2V~ + IM = -87.9 + SNR~V2V~ (dBm)
Where SNR~V2V~ is defined base of the demodulation simulation results in
Section 7.1.1 TS 36.101 and IM is 2.5dB. The expected decode signal strength
of V2V and the margin to the required decoded signal strength is captured in
Table 5.3.2.1-2. Note that by conformance requirements, the required decode
signal strength is set at 3dB higher than the regional required sensitivity.
Table 5.3.2.1‑2. Expected V2V Selectivity Performance
* * *
**Modulation** **Coding rate** **Required Decode Signal Strength (dBm)**
**Expected Decode Signal Strength (dBm)** **Margin** BPSK 1/2 -81 Not
Supported  
BPSK 3/4 -80 Not Supported  
QPSK 1/2 -79 -89.1 10.1 QPSK 3/4 -77 -85 8 16-QAM 1/2 -74 -82.6 8.6 16-QAM 3/4
-70 -77.8 7.8 64-QAM 2/3 -66 Not Supported  
64-QAM 3/4 -65 Not Supported
* * *
For A-ACR, the interferer is assumed to be at 20MHz frequency offset from the
channel center. Eventhough 3GPP does not specify corresponding Alternative
ACS, the selectivity level is expected to be much (at least of order a few dB)
higher than ACS. Let's re-use the ACS value for this case as a pessimistic
estimation. Following the same approach and replacing ACR values with the
corresponding A-ACR, we can calculate the ETSI conformance test parameters.
The calculated values are captured in Table 5.3.2.1-3.
Table 5.3.2.1‑3: Region 1 A-ACR Conformance Test Parameters
* * *
**Modulation** **Coding rate** **Regional Required Sensitivity (dBm)** **A-ACR
(dB)** **P~interf~ (dBm)** BPSK 1/2 -85 31 -50 BPSK 3/4 -84 30 -50 QPSK 1/2
-82 29 -50 QPSK 3/4 -80 27 -50 16-QAM 1/2 -77 24 -50 16-QAM 3/4 -73 20 -50
64-QAM 2/3 -69 16 -50 64-QAM 3/4 -68 15 -50
* * *
Following the same approach as before, the remaining interference power after
being antenuated is
P~interf,\ remained~ = P~interf~ -- ACS = -50 -- 33 = -83 (dBm)
The total noise and interference power is
P~I\ +\ N~ = 10 * log10( 10\^(-8.3) + 10\^(-9.1)) = -82.5 (dBm)
The expected minimum decodable input signal level can be computed as
P~decode~ = P~I\ +\ N~ + SNR~V2V~ + IM = -80 + SNR~V2V~ (dBm)
With IM assumed to be 2.5dB. With this input, the expected decode signal
strength for V2V in alternate selectivity conformance test and the margin
w.r.t. to the required decode signal strength are captured in Table 5.3.2.1-4.
Note that even though the margin is only 0 or 16QAM code rate 3/4, the
realistic margin will be much higher since we assume very pessimistic A-ACS
value here.
Table 5.3.2.1‑4 Expected V2V Alternate Selectivity Performance
* * *
**Modulation** **Coding rate** **Required Decode Signal Strength (dBm)**
**Expected Decode Signal Strength (dBm)** **Margin** BPSK 1/2 -81 Not
Supported  
BPSK 3/4 -80 Not Supported  
QPSK 1/2 -79 -86.3 7.3 QPSK 3/4 -77 -82.3 5.3 16-QAM 1/2 -74 -79.6 5.6 16-QAM
3/4 -70 -70 0 64-QAM 2/3 -66 Not Supported  
64-QAM 3/4 -65 Not Supported
* * *
# 6 Deployment and co-existence studies
## 6.1 General for high power vehicle
The purpose of this clause is to address deployment and co-existence studies
for high power LTE-based V2X UE at 5.9GHz. In this V2X WI, RAN4 addresses LTE-
based V2X communication services at ITS spectrum with high maximum output
power up to 33dBm. Specially, RAN4 need to specify V2X UE RF requirements for
high power V2X UE based on adjacent coexistence evaluation of LTE based V2X
operation and DSRC/IEEE 802.11p on adjacent carrier frequencies at the 5.9GHz
ITS spectrum.
## 6.2 Adjacent channel co-existence evaluation in ITS spectrum
### 6.2.1 Coexistence scenarios
The purpose of this clause is to address the evaluation scenarios on the
adjacent channel co-existence of V2V based on LTE sidelink UE and DSRC/IEEE
802.11p UE at 5.9GHz operating frequencies.
Following coexistence scenarios will be identified in Band 47.
Table 6.2.1-1: LTE-based V2X service coexistence scenarios in Band 47
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | V2V operating | Deployment scenarios | Test metrics | | frequency | | | | | ( | | | | Aggressor-to-Victim) | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | V2V service at | - Case 3a: V2X | - Case 3a: PRR^2^ | | 5.9GHz | > UE-to-DSRC UE | | | | | - Case 4a: PRR^2^ | | | - Case 4a: DSRC | | | | > UE-to-V2X UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Note1: Compared to | | | | Case 3 and Case 4 in | | | | TR 36.785, the V2V | | | | UE in Case 3a and | | | | Case 4a has higher | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | Note2: PRR (Packet | | | | Reception Rate) | | | | defined in TR36.885. | | | | The mapping model is | | | | shown in Annex A in | | | | TR36.785 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
The details of the deployment scenarios are presented in the following
subclauses.
### 6.2.2 Simulation assumptions
#### 6.2.2.1 General for DSRC/ITS system in 5.9GHz
Table 6.2.2.1-1: Simulation assumptions: General
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC UE Tx power | 33dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC MCS | QPSK with r=1/2 | | | | | | Transmit duration of 341us | | | (190bytes) and 488 (300bytes) | | | without header | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Bandwidth | 10MHz for DSRC and V2V UE (at | | | 5.9GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Traffic model | Option1: 1 transmission every | | | 100ms | | | | | | Option2: Dependent traffic on UE | | | velocity [R4-167937] | | | | | | Periodic traffic model as | | | specified in [TR 36.885, | | | A.1.5]: | | | | | | - 100ms message generation | | | period | | | | | | - Time instance of message | | | generation is randomized | | | among vehicles | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model for | Follow TR 36.885 | | | | | - DSRC UE-to-V2X UE or | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | DSRC UE-to | WINNER+ B1 | | | - V2X UE-to-DSRC UE | | UE pathloss | Manhattan | | | | | model | grid layout | | | | | | (note that | | | | | | the antenna | | | | | | height | | | | | | should be | | | | | | set to 1.5 | | | | | | m.). | | | | | | Pathloss at | | | | | | 3 m is used | | | | | | if the | | | | | | distance is | | | | | | less than 3 | | | | | | m. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note1: When | | | | | | the | | | | | | Building | | | | | | interrupt | | | | | | the | | | | | | received/ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | UEs, follow | | | | | | NLOS | | | | | | pathloss | | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note2 : If | | | | | | the travel | | | | | | path | | | | | | between two | | | | | | UEs is | | | | | | equal or | | | | | | more than | | | | | | twice turn | | | | | | arround | | | | | | building, | | | | | | then the PL | | | | | | between two | | | | | | UEs is | | | | | | infinite. | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | 3 dB for | | | | | standard | LOS and 4dB | | | | | deviation | for NLOS | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | Log-normal | | | | | d | | | | | | istribution | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Penetration | 0dB | | | | | Loss | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC UE RF parameters | Noise figure: 10 dB | | | | | | Antenna configuration: | | | | | | - DL: 2Tx/2Rx, Cross-polarized | | | | | | - UL:1Tx/2Rx | | | | | | Baseline: Open loop | | | | | | Channel coding: LDPC or BCC code | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC MAC | Coordination : DL+UL coexistence | | | evaluation : EDCA | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Detection : Energy detection & | | | preamble detection | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Slot time | 13us (Note specified for 10MHz | | | [802.11 -2012]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC DIFS | 58us (SIFS + 2*slot_time) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC SIFS | 32us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Physical header size | 40us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Threshold triggering | -98dBm | | physical header decoding | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC CCA-CS | -85dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC CCA-ED | -65dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC OFDM symbol duration | 8us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC UE ACLR model | - ACLR=38dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC ACS | Three candidate ACS range level | | | for DSRC: | | | | | | - 22/25/29dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 6.2.2.2 Detail parameters for V2X communications in ITS spectrum
Table 6.2.2.2-1: Simulation assumptions: V2X communications
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | V2X UE max. output power | 33dBm EIRP with 6dBi antenna gain and | | | 23dBm/MHz max PSD EIRP | | | | | | 14PRB: 27 dBm EIRP | | | | | | 20PRB: 28.5 dBm EIRP | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | V2X signal bandwidth | 14 PRB (190 byte packet) | | | | | | 20 PRB (300 byte packet) | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | V2X Traffic model | Option1: 1 transmission every 100ms | | | | | | Option2: Dependent traffic on UE | | | velocity [R4-167937] | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | | Consider index 3 &4 for traffic model in | | | Table A.1.5-1 in [5] with a maximum of | | | 1 HARQ transmissions per packet (for | | | both 190byte & 300byte). | | | | | | - Note1: Fixed location will be | | | considered for adjacent coexistence | | | evaluation. | | | | | | - Note2: Velocity only used to decide | | | the UE density. | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | V2X UE ACLR | For V2X aggressors (14RBs or 20RBs): | | | | | | - Two steps model | | | | | | e.g.) 31dBc +X /43dBc +X | | | | | | 37dBc +X /50dBc +X | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | V2X UE ACS | V2V UE ACS: | | | | | | - 33 + X dB | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
### 6.2.3 Simulation Results
#### 6.2.3.1 V2X Communications in ITS spectrum
### 6.2.3.1.1 Case3a: V2X UE-to-DSRC UE
The legacy DSRC system PRR loss in Manhattan grid models are summarized in
sub-clause 6.2.3.1.1 based on transmit packet size, V2X UE maximum power and
V2X UE velocity.
6.2.3.1.1.1 Huawei simulation results
Co-existence simulation results for case 3a of V2V UE to DSRC UE in urban
scenario were provided inError: Reference source not found below Table based
on the simulation assumptions. ACLR for V2X high power UE assumes 31dBc and
37dBc, ACS for DSRC assumes 29dBc. Average PRR at 50m for 15 km/h and average
PRR at 150m for 60 km/h are used as the agreed performance metric. PRR loss is
the PRR with V2X/V2V adjacent interference compared with the PRR without any
adjacent channel interference.
Table 6.2.3.1.1.1-1 PRR loss for Case 3a
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PRR loss | at 50m | at 150m | | | | | range for | range for | | | | | 15km/h | 60km/h | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Normal V2V | Higher V2X | Normal V2V | Higher V2X | | | power | power | power | power | | | | | | | | | (23dBm) | (33dBm) | (23dBm) | (33dBm) | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 190 Byte | 1.49% | 2.20% | 3.5% | 4.37% | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 300 Byte | 1.68% | 2.52% | 3.47% | 4.84% | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
From the above simulation results, some observations can be derived as below:
  * For both PRR loss at 50m range for 15km/h and at 150m range for 60km/h, V2X UE with higher power makes acceptable interference to DSRC victim which means V2X UE with higher power is a good neighbour to DSRC;
  * All the PRR loss is less than 5%.
Therefore, V2X UE with higher power can co-existence well with DSRC system
with LTE ACLR requirement which is 31dBc.
### 6.2.3 Conclusions
The PC5-based V2X high power UE coexistence evaluations are performed at
5.9GHz operating frequency range in Rel-14 V2X WI. The adjacent coexistence
simulation results are summarized in above section. Based on the evaluation
results, the PC5-based V2X high power UE will be within acceptable operating
limits for adjacent channel coexistence scenarios at 5.9GHz.
## 6.3 Additional scenarios
_Editor Note: It will be added in future [FFS]_
# 7 Transmitter characteristics
## 7.1 Multi-carrier operation
### 7.1.1 Inter-band multi-carrier operation
7.1.1.1 Maximum output power
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the following V2X UE Power
Classes define the maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth within
the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement shall be at least one sub
frame (1ms).
Table 7.1.1.1-1: Con-current V2X UE Power Class for uplink inter-band
combination (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | -UTRA | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | c | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V | | | | | 23 | +2/ | | | | 2X_3 | | | | | | -3^4^ | | | | A-47A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V | | | | | 23 | +2/ | | | | 2X_7 | | | | | | -3^4^ | | | | A-47A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V | | | | | 23 | +2/ | | | | 2X_8 | | | | | | -3^4^ | | | | A-47A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V2 | | | | | 23 | +2/ | | | | X_39 | | | | | | -3^4^ | | | | A-47A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V2 | | | | | 23 | +2/ | | | | X_41 | | | | | | -3^4^ | | | | A-47A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | Ser | | | | | | | | | | vice. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | total | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | | | | onent | | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | | (per | | | | | | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | ^4^ | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | (F | | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | + 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | -- 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | | | UL_h | | | | | | | | | | igh~, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
7.1.1.2 UE maximum output power for modulation / channel bandwidth
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the allowed maximum power
reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied per each
component carrier. The legacy LTE MPR requirements shall be applied on the CC
of licensed band, the V2X MPR requirements shall be applied on CC of Band 47.
7.1.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the allowed additional maximum
power reduction (A-MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied per each
component carrier. The legacy A-MPR requirements shall be applied on CC of
licensed band, the V2X A-MPR requirements shall be applied on CC of Band 47.
7.1.1.4 Configured transmitted power
For the inter-band con-current operation for V2X service, the configured
transmitted power requirements for V2X UE shall be applied per each component
carrier. The legacy configured transmitted power shall be decided by MPR _~c~_
and A-MPR _~c~_ of each CC _._
If the total transmitted power is over the power class of the UE or given
P~EMAX~,_c_ for V2X service, same power control will be applied in each CC.
However, the legacy LTE service on licensed band are considered, the
configured transmitted power will be decided by priority between legacy LTE
transmission and V2X transmission.
### **6.2.5G Configured transmitted power for V2X Communication**
> When UE is configured for E-UTRA V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent
> with E-UTRA uplink transmissions for E-UTRA V2X operating bands specified in
> Table 5.5G-1, the configured maximum output power P~CMAX,_c_ ~ and power
> boundary requirement specified in subclause 6.2.5 shall apply to UE
> supporting V2X, where
>
> \- MPR _~c~_ is specified in subclause 6.2.3G;
>
> \- A-MPR _~c~_ is specified in subclause 6.2.4G;
>
> For {width="0.7652777777777777in" height="0.26875in"}
> and$P_{\text{CMAX},\text{PSCCH}}$, P~EMAX,c~ is the value given by IE
> _maxTxPower_ , defined by [7], when the UE is not associated with a serving
> cell on the V2X carrier .
>
> The power control parameters are (pre)configured only for PSSCH. The PSD
> offset of PSSCH is used to determine the transmission power of PSCCH. For
> all cases, the PSD difference between PSCCH and PSSCH shall be the same as
> the PSD offset value.
>
> When a UE is configured for simultaneous E-UTRA V2X sidelink and E-UTRA
> uplink transmissions for inter-band E-UTRA V2X / E-UTRA bands specified in
> Table 7.1.1.1-1, the UE is allowed to set its configured maximum output
> power P~CMAX,_c_ ,_E-UTRA_ ~ and P~CMAX,_c_ ,_V2X_ ~ for the configured
> E-UTRA uplink carrier and the configured E-UTRA V2X carrier, respectively,
> and its total configured maximum output power P~CMAX,c~.
>
> The configured maximum output power P~CMAX\ _c_ ,_E-UTRA_ ~_(p)_ in subframe
> _p_ for the configured E-UTRA uplink carrier shall be set within the bounds:
>
> ≤ P~CMAX,_c,E-UTRA\_ ~(_p_) ≤ P~CMAX_H,_c,E-UTRA_ ~ (_p_)
>
> where P~CMAX_L,_c,E-UTRA\_ ~and P~CMAX_H,_c,E-UTRA_ ~ are the limits for a
> serving cell c as specified in subclause 6.2.5.
>
> The configured maximum output power P~CMAX\ _c_ ,_V2X\_ ~_(q)_ in subframe
> _q_ for the configured E-UTRA V2X carrier shall be set within the bounds:
>
> P~CMAX,_c,V2X\_ ~(_q_) ≤ P~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~ (_q_)
>
> where P~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~ is the limit as specified in subclause 6.2.5G.
>
> The total UE configured maximum output power P~CMAX~ (_p,q_) in a subframe
> _p_ of an E-UTRA uplink carrier and a subframe _q_ of an E-UTRA V2X sidelink
> that overlap in time shall be set within the following bounds for
> synchronous and asynchronous operation unless stated otherwise:
>
> P~CMAX_L~ (_p,q_) ≤ P~CMAX~ (_p,q_) ≤ P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_)
>
> with
>
> P~CMAX_L~ (_p,q_) = P~CMAX_L,_c,E-UTRA_ ~ (_p_)
>
> P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_) = MIN {10 log~10~ [p~CMAX_H,_c,E-UTRA_ ~ (_p_) +
> p~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~ (_q_)], P~PowerClass~}
>
> where p~CMAX_H _,c,V2X_ ~ and p~CMAX_H,_c,E-UTRA_ ~ are the limits
> P~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~ (_q_) and P~CMAX_H,_c,E-UTRA_ ~ (_p_) expressed in linear
> scale.
>
> The measured total maximum output power P~UMAX~ over both the E-UTRA uplink
> and E-UTRA V2X carriers is
>
> P~UMAX~ = 10 log~10~ [p~UMAX,_c,E-UTRA_ ~ + p~UMAX,_c,V2X_ ~],
where p~UMAX,_c,E-UTRA\_ ~ denotes the measured output power of serving cell
_c_ for the configured E-UTRA uplink carrier, and p~UMAX,_c,V2X\_ ~denotes the
measured output power for the configured E-UTRA V2X carrier expressed in
linear scale.
When a UE is configured for synchronous V2X sidelink and uplink transmissions,
P~CMAX_L~(_p, q_) -- T~LOW~ (P~CMAX_L~(_p, q_)) ≤ P~UMAX~ ≤ P~CMAX_H~(_p, q_)
+ T~HIGH~ (P~CMAX_H~(_p, q_))
where P~CMAX_L~ (_p,q_) and P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_) are the limits for the pair
(_p,q_) and with the tolerances T~LOW~(P~CMAX~) and T~HIGH~(P~CMAX~) for
applicable values of P~CMAX~ specified in Table 6.2.5C-1. P~CMAX_L~ may be
modified for any overlapping portion of subframes _(p, q)_ and _(p +1, q+1)._
> When a UE is configured for asynchronous V2X and uplink transmissions, the
> subframe _p_ for the E-UTRA uplink carrier and subframe _q_ for the E-UTRA
> V2X carrier overlap in time and
  1. if uplink carrier leads in time over _q_ and V2X UE sidelink > transmission has SCI whose "Priority" field is set to a value less > than the high layer parameter _thresSL-TxPrioritization_ , then _p_ > is the reference subframe and the (_p,q_) and (_p,q-1_) pairs are > considered for determining the P~CMAX~ tolerance
  2. if uplink carrier leads in time over _q_ and V2X UE sidelink > transmission has SCI whose "Priority" field is set to a value > larger than the high layer parameter _thresSL-TxPrioritization_ , > then _q_ is the reference subframe and the (_p,q_) and (_p+1,q_) > pairs are considered for determining the P~CMAX~ tolerance
  3. if V2X carrier leads in time over _p_ and V2X UE sidelink > transmission has SCI whose "Priority" field is set to a value less > than the high layer parameter _thresSL-TxPrioritization_ , then _p_ > is the reference subframe and the (_p,q_) and (_p,q+1_) pairs are > considered for determining the P~CMAX~ tolerance
  4. if V2X carrier leads in time over _p_ and V2X UE sidelink > transmission has SCI whose "Priority" field is set to a value > larger than the high layer parameter _thresSL-TxPrioritization_ ,, > then _q_ is the reference subframe and the (_p-1,q_) and (_p,q_) > pairs are considered for determining the P~CMAX~ tolerance
> For the reference subframe _p_ duration when uplink carrier leads:
P\'~CMAX_L~ = P~CMAX__L,c,E-UTRA\_ ~(_p_)
P\'~CMAX_H~ = MAX {P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q-1_) , P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_)}
For the reference subframe _p_ duration when V2X carrier leads:
P\'~CMAX_L~ = P~CMAX_L _,c,E-UTRA\_ ~(_p_)
P\'~CMAX_H~ = MAX {P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_) , P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q+1_)}
For the reference subframe _q_ duration when uplink carrier leads:
P\'~CMAX_L~ = P~CMAX__L,c,V2X\_ ~(_q_)
P\'~CMAX_H~ = MAX {P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_) , P~CMAX_H~ (_p+1,q_)}
For the reference subframe _q_ duration when V2X carrier leads:
P\'~CMAX_L~ = P~CMAX_L _,c,V2X\_ ~(_q_)
> P\'~CMAX_H~ = MAX {P~CMAX_H~ (_p-1,q_) , P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_)}
where P~CMAX__L,,cE-UTRA\_ ~(_p_) and P~CMAX_H~ are the applicable limits for
each overlapping subframe pairs above 4case with _(p,q_), (_p, q-1_) or
_(p,q), (p, q+1)_ or _(p,q), (p+1,q)_ or _(p,q)_ , (_p-1, q_). The measured
total configured maximum output power P~UMAX~ shall be within the following
bounds:
> P'~CMAX_L~ -- T~LOW~ (P'~CMAX_L~) ≤ P~UMAX~ ≤ P'~CMAX_H~ + T~HIGH~
> (P'~CMAX_H~)
>
> with the tolerances T~LOW~(P~CMAX~) and T~HIGH~(P~CMAX~) for applicable
> values of P~CMAX~ specified in Table 6.2.5C-1.
7.1.1.5 UE Minimum output power
Expected no need to change the requirements for multi-carrier V2X UE. The
legacy minimum output power requirements will be applied on CC of licensed
band and the V2X minimum output power requirements will be applied on CC of
Band 47 for inter-band con-current V2X operation.
7.1.1.6 Transmit OFF power
Expected no need to change the requirements for multi-carrier V2X UE. The
legacy transmit OFF power requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band
and the V2X transmit off power on CC of Band 47 for inter-band con-current V2X
operation.
7.1.1.7 ON/OFF time mask
When UE support inter-band con-current V2X operation in Table 7.1-2, the
general time mask, PSSS/SSSS time mask and PSSCH.SRS time mask except
PSSS/SSSS/PSBCH time mask for ProSe UE apply on CC of Band 47, the time mask
requirements in section 6.3.4 in TS36.101 for LTE system apply on CC of
licensed band.
One remaining issue to support the PSSS/SSSS/PSBCH time mask for single
carrier E-UTRA V2X sidelink defines due to redefined the DMRS allocation in
PSBCH. Hence below new ON/OFF time mask will be added for single carrier V2X
UE.
7.1.1.7.1 PSSS / SSSS / PSBCH time mask for single carrier
The PSSS/SSSS/PSBCH time mask defines the observation period between SSSS and
adjacent PSSS/PSBCH symbols in a subframe, with last symbol punctured to
create a guard period.
.
Figure 7.1.1.7.1-1: PSSS/SSSS/PBCH time mask for normal CP transmission for
V2X Service
Figure 7.7.1-2: PSSS/SSSS/PBCH time mask for extended CP transmission for V2X
Service
7.1.1.8 Power control
Expected no need to change the requirements for multi-carrier V2X UE. The
legacy power control requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band and
the V2X power control requirements will be applied on CC of Band 47 for inter-
band con-current V2X operation.
#### 7.1.1.9 Transmit signal quality
#### 7.1.1.9.1 Frequency error
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy frequency error requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band
and V2X requirements in 5.2.4 sub-clause will be applied on CC of Band 47.
7.1.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality
7.1.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude
Expected no need to change the requirements for multi-carrier V2X UE. The
legacy EVM requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band and the V2X EVM
requirements will be applied on CC of Band 47 for inter-band con-current V2X
operation.
7.1.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage
Expected no need to change the requirements for multi-carrier V2X UE. The
legacy carrier leakage requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band and
the V2X carrier leakage requirements will be applied on CC of Band 47 for
inter-band con-current V2X operation.
7.1.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions
Expected no need to change the requirements for multi-carrier V2X UE. The in-
band emission requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band and the in-
band emission requirements for V2X UE will be applied on CC of Band 47 for
inter-band con-current V2X operation.
7.1.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness
Expected no need to change the requirements for multi-carrier V2X UE. The
legacy spectrum flatness requirements will be applied per carrier for inter-
band con-current V2X operation.
7.1.1.10 Out of band emission
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy OOB emission requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band
and legacy V2X OOB emission requirements will be applied on CC of Band 47.
7.1.1.10.1 ACLR requirements
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy ACLR requirements will be applied on CC of licensed band and legacy
V2X ACLR requirements will be applied on CC of Band 47.
7.1.1.11 Spurious emission
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the allowed SE requirements
shall be specified in Table 7.1.1.11.1-1.
7.1.1.11.1 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
This clause specifies the spurious emission requirements of the inter-band
con-current V2X operation, for coexistence with protected bands
Table 7.1.1.11.1-1: Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | inter | emi | | | | | | | | -Band | ssion | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | ombin | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | V | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | 2X_3 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | A-47A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 24, | | | uency | | | | | | 25 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 24 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | V | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | 2X_7 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | A-47A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 3, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 13 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 3, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 13 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 3, 21 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 24, | | | uency | | | | | | 25 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 24 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | V | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | 2X_8 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | A-47A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 7, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2, 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 24, | | | uency | | | | | | 25 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 24 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | V2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | X_39 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | A-47A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 3,5 | | | | | | | | | ,7,8, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45,65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1805 | - | 1855 | -40 | 1 | 20 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 1855 | - | 1880 | -15.5 | 5 | 3, | | | uency | | | | | | 13, | | | range | | | | | | 20 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 24, | | | uency | | | | | | 25 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 24 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | V2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | X_41 | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | A-47A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 8, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 24, | | | uency | | | | | | 25 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 24 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | excep | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | ~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3 | | | | | | | | | or 4 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6.3 | | | | | | | | | .1A-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | aggre | | | | | | | | | gated | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | ses:\ | | | | | | | | | - for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | F~c~) | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 902.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz ≤ | | | | | | | | | F~c~ | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE13: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 17: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 1765 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 20: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | -1920 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | (r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | 1RB | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1880 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pecif | | | | | | | | | ied). | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | [54 | | | | | | | | | RB] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 892.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 894.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1895 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1903 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 21: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2500 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 560.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 562.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2552 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2560 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 24: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_XX | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | pre- | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | 3 V2X | | | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 25: | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | x-595 | | | | | | | | | 0MHz, | | | | | | | | | SE | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -30dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | lied; | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | x = | | | | | | | | | max | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | 5925, | | | | | | | | | fc + | | | | | | | | | 15), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | fc is | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | frequ | | | | | | | | | ency. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
### 7.1.2 Intra-band multi-carrier operation
#### 7.1.2.1 Transmit power
##### 7.1.2.1.1 Maximum output power
For intra-band contiguous MCC operation, the maximum output power is defined
in Table 7.1.2.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.2.1.1-1: V2X UE Power Class for intra-band contiguous MCC operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V2X | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | MCC | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | Con | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V2X | | | | | 23 | ±2 | | | | _47B | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | intra | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | total | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | | | | onent | | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | | (per | | | | | | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 7.1.2.1.2 UE maximum output power for modulation / channel bandwidth
Based on the simulation results, for intra-band contiguous MCC 10MHz+10MHz the
allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power is
specified in Table 7.1.2.1.2-1 to meet general ACLR and SEM requirements. In
case the modulation format is different on different component carriers then
the MPR is determined by the rules applied to higher order of those
modulations.
Table 7.1.2.1.2-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for intra-band contiguous MCC
for Power Class 3
* * *
Modulation 50 RB + 50 RB 50 RB + 100 RB 100 RB + 100 RB MPR (dB) QPSK - N/A
N/A ≤ [3] 16 QAM - N/A N/A ≤ [3]
* * *
##### 7.1.2.1.3 Configured transmitted power
The configured transmitted power per UE for intra-band contiguous CA can be
reused for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X.
#### 7.1.2.2 Output power dynamics
##### 7.1.2.2.1 Minimum output power
The UE minimum output power for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X
can reuse the single carrier requirement for each CC.
##### 7.1.2.2.2 Transmit OFF power
The UE transmit OFF power for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X can
reuse the single carrier requirement for each CC.
##### 7.1.2.2.3 Transmit ON/OFF time mask
For intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X, the general output power
ON/OFF time mask is applicable for each component carrier during the ON power
period and the transient periods. The OFF period shall only be applicable for
each component carrier when all the component carriers are OFF.
##### 7.1.2.2.4 Power control
The UE power control requirements for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for
V2X can reuse the single carrier requirement for each CC.
#### 7.1.2.3 Transmit signal quality
#### 7.1.2.3.1 Frequency error
The requirements for the intra-band contiguous V2X operation, RAN4 follow the
single carrier frequency error per CC at Band 47 _._
##### 7.1.2.3.2 Error Vector Magnitude
The UE EVM requirement for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X can
reuse the single carrier requirement for each CC.
##### 7.1.2.3.3 Carrier leakage
The carrier leakage requirement for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for
V2X can reuse the single carrier requirement.
##### 7.1.2.3.4 In-band emissions
The UE in-band emission requirement for intra-band contiguous MCC operation
for V2X can reuse the single carrier requirement for each CC.
##### 7.1.2.3.5 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness
The spectrum flatness requirement for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for
V2X can reuse the single carrier requirement for each CC.
#### 7.1.2.4 Output RF spectrum emissions
##### 7.1.2.4.1 Spectrum emission mask
The spectrum emission mask requirement for intra-band contiguous CA
10MHz+10MHz can be reused for intra-band contiguous MCC operation 10MHz+10MHz
for V2X.
##### 7.1.2.4.2 ACLR
The ACLR requirement for intra-band contiguous CA can be reused for intra-band
contiguous MCC operation 10MHz+10MHz for V2X.
##### 7.1.2.4.3 Spurious emission
The spurious emission requirement for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for
V2X can reuse the single carrier requirement.
#### 7.1.2.5 Transmit intermodulation
The transmit intermodulation requirement for intra-band contiguous CA can be
reused for intra-band contiguous MCC operation 10MHz+10MHz for V2X.
## 7.2 High power single-carrier operation
Based on agreed WF[5], RAN4 make a consensus how to specify the new power
class for high power LTE-based V2X UE as below
  * Candidate solution
```{=html}
``` \- Option1: Power class 2 + antenna gain (up to 6dBi)
    -   PROS: Easy specify to support high max. power, follow legacy
        Transmission RF requirements except ACLR and ACS
    -   CONS: Need technical support to satisfy the 26dBm maximum output
        power at antenna connector in ITS spectrum
  * Option2 : New power class X (33dBm) + 0dBi antenna
    * PROS: Support 33dBm max. power at conducted mode
    * CONS: Specify to all Tx requirements for 33dBm max. output power, Need technical support to satisfy the 33dBm maximum output power at antenna connector in ITS spectrum
  * Option3 : Do not preclude other solution
```{=html}
``` \- Agreed WF [5][7]
```{=html}
``` \- RAN4 can define power class as option1 for V2X UE to support up to
33dBm maximum power
  * ACLR/ACS values will be decided by adjacent channel coexistence evaluation results
  * RF requirements are only specified for Power class 2 UE with 0dBi antenna gain.
  * For B47 contiguous operation In Rel-14, only contiguous 10MHz+10MHz is supported.
    * **Power class**
      * **_For inter-band MCC V2X between Band 47 and licensed band, > only power class 3 per UE is supported._**
      * **_For intra-band MCC V2X in Band 47, only power class 3 per > UE is supported._**
      * **_For single carrier in Band 47, both power class 2 and > power class 3 are supported_**
## 7.2.1 Transmit power
#### 7.2.1.1 UE maximum output power
The maximum output power of power class 2 on band 47 will be defined for high
power V2X as shown in table 7.2.1-1. The period of measurement shall be at
least one sub-frame (1ms) excluding the last symbol.
Table 7.2.1-1: UE Power Class for high power V2X
* * *
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) 47 26 +2/[-2]
* * *
#### 7.2.1.2 UE maximum output power for modulation / channel bandwidth
Based on the simulation results in above sections, for power class 2 V2X UE,
the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power due to
higher order modulation and transmit bandwidth configuration (resource blocks)
is specified as follows:
Table 7.2.1.2-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power class 2 V2X UE with
PSCCH and PSSCH in adjacent
+---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | Mod | Channel | MPR | | | | | | | ulation | ba | (dB) | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Trans | | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | | (N~RB~) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | QPSK | | | | - | | - | ≤ 2 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+ | 16 QAM | | | | - | | - | ≤ 2.5 | +---------+---------+---------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-------+
For power class 2 V2X UE with PSCCH and PSSCH transmissions in non-adjacent
resource blocks in single component carrier, the allowed Maximum Power
Reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power is specified as follows
MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows
For 10MHz channel bandwidth M~A~ = 4.5 ; 0.0\20 & \30 12 5870, 5900, 5880, 5890, 5900 \40 1 Non-Adjacent 5860 - 12.5 5910, 5920 \10 3 5870, 5880,
5890, 5900 \ 4400 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 8.1.2.5 Spurious response
The method of spurious response for intra-band contiguous CA can be reused for
intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X.
Table 8.1.2.5-1 Spurious response parameters for intra-band contiguous MCC for
V2X
* * *
Rx Parameter Units V2X Bandwidth Class  
B C D E F Pw in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration, per CC dBm REFSENS + V2X
Bandwidth Class specific value below  
9
* * *
Table 8.1.2.5-2 Spurious response for intra-band contiguous MCC for V2X
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | P~Interferer~ | dBm | -44 | | | | | | (CW) | | | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | Spurious response frequencies | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+
#### 8.1.2.6 Intermodulation characteristics
The method of intermodulation for intra-band contiguous CA can be reused for
intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X.
Table 8.1.2.6-1 Wide band intermodulation for intra-band contiguous MCC for
V2X
+----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | Rx parameter | Units | V2X Bandwidth Class | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | B | C | D | E | F | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | P~w~ in Transmission | dBm | REFSENS + V2X | | | | | | Bandwidth | | Bandwidth Class | | | | | | Configuration, per | | specific value below | | | | | | CC | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | P~Interferer\ 1~ | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | P~Interferer\ 2~ | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Modulated) | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | BW~Interferer\ 2~ | MHz | 10 | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | F~Interferer\ 1~ | MHz | --F~offset~-15 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Offset) | | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | + F~offset~+15 | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+ | F~Interferer\ 2~ | MHz | **2 | | | | | | | | *F~Interferer\ 1~** | | | | | | (Offset) | | | | | | | +----------------------+-------+----------------------+---+---+---+---+
#### 8.1.2.7 RX spurious emissions
The spurious emission requirement for intra-band contiguous MCC operation for
V2X can reuse the single carrier requirement.
#### 8.1.2.8 Receiver image
For intra-band contiguous MCC operation for V2X, 30dB receiver image rejection
requirement should be fulfilled.
## 8.2 High power single-carrier operation
Comparing to the power class 3 single carrier V2X operations, the high power
case is mainly about the transmitter, while for receiver part, no additional
modification is needed on the existent power class 3 single carrier operation
requirements, which are specified in section 7 of TR 36.785.
## 8.2.1 Reference sensitivity power level
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to the UE antenna connector at which the throughput shall meet or
exceed 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channels.
It's proposed the current requirement defined for power class 3 V2X UE
operating on single carrier should apply, as shown in Table 8.2.1-1.
Table 8.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity for power class 2 V2X standalone
operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | uplex | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | Mode | | ProSe | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 47 | | | | **\ | |** \ | TDD | | | | | | [-90. | | [-87. | | | | | | | 5]**| | 6]** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | [A. | | | | | | | | | 8.2] | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.2.2 Maximum input level
Maximum input level is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE
antenna port, at which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed
the minimum requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
It's proposed the current requirement defined for power class 3 V2X UE
operating on single carrier should apply, as shown in Table 8.2.2-1.
Table 8.2.2-1: Maximum input level for power class 2 V2X
* * *
Rx Parameter Units Channel bandwidth
                                                                                                       10\      20\
                                                                                                       MHz      MHz
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration dBm -22
NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is Annex A.8.2 in TS36.101
* * *
## 8.2.3 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
For ACS requirement, although it is model together with ACLR in ACIR, it's
preferable to keep the requirement unchanged so that no additional upgrade is
needed in the filter of receiver, as shown in Table 8.2.3-1 to Table 8.2.3-3.
Table 8.2.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity for power class 2 V2X
* * *
                         Channel bandwidth
Rx Parameter Units 1.4\ 3\ 5\ 10\ 15\ 20\ MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
ACS dB 33.0 27.0
* * *
Table 8.2.3-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for power
class 2 V2X, Case 1
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | P~REF | | | | | | | in | | SENS\ | | | | | | | Tr | | _V2X~ | | | | | | | ansmi | | + 14 | | | | | | | ssion | | dB | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | dBm | | | | RE | | RE | | P~Int | | | | | FSENS | | FSENS | | erfer | | | | | +4 | | +3 | | er~**| | | | | 5.5dB | | 9.5dB | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** BW~ | MHz | | | | 10 | | 10 | | Inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | \ ~**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** F~I | MHz | | | | 10+0 | | 15+0 | | nterf | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | (offs | | | | | / | | / | | et)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -10-0 | | -15-0 | | | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 8.2.3-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for power
class 2 V2X, Case 2
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | | | | -56.5 | | -50.5 | | in | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~I | dBm | -25 | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BW~I | MHz | | | | 10 | | 10 | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | F~I | MHz | | | | 10+0 | | 15+0 | | nterf | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | (of | | | | | / | | / | | fset) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -10-0 | | -15-0 | | | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.2.4 Blocking characteristics
The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive
a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
unwanted interferer on frequencies other than those of the spurious response
or the adjacent channels, without this unwanted input signal causing a
degradation of the performance of the receiver beyond a specified limit. The
blocking performance shall apply at all frequencies except those at which a
spurious response occur.
### 8.2.4.1 In-band blocking
It's proposed the current requirement defined for power class 3 V2X UE
operating on single carrier should apply, as shown in Table 8.2.4.1-1 and
Table 8.2.4.1-2.
Table 8.2.4.1-1: In band blocking parameters for power class 2 V2X
* * *
Rx parameter Units Channel bandwidth  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Power in Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel bandwidth specific value below  
6 9 **BW~Interferer\ ~** MHz 10 10 **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 1\ ~** MHz 15+0.0025
15+0.005 **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 2\ ~** MHz 25+0.0075 25+0.0025 NOTE 1: The
interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols.
Normal cyclic prefix is used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the
wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of TS36.211
* * *
Table 8.2.4.1-2: In-band blocking for power class 2 V2X
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | E-UTRA ProSe | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | | | | | | | band | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | =-BW/2 -- | ≤-BW/2 -- | | | ~Interferer~ | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+BW/2 + | ≥+BW/2 + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | 47 | F | MHz | (NOTE 2) | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 30 | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 30 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | range values | | | | | | for unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
### 8.2.4.2 Out-of-band blocking
It's proposed the current requirement defined for power class 3 V2X UE
operating on single carrier should apply, as shown in Table 8.2.4.2-1.
Table 8.2.4.2-1: Out of band blocking for power class 2 V2X
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Units | Fr | | | | | band | rameter | | equency | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | Range 4 | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | -15 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 47 | F~Inte | MHz | F~D | F~D | F~D | - | | | rferer~ | | L_low~ | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | (CW) | | -30 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | 1 MHz | | | | | | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | F~DL | F~DL | F~DL | - | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +30 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~DL | +12750 | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | MHz | | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | erferer | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | P~Inter | | | | | | | | ferer~) | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odified | | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | | F~Inte | | | | | | | | rferer~ | | | | | | | | > 4400 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 8.2.4.3 Narrow band blocking
It is proposed that narrow-band blocking requirements do not apply in the
presence of a narrow-band interferer in Band 47.
## 8.2.5 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a wanted
signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given degradation
due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any other
frequency at which a response is obtained.
It's proposed the current requirement defined for power class 3 V2X UE
operating on single carrier should apply, as shown in Table 8.2.5-1 and Table
8.2.5-2.
Table 8.2.5-1: Spurious response parameters for power class 2 V2X
* * *
Rx parameter Units Channel bandwidth  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Power in Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel bandwidth specific value below  
6 9 NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is specified in Annex A.8.2 in TS
36.101.
* * *
Table 8.2.5-2: Spurious response for power class 2 V2X
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | P~Interferer~ | dBm | -44 | | | | | | (CW) | | | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | Spurious response frequencies | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+
## 8.2.6 Intermodulation characteristics
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal.
It's proposed the current requirement defined for power class 3 V2X UE
operating on single carrier should apply, as shown in Table 8.2.6-1.
Table 8.2.6-1: Wide band intermodulation for power class V2X
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | -UTRA | Para | | annel | | | | | | | band | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 47 | Power | dBm | P~REF | | | | | | | | in | | SENS\ | | | | | | | | Tr | | _V2X~ | | | | | | | | ansmi | | + | | | | | | | | ssion | | ch | | | | | | | | Band | | annel | | | | | | | | width | | band | | | | | | | | Con | | width | | | | | | | | figur | | spe | | | | | | | | ation | | cific | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 6 | | 9 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 1~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **( | | | | | | | | | | CW)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 2~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **(Mo | | | | | | | | | | dulat | | | | | | | | | | ed)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | * | | | | | 10 | | 10 | | | _BW~I | | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 2~__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__F~I | MHz | | | | -BW/2 | | -BW/2 | | | nterf | | | | | -- 15 | | -- 15 | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 1~__| | | | | / | | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | +BW/2 | | +BW/2 | | | (Offs | | | | | + 15 | | + 15 | | | et)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__F~I | MHz | 2*F | | | | | | | | nterf | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | erer\ | | rfere | | | | | | | | 2~__| | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | (Offs | | | | | | | | | | et)_ * | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.8.2 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | | .101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.2.7 RX spurious emissions
The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or amplified
in a receiver that appear at the UE antenna connector.
It's proposed the current requirement defined for power class 3 V2X UE
operating on single carrier should apply, as shown in Table 8.2.7-1 and Table
8.2.7-2.
Table 8.2.7-1: General receiver spurious emission requirements for power class
2 V2X
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | Frequency band | Measurement | Maximum level | NOTE | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | 30MHz ≤ f \2m above the ground level
* * *
The additional Rx spurious emission limits, however, are specified in EIRP.
Furthermore, the requirement varies based on antenna installation. It is FFS
how to convert this to conducted requirements.
# 9 Other specification impacts (if applicable)
These way forword were considered to specify the V2X RRM requirements
  * **UE Tx timing requirement**
    * The scenario of shared carrier for WAN and PC5 V2X is not considered for RRM requirements in the current WI, assuming RF session will not define requirements for it.
    * For V2X on Band 47 carrier, NTA offset should be always zero.
    * Send a clarification to RAN1 to inform about RAN4 agreement and scenario that prioritized in RAN4.
  * **Interruption**
    * V-UE requirement on WAN interruptions
      * Case 2: Not capture this requirement
      * Case 3: FFS
        * Do not define if Case 3 is not supported in RF room
    * WAN/GNSS timing misalignment
      * Do not define
    * V2X (re)configuration
      * Specify 1 subframe WAN interruptions due to V2X (re)configuration
    * Synchronous source change
      * UE is allowed to drop V2V SL TX/RX for up to [1] subframe for every synchronization source change
    * V2V/V2X interruptions due to WAN operation
      * Do not define interruptions in Rel-14. Keep up to UE implementation.
```{=html}
``` \- **Initiation/cease of SLSS requirements**
    -   When timing reference is eNB/GNSS
        -   Reuse Rel-12/13 in-coverage ProSe requirements when UE is
            in-coverage
    -   When timing reference is SyncRef UE
        -   Reuse D2D measurement accuracy
        -   Measurement period = 320ms
        -   Evaluation period = 640ms
  * **Selection/Reselection of V2X Sync.Ref.**
    * Selection/Reselection to SyncRef UE
    * GNSS is highest priority
      * UE is synchronized to GNSS directly: No SLSS and data drop allowed
      * UE is Synced to SyncRefUE that is directly or in-directly synced to GNSS
        * Not allow drop Data
        * Need SLSS drop
          * Side condition = [0] dB
          * Tdetect,SyncRef UE = [1.6]seconds
          * Allow to drop maximum [30]% of its transmission during Tdetect,SyncRef UE
          * [3]samples based
      * Other case
        * Allow drop Data & SLSS
        * Side condition = [0] dB
        * Tdetect,SyncRef UE = [8]seconds
        * Allow to drop maximum [6]% of its transmission during Tdetect,SyncRef UE
    * Selection/Reselection to SyncRef UE
      * eNB is configured with the highest priority
        * Allow drop Data & SLSS
        * Side condition = [0] dB
        * Tdetect,SyncRef UE = [8]seconds
        * Allow to drop maximum [6]% of its transmission during Tdetect,SyncRef UE
      * Decision are TBC based on RAN1 agreements in Feb meeting
    * UE measurement capability of performing S-RSRP
      * V-UE : [3] identified SLSS
      * P-UE : No SLSS related requirement is defined
    * GNSS synchronization source reselection evaluation period
      * Define evaluation period for synch source reselection from GNSS to another synch source. Value is TBD.
        * Add a note that value will be finalize in Performance part or as maintenance
```{=html}
``` \- **Cell detection requirements in OOC**
    -   Not define due to there is no cell on carrier of V2X sidelink
        communication in Rel-14
  * **Autonomous Resource (re)selection**
    * Only define the PSSCH-RSRP and S-RSSI measurement accuracy requirements for UE autonomous resource selection/reselection
    * PSSCH-RSRP measurement accuracy is specified for only absolute measurement.
      * Absolute accuracy: ± [5] dB at Es/Iot ≥[0]dB
    * S-RSSI measurement accuracy
      * Reuse RSSI measurement accuracy in LAA
      * Measurement period
        * Filtered measurement requirements & measurement period= 1second
  * **Congestion control**
    * For CBR measurement, single-shot measurement requirements of S-RSSI shall be defined.
# 10 Performance requirements
_Editor Note: It will be added in future [FFS]_
###### ### Annex A: MPR simulation results
This Annex collects the simulation results from three sourcing companies.
These simulation results are only for the reference and no need to be captured
in the TR.
## A.1 Simulation results for adjacent allocation
{width="2.71875in" height="2.1777777777777776in"}
{width="2.7395833333333335in" height="2.1770833333333335in"}
{width="2.7395833333333335in" height="2.171527777777778in"}
{width="2.734027777777778in" height="2.1666666666666665in"}
Figure 1 MPR simulation results from [1]
{width="3.0756944444444443in"
height="2.259027777777778in"}{width="3.1069444444444443in"
height="2.2819444444444446in"}
{width="3.067361111111111in" height="2.2527777777777778in"}{width="3.04375in"
height="2.2354166666666666in"}
Figure 2 MPR simulation results from [2]
{width="3.3465277777777778in" height="2.9034722222222222in"}{width="3.325in"
height="2.920138888888889in"}
{width="3.2736111111111112in" height="2.848611111111111in"}
{width="3.2736111111111112in" height="2.876388888888889in"}
Figure 3 MPR simulation results from [3]
## A.2 Simulation results for non-adjacent allocation
{width="2.6506944444444445in" height="2.1756944444444444in"}
{width="2.723611111111111in" height="2.171527777777778in"}
{width="2.6875in" height="2.1875in"} {width="2.734027777777778in"
height="2.161111111111111in"}
Figure 4 MPR simulation results from [1]
{width="3.1152777777777776in"
height="2.2881944444444446in"}{width="3.0833333333333335in"
height="2.2708333333333335in"}
{width="3.1152777777777776in"
height="2.2881944444444446in"}{width="2.979861111111111in"
height="2.3402777777777777in"}
Figure 5 MPR simulation results from [2]
{width="3.3027777777777776in"
height="2.892361111111111in"}{width="3.2958333333333334in"
height="2.8979166666666667in"}
{width="3.3027777777777776in" height="2.975in"}{width="3.310416666666667in"
height="2.9583333333333335in"}
Figure 6 MPR simulation results from [3]
###### ### Annex B: A-MPR simulation results
This Annex collects the simulation results from three sourcing companies.
These simulation results are only for the reference and no need to be captured
in the TR.
## B.1 Simulation results for adjacent allocation
{width="2.6979166666666665in" height="2.1666666666666665in"}
{width="2.7069444444444444in" height="2.1534722222222222in"}
{width="2.6979166666666665in" height="2.165277777777778in"}
{width="2.734027777777778in" height="2.15625in"}
{width="2.7291666666666665in" height="2.1770833333333335in"}
{width="2.692361111111111in" height="2.171527777777778in"}
{width="2.71875in" height="2.165277777777778in"}
Figure 7 A-MPR simulation results from [1]
{width="4.783333333333333in" height="3.7694444444444444in"}
Figure 8 A-MPR simulation results from [2]
{width="3.0479166666666666in"
height="2.4715277777777778in"}{width="3.0840277777777776in"
height="2.482638888888889in"}
Channel Group 2: 5870, 5910, 5920MHz
{width="3.252083333333333in"
height="2.6465277777777776in"}{width="3.229861111111111in"
height="2.640972222222222in"}
{width="3.120833333333333in"
height="2.526388888888889in"}{width="3.1569444444444446in"
height="2.5208333333333335in"}
{width="3.15in" height="2.542361111111111in"} {width="3.1131944444444444in"
height="2.526388888888889in"}
Channel Group 3: 5880, 5890, 5900MHz
{width="3.2666666666666666in" height="2.602777777777778in"}
{width="3.2881944444444446in" height="2.6083333333333334in"}
{width="3.3027777777777776in" height="2.625in"} {width="3.28125in"
height="2.602777777777778in"}
{width="3.2881944444444446in" height="2.657638888888889in"}{width="3.28125in"
height="2.6194444444444445in"}
Figure 9 A-MPR simulation results from [3]
## B.2 Simulation results for non-adjacent allocation
{width="2.6875in" height="2.165277777777778in"} {width="2.7083333333333335in"
height="2.165277777777778in"}
{width="2.71875in" height="2.15625in"} {width="2.671527777777778in"
height="2.160416666666667in"}
{width="2.734027777777778in" height="2.186111111111111in"}
{width="2.723611111111111in" height="2.1770833333333335in"}
{width="2.6506944444444445in" height="2.165277777777778in"}
Figure 10 A-MPR simulation results from [1]
{width="4.861805555555556in" height="3.6972222222222224in"}
Figure 11 A-MPR simulation results from [2]
Channel Group 1: 5860MHz
{width="3.2958333333333334in" height="2.640972222222222in"}
{width="3.310416666666667in" height="2.673611111111111in"}
Channel Group 2: 5870, 5910, 5920MHz
{width="3.222916666666667in" height="2.6465277777777776in"} {width="3.2375in"
height="2.657638888888889in"}
{width="3.19375in" height="2.5701388888888888in"} {width="3.15in"
height="2.5375in"}
{width="3.259027777777778in" height="2.6194444444444445in"}
{width="3.2881944444444446in" height="2.6194444444444445in"}
Channel Group 3: 5880, 5890, 5900MHz
{width="3.2006944444444443in" height="2.6083333333333334in"}
{width="3.2152777777777777in" height="2.591666666666667in"}
{width="3.171527777777778in" height="2.6083333333333334in"} {width="3.19375in"
height="2.602777777777778in"}
{width="3.2006944444444443in" height="2.5972222222222223in"}
{width="3.2006944444444443in" height="2.6083333333333334in"}
Figure 12 A-MPR simulation results from [3]
#