# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report on TR on V2V Services based on
LTE sidelink.
The purpose of the present document is to study the radio requirements on V2V
services based on LTE sidelink as part of the Rel-14 work item. The normative
requirements resulting from the present document will be addressed in the
applicable release 14 Technical Specifications (TS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-152293: \" New WI proposal: Support for V2V services based on LTE
sidelink \".
_[3] 3GPP_ TR 36.877 V12.0.0: \" LTE Device to Device Proximity Services; User
Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception \".
_[4] 3GPP_ TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[5] _3GPP_ TR 36.885 V1.0.0: \" Study on LTE-based V2X Services\".
[6] R4-161498, \"WF on adjacent channel coexistence scenarios for V2V\".
[7] R4-161499: \"WF on V2V coexistence simulation parameters\".
[8] Recommendation ITU-R M.2084-0 (09/2015) - Radio interface standards of
vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure communications for
Intelligent Transport System applications
[9] ETSI EN 302 571 V2.0.0 (2016-03)
[10] IEEE, IEEE 1609.0-2013 - IEEE Guide for Wireless Access in Vehicular
Environments (WAVE) -- Architecture
[11] ECC Decision (08)01: \"ECC Decision of 14 March 2008 on the harmonised
use of the 5875-5925 frequency band for Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS)\",
approved 14 March 2008 and amended 3 July 2015.
[12] ECC Recommendation (08)01:\"Use of band 5855-5875 MHz for Intelligent
Transport Systems (ITS),\" approved 21 February 2008 and amended 3 July 2015.
[13] Commission Decision 2008/671/EC of 5 August on the harmonised use of
radio spectrum in the 5875-5905 MHz frequency band for safety related
application of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS)
[14] IEEE 802.11™-2012: \"IEEE Standard for Information technology -
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems - Local and
metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN
Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
D2D Device to Device
D2DSS D2D Synchronization Signal
PD2DSCH Physical D2D Synchronization Channel
PD2DSS Primary D2D Synchronization Signal
ProSe Proximity based Services
PS Public Safety
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast CHannel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery CHannel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
PSSS Primary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
SD2DSS Secondary D2D Synchronization Signal
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
SSSS Secondary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
V2X Vehicle to Anything
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
LTE-based V2X is urgently desired from market requirement as widely deployed
LTE-based network provides the opportunity for the vehicle industry to realize
the concept of 'connected cars.' The market for V2V communication in
particular is time sensitive because related activities such as research
projects, field test, and regulatory work are alreay ongoing or expected to
start in some countries or regions such as US, Europe, Japan, Korea, and
China. In July 2015, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) of
China approved Shanghai Intelligent Connected Vehicle Pilot Area from Shanghai
International Automobile City. In October 2015, Shanghai International
Automobile City released its initial plan to test 1000 LTE-V2X-enabled
vehicles in an area of 90 square kilometres in 2018 - 2019.
3GPP is actively conducting study and specification work on LTE-based V2X in
order to respond to this situation. A SA1 work item was approved in in
SP-150573 to specify service requirements. SA2 agreed a study item in
S2-153532 to identify and evaluate potential architecture enhancements. In
RAN#68, a study item on LTE-based V2X Services was approved in RP-151109. In
this study PC5-based V2V has been given highest priority until RAN#70. The
motivation for prioritizing V2V until RAN#70 is to start a V2V work item in
December 2015, as proposed in RP-151082. This RAN Feasibility Study
(FS_LTE_V2X , TR 36.885) has completed the part of PC5 transport for V2V
services. The RAN study concluded that it is feasible to support V2V services
based on LTE PC5 interface with necessary enhancements, and the study also
recommended to enhance at least LTE sidelink resource allocation, physical
layer structure, and synchronization. In the meantime, the RAN study is also
considering V2V operation scenarios based on not only LTE PC5 interface but
also LTE Uu interface or a combination of Uu and PC5, and the maximum
efficiency of V2V services may be achieved by selecting/switching the
operation scenario properly.
Early completion of the corresponding RAN specification for PC5-based V2V and
integration with Uu interface will enable fast preparation for device and
network implementation, thereby allowing more chance for LTE-based V2V in the
market. In addition, it can provide the basis for other V2X services,
especially V2I/N and V2P services, so that RAN support for all the V2X
services can be completed in time.
## 4.2 Objective
The objectives of this work item are to specify LTE sidelink enhancements for
V2V services defied in [SA1 TR: TR 22.885]. Specification work in this item
should start from the relevant outcome of the feasibility study on LTE-based
V2X [RAN TR: TR 36.885]. 23 dBm UE maximum transmit power is assumed in this
WI . 5GHz LAA operation is not part of the WI while it is not precluded in the
future.
As can be seen from TR 22.885, some V2I services have quite similar
requirements as V2V in terms of packet size, transmission frequency, latency
requirement etc. This work item does not preclude some V2I services be
naturally supported with functionalities specified in this work item.
The detailed objectives are as follows:
1) To specify enhancement to sidelink physical layer structure necessary for
V2V services [RAN1]
2) To specify enhancement to sidelink synchronization procedure necessary for
V2V services [RAN1, RAN2]
a) Low priority is given to enhancements to Rel-12/13 SLSS-based
synchronization.
3) To identify what are necessary sidelink resource allocation enhancement
option(s) among the ones captured in TR 36.885 for V2V services and specify
the identified option(s) [RAN1, RAN2]
4) To specify a solution/requirement (if needed) for coexistence of PC5-based
V2V operation and legacy Uu operation with LTE in the same carrier frequency
[RAN1] and in an adjacent carrier frequency [RAN4]
5) To specify a mechanism to enable E-UTRAN to select between PC5 and Uu for
transport of V2V messages within network coverage, if necessary, in
coordination with other working groups [RAN2]
> Note : that this mechanism should be applicable to potential enhancement to
> Uu for V2V services, e.g., the outcome of the Uu-based V2V part in TR
> 36.885. Note that Uu performance enhancentment for V2V is not the scope of
> this WI.
6) To specify necessary radio protocols and RRC signaling to support the above
features [RAN2]
7) To specify necessary radio access network protocols if necessary [RAN3]
8) To develop a mechanism to prevent V2V from using spectrum that V2V is not
authorized to use [RAN2]
9) To specify UE Tx and Rx RF requirement covering operations at up to 6 GHz
carrier [RAN4]
10) To specify RRM core requirement [RAN4]
11) To specify a solution/requirement for coexistence of PC5-based V2V
operation and DSRC/IEEE 802.11p on adjacent carrier frequencies within the
5.9GHz ITS spectrum. [RAN4]
The work item should cover V2V services both with and without LTE network
coverage, and cover both the operating scenario where the carrier(s) is/are
dedicated to V2V services and the operating scenario where the carrier(s)
is/are licensed spectrum and also used for normal LTE operation. The outcome
of this work item should be able to support a relative speed of up to 500 km/h
with enhancements/changes (if necessary) to the physical layer structure
designed for the relative speed up to 280 km/h. This work should consider
extension to V2I/V2P. This work should also consider progress in SA WGs.
The specified enhancements should reuse the existing features of LTE as much
as possible.
## 4.3 V2V operating Scenarios
### 4.3.1 General Description
In the V2V WID, a number of scenarios are identified for possible deployment
of V2X services; namely,
a) V2V on PC5
b) V2I on Uu
c) V2X supporting both PC5 and Uu
However, the current V2V WI is focused on V2V service on PC5 in decicated ITS
spectrum (5.9GHz). Specification of requirements for V2X operation in LTE
licensed bands will be specified as part of the V2X work item.
For the single carrier V2V scenario, a UE transmits a V2X message to multiple
UEs at a local area in sidelink. RAN4 will focus on the safety applications
for V2V on PC5 service as first priority as shown in Figure 4-1.
Figure 4-1: V2V operation Scenario
Multi-carrier scenarios for V2V can occur for both PC5 LTE-based licensed V2V,
V2V over unlicensed carriers supporting ITS functionality as well as V2I over
Uu.
### 4.3.2 Operation Aspects
Scenarios considered by RAN4 for PC5-based V2V operation (Tx/Rx of V2V
message) are as follows:
• **(Aspect 1) Operation bands used as test points for evaluation**
\- Case 1A: 5.9 GHz
\- Case 1B: 2 GHz (for consideration in the V2X work item)
• **(Aspect 2) eNB deployment including the possibility of network control**
\- Case 2A: UE autonomous resource allocation, at least mode 2, based on semi-
statically network-configured/pre-configured radio parameters including no eNB
coverage case.
\- Case 2B: eNB providing more UE specific or/and more dynamic resource
allocation including Mode 1 compared to case 2A.
Within RAN4 for this V2V WI, analysis and specification of single carrier
operation is defined as a first priority. (E.g. specify transmission and
reception requirements for ITS spectrum).
Analysis and specification of multiple component carrier (MCC) operation for
V2V service is defined as second priority in RAN4 for the V2X WI.
• **(Aspect 3) Multi-carrier operation (to be considered as part of the V2X
work item)**
Multiple carrier operation can support a number of configurations including
for example:
i) V2V communication over PC5 on intra-band multiple carriers in an operating
band (at 5.9GHz)
ii) V2V communication over PC5 and V2I over Uu both on a single carrier with
TDM operation
iii) V2V communication over PC5 and V2I over Uu, such as con-current inter-
carrier operation
\- There are two scenarios for MCC operation as belowCase 3A: UEs
communicating over PC5 across a single carrier.
\- Case 3B: UEs communicating over PC5 across multiple carriers.
RAN4 focus V2V single carrier at 5.9GHz in V2V WI.
• **(Aspect 4) Operating scenarios**
Single or multiple operator deployments can support these candidate cases for
V2V service:
\- Case 4A: Single operator operation
\- Case 4B: A set of PC5 operation carrier(s) is shared by UEs subscribed to
different operators. This means that UEs belonging to different operators may
transmit on the same carrier.
\- Case 4C: Each operator is allocated with a different carrier. This means
that a UE transmits only on the carrier allocated to the operator which it
belongs to.
\- FFS: Case 4D: No operator operation
> RAN4 will evaluate adjacent channel coexistence as well as analyze RF
> requirements in Rel-14,. It is proposed that initially V2V operation over
> PC5 be assumed for a single operator on a single carrier. Scenarios with
> multiple operators can also be considered as part of the V2X work item. The
> candidate Case 4B is assumed in ITS spectrum and Case 4C is only considered
> for LTE-based V2V UE in a licensed band.
• **(Aspect 5) Co-existing with Uu**
\- Case 5A: Dedicated carrier for V2X. There is no uplink (Uu) traffic on the
PC5 operation carrier.
\- Case 5B: V2X carrier is shared with Uu.
In licensed band operation for V2V service at 5.9GHz, the Case 5A can be
assumed as first priority.
# 5 Deployment and co-existence studies
## 5.1 General
The purpose of this clause is to address deployment and co-existence studies
for V2V services based on LTE sidelink. In this WI, RAN4 addresses LTE-based
V2V communication services both with and without LTE network coverage, and
covers both the operating scenario where the carrier(s) is/are dedicated to
LTE-based V2V services (subject to regional regulation and operator policy
including the possibility of being shared by multiple operators) and the
operating scenario where the carrier(s) is/are licensed spectrum and also used
for normal LTE operation. Specially, RAN4 need to specify V2V UE RF
requirements based on adjacent coexistence evaluation of LTE based V2V
operation and DSRC/IEEE 802.11p on adjacent carrier frequencies at the 5.9GHz
ITS spectrum. For the coexistence evaluation study, RAN4 only consider UE
existing UE power class with 23dBm for LTE-based V2V UE.
## 5.2 Operating bands
### 5.2.1 Regulatory Background
In the following chapter, we look at the regulatory requirements around the
different regions for ITS at 5.9GHz.
#### 5.2.1.1 ITU Region 1
In Europe, Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) is specified in the ETSI HS
between 5 855 MHz to 5 925 MHz, see Table 5.2.1.1-1. ECC Decision (08)01 [11]
defines the spectrum usage conditions in the frequency range 5 875 GHz to 5
905 MHz for non-safety ITS and proposes CEPT administrations to consider
within a future review of the Decision to include the designation of the
frequency sub-band 5905-5925 MHz for an extension of ITS spectrum. ECC
Recommendation (08)01 [12] recommends the spectrum usage of the frequency
range 5 855 MHz to 5 875 MHz for non-asfety ITS. The Commission Decision
2008/671/EC [13] mandates a harmonized use of the frequency band 5 875 MHz to
5 905 MHz dedicated to safety-related ITS applications throughout the member
states of the European Union.
Table 5.2.1.1-1 5 GHz ITS frequency band segmentation in Europe
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency band | Frequency | Usage | Regulation | | | range | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ITS-G5B | 5 855 MHz to | ITS non-safety | ECC | | | 5 875 MHz | applications | Recommendation | | | | | (08)01 [12] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ITS-G5A | 5 875 MHz to | ITS road | Commission | | | 5 905 MHz | safety | Decision\ | | | | | 2008/671/EC | | | | | [13], | | | | | | | | | | ECC Decision | | | | | (08)01 [11] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ITS-G5D | 5 905 MHz to | Future ITS | ECC Decision | | | 5 925 MHz | applications | (08)01 [11] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
In the following, we review the regulatory comformance requirements specified
in the harmonized standard EN 302 571 [9], which applies to radio transmitters
and receivers for ITS operating in the frequency range 5 855 MHz to 5 925 MHz
in Europe.
##### 5.2.1.1.1 TX requirements
##### 5.2.1.1.1.1 RF output power {#rf-output-power .H6}
The radio frequency (RF) output power is the mean equivalent isotropically
radiated power (e.i.r.p.) during transmission bursts.
The maximum RF output power shall not exceed 33 dBm e.i.r.p.
##### 5.2.1.1.1.2 Power spectral density {#power-spectral-density .H6}
The power spectral density (PSD) is the mean e.i.r.p. spectral density during
transmission bursts.
The maximum power spectral density shall not exceed 23 dBm/MHz e.i.r.p.
##### 5.2.1.1.1.3 Transmit power control {#transmit-power-control .H6}
The TPC range shall at least be 3 dBm up to the maximum specified RF output
power e.i.r.p of the equipment.
##### 5.2.1.1.1.4 Transmitter frequency stability {#transmitter-frequency-
stability .H6}
The nominal carrier frequencies, fc , for ITS channels in the frequency range
5 855 MHz to 5 925 MHz are 5860 MHz, 5870 MHz, 5880 MHz, 5890 MHz, 5900 MHz,
5910 MHz and 5920 MHz. The maximum channel bandwidth is 10 MHz
The equipment is required to operate on the applicable specific carrier centre
frequencies and the actual carrier centre frequency for any given channel
shall be maintained within the range f~c~ ± 20 ppm.
##### 5.2.1.1.1.5 Transmitter unwanted emissions {#transmitter-unwanted-
emissions .H6}
Unwanted emissions refer to radio frequency emissions outside the 5 GHz ITS
frequency band, i.e. outside of 5 855 MHz to 5 925 MHz.
Table 5.2.1.1.1.5-1 and Table 5.2.1.1.1.5-2 tabulate transmitter unwanted
emission limits in the spurious domain below 1 GHz and above 1 GHz,
respectively.
Table 5.2.1.1.1.5-1. Transmitter unwanted emission limits in the spurious
domain below 1 GHz
* * *
Frequency range Maximum power, (e.r.p.) (dBm) Reference bandwidth 30 MHz ≤ f
\ 2 meters above the ground level. 5,815 GHz ≤ f ≤ 18 GHz -47 dBm
(e.i.r.p.) 1 MHz n/a
* * *
##### 5.2.1.1.2.2 Receiver selectivity {#receiver-selectivity .H6}
##### 5.2.1.1.2.2.1 Adjacent channel rejection {#adjacent-channel-rejection
.H6}
The adjacent channel rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver
to operate satisfactorily in the presence of a signal in the adjacent channel,
which differs in frequency from the wanted signal by ± 10 MHz.
The harmonized standard EN 302 571 [9] only provides the minimum required
adjacent channel rejection parameters under specified conditions for receivers
using the OFDM PHY specified in IEEE 802.11™-2012 [14]
##### 5.2.1.1.2.2.2 Alternate channel rejection {#alternate-channel-rejection
.H6}
The alternate channel rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver
to operate satisfactorily in the presence of a signal in the alternate
adjacent channel, which differs in frequency from the wanted signal by ± 20
MHz.
The harmonized standard EN 302 571 [9] only provides the minimum required
alternate channel rejection parameters under specified conditions for
receivers using the OFDM PHY specified in [14].
##### 5.2.1.1.2.2.3 Blocking {#blocking .H6}
Blocking is a measure of the capability of the receiver to operate
satisfactorily in the presence of a signal in frequency band further away and
it shall be tested at ± 50 MHz, ± 100 MHz, and ± 200 MHz. Blocking testing
shall be performed at least at 6 different frequency offset positions. The
manufacturer of the equipment can add additional frequency offsets positions.
The blocking level shall not be less than -30 dBm.
##### 5.2.1.1.2.3 Receiver sensitivity {#receiver-sensitivity .H6}
The receiver sensitivity is defined as the minimum receive signal level at the
antenna connector required for a given packet error rate and modulation scheme
(noise factor of 10 dB and 5 dB implementation margins are assumed).
The harmonized standard EN 302 571 [9] only provides the receiver sensitivity
requirements for receivers using the OFDM PHY specified in [9].
#### 5.2.1.2 ITU Region 2
In US, the V2V architecture and protocols has been standardized by IEEE Groups
802.11 and 1609 as named "WAVE (Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments)" in
5.850 to 5.925 GHz spectrum ranges as shown in Figure 5.2.1.2-1 in 3GPP TR
36.877 [3].
{width="5.5472222222222225in" height="1.1597222222222223in"}
Figure 5.2.1.2-1: FCC channel allocation in 5.9GHz for V2X services
The 5MHz from 5.850 to 5.855GHz is reserved as guard band. The channel 178 is
the control channel and channels 172,174,176, 180, 182 and 184 are shared
channel for V2X services. The aggregated channel 175 and 181 are 20MHz channel
bandwidth to support multi-channel operation.
Specifically, per FCC 06-110, Channel 172 is for V2V safety communications for
accident avoidance and mitigation, and safety of life and property
applications. Channel 184 is for high-power, longer distance communications to
be used for public safety applications involving safety of life and property,
including road intersection collision mitigation.
##### 5.2.1.2.1 RF out put power
The RF maximum transmit power classification are listed in Table 5.2.1.2.1-1
for V2X STA.
Table 5.2.1.2.1-1 Maximum EIRP levels the United States
{width="6.529861111111111in" height="2.152083333333333in"}
#### 5.2.1.3 ITU Region 3
##### 5.2.1.3.1 Korea
TTA published revised ITS standardization in 2014 to support vehicle
communication with maximum 200km/h speed.
The advanced Intelligent Transport System radio-communications (pilot system)
have to consider the described V2V/V2I communications and its service
requirements and WAVE standards for international harmonization. In V2V
applications, it is required to consider the low packet latency because the
life-saving time of safety message is useful in the span of 100ms. Also it
requires a highly activated radio channel when many vehicles try to activate
radio channel simultaneously.
Thus the advanced ITS radio-communications have the following features as
shown in Table 5.2.1.3.1-1 in [8].
Table 5.2.1.3.1-1 Technical Characteristics
* * *
Item Technical characteristic RF frequency 5 855-5 925 MHz (Pilot system) RF
channel bandwidth 10 MHz RF Transmit power 23 dBm Modulation type OFDM (BPSK,
QPSK, 16QAM, Option: 64QAM) Data rate 3, 4.5, 6, 9, 12, 18 Mbit/s, Option: 24,
27 Mbit/s MAC CSMA/CA, Option: Time Slot based CSMA/CA
* * *
#### 5.2.1.4 Comparison
The Table 5.2.1.4-1 shows the comparison of technical characteristics of each
standard for V2X services [8].
Table 5.2.1.4-1 Comparisons of Technical Characteristics
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | ETSI | IEEE | TTA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Operating | 5.855-5.925 | 5.850-5.925 | 5 855-5 925 | | frequency | MHz | MHz | MHz (Pilot | | range | | | system) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RF channel | 10 MHz | 10 MHz or | Less than 10 | | bandwidth | | 20 MHz | MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RF Transmit | Max 33 dBm | | 23 dBm | | Power/EIRP | EIRP | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RF transmit | | | | | power density | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation | BPSK OFDM, | BPSK-OFDM | BPSK OFDM, | | scheme | QPSK OFDM, | QPSK-OFDM | QPSK OFDM, | | | 16QAM OFDM, | 16-QAM-OFDM | 16QAM OFDM, | | | 64QAM OFDM | 64-QAM-OFDM | | | | | | Option: 64QAM | | | | 52 subcarriers | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Forward error | Convolutional | Convolutional | Convolutional | | correction | coding, rate = | coding, rate = | coding, rate = | | | 1/2, 3/4, 2/3 | 1/2, 3/4 | 1/2, 3/4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Data | 3 Mbit/s, | 3, 4.5, 6, 9, | 3, 4.5, 6, 9, | | transmission | 4.5 Mbit/s, | 12, 18, 24 and | 12,\ | | rate | 6 Mbit/s, | 27 Mbit/s for | 18 Mbit/s, | | | 9 Mbit/s, | 10 MHz channel | | | | 12 Mbit/s, | spacing\ | Option: 24, | | | 18 Mbit/s, | 6, 9, 12, 18, | 27 Mbit/s | | | 24Mbit/s, | 24, 36, 48 and | | | | 27Mbit/s | 54 Mbit/s for | | | | | 20 MHz channel | | | | | spacing | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Media access | CSMA/CA | CSMA/CA | CSMA/CA, | | control | | | | | | | | Option: Time | | | | | Slot based | | | | | CSMA/CA | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Duplex method | TDD | TDD | TDD | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.2.2 V2V operating bands
For the V2V service, the Band 47 is defined for ITS spectrum as follow Table
5.2.2-1.
Table 5.2.2-1 E-UTRA V2X operating band
* * *
E‑UTRA V2X Band E‑UTRA Operating Band V2X UE transmit V2X UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
47 ^Note\ 1^ 47 5855 MHz -- 5925 MHz 5855 MHz -- 5925 MHz Note1: The ITS
spectrum is used for V2X service.
* * *
For the multi-carrier operation, RAN4 defines con-current inter-band operation
as following Table 5.2.2-2
Table 5.2.2-2 Inter-band V2X Inter-band Combination
+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | E-UTRA V2X Band ^Note\ 1^ | E-UTRA band ^Note\ 2^ | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | 47 | 3 | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | | 8 | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | | 39 | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | | 41 | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: As specified in Table 5.2.2-1 | | | | | | NOTE 2: As specified in Table 5.5-1 and | | | Table 5.5A-2 [TS36.101] | | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
## 5.3 Channel bandwidths
### 5.3.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band for V2V service
The V2V service combination of channel bandwidths and operating bands is shown
in Table 5.3.1-1. The same (symmetrical) channel bandwidth is specified for
both the TX and RX path.
Table 5.3.1-1 V2V communication channel bandwidth
+-----------+---------+-------+-------+---------+--------+--------+ | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | V2X band | | | | | | | | /V2X | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+---------+--------+--------+ | E-UTRA | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+---------+--------+--------+ | 47 | | | | **Yes** | | Yes | +-----------+---------+-------+-------+---------+--------+--------+
## 5.4 Adjacent Channel Co-existence evaluations
### 5.4.1 Coexistence scenarios
The purpose of this clause is to address the evaluation scenarios on the
adjacent channel co-existence of V2V based on LTE sidelink UE and legacy
E-UTRA networks or DSRC/IEEE 802.11p UE at 2GHz and 5.9GHz operating
frequencies.
Following coexistence scenarios will be identified in both operating
frequencies.
Table 5.4.1-1: V2V service coexistence scenarios in adjacent channel
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | V2V operating | Deployment scenarios | Test metrics | | frequency | | | | | ( | | | | Aggressor-to-Victim) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | V2V service at 2GHz | - Case1: V2V | - Case1: T-put | | | UE-to-LTE BS | loss^1^ | | | | | | | - Case2: LTE | - Case2: PRR^2^ | | | UE-to-V2V UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | V2V service at | - Case3: V2V | - Case3: PRR^2^ | | 5.9GHz | UE-to-DSRC UE | | | | | - Case4: PRR^2^ | | | - Case4: DSRC | | | | UE-to-V2V UE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note1: For the | | | | legacy LTE system, | | | | T-put loss will be | | | | considered in | | | | TR36.942 | | | | | | | | Note2: PRR (Packet | | | | Reception Rate) | | | | defined in TR36.885. | | | | The mapping model is | | | | shown in Annex A. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The details of the deployment scenarios are presented in the following
subclauses.
Note 1. The adjacent channel co-existence analysis should consider the safety
application parameters.
### 5.4.2 Simulation Assumptions
#### 5.4.2.1 General for LTE system in 2GHz
Table 5.4.2.1-1: Simulation assumptions: General
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | WAN UL scheduler algorithm | Round robin with full buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RBs allocated per active WAN UE | 16 PRBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of active WAN UEs | 3UEs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Bandwidth | 10MHz for both LTE and V2V (at | | | 2GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of active WAN UEs | 20UEs/Cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum coupling loss (for both | As per clause 4.5.1 in TR | | V2V & WAN UEs from eNodeB) | 36.942: | | | | | | - MCL : 70dB for urban area | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | WAN UE transmit power control | As per PC set 1 and PC set 2 of | | | TR 36.942 | | | | | | - Note that power control | | | algorithm parameters (PodBm, | | | CLxile) should be optimized for | | | network layouts being simulated. | | | For simplicity, power control | | | algorithm parameters are reused | | | in section 5.1.1.6 in TR 36.942 | | | for all network layouts | | | | | | - Rmin = -64dBm | | | | | | | | | -------- ------- -------------- | | | PC Set Gamma CLxile (dBm) | | | 1 1 112 | | | 2 0.8 129 | | | | | | -------- ------- -------------- | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE-eNodeB pathloss models | Follow TR 36.843 | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | UE-eNodeB | PL~LOS~(R)= | | | | | pathloss | 103.4+2 | | | | | model | 4.2log10(R) | | | | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | L~NLOS~(R)= | | | | | | 131.1+4 | | | | | | 2.8log10(R) | | | | | | | | | | | | For 2GHz, R | | | | | | in km. | | | | | | | | | | | | Prob(R)=mi | | | | | | n(0.018/R,1 | | | | | | )*(1-exp(R | | | | | | /0.063))+ex | | | | | | p(-R/0.063) | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | 10dB | | | | | standard | | | | | | deviation | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | Log-normal | | | | | d | | | | | | istribution | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Penetration | 0dB | | | | | Loss | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE RF parameters | Noise figure: 9 dB | | | | | | Antenna pattern: | | | Omni-directional with gain of | | | 0 dBi | | | | | | Number of antennas: 1 Tx, 2 Rx | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | eNodeB RF parameters | Noise figure: 5 dB | | | | | | Antenna pattern: From clause | | | 4.2.1.1 of TR 36.942 | | | | | | {width="3.9902777777777776in" | | | height="0.575in"} | | | | | | _θ~3dB~_ = 65 degrees, and _A~m~_ | | | = 20dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel | AWGN | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SINR-to-rate mapping | As per link level performance | | | model in TR 36.942 (Table A.2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE ACLR model | For power class 3 UEs (23dBm max | | | transmit power) | | | | | | For V2V aggressors (10RBs): | | | | | | ------------------------------ | | | -------------------------------- | | | -------- ----------------------- | | | Frequency offset between agg | | | ressor UE (10 RBs) and victim UE | | | (16RBs) ACIR value (dB/16RBs) | | | 0 RBs | | | | | | 30 + X | | | 16 RBs | | | | | | 43 + X | | | >=[32RBs] FFS | | | | | | [50] FFS | | | ------------------------------ | | | -------------------------------- | | | -------- ----------------------- | | | | | | - For WAN aggressors (16RBs): | | | As per TR 36.942 (two-step): | | | ACLR1/2 = 30/43 dB/BWaggressor | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ACS | LTE BS ACS: | | | | | | - 46dB | | | | | | V2V UE ACS: | | | | | | - 33 + X dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.4.2.2 General for DSRC/ITS system in 5.9GHz
Table 5.4.2.2-1: Simulation assumptions: General
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC UE Tx power | 23dBm/33dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC MCS | QPSK with r=1/2 | | | | | | Transmit duration of 341us | | | (190bytes) and 488 (300bytes) | | | without header | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Bandwidth | 10MHz for DSRC and V2V UE (at | | | 5.9GHz) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Traffic model | 1 transmission every 100ms | | | | | | Periodic traffic model as | | | specified in [TR 36.885, | | | A.1.5]: | | | | | | - 100ms message generation | | | period | | | | | | - Time instance of message | | | generation is randomized | | | among vehicles | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC UE pathloss model | Follow TR 36.885 | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | DSRC UE-to | WINNER+ B1 | | | | | UE pathloss | Manhattan | | | | | model | grid layout | | | | | | (note that | | | | | | the antenna | | | | | | height | | | | | | should be | | | | | | set to 1.5 | | | | | | m.). | | | | | | Pathloss at | | | | | | 3 m is used | | | | | | if the | | | | | | distance is | | | | | | less than 3 | | | | | | m. | | | | | | | | | | | | When the | | | | | | Building | | | | | | interrupt | | | | | | the | | | | | | received/ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | UEs, follow | | | | | | NLOS | | | | | | pathloss | | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | travel path | | | | | | between two | | | | | | UEs is | | | | | | equal or | | | | | | more than | | | | | | twice turn | | | | | | arround | | | | | | building, | | | | | | then the PL | | | | | | between two | | | | | | UEs is | | | | | | infinite. | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | 3 dB for | | | | | standard | LOS and 4dB | | | | | deviation | for NLOS | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | Log-normal | | | | | d | | | | | | istribution | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Penetration | 0dB | | | | | Loss | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC UE RF parameters | Noise figure: 10 dB | | | | | | Antenna configuration: | | | | | | - DL: 2Tx/2Rx, Cross-polarized | | | | | | - UL:1Tx/2Rx | | | | | | Baseline: Open loop | | | | | | Channel coding: LDPC or BCC code | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC MAC | Coordination : DL+UL coexistence | | | evaluation : EDCA | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Detection : Energy detection & | | | preamble detection | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Slot time | 13us (Note specified for 10MHz | | | [802.11 -2012]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC DIFS | 58us (SIFS + 2*slot_time) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC SIFS | 32us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Physical header size | 40us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Threshold triggering | -98dBm | | physical header decoding | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC CCA-CS | -85dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC CCA-ED | -65dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC OFDM symbol duration | 8us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE ACLR model | For power class 3 UEs (23dBm max | | | transmit power) | | | | | | For V2V aggressors (10RBs): | | | | | | ------------------------------ | | | -------------------------------- | | | -------- ----------------------- | | | Frequency offset between agg | | | ressor UE (10 RBs) and victim UE | | | (16RBs) ACIR value (dB/16RBs) | | | 0 RBs | | | | | | 30 +X | | | 16 RBs | | | | | | 43 + X | | | >=[32RBs] FFS | | | | | | [50] FFS | | | ------------------------------ | | | -------------------------------- | | | -------- ----------------------- | | | | | | For DSRC UE: | | | | | | Use ACLR=[26- 38]dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ACS | Use three candidate ACS range | | | level for DSRC: | | | | | | - 22/25/29dB | | | | | | V2V UE ACS: | | | | | | - 33 + X dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.4.2.3 Detail parameters for V2V communications in both frequency bands
Table 5.4.2.3-1: Simulation assumptions: V2V communications
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | V2V signal bandwidth | 14 PRB (190 byte packet) | | | | | | 20 PRB (300 byte packet) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | V2V Traffic model | 1 transmission every 100ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Consider index 3 &4 for traffic | | | model in Table A.1.5-1 in 3GPP | | | TR 36.885 [5] with a maximum | | | of 1 HARQ transmissions per | | | packet (for both 190byte & | | | 300byte). This parameters can be | | | updated based on RAN1 physical | | | layer design. | | | | | | - Note1: Fixed location will be | | | considered for adjacent | | | coexistence evaluation. | | | | | | - Note2: Velocity only used to | | | decide the UE density. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | V2V active UEs | 1% of total number of UEs active | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | V2V UE-to-eNodeB pathloss models | Follow TR 36.885 [5] | | | | | | ----- | | | ------------------------- ------ | | | -------------------------------- | | | Pat | | | hloss model PL(R | | | )= 128.1 + 37.6log10(R), R in km | | | Sh | | | adowing standard deviation 8dB | | | Shadowing | | | distribution Log-normal | | | Pe | | | netration Loss 0dB | | | ----- | | | ------------------------- ------ | | | -------------------------------- | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model for | Follow TR 36.885 [5] | | | | | - LTE/DSRC UE-to-V2V UE or | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Pathloss | WINNER+ B1 | | | - V2V UE-to-LTE/DSRC UE | | model | Manhattan | | | | | | grid layout | | | | | | (note that | | | | | | the antenna | | | | | | height | | | | | | should be | | | | | | set to 1.5 | | | | | | m.). | | | | | | Pathloss at | | | | | | 3 m is used | | | | | | if the | | | | | | distance is | | | | | | less than 3 | | | | | | m. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE1 : | | | | | | When the | | | | | | Building | | | | | | interrupt | | | | | | the | | | | | | received/ | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | UEs, follow | | | | | | NLOS | | | | | | pathloss | | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2 : If | | | | | | the travel | | | | | | path | | | | | | between two | | | | | | UEs is | | | | | | equal or | | | | | | more than | | | | | | twice turn | | | | | | arround | | | | | | building, | | | | | | then the PL | | | | | | between two | | | | | | UEs is | | | | | | infinite. | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | 3dB for LOS | | | | | standard | and 4dB for | | | | | deviation | NLOS | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Shadowing | Log-normal | | | | | d | | | | | | istribution | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | Penetration | 0dB | | | | | Loss | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE max transmit power | For V2V UEs at both frequency | | | range (2GHz, 5.9GHz): 23dBm with | | | 0dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.4.2.4 PRR performance metrics
For evaluation of co-existence performance for V2V, the Packet Reception Ratio
(PRR) is agreed in RAN4 to be used as performance metric.
In TR 36.885, for one Tx packet, the PRR is calculated by X/Y, where Y is the
number of UE/vehicles that located in the range (a, b) from the TX, and X is
the number of UE/vehicles with successful reception among Y.
\- CDF of PRR is used in evaluation with with a = 0, b = baseline of 320
meters for freeway and 150 meters for urban. Optionally, b = 50 meters for
urban with 15 km/h vehicle speed.
\- Average PRR, calculated as (X1+X2+X3....+Xn)/(Y1+Y2+Y3...+Yn) where n
denotes the number of generated messages in simulation. with a = i*20 meters,
b = (i+1)*20 meters for i=0, 1, ..., 25
In RAN4 co-existence study, only urban cases with 15 km/h and 60 km/h are
considered.
The performance metric is further clarified in TR 36.885 Section 9.1.1 that:
\- In urban cases with 15 km/h, the performance of PC5 interface with
enhancements achieves average PRR 90% at 50m range.
\- In urban cases with 60 km/h speed, the performance of PC5 interface with
enhancements achieves about 60% average PRR at 150m range.
To align with RAN1's performance metric, average PRR at 50m for 15 km/h and
average PRR at 150m for 60 km/h are chosen as the evaluation criteria.
### 5.4.3 Simulation Results
#### 5.4.3.1 V2V Communications in 2GHz
##### 5.4.3.1.1 Case1: V2V UE-to-LTE BS
The legacy LTE system throughput loss was evaluated with the agreed adjacent
channel coexistence assumption. The test metric of Case 1 is to guarantee the
system throughput loss less than 5%. Throughput loss of legacy LTE system are
summarized in sub clause 5.4.3.1.1
##### 5.4.3.1.1.1 Huawei simulation results {#huawei-simulation-results .H6}
Co-existence simulation results were provided in below tables. The throughput
loss for legacy LTE Base station is the throughput with V2V aggressor compared
with the throughput without any aggressor.
{width="3.0076388888888888in"
height="2.2666666666666666in"}{width="2.9993055555555554in"
height="2.265972222222222in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.1.1-1: 190 Byte packet size in Urban scenario with 15 or 60
km/h, and different LTE power control setting
{width="2.9791666666666665in"
height="2.261111111111111in"}{width="3.0236111111111112in"
height="2.2618055555555556in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.1.1-2: 300 Byte packet size in Urban scenario with 15 or 60
km/h, and different LTE power control setting
From the above simulation results, some observations can be derived as below:
\- The throughput loss for the packet of 300 byte is worse than the packet of
190 byte because the packet of 300 byte needs more PRBs to transmission which
will cause less average ACIR than 190 byte case.
\- The throughput loss for PC set 2 is worse than that for PC set 1 because
for PC set 2 the LTE UE transmission power is lower so it is easy to be
interfered.
\- The throughput loss for UEs with 15km/h is worse than UEs with 60km/h
because the vehicle density for 15km/h is much higher which means more
interfering UEs exist in the network.
##### 5.4.3.1.1.2 Ericsson simulation results {#ericsson-simulation-results
.H6}
Co-existence simulation results were provided in below tables.
{width="2.939583333333333in"
height="2.463888888888889in"}{width="3.4715277777777778in"
height="2.6034722222222224in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.1.2-1: Case 1 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, with an LTE power control setting of a) PC2 b) PC1
{width="3.44375in" height="2.582638888888889in"} {width="3.1847222222222222in"
height="2.3833333333333333in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.1.2-2: Case 1 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 15
kph, with an LTE power control setting of a) PC2 b) PC1
{width="3.2333333333333334in"
height="2.6930555555555555in"}{width="3.198611111111111in"
height="2.6930555555555555in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.1.2-3: V2V freeway scenario with vehicle velocities of a) 70
kph and b) 140 kph. The LTE power control setting is based on PC1
**[Observation]{.underline}**
RAN4 adjacent channel coexistence analysis shows that V2V aggressor
transmissions into victim legacy LTE networks can produce throughput
degradations of greater than 20% for average throughput and greater than 50%
degradation for the 5%-tile throughput for a target ACIR of 30 dB.
##### 5.4.3.1.2 Case2: LTE BS-to-V2V UE
The V2V UE PRR loss in Manhattan grid model summarized in sub clause 5.4.3.1.2
based on transmit packet size, power control scheme and V2V velocity.
##### 5.4.3.1.2.1 Huawei simulation results {#huawei-simulation-results-1 .H6}
Co-existence simulation results for case 2 of LTE UE to V2V UE in urban
scenario were provided in below figures based on the simulation assumptions in
above section with ACIR offset X=0. LTE UE adopts PC Set 1 power control that
can impose the higher interference to neighbour V2V UE than PC Set 2. Average
PRR is used as the performance metric which is defined in Annex A.1.6 in TR
36.885.
{width="2.936111111111111in"
height="2.1972222222222224in"}{width="2.9402777777777778in"
height="2.2159722222222222in"}
{width="3.0083333333333333in"
height="2.2576388888888888in"}{width="3.009027777777778in"
height="2.2569444444444446in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.2.1-1 Co-existence simulation results for Case 2 of LTE UE to
V2V UE
To be aligned with RAN1 system simulation evaluations in section 9.1.1 in TR
36.885, average PRR at 50m for 15 km/h and average PRR at 150m for 60 km/h are
chosen as the evaluation criteria. Then the PRR losses for case 2 of LTE UE to
V2V UE were provided in Table 5.4.3.1.2.1-1. PRR loss is the PRR with LTE UE
adjacent interference compared with the PRR without any adjacent interference.
Table 5.4.3.1.2.1-1 PRR loss for Case 2
* * *
PRR loss at 50m range for 15km/h at 150m range for 60km/h LTE UE to V2V UE LTE
UE to V2V UE 190 Byte 0.15% 1.64% 300 Byte 0.11% 1.27%
* * *
##### 5.4.3.1.2.2 Ericsson simulation results {#ericsson-simulation-results-1
.H6}
Co-existence simulation results for case 2 of LTE UE to V2V UE in urban
scenario were provided in below figures.
{width="5.719444444444444in" height="2.6479166666666667in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.2.2-1: Case 2 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, with an LTE power control setting of PC1
{width="6.6194444444444445in" height="3.064583333333333in"}
Figure 5.4.3.1.2.2-2: Case 1 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 15
kph, with an LTE power control setting of PC1
**[Observation]{.underline}**
LTE aggressor adjacent channel transmissions into victim V2V transmissions
networks produce minimal impacts with a PRR degradation of less than 1% for a
target ACIR of 30 dB.
#### 5.4.3.2 V2V Communications in 5.9GHz
##### 5.4.3.2.1 Case3: V2V UE-to-DSRC UE
The legacy DSRC system PRR loss in Manhattan grid models are summarized in sub
cluase 5.4.3.2.1 based on transmit packet size, DSRC maximum power and V2V
velocity.
##### 5.4.3.2.1.1 Huawei simulation results {#huawei-simulation-results-2 .H6}
Co-existence simulation results in urban scenario for case 3 were provided in
blow figures based on the simulation assumptions in above section with
\- V2V UE ACLR adopts two steps model 30dBc, 43dBc,
\- DSRC UE ACS=29dBc,
\- DSRC UE MOP=33dBm.
\- 50PRB is used for each DSRC transmission and the active ratio is assumed
less than V2V 300Byte/190 Byte case that use 20PRB/14PRB
Average PRR is used as the performance metric which is defined in Annex A.1.6
in TR 36.885.
{width="2.71875in" height="2.125in"} {width="2.71875in" height="2.125in"}
{width="2.71875in" height="2.125in"} {width="2.71875in" height="2.125in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.1.1-1 Co-existence simulation results for Case 3 of V2V UE to
DSRC UE
To be aligned with RAN1 system simulation evaluations in section 9.1.1 in TR
36.885, the average PRR at 50m for 15 km/h and average PRR at 150m for 60 km/h
are chosen as the evaluation criteria. Then the PRR losses were provided in
below Table 5.4.3.2.1.1-1. PRR loss is the PRR with V2V/DSRC adjacent
interference compared with the PRR without any adjacent interference.
Table 5.4.3.2.1.1-1 PRR loss for Case 3
* * *
PRR loss at 50m range for 15km/h at 150m range for 60km/h  
V2V to DSRC DSRC to DSRC V2V to DSRC DSRC to DSRC 190 Byte 1.46% 1.21% 0.99%
3.10% 300 Byte 1.52% 1.54% 2.08% 3.30%
* * *
##### 5.4.3.2.1.2 Ericsson simulation results {#ericsson-simulation-results-2
.H6}
Co-existence simulation results in urban scenario for case 3 were provided in
blow figures
{width="3.723611111111111in" height="2.792361111111111in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.1.2-1: Case 3 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, and a PRR parameter of a = 0 and parameter b = 150 m
{width="3.6534722222222222in" height="2.7402777777777776in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.1.2-2: Case 3 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, and a PRR parameter of b = 250 m
{width="3.9055555555555554in" height="2.9291666666666667in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.1.2-3: Case 3 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 15
kph, and a PRR parameter of b = 150 m
**[Observation]{.underline}**
● For Case 3 V2V adjacent channel co-existence the average PRR loss due to LTE
V2V aggressor transmissions impacting DSRC V2V victim transmissions are less
than an acceptable level of 5% for vehicular velocities of 60 kph at a target
ACIR of 30 dB.
● For Case 3 V2V adjacent channel co-existence the 5%-tile PRR loss due to LTE
V2V aggressor transmissions impacting DSRC V2V victim transmissions is greater
than 12% for vehicular velocities of 60 kph at a target ACIR of 30 dB.
##### 5.4.3.2.1.3 Qualcomm simulation results {#qualcomm-simulation-results
.H6}
The PRR vs Distance performance of the victim DSRC system is shown in figures
below.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation results with 23dBm | | | (EIRP) DSRC UEs, urban scenario | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.546527777777778in" | | height="2.652083333333333in"} | height="2.6305555555555555in"} | | | | | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-1: Urban | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-2: Urban | | drop; 15 kmph UE absolute speed; | drop; 60 kmph UE absolute speed; | | 23dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | 23dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation results with 23dBm | | | (EIRP) DSRC UEs, freeway | | | scenario | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.6569444444444446in" | | height="2.6819444444444445in"} | height="2.6993055555555556in"} | | | | | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-3: Freeway | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-4: Freeway | | drop; 15 kmph UE absolute speed; | drop; 60 kmph UE absolute speed; | | 23dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | 23dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation results with 33dBm | | | (EIRP) DSRC UEs, urban scenario | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.5930555555555554in" | | height="2.638888888888889in"} | height="2.6430555555555557in"} | | | | | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-5: Urban | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-6: Urban | | drop; 15 kmph UE absolute speed; | drop; 60 kmph UE absolute speed; | | 33dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | 33dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation results with 33dBm | | | (EIRP) DSRC UEs, freeway | | | scenario | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.6222222222222222in" | | height="2.6729166666666666in"} | height="2.6819444444444445in"} | | | | | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-7: Freeway | Figure 5.4.3.2.1.3-8: Freeway | | drop; 15 kmph UE absolute speed; | drop; 60 kmph UE absolute speed; | | 33dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | 33dBm (EIRP) for DSRC UEs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From the above results, the following observation is made:
**Observation:** The impact to a victim DSRC system due to an adjacent LTE-V2V
aggressor system is similar to an adjacent DSRC aggressor system in all the
simulated scenarios in high PRR regimes.
\- Results use the agreed two ACLR step model with X=0dB for LTE-V2V UEs, i.e.
LTE-V2V ACLR of 30dBc.
### 5.4.3.2.2 Case4: DSRC UE-to-V2V UE
The PRR loss of LTE-based V2V victim system in Manhattan grid models are
summarized in sub cluase 5.4.3.2.2 based on transmit packet size, DSRC maximum
power and V2V velocity.
##### 5.4.3.2.2.1 Huawei simulation results {#huawei-simulation-results-3 .H6}
Co-existence simulation results for case 4 of DSRC UE to V2V UE in urban
scenario were provided in below figures based on the simulation assumptions in
above section with:
\- V2V UE ACS=33dBc,
\- DSRC UE ACLR=38dBc,
\- DSRC UE MOP=33dBm.
\- 50PRB is used for each DSRC transmission and the active ratio is assumed
less than V2V 300Byte/190 Byte case that use 20PRB/14PRB
\- Link-to-system curve of V2V is based on the results from source 1 in above
section
Average PRR is used as the performance metric which is defined in Annex A.1.6
in TR 36.885.
{width="2.9881944444444444in"
height="2.2430555555555554in"}{width="3.0381944444444446in"
height="2.2694444444444444in"}
{width="3.040277777777778in"
height="2.283333333333333in"}{width="3.076388888888889in"
height="2.3381944444444445in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.2.1-1 Co-existence simulation results for Case 4 of DSRC UE to
V2V UE
To be aligned with RAN1 system simulation evaluations in section 9.1.1 in TR
36.885, average PRR at 50m for 15 km/h and average PRR at 150m for 60 km/h are
chosen as the evaluation criteria. Then the PRR losses for case 4 of DSRC UE
to V2V UE and V2V UE to V2V UE were provided in Table 5.4.3.2.2.1-1. PRR loss
is the PRR with V2V/DSRC adjacent interference compared with the PRR without
any adjacent interference.
Table 5.4.3.2.2.1-1 PRR loss for Case 4
* * *
PRR loss at 50m range for 15km/h at 150m range for 60km/h  
DSRC to V2V V2V to V2V DSRC to V2V V2V to V2V 190 Byte 1.30% 0.25% 2.20% 2.03%
300 Byte 1.85% 0.84% 2.02% 0.6%
* * *
##### 5.4.3.2.2.2 Ericsson simulation results {#ericsson-simulation-results-3
.H6}
Co-existence simulation results for case 4 of DSRC UE to V2V UE in urban
scenario were provided in below figures
{width="4.066666666666666in" height="3.05in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.2.2-1: Case 4 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, and a PRR parameter of b = 150 m.
{width="4.290972222222222in" height="3.2180555555555554in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.2.2-2: Case 4 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, and a PRR parameter of b = 250 m
{width="4.269444444444445in" height="3.2020833333333334in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.2.2-3: Case 4 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 15
kph, and a PRR parameter of a = 150 m
{width="4.584722222222222in" height="3.433333333333333in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.2.2-4: Case 4 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, and a PRR parameter of b = 150 m. The DSRC transmit power is 33 dBm and
an ACLR of 38 dB was assumed.
{width="3.79375in" height="2.845138888888889in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.2.2-5: Case 4 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 60
kph, and a PRR parameter of b = 250 m. The DSRC transmit power is 33 dBm and
an ACLR of 38 dB was assumed.
{width="3.842361111111111in" height="2.8875in"}
Figure 5.4.3.2.2.2-6: Case 4 Urban grid scenario with a vehicle velocity of 15
kph, and a PRR parameter of b = 150 m. The DSRC transmit power is 33 dBm and
an ACLR of 38 dB was assumed.
**[Observation]{.underline}**
● For Case 4 V2V adjacent channel co-existence the average PRR loss due to
DSRC V2V aggressor transmissions impacting LTE V2V victim transmissions is
less than 5% for vehicular velocities of 60 kph at a target ACIR of 30 dB.
● For Case 4 V2V adjacent channel co-existence the 5%-tile PRR loss due to
DSRC V2V aggressor transmissions impacting LTE V2V victim transmissions is
greater than 12% for vehicular velocities of 60 kph at a target ACIR of 30 dB.
## 5.5 Additional scenarios
## 5.6 Conclusion of V2V coexistence evaluations
The PC5-based V2V UE coexistence evaluations are performed at 2GHz/5.9GHz
operating frequency range in Rel-14 V2V WI. The adjacent coexistence
simulation results are summarized in sub-clause 5.4.3. Based on the evaluation
results,
1\. For Case1 (V2V UE-to-LTE BS at 2GHz), following observations are made:
\- Based on the current simulation assumptions in the TR, the co-existence
criteria is not met in some scenarios.
\- Further study is needed in RAN4.
Further study on the simulation assumptions is needed and should be revisited
in the V2X WI.
2\. For Case 2 (LTE UE-to-V2V UE at 2GHz), LTE system adjacent interference
will cause very little performance loss to V2V system. However, this case is
coupled with Case 1 and should be revisited in V2X WI if simulation
assumptions are changed.
3\. For Case 3 (V2V UE-to-DSRC UE at 5.9GHz), V2V UE causes similar
interference compared with DSRC UE to DSRC victim, which means V2V is a good
neighbour to DSRC with LTE ACLR requirement of 30dBc reused for V2V.
4\. For Case 4 (DSRC UE-to-V2V UE at 5.9GHz), DSRC UE causes similar
interference compared with V2V UE to V2V victim, which means DSRC is also a
good neighbour to V2V.
Based on the above analysis, the PC5-based V2V service will be within
acceptable operating limits for adjacent channel coexistence scenarios at
5.9GHz. .
# 6 V2V transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 Maximum output power for V2V UE
The following V2V UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement
shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 6.1-1: V2V UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 47 | | | | | 23 | ±2 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 47 is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | V2V | | | | | | | | | | Ser | | | | | | | | | | vice. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 6.2 UE maximum output power for modulation / channel bandwidth
For V2V, only simultaneous transmission of PSCCH and PSSCH in the same
subframe is supported, with the following constraints:
\- PSCCH and PSSCH employ separate DFT pre-coders
\- PSCCH and PSSCH resources can be adjacent or non-adjacent in frequency
\- PSCCH size is fixed to [2] PRB pairs.
\- PSSCH size is determined by the sub-channel size and the DFT-size
constraints. The allowed sub-channel sizes are FFS.
\- A fixed PSD offset of X dB (FFS in [0, 3]dB) is present in between PSCCH
and PSSCH
### 6.2.1 Case 1: PSCCH and PSSCH on adjacent PRBs
#### 6.2.1.1 Summary of results
FFS
#### 6.2.1.2 Results from Huawei
MPR for this case is expected to be much less than the legacy multi-cluster
transmission, but larger than the single cluster PUSCH transmissions. MPR
simulation for this case is done to meet legacy LTE ACLR and SEM requirements.
The simulation assumptions follow legacy LTE assumptions with Carrier
leakage=25dBc, IQ image=25dBc and CIM3=60dBc. Furthermore, 0dB PSD offset
between PSCCH and PSSCH is assumed.
The results are shown in below figures for both 10MHz and 20MHz channel
bandwidth:
{width="2.6875in" height="2.098611111111111in"} {width="2.6819444444444445in"
height="2.109027777777778in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2-1 MPR for V2V 10MHz signal comply with LTE ACLR and SEM
(adjacent PSCCH and PSSCH, 0dB PSD offset)
{width="2.6819444444444445in" height="2.098611111111111in"}
{width="2.702777777777778in" height="2.0993055555555555in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2-2 MPR for V2V 20MHz signal comply with LTE ACLR and SEM
(adjacent PSCCH and PSSCH, 0dB PSD offset)
For V2V transmissions with SA and data contiguous in frequency in single
component carrier, the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for the maximum
output power due to higher order modulation and transmit bandwidth
configuration (resource blocks) is specified as follows based on simulation
results:
Table 6.2.1.2-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for V2V (adjacent PSCCH and
PSSCH, 0dB PSD offset)
+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | Modul | Ch | MPR | | | | | | | ation | annel | (dB) | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (N | | | | | | | | | ~RB~) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | QPSK | | | | [≤ | | [≤ | [≤ | | | | | | 14] | | 26] | 1] | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | QPSK | | | | [> | | [> | [≤ | | | | | | 14] | | 26] | 1.5] | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 16 | | | | [≤ | | [≤ | [≤ | | QAM | | | | 10] | | 10] | 1] | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 16 | | | | [> | | [> | [≤ | | QAM | | | | 10] | | 10] | 2] | +-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+-------+-------+
### 6.2.2 Case 2: PSCCH and PSSCH on non-adjacent PRBs
FFS
## 6.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
In addition to the legacy LTE ACLR and SEM requirement, UE should also comply
with regional requirement of emission mask and spurious emission defined for
ITS in EN 302 571. This regional mask and spurious emission can be defined as
additional SEM and SE requirements and signalled by NS to indicate that the UE
shall also meet additional requirements in a specific deployment scenario.
A-MPR is needed to comply with additional SEM and SE requirement.
### 6.3.1 Case 1: PSCCH and PSSCH on adjacent PRBs
#### 6.3.1.1 Summary of results
FFS
#### 6.3.1.2 Results from Huawei
Simulation results to comply with additional SEM are shown in below figures.
0dB PSD offset between PSCCH and PSSCH is assumed. For additional SE
requirement, further study is needed.
{width="2.6770833333333335in" height="2.0840277777777776in"}
{width="2.6506944444444445in" height="2.1145833333333335in"}
Figure 6.3.1.2-1: MPR for V2V 10MHz signal comply with EN 302 571 mask
(adjacent PSCCH and PSSCH, 0dB PSD offset; only A-SEM is considered)
According to the simulation results, the allowed A-MPR values are specified in
the table below in addition to the allowed MPR requirements.
Table 6.3.1.2-1: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) (adjacent PSCCH
and PSSCH, 0dB PSD offset; only additional SEM is considered)
* * *
Network Signalling value Requirements (subclause) E-UTRA Band Channel
bandwidth (MHz) Resources Blocks (_N_ ~RB~) A-MPR (dB) NS_xx xx (ASEM) 47 10,
20 [\2m | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ground | | | | | | | | | level. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | EIRP | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onvert | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | ducted | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ement. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | for an | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | tended | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ntenna | | | | | | | | | ins | | | | | | | | | tallat | | | | | | | | | ion≤2m | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ground | | | | | | | | | level. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | EIRP | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onvert | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | ducted | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ement. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
# 7 V2V receiver characteristics
## 7.1 Reference sensitivity power level
The reference sensitivity power level REFSENS is the minimum mean power
applied to the UE antenna connector at which the throughput shall meet or
exceed 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channels.
The V2V UE REFSENS for V2V UE is defined by the following equation:
REFSENS~V2V~=_kTB_ \+ SNR~V2V~ +10log~10~(L~CRB~/NRB) +( NF~V2V~+ IM)
Where
_\- kTB:_ Thermal noise level in units of dBm. -104 dBm and -101 dBm can be
used for 10MHz and 20MHz V2V requirements, separately .
_-_ NF: Noise figure. [13] dB is used for LAA and can be reused for V2V
requirements.
_-_ IM: [2.5] dB is assumed.
_-_ 10log10(LCRB/NRB) : 10log10(50/50) = 0dB for 10MHz CBW, and
10log10(98/100) = -0.09dB for 20MHz CBW
_-_ SNR~V2V~: [-2.0]dB for 10MHz and [-2.0] dB for 20MHz are proposed at 95%
throughput from the company simulation results in 3GPP TR 36.942 [4].
Based on the above parameters, REFSENS requirement is calculated as [-90.5]
dBm for 10MHz BW, and [-87.6] dBm for 20MHz BW.
When the UE is configured for E-UTRA V2X reception non-concurrent with E-UTRA
uplink transmissions for E-UTRA V2X operating on Band 47, the throughput shall
be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference measurement channels as
specified in Annexes [A.8.2] in TS36.101 with parameters specified in Table
7.1-1.
Table 7.1-1: Reference sensitivity for V2V standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | uplex | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | Mode | | ProSe | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 47 | | | | **\ | |** \ | TDD | | | | | | [-90. | | [-87. | | | | | | | 5]**| | 6]** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | [A. | | | | | | | | | 8.2] | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 7.2 Maximum input level
Maximum input level is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE
antenna port, at which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed
the minimum requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
For V2V, the requirement is only defined for 10MHz and 20MHz. The parameters
of reference measurement channel shall be changed according to the physical
layer design specific to V2V.
Table 7.2-1: Maximum input level for V2X
* * *
Rx Parameter Units Channel bandwidth
                                                                                                       10\      20\
                                                                                                       MHz      MHz
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration dBm -22
NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is Annex A.8.2 in TS36.101
* * *
## 7.3 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive an E-UTRA signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre
frequency of the assigned channel.
ACS reflects the digital domain filter attenuation capability, which is model
together with ACLR in ACIR. Based on PRR metric, the system performance with
interference from LTE and DSRC are evaluated separately in case 2 and case 4
of the co-existence study.
In co-existence study, positive and negative offset X value are considered
with the existing LTE ACS requirement. Based on the simulation results, it can
be seen that using exiting ACS value, for both LTE UE to V2V UE and DSRC UE to
V2V UE urban interference scenarios, PRR loss is less than 5%. Therefore, it
is proposed that the same ACS values shall be kept unchanged for V2V.
As 10MHz is typical channel bandwidth used in the V2V band, the interferer
bandwidth shall be changed to 10MHz instead of 5MHz.
Table 7.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X
* * *
                         Channel bandwidth
Rx Parameter Units 1.4\ 3\ 5\ 10\ 15\ 20\ MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
ACS dB 33.0 27.0
* * *
Table 7.3-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X, Case 1
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | P~REF | | | | | | | in | | SENS\ | | | | | | | Tr | | _V2X~ | | | | | | | ansmi | | + 14 | | | | | | | ssion | | dB | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | dBm | | | | RE | | RE | | P~Int | | | | | FSENS | | FSENS | | erfer | | | | | +4 | | +3 | | er~**| | | | | 5.5dB | | 9.5dB | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** BW~ | MHz | | | | 10 | | 10 | | Inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | \ ~**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** F~I | MHz | | | | 10+0 | | 15+0 | | nterf | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | (offs | | | | | / | | / | | et)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -10-0 | | -15-0 | | | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.3-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X, Case 2
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | | | | -56.5 | | -50.5 | | in | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P~I | dBm | -25 | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | BW~I | MHz | | | | 10 | | 10 | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | F~I | MHz | | | | 10+0 | | 15+0 | | nterf | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | (of | | | | | / | | / | | fset) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -10-0 | | -15-0 | | | | | | | .0125 | | .0075 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 7.4 Blocking characteristics
### 7.4.1 In-band blocking
The bandwidth of interferer in existing specification for licensed bands is
5MHz for channel bandwidth from 5MHz to 20MHz. For LAA in Band 46, 20MHz
interferer is adopted. During the discussion in the group, it was widely
agreed that 20MHz interferer can be used for both 10MHz and 20MHz channel
bandwidth as 20MHz is typical case around the world.
Similarly, 10MHz is the typical channel bandwidth for 5.9GHz V2V band. 20MHz
channel bandwidth is original from Region 2. From section 5.2.1.2, it is
described that the channel 178 is the control channel and channels
172,174,176, 180, 182 and 184 are shared channel for V2X services. The
aggregated channel 175 and 181 are 20MHz channel bandwidth to support multi-
channel operation. In such channel BW arrangement, there are no contiguous two
20MHz channels. Further more, 10MHz interferer defined in blocking requirement
would be stringent than 20MHz interferer. Thus 10MHz interfering blocking
signal can be used for both 10MHz and 20MHz channel bandwidth.
In EN 302 571, the blocking level shall not be less than -30 dBm. And the
blocking is tested at ± 50 MHz, ± 100 MHz, and ± 200 MHz frequency offset.
Blocking testing shall be performed at least at 6 different frequency offset
positions. The blocking level is larger than exiting case 2 blocking
interferer in the specification, which is in the second alternate channel
offset from the wanted signal. Considering the total 70MHz band width of the
V2V band, ± 50 MHz is already outside the operating band or close at the band
edge depends on the placement of the carrier. It is noted that that the
blocking level is much higher than the existing LTE requirement, which causes
extremely challenge for the receiver design from implementation point of view.
Table 7.4.1-1 and Table 7.4.1-2 show the proposed in band blocking requirement
for V2V. Whether the receiver meets the proposed blocking requirement can
handle -30dBm blocking level shall be further studied.
Table 7.4.1-1: In band blocking parameters for V2X
* * *
Rx parameter Units Channel bandwidth  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Power in Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel bandwidth specific value below  
6 9 **BW~Interferer\ ~** MHz 10 10 **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 1\ ~** MHz 15+0.0025
15+0.005 **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 2\ ~** MHz 25+0.0075 25+0.0025 NOTE 1: The
interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols.
Normal cyclic prefix is used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the
wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of TS36.211
* * *
Table 7.4.1-2: In-band blocking for V2X
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | E-UTRA ProSe | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | | | | | | | band | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | P | dBm | -56 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | =-BW/2 -- | ≤-BW/2 -- | | | ~Interferer~ | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+BW/2 + | ≥+BW/2 + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | 47 | F | MHz | (NOTE 2) | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 30 | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 30 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive band | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | range values | | | | | | for unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
### 7.4.2 Out-of-band blocking
Out-of-band band blocking in existing specification for licensed bands is
defined for an unwanted CW interfering signal falling more than 15 MHz below
or above the UE receive band. For the first 15 MHz below or above the UE
receive band the appropriate in-band blocking or adjacent channel selectivity
shall be applied.
For Band 46, out-of-band band blocking in range 3 has been relaxed to -20dBm
for F~Interferer~ > 4400 MHz to F~DL_low~ -85MHz due to poor filter rejection
capability at this unlicensed band. As V2V band is part of Band 46, from
implementation point of view, one option for filter of V2V band is to reuse
the same one for LAA band. Even it is possible to design a new filter covering
5855-5925MHz specifically, due to the narrow band frequency range compared to
the 5.9GHz centre frequency, it is expected that the out-of-band rejection is
not very good. Thus it is proposed to adopt the same way as that of Band 46 to
relax the out-of-band blocking for a certain frequency range. Table 7.4.2-1
shows the proposed out of band blocking requirement for V2V.
Table 7.4.2-1: Out of band blocking
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Units | Fr | | | | | band | rameter | | equency | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | Range 4 | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | -15 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 47 | F~Inte | MHz | F~D | F~D | F~D | - | | | rferer~ | | L_low~ | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | (CW) | | -30 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | 1 MHz | | | | | | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | F~DL | F~DL | F~DL | - | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +30 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~DL | +12750 | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | MHz | | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | erferer | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | P~Inter | | | | | | | | ferer~) | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odified | | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | | F~Inte | | | | | | | | rferer~ | | | | | | | | > 4400 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 7.4.3 Narrow band blocking
In the specification, for E-UTRA CA configurations with a component carrier
assigned in Band 46, narrow-band blocking requirements do not apply in the
presence of a narrow-band interferer in Band 46. The reason is that no narrow-
band interferer exists in this band. The situation is the same for V2V applied
in the 5.9GHz band. Hence it is proposed that narrow-band blocking
requirements do not apply in the presence of a narrow-band interferer in Band
47.
## 7.5 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a wanted
signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given degradation
due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any other
frequency at which a response is obtained.
For V2V, only 10MHz and 20MHz channel bandwidths are considered. Table 7.5-1
and Table 7.5-2 are the proposed spurious response requirements for V2V.
Table 7.5-1: Spurious response parameters for V2X
* * *
Rx parameter Units Channel bandwidth  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Power in Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel bandwidth specific value below  
6 9 NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is specified in Annex A.8.2 in TS
36.101.
* * *
Table 7.5-2: Spurious response for V2X
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | P~Interferer~ | dBm | -44 | | | | | | (CW) | | | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | Spurious response frequencies | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+
## 7.6 Intermodulation characteristics
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal.
The wide band intermodulation requirement is defined using modulated E-UTRA
carrier and CW signal as interferer. 10MHz channel bandwidth will be chosen as
the modulated interfering signal for both 10MHz and 20MHz channel bandwidth.
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annex A.8.2 of TS 36.101with parameters
specified in Table 7.6-1 for the specified wanted signal mean power in the
presence of two interfering signals
Table 7.6-1: Wide band intermodulation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | -UTRA | Para | | annel | | | | | | | band | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 47 | Power | dBm | P~REF | | | | | | | | in | | SENS\ | | | | | | | | Tr | | _V2X~ | | | | | | | | ansmi | | + | | | | | | | | ssion | | ch | | | | | | | | Band | | annel | | | | | | | | width | | band | | | | | | | | Con | | width | | | | | | | | figur | | spe | | | | | | | | ation | | cific | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 6 | | 9 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 1~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **( | | | | | | | | | | CW)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 2~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **(Mo | | | | | | | | | | dulat | | | | | | | | | | ed)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | * | | | | | 10 | | 10 | | | _BW~I | | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 2~__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__F~I | MHz | | | | -BW/2 | | -BW/2 | | | nterf | | | | | -- 15 | | -- 15 | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 1~__| | | | | / | | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | +BW/2 | | +BW/2 | | | (Offs | | | | | + 15 | | + 15 | | | et)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__F~I | MHz | 2*F | | | | | | | | nterf | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | erer\ | | rfere | | | | | | | | 2~__| | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | (Offs | | | | | | | | | | et)_ * | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.8.2 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | | .101. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | sym | | | | | | | | | | bols. | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | ormal | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | yclic | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | refix | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 5 of | | | | | | | | | | TS36 | | | | | | | | | | .211. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 7.7 RX spurious emissions
General spurious emission requirement for V2V operation should be extended to
26GHz same with that in LAA BS. In addition, UE should also meet regional
requirement which defined in ETSI EN 302 571 as additional spurious emission
requirement.
Table 7.7-1: General receiver spurious emission requirements
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | Frequency band | Measurement | Maximum level | NOTE | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | 30MHz ≤ f \2m above the ground level
* * *
The additional Rx spurious emission limits, however, are specified in EIRP.
Furthermore, the requirement varies based on antenna installation. It is FFS
how to convert this to conducted requirements.
# 8 Other specification impacts (if applicable)
For RRM core requirements for V2V WI, RAN4 had analysed the impacted RRM core
requirmeents for V2V UE to support high speed of vehicle and V2V
synchronization based on GNSS. Other synchronization sources (e.g. eNB,
SyncRef V2V UE) to be specified in V2X WI in Rel-14.
RAN4 agree to specify the minimum set of RRM core requirements based on RAN1
and RAN2 agreements for the corresponding minimum set of specifications.
  * • RAN4 prioritize to specify the requirement for V2V stand-alone operating on a dedicated V2V carrier (e.g. Band 47)
    * \- No cellular control (no eNB-based synch for V2V, no resource control, no resource pool configuration etc)
    * \- UE may be inside WAN coverage on another carrier
    * \- Dedicated carrier has no WAN
    * \- Dedicated TX and RX chains assumed for V2V operation on the dedicated carrier.
The following analysis are agreed for RRM core requirements.
• ProSe UE transmission timing
\- GNSS as time reference
\- Requirements for timing misalignment between GNSS based and eNB based
timing should be discussed after RAN1 decision
• TA : N~TA,SL~ = 0
• TE = +/- 12Ts
\- Interruption
• No interruption to LTE communication
• Selection/Reselection of ProSe Sync.Reference: UE should use GNSS
synchronization source in case it has sufficient reliability
\- GNSS synchronization source is considered to have sufficient reliability in
case
• option1 : it allows UE to satisfy the timing and frequency accuracy
requirements. The side condition for GNSS signal so that the derived timing
and frequency accuracy meet the requirements will not be specified.
• Option2 : GNSS meets the minimum signal level requirement [example] defined
in TS36.171
• Other option are not precluded
• In case of unreliable GNSS synchronization source, no procedures will be
defined.
• Initiation/Cease of SLSS transmission
\- Not applicable. GNSS is the only synchronization source
• Measurement accuracy of S-RSRP
\- Not applicable. GNSS is the only synchronization source
• If found other use-case except for SyncRE UE selection/reselection and
Initiation/Cease of SLSS transmission, it can be studied in next meeting.
• Cell identification
\- Not necessary
• Measurement of congestion control & collision avoidance
\- Shall be discussed based on RAN1 agreement
• Offset to shift the DFN #0 w.r.t the reference timing derived from GNSS
\- Ran4 to study RRM impact based on RAN1 agreement
Based on the WF, RRM core requirements for V2V Operation on Dedicated V2V
Carrier were agreed under the following conditions:
\- - no cell operates on the carrier used for the V2V sidelink communcation
and
\- - no configuration related to V2V communication is received by the UE from
the serving cell.
The requirement of transmission timing was specified only for GNSS as timing
reference and the requirement of interruption was specified as that UE shall
not cause any interruption on the serving cell when receiving or transmitting
V2V sidelink communication signals.
# 9 Performance requirements
FFS
###### ## Annex A (Informative): Link level simulation mapping model for V2V
system
The reference for SNR-TO-BLER mapping model for V2V system is shown in
following Table A.2 and A.3 for LTE based V2V UE according to the operating
frequency bands respectively. The detail link level simulation parameters are
shown in Table A-1.
Table A-1. Detail link-level simulation parameters for V2V UE
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10Mz | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | > ● 2GHz | | | > | | | > ● 5.9GHz | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Number of antenna | 1 TX and 2 RX | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Fading | The same as ITU-R UMi clustered | | | delay line models (CDL) used in | | | TR36.843 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | channel | NLOS | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Modulation | QPSK | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Coding | Turbo,1/2 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | TBsize | 190byte and 300byte | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | RB size | 14 PRB (190 byte packet), | | | | | | 20 PRB (300 byte packet) | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Relative speed | > ● 30km/h | | | > | | | > ● 120km/h | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Retransmission | Off | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | The maximum transmission number | 1 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | synchronization | Ideal (no Synchronization error | | | impact in the simulation) | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
Table A-2. Reference table of Link level BLER vs. SNR for LTE-based V2V UE at
2GHz (NLOS case)
* * *
REFERENCE SNR-BLER link Table at 2GHz
SNR(dB) 190 BYTE 300 BYTE  
30 Km/h 120 Km/h 30 Km/h 120 Km/h -10 0.9999 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 -9 0.9987
0.9995 0.9996 0.9998 -8 0.9977 0.9984 0.9984 0.9995 -7 0.9933 0.9954 0.9962
0.9972 -6 0.9825 0.9841 0.9880 0.9918 -5 0.9567 0.9633 0.9731 0.9808 -4 0.9213
0.9283 0.9445 0.9529 -3 0.8574 0.8668 0.8946 0.9047 -2 0.7739 0.7839 0.8153
0.8304 -1 0.6744 0.6762 0.7200 0.7297 0 0.5485 0.5557 0.6030 0.6027 1 0.4326
0.4354 0.4701 0.4688 2 0.3231 0.3171 0.3363 0.3336 3 0.2286 0.2232 0.2371
0.2270 4 0.1505 0.1536 0.1435 0.1374 5 0.0990 0.0935 0.0864 0.0788 6 0.0617
0.0579 0.0479 0.0404 7 0.0374 0.0333 0.0227 0.0178 8 0.0217 0.0173 0.0117
0.0079 9 0.0137 0.0085 0.0056 0.0027 10 0.0078 0.0049 0.0023 0.0009 11 0.0036
0.0028 0.0005 0.0004 12 0.0024 0.0014 0.0003 0.0003 13 0.0009 0.0007 0.0000
0.0000 14 0.0004 0.0004 0.0001 0.0000 15 0.0003 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
* * *
Table A-3. Reference table of Link level BLER vs. SNR for LTE-based V2V UE at
5.9GHz (NLOS case)
* * *
REFERENCE SNR-BLER link Table at 5.9GHz
SNR(dB) 190 BYTE 300 BYTE  
30 Km/h 120 Km/h 30 Km/h 120 Km/h -10 0.9999 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 -9 0.9993
0.9999 0.9997 1.0000 -8 0.9983 0.9991 0.9992 0.9997 -7 0.9942 0.9981 0.9974
0.9991 -6 0.9851 0.9931 0.9900 0.9968 -5 0.9640 0.9822 0.9759 0.9882 -4 0.9247
0.9481 0.9483 0.9705 -3 0.8671 0.8991 0.8969 0.9302 -2 0.7927 0.8201 0.8211
0.8657 -1 0.6657 0.7108 0.7160 0.7652 0 0.5485 0.5756 0.5888 0.6233 1 0.4256
0.4417 0.4602 0.4805 2 0.3219 0.3138 0.3317 0.3313 3 0.2295 0.2018 0.2262
0.2038 4 0.1459 0.1172 0.1336 0.1101 5 0.1078 0.0669 0.0793 0.0549 6 0.0661
0.0321 0.0435 0.0211 7 0.0431 0.0143 0.0221 0.0064 8 0.0245 0.0083 0.0092
0.0021 9 0.0138 0.0028 0.0039 0.0006 10 0.0088 0.0007 0.0011 0.0001 11 0.0048
0.0002 0.0003 0.0001 12 0.0017 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000 13 0.0013 0.0000 0.0000
0.0000 14 0.0008 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000 15 0.0007 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
* * *
Table A-4 is the reference SNR-TO-BLER mapping model for DSRC system at
5.9GHz.
Table A-4 Reference table of Link level BLER vs. SNR for DSRC UE at 5.9GHz
(NLOS case)
* * *
SNR Packet Size /  
Relative speed (assuming opposite heading)  
190bytes 300 bytes  
30kmph 120kmph 30kmph 120kmph 0 0.99 1 0.99 0.99 1 0.98 0.98 0.99 0.97 2 0.95
0.98 0.94 0.95 3 0.9 0.94 0.87 0.91 4 0.68 0.81 0.74 0.86 5 0.57 0.71 0.6 0.71
6 0.47 0.54 0.46 0.57 7 0.28 0.29 0.34 0.39 8 0.2 0.15 0.22 0.21 9 0.11 0.06
0.16 0.07 10 0.05 0.08 0.02 11 0.02 0.05  
12 0.01 0.02  
13 0.01
* * *
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Reference Sensitivity requirements for V2V
communication
For the Rx RF core part requirements, the most important requirement in 3GPP
is REFSENS since all the other Rx RF requirements are based on REFSENS level.
To make REFSENS requirements in RAN4 RF room, target SNR should be evaluated
in RAN4.
The proposed simulation assumption for REFSENS requirements are defined in
Table B-1 .
Table B-1: REFSENS Simulation assumptions for V2V UE
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | V2V Test/Simulation\ | Proposals | | parameter | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Rx RF characteristics | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AGC settling time\ | QPSK: 1 symbol | | (not used for demodulation) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Tx EVM | 10% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE RRC state | Not required for simulation | | | purpose. Will be needed\ | | | when test procedure is defined, | | | and is FFS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation channel | Static : H = [ 1; 1] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Doppler spectrum | N/A | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Timing error\ | [±12Ts] | | (Sync reference and V2V Tx) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Frequency error\ | ±[600]Hz | | (Sync reference and V2V Tx) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ retransmissions | 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Performance metric | SNR @ 5% BLER | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1. The details of the | | | parameters in square brackets | | | above can be discussed over | | | email prior to the next meeting | | | to align the simulation | | | assumptions and results. | | | | | | Note 2. Since the objective of | | | REFSENS is to verify RF FE NF, | | | there is no OCNG for partial RB | | | cases (consistent with BS | | | specifications). | | | | | | Note 3. Same timing and | | | frequency errors Sync reference | | | and V2V Rx are considered to | | | derive simulation results | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table B-2. REFSENS RMC
+----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | P | Unit | Value | | | | | | | arameter | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Channel | MHz | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | b | | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | A | | | | | 48 | | 96 | | llocated | | | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | | (Note 1) | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Sub | | | | | 12 | | 12 | | carriers | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Packets | | | | | 1 | | 1 | | per SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Mo | | | | | QPSK | | QPSK | | dulation | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Target | | | | | [1/3] | | [1/3] | | Coding | | | | | | | | | Rate | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | T | | | | | 3496 | | 6968 | | ransport | | | | | | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | Size | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | T | Bits | | | | 24 | | 24 | | ransport | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Number | | | | | 1 | | 2 | | of Code | | | | | | | | | Blocks | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | ub-Frame | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Maximum | | | | | [1] | | [1] | | number | | | | | | | | | of HARQ | | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Binary | Bits | | | | 11520 | | 23040 | | Channel | | | | | | | | | Bits per | | | | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Max. | kbps | | | | 34.96 | | 69.68 | | Th | | | | | | | | | roughput | | | | | | | | | averaged | | | | | | | | | over 1 | | | | | | | | | SA\ | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | | of 100ms | | | | | | | | | (Note 2) | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | UE | | | | | ≥ 1 | | ≥ 1 | | Category | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | | 2RBs | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llocated | | | | | | | | | to SA | | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | | | and 4 | | | | | | | | | symbols | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llocated | | | | | | | | | to RS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | | Th | | | | | | | | | roughput | | | | | | | | | (in | | | | | | | | | kbps) | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | depend | | | | | | | | | on SA | | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | | configu | | | | | | | | | ration.\ | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | | | | If more | | | | | | | | | than one | | | | | | | | | Code | | | | | | | | | Block is | | | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | ditional | | | | | | | | | CRC | | | | | | | | | sequence | | | | | | | | | of L = | | | | | | | | | 24 Bits | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | attached | | | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | | | Code | | | | | | | | | Block | | | | | | | | | (o | | | | | | | | | therwise | | | | | | | | | L = 0 | | | | | | | | | Bit). | | | | | | | | +----------+------+-------+---+---+---------+----+---------+
The details of the parameters in square brackets above can be discussed over
email prior to the next meeting to align the simulation assumptions and
results.
#