# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the LTE 2,6 GHz FDD
supplemental downlink (SDL) band covering 2 570-2 620 MHz. It is intended to
be specified for E-UTRA for operations in Region 1. The band is to be used in
CA for E-UTRA. The LTE CA combination of Band 3+ FDD SDL Band 2 570-2 620 MHz
was selected. All the CA related aspects are reported in 2DL/1UL CA basket TR
36.714-02-01 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ECC Decision (05)05: \"Harmonised utilization of spectrum for Mobile/Fixed
Communications Networks (MFCN) operating within the band 2500-2690 MHz\", July
2015.
[3] 3GPP TR 36.714-02-01: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); LTE Advanced inter-band CA Rel-14 for 2DL/1UL\", Release 14.
[4] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[6] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPPTR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BEM Block Edge Mask
BS Base Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CEPT European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications
DL DownLink
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
ECC Electronics Communication Committee
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
LRTC Least Restrictive Technical Conditions
MFCN Mobile / Fixed Communication Networks
MOP Maximum Output Power
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
SDL Supplemental Downlink
UE User Equipment
UL UpLink
# 4 Background
CEPT amended in July 2015, the \"Harmonized utilization of spectrum for
Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks (MFCN) operating within the band 2 500-2
690 MHz\". The associated ECC Decision (05)05 [2] mentions the following:
\- Administrations may assign the frequency band 2 570-2 620 MHz either for
TDD or for Supplemental Downlink.
\- Any guard bands required to ensure adjacent band compatibility at 2 570 MHz
and 2 620 MHz boundaries will be decided on a national basis and taken within
the band 2 570-2 620 MHz.
\- Assigned blocks shall be in multiple of 5,0 MHz.
The objective of the WI is to:
\- Specify the band numbering and RF characteristics of the new LTE FDD 2,6GHz
SDL band (2 570-2 620 MHz) for region 1:
\- E-UTRA channel bandwidths 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz.
\- This band is restricted to be used on CA configuration for E-UTRA.
\- Specify the RF requirements for the support of E-UTRA Carrier Aggregation
between Band 3 + FDD 2,6GHz SDL band (2 570-2 620 MHz) for region 1.
Table 4-1
**Constituent CA** **Configurations** | **Acronym** **(Unique identifier)** | **Operating** **bands** | **Channel bandwidth(MHz)** | **Bandwidth Combination Set** |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | **1,4** | **3** | **5** | **10** | **15** | 20 | 0  
CA_3A-69A | LTE_CA_B3_B69 | 3 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  | 69 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
Note: The UL band shall be supported in B3 (same BW as used in DL). |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
The requirements should be based on the functionality currently defined for
DL-only carrier Aggregation.
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
CEPT ECC decided in July 2015 to amend the harmonised utilization of spectrum
for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks (MFCN) operating within the band 2
500-2 690 MHz [2]. The decision includes the allocation of the range 2 570-2
620 MHz either for TDD or for supplemental downlink. Assigned blocks shall be
in multiple of 5,0 MHz. Any guard bands required to ensure adjacent band
compatibility at 2 570 MHz and 2 620 MHz boundaries will be decided on a
national basis and taken within the band 2 570-2 620 MHz.
{width="6.679861111111111in" height="1.10625in"}
Figure 5-1: Frequency range 2 500 -- 2 690 MHz channel arrangement
ECC agreed on the Least Restrictive Technical Conditions (LRTC) in terms of
Block Edge Mask (BEM) [2]. It consists of several elements of in-block power
limits and the out-of-block limits. An out-of-block element consists of a
baseline level and transitional levels enabling filter roll-off from in-block
to baseline levels.
Table 5-1: BS BEM elements
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | In-block | Block for which the BEM is derived. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Baseline | Spectrum used for TDD and FDD UL, DL and SDL, | | | except from the operator block in question | | | and corresponding transitional regions | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Transitional region | For FDD DL blocks, the transitional region | | | applies 0 to 5 MHz below and above the block | | | assigned to the operator. For TDD blocks, the | | | transitional region applies 0 to 5 MHz below | | | and above the block assigned to the operator. | | | Transitional regions do not apply to TDD | | | blocks allocated to other operators, unless | | | networks are synchronized. The transitional | | | regions do not apply below 2 570MHz or above | | | 2 690 MHz. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Guard bands | Any guard bands required to ensure adjacent | | | band compatibility at 2 570 MHz | | | | | | and 2 620 MHz boundaries will be decided on a | | | national basis and taken within | | | | | | the band 2 570-2 620 MHz. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
The BEMs are illustrated in the following tables. Less stringent technical
parameters may be agreed among the affected parties, on a bilateral or
multilateral basis.
Table 5-2: BS in-block e.i.r.p power limit
+--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Power limit, e.i.r.p. | Measurement | | | | | | | | Bandwidth | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+ | Block assigned to the | 61 dBm | 5 MHz | | operator | | | | | CEPT administrations can | | | | relax this limit to 68 | | | | dBm/5 MHz for specific | | | | deployments e.g. in | | | | areas of low population | | | | density provided that | | | | this does not | | | | significantly increase | | | | the risk of terminal | | | | station receiver | | | | blocking. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
Table 5-3: BS baseline requirements
+--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean e.i.r.p. | Measurement | | | | | | | | bandwidth | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | FDD DL blocks (including | 4 dBm (see note) | 1 MHz | | SDL blocks), TDD blocks | | | | synchronized with the | | | | interfering TDD block, | | | | or used for downlink | | | | only operation. It | | | | further applies to 2 | | | | 615-2 620 MHz. | | | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | Frequencies in the band | -45 dBm | 1 MHz | | 2 500-2 690 MHz not | | | | covered by the | | | | definition in the row | | | | above. | | | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | NOTE: Based on the | | | | assumption that the | | | | emissions come from a | | | | Macro BS. It should be | | | | noted that small cells | | | | may be deployed at lower | | | | heights and thus closer | | | | to UEs which can result | | | | in higher levels of | | | | interference if the | | | | above power limits are | | | | used. | | | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+
Table 5-4: BS Transitional region power limits
+--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range | Maximum mean e.i.r.p. | Measurement | | | | | | | | bandwidth | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | -5 to 0 MHz offset from | 16 dBm (see note) | 5 MHz | | lower block edge | | | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | 0 to 5 MHz offset from | 16 dBm (see note) | 5 MHz | | upper block edge | | | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+ | NOTE: Based on the | | | | assumption that the | | | | emissions come from a | | | | Macro BS. It should be | | | | noted that small cells | | | | may be deployed at lower | | | | heights and thus closer | | | | to UEs which can result | | | | in higher levels of | | | | interference if the | | | | above power limits are | | | | used. For such cases, | | | | administrations could | | | | establish lower maximum | | | | mean e.i.r.p on a | | | | national level. | | | +--------------------------+-----------------------+-------------+
# 6 List of band specific issues for the LTE FDD 2,6GHz Supplemental Downlink
band (2 570-2 620 MHz)
Here is the list of issues that are studied for the LTE FDD 2,6GHz SDL band
and its CA with band 3:
\- Co-existence with other 3GPP operating bands in Region 1
\- BS unwanted emission & spurious emissions
\- CA Band 3 + Band 69:
\- BS co-existence studies for 1UL/2DL
\- UE REFSENS
\- UE MOP
> The CA related issues are addressed in 2DL/1UL CA basket TR 36.714-02-01
> [3].
# 7 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 7.1 UE coexistence
The new 2,6 GHz SDL band coincides exactly with existing TDD Band 38. It is
anticipated that one likely UE front-end to support the SDL band would be to
reuse the same filter as the Band 38 filter since the frequency range is
identical. Moreover, it is noted that the use of Band 3 for the primary
carrier with the new 2,6 GHz SDL band is analogous to CA_3A-38A already
defined in the specifications for the case where Band 3 carries the PCell.
As the new 2,6 GHz SDL band is defined for Region 1, other bands operating in
Region 1 should provide protection to this band. Region 1 bands which should
provide UE coexistence protection to the new band include 1, 3, 7, 8, 20, 22,
31, 33, 34, 40, 42, 43, and 65. It is not anticipated that Band 38 would be
deployed in the same geographical region as the new SDL band since the
frequency range overlap; therefore, a coexistence requirement to protect the
new band is not levied upon a Band 38 UE. Band 20 has a 3^rd^ harmonic of the
uplink impinging upon the new band for some channels and therefore requires an
exception for UE coexistence. Band 7 uplink is immediately adjacent to this
band in the same manner that it is adjacent to Band 38. The simplest and most
consistent approach would be the reuse the Band 7 to Band 38 UE coexistence
requirements for this new band as well. Alternatively, an A-MPR can be defined
for Band 7 under a new NS condition to provide greater protection for the new
band. However, this would bring an inconsistency in protecting the same
frequency range with different values depending on whether it is Band 38 or
the SDL band, and also introduces Band 7 transmitter limitations which may
impact legacy networks for the purpose of protecting a band that is used for
supplemental purposes. Our recommendation is to reuse the existing Band 7 to
Band 38 coexistence requirements.
Table 7.1.1-1
* * *
7 E-UTRA Band 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 22, 26, 27, 28, 29,
30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 40, 42, 43, 65, 66, 67 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
Frequency range 2 570 - 2 575 +1,6 5 15, 21, 26 Frequency range 2 575 - 2 595
-15,5 5 15, 21, 26 Frequency range 2 595 - 2 620 -40 1 15, 21
* * *
## 7.2 BS specific
### 7.2.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
2,6 GHz SDL band for Region 1 is defined over the same frequency range as TDD
Band 38. Also, Band 38 is specified for its use in Europe. Therefore, the same
unwanted emission limits apply.
A single spectrum emission mask applies to all bands in TS 37.104 [6] and thus
no modification is needed in this TS. The following change applies to Clause
6.6.3 of TS 36.104 [4]:
6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category A)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25,
30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 65, 66, 69, emissions
shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.1-4 to
6.6.3.1-6:
6.6.3.2 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category B)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 22, 25, 30, 33, 34, 35,
36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 65, 66, 69 emissions shall not exceed the
maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.2.1-4 to 6.6.3.2.1-6:
### 7.2.2 Additional spurious emissions requirements
To ensure sufficient protection for co-existence with 69, the same limits as
for the other E-UTRA bands BS **shall** be specified for Band 69 in Clause
6.6.4.3 of TS 36.104 [4] and Clause 6.6.4.5.4 of TS 36.141 [5]. The same
modifications are needed in Clause 6.6.1.3 of TS 37.104 [6] and Clause
6.6.1.5.5 of TS 37.141 [7].
Table 7.2.2-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands (TS 36.104 [4], Table
6.6.4.3.1-1)
* * *
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note UTRA TDD Band d) or
E-UTRA Band 38 2 570 -- 2 620 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 38 or 69. E-UTRA Band 69 2 570 -- 2 620
MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in
Band 38 or 69.
* * *
### 7.2.3 Blocking requirement for co-location with other base stations
The blocking requirements for co-location with other BS shall be specified for
Band 69 in Clause 7.6.2 of TS 36.104 [4], Clause 7.6.5.2 of TS 36.141 [5]. The
same changes are needed in Clause 7.5.2 of TS 37.104 [6] and Clause 7.5.5.2 of
TS 37.141 [7]:
Table 7.2.3-1: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Wide Area BS when
co-located with BS in other frequency bands (TS 36.104 [4], Table 7.6.2.1-1)
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal WA E-UTRA Band 69 2 570-2 620 +16 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier Note*:
P~REFSENS~ depends on the channel bandwidth as specified in Table 7.2.1-1.
* * *
Table 7.2.3-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands (TS 36.104 [4], Table 7.6.2.1-2)
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA E-UTRA Band 69 2 570-2 620 -6 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.2.3-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Medium Range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands (TS 36.104 [4], Table
7.6.2.1-3)
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal MR E-UTRA Band 69 2 570 -- 2 620 +8 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
# 8 Study of MSR specific issues
There are not specific MSR issues for Band 69.
# 9 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, UTRA, MSR
Operating band number and the EARFCN allocated for 2,6 GHz FDD SDL band (2
570-2 620 MHz) for Region 1 are outlined in Table 9-1 and 9-2 respectively.
Table 9-1: Operating band definition for SDL 2,6 GHz
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
69 N/A 2 570 MHz -- 2 620 MHz FDD^2^
NOTE 2: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when carrier aggregation is configured.
The downlink operating band is paired with the uplink operating band
(external) of the carrier aggregation configuration that is supporting the
configured Pcell.
* * *
Table 9-2: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-UL~
Range of N~UL~ 69^2^ 2 570 67 836 67 836 -- 68 335 N/A  
NOTE 2: Restricted to E-UTRA operation when carrier aggregation is configured.
* * *
Channel number allocations are not specified in the 37 series (MSR)
specifications, but are referenced from the respective RAT. Consequently, no
changes are incurred in the MSR specifications due to the introduction of new
EARFCN.
# 10 Required changes to E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarized in Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Affected | | | | | existing | | | | | specifications | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Spec No. | Subject of the | Comments | CR/TP (Tdoc) | | | CR | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 36.101 | E-UTRA; UE | Core part | R4-164700 | | | Radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 36.104 | E-UTRA; Base | Core part | R4-164420 | | | Station (BS) | | | | | radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 36.113 | E-UTRA; BS and | Core part | R4-164421 | | | repeater EMC | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 36.124 | E-UTRA; EMC | Core part | R4-163544 | | | requirements | | | | | for mobile | | | | | terminals and | | | | | ancillary | | | | | equipment | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 36.133 | E-UTRA; | Core part | R4-164763 | | | Requirements | | | | | for support of | | | | | RRM | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 37.104 | E-UTRA, UTRA | Core part | R4-164423 | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 37.113 | E-UTRA, UTRA | Core part | R4-164424 | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) | | | | | E | | | | | lectromagnetic | | | | | Compatibility | | | | | (EMC) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 25.104 | Base Station | Core part | R4-164418 | | | (BS) radio | | | | | transmission | | | | | and reception | | | | | (FDD) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 25.461 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-161309 | | | interface: | | (R4-163545) | | | Layer 1 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 25.466 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-161396 | | | interface: | | | | | Application | | | | | part | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 25.133 | UTRAN: | Core part | R4-164758 | | | Requirements | | | | | for support of | | | | | radio resource | | | | | management | | | | | (FDD) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 37.141 | E-UTRA, UTRA | Perf part | R4-164425 | | | and GSM/EDGE; | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) | | | | | Base Station | | | | | (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 36.141 | E-UTRA; Base | Perf part | R4-164422 | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 25.141 | Base Station | Perf part | R4-164419 | | | (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing (FDD) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TR | LTE Advanced | LTE CA 2DL/1UL | | | 36.714-02-01 | inter-band CA | basket TR | | | | Rel-14 for | | | | | 2DL/1UL | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#